B as in B () is the second letter of the English alphabet. (See Guide to Pronunciation, // 196, 220.) It is etymologically related to p, v, f, w and m , letters representing sounds having a close organic affinity to its own sound; as in Eng. bursar and purser; Eng. bear and Lat. ferre; Eng. silver and Ger. silber; Lat. cubitum and It. gomito; Eng. seven, Anglo-Saxon seofon, Ger. sieben, Lat. septem, Gr."epta`, Sanskrit saptan. The form of letter B is Roman, from Greek B (Beta), of Semitic origin. The small b was formed by gradual change from the capital B.,
B as in Ba (v. i.) To kiss.,
B as in Baa (v. i.) To cry baa, or bleat as a sheep.,
B as in Baas (pl. ) of Baa,
B as in Baa (n.) The cry or bleating of a sheep; a bleat.,
B as in Baaing (n.) The bleating of a sheep.,
B as in Baalim (pl. ) of Baal,
B as in Baal (n.) The supreme male divinity of the Phoenician and Canaanitish nations.,
B as in Baal (n.) The whole class of divinities to whom the name Baal was applied.,
B as in Baalism (n.) Worship of Baal; idolatry.,
B as in Baalist (n.) Alt. of Baalite,
B as in Baalite (n.) A worshiper of Baal; a devotee of any false religion; an idolater.,
B as in Baba (n.) A kind of plum cake.,
B as in Babbitt (v. t.) To line with Babbitt metal.,
B as in Babbitt metal () A soft white alloy of variable composition (as a nine parts of tin to one of copper, or of fifty parts of tin to five of antimony and one of copper) used in bearings to diminish friction.,
B as in Babbled (imp. & p. p.) of Babble,
B as in Babbling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Babble,
B as in Babble (v. i.) To utter words indistinctly or unintelligibly; to utter inarticulate sounds; as a child babbles.,
B as in Babble (v. i.) To talk incoherently; to utter unmeaning words.,
B as in Babble (v. i.) To talk much; to chatter; to prate.,
B as in Babble (v. i.) To make a continuous murmuring noise, as shallow water running over stones.,
B as in Babble (v. i.) To utter in an indistinct or incoherent way; to repeat, as words, in a childish way without understanding.,
B as in Babble (v. i.) To disclose by too free talk, as a secret.,
B as in Babble (n.) Idle talk; senseless prattle; gabble; twaddle.,
B as in Babble (n.) Inarticulate speech; constant or confused murmur.,
B as in Babblement (n.) Babble.,
B as in Babbler (n.) An idle talker; an irrational prater; a teller of secrets.,
B as in Babbler (n.) A hound too noisy on finding a good scent.,
B as in Babbler (n.) A name given to any one of family (Timalinae) of thrushlike birds, having a chattering note.,
B as in Babblery (n.) Babble.,
B as in Babe (n.) An infant; a young child of either sex; a baby.,
B as in Babe (n.) A doll for children.,
B as in Babehood (n.) Babyhood.,
B as in Babel (n.) The city and tower in the land of Shinar, where the confusion of languages took place.,
B as in Babel (n.) Hence: A place or scene of noise and confusion; a confused mixture of sounds, as of voices or languages.,
B as in Babery (n.) Finery of a kind to please a child.,
B as in Babian (n.) Alt. of Babion,
B as in Babion (n.) A baboon.,
B as in Babillard (n.) The lesser whitethroat of Europe; -- called also babbling warbler.,
B as in Babingtonite (n.) A mineral occurring in triclinic crystals approaching pyroxene in angle, and of a greenish black color. It is a silicate of iron, manganese, and lime.,
B as in Babiroussa (n.) Alt. of Babirussa,
B as in Babirussa (n.) A large hoglike quadruped (Sus, / Porcus, babirussa) of the East Indies, sometimes domesticated; the Indian hog. Its upper canine teeth or tusks are large and recurved.,
B as in Babish (a.) Like a babe; a childish; babyish.,
B as in Babism (n.) The doctrine of a modern religious sect, which originated in Persia in 1843, being a mixture of Mohammedan, Christian, Jewish and Parsee elements.,
B as in Babist (n.) A believer in Babism.,
B as in Bablah (n.) The ring of the fruit of several East Indian species of acacia; neb-neb. It contains gallic acid and tannin, and is used for dyeing drab.,
B as in Baboo (n.) Alt. of Babu,
B as in Babu (n.) A Hindoo gentleman; a native clerk who writes English; also, a Hindoo title answering to Mr. or Esquire.,
B as in Baboon (n.) One of the Old World Quadrumana, of the genera Cynocephalus and Papio; the dog-faced ape. Baboons have dog-like muzzles and large canine teeth, cheek pouches, a short tail, and naked callosities on the buttocks. They are mostly African. See Mandrill, and Chacma, and Drill an ape.,
B as in Baboonery (n.) Baboonish behavior.,
B as in Baboonish (a.) Like a baboon.,
B as in Babies (pl. ) of Baby,
B as in Baby (n.) An infant or young child of either sex; a babe.,
B as in Baby (n.) A small image of an infant; a doll.,
B as in Baby (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, an infant; young or little; as, baby swans.,
B as in Babied (imp. & p. p.) of Baby,
B as in Babying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Baby,
B as in Baby (v. i.) To treat like a young child; to keep dependent; to humor; to fondle.,
B as in Baby farm () A place where the nourishment and care of babies are offered for hire.,
B as in Baby farmer () One who keeps a baby farm.,
B as in Baby farming () The business of keeping a baby farm.,
B as in Babyhood (n.) The state or period of infancy.,
B as in Babyhouse (a.) A place for children's dolls and dolls' furniture.,
B as in Babyish (a.) Like a baby; childish; puerile; simple.,
B as in Babyism (n.) The state of being a baby.,
B as in Babyism (n.) A babyish manner of acting or speaking.,
B as in Baby jumper () A hoop suspended by an elastic strap, in which a young child may be held secure while amusing itself by jumping on the floor.,
B as in Babylonian (a.) Of or pertaining to the real or to the mystical Babylon, or to the ancient kingdom of Babylonia; Chaldean.,
B as in Babylonian (n.) An inhabitant of Babylonia (which included Chaldea); a Chaldean.,
B as in Babylonian (n.) An astrologer; -- so called because the Chaldeans were remarkable for the study of astrology.,
B as in Babylonic (a.) Alt. of Babylonical,
B as in Babylonical (a.) Pertaining to Babylon, or made there; as, Babylonic garments, carpets, or hangings.,
B as in Babylonical (a.) Tumultuous; disorderly.,
B as in Babylonish (n.) Of or pertaining to, or made in, Babylon or Babylonia.,
B as in Babylonish (n.) Pertaining to the Babylon of Revelation xiv. 8.,
B as in Babylonish (n.) Pertaining to Rome and papal power.,
B as in Babylonish (n.) Confused; Babel-like.,
B as in Babyroussa (n.) Alt. of Babyrussa,
B as in Babyrussa (n.) See Babyroussa.,
B as in Babyship (n.) The quality of being a baby; the personality of an infant.,
B as in Bac (n.) A broad, flatbottomed ferryboat, usually worked by a rope.,
B as in Bac (n.) A vat or cistern. See 1st Back.,
B as in Baccalaureate (n.) The degree of bachelor of arts. (B.A. or A.B.), the first or lowest academical degree conferred by universities and colleges.,
B as in Baccalaureate (n.) A baccalaureate sermon.,
B as in Baccalaureate (a.) Pertaining to a bachelor of arts.,
B as in Baccara (n.) Alt. of Baccarat,
B as in Baccarat (n.) A French game of cards, played by a banker and punters.,
B as in Baccare (interj.) Alt. of Backare,
B as in Backare (interj.) Stand back! give place! -- a cant word of the Elizabethan writers, probably in ridicule of some person who pretended to a knowledge of Latin which he did not possess.,
B as in Baccate (a.) Pulpy throughout, like a berry; -- said of fruits.,
B as in Baccated (a.) Having many berries.,
B as in Baccated (a.) Set or adorned with pearls.,
B as in Bacchanal (a.) Relating to Bacchus or his festival.,
B as in Bacchanal (a.) Engaged in drunken revels; drunken and riotous or noisy.,
B as in Bacchanal (n.) A devotee of Bacchus; one who indulges in drunken revels; one who is noisy and riotous when intoxicated; a carouser.,
B as in Bacchanal (n.) The festival of Bacchus; the bacchanalia.,
B as in Bacchanal (n.) Drunken revelry; an orgy.,
B as in Bacchanal (n.) A song or dance in honor of Bacchus.,
B as in Bacchanalia (n. pl.) A feast or an orgy in honor of Bacchus.,
B as in Bacchanalia (n. pl.) Hence: A drunken feast; drunken reveler.,
B as in Bacchanalian (a.) Of or pertaining to the festival of Bacchus; relating to or given to reveling and drunkenness.,
B as in Bacchanalian (n.) A bacchanal; a drunken reveler.,
B as in Bacchanalianism (n.) The practice of bacchanalians; bacchanals; drunken revelry.,
B as in Bacchants (pl. ) of Bacchant,
B as in Bacchantes (pl. ) of Bacchant,
B as in Bacchant (n.) A priest of Bacchus.,
B as in Bacchant (n.) A bacchanal; a reveler.,
B as in Bacchant (a.) Bacchanalian; fond of drunken revelry; wine-loving; reveling; carousing.,
B as in Bacchantes (pl. ) of Bacchante,
B as in Bacchante (n.) A priestess of Bacchus.,
B as in Bacchante (n.) A female bacchanal.,
B as in Bacchantic (a.) Bacchanalian.,
B as in Bacchic (a.) Alt. of Bacchical,
B as in Bacchical (a.) Of or relating to Bacchus; hence, jovial, or riotous,with intoxication.,
B as in Bacchii (pl. ) of Bacchius,
B as in Bacchius (n.) A metrical foot composed of a short syllable and two long ones; according to some, two long and a short.,
B as in Bacchus (n.) The god of wine, son of Jupiter and Semele.,
B as in Bacciferous (a.) Producing berries.,
B as in Bacciform (a.) Having the form of a berry.,
B as in Baccivorous (a.) Eating, or subsisting on, berries; as, baccivorous birds.,
B as in Bace (n., a., & v.) See Base.,
B as in Bacharach (n.) Alt. of Backarack,
B as in Backarack (n.) A kind of wine made at Bacharach on the Rhine.,
B as in Bachelor (n.) A man of any age who has not been married.,
B as in Bachelor (n.) An unmarried woman.,
B as in Bachelor (n.) A person who has taken the first or lowest degree in the liberal arts, or in some branch of science, at a college or university; as, a bachelor of arts.,
B as in Bachelor (n.) A knight who had no standard of his own, but fought under the standard of another in the field; often, a young knight.,
B as in Bachelor (n.) In the companies of London tradesmen, one not yet admitted to wear the livery; a junior member.,
B as in Bachelor (n.) A kind of bass, an edible fresh-water fish (Pomoxys annularis) of the southern United States.,
B as in Bachelordom (n.) The state of bachelorhood; the whole body of bachelors.,
B as in Bachelorhood (n.) The state or condition of being a bachelor; bachelorship.,
B as in Bachelorism (n.) Bachelorhood; also, a manner or peculiarity belonging to bachelors.,
B as in Bachelor's button () A plant with flowers shaped like buttons; especially, several species of Ranunculus, and the cornflower (Centaures cyanus) and globe amaranth (Gomphrena).,
B as in Bachelorship (n.) The state of being a bachelor.,
B as in Bachelry (n.) The body of young aspirants for knighthood.,
B as in Bacillar (a.) Shaped like a rod or staff.,
B as in Bacillariae (n. pl.) See Diatom.,
B as in Bacillary (a.) Of or pertaining to little rods; rod-shaped.,
B as in Bacilliform (a.) Rod-shaped.,
B as in Bacilli (pl. ) of Bacillus,
B as in Bacillus (n.) A variety of bacterium; a microscopic, rod-shaped vegetable organism.,
B as in Back (n.) A large shallow vat; a cistern, tub, or trough, used by brewers, distillers, dyers, picklers, gluemakers, and others, for mixing or cooling wort, holding water, hot glue, etc.,
B as in Back (n.) A ferryboat. See Bac, 1.,
B as in Back (n.) In human beings, the hinder part of the body, extending from the neck to the end of the spine; in other animals, that part of the body which corresponds most nearly to such part of a human being; as, the back of a horse, fish, or lobster.,
B as in Back (n.) An extended upper part, as of a mountain or ridge.,
B as in Back (n.) The outward or upper part of a thing, as opposed to the inner or lower part; as, the back of the hand, the back of the foot, the back of a hand rail.,
B as in Back (n.) The part opposed to the front; the hinder or rear part of a thing; as, the back of a book; the back of an army; the back of a chimney.,
B as in Back (n.) The part opposite to, or most remote from, that which fronts the speaker or actor; or the part out of sight, or not generally seen; as, the back of an island, of a hill, or of a village.,
B as in Back (n.) The part of a cutting tool on the opposite side from its edge; as, the back of a knife, or of a saw.,
B as in Back (n.) A support or resource in reserve.,
B as in Back (n.) The keel and keelson of a ship.,
B as in Back (n.) The upper part of a lode, or the roof of a horizontal underground passage.,
B as in Back (n.) A garment for the back; hence, clothing.,
B as in Back (a.) Being at the back or in the rear; distant; remote; as, the back door; back settlements.,
B as in Back (a.) Being in arrear; overdue; as, back rent.,
B as in Back (a.) Moving or operating backward; as, back action.,
B as in Backed (imp. & p. p.) of Back,
B as in Backing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Back,
B as in Back (v. i.) To get upon the back of; to mount.,
B as in Back (v. i.) To place or seat upon the back.,
B as in Back (v. i.) To drive or force backward; to cause to retreat or recede; as, to back oxen.,
B as in Back (v. i.) To make a back for; to furnish with a back; as, to back books.,
B as in Back (v. i.) To adjoin behind; to be at the back of.,
B as in Back (v. i.) To write upon the back of; as, to back a letter; to indorse; as, to back a note or legal document.,
B as in Back (v. i.) To support; to maintain; to second or strengthen by aid or influence; as, to back a friend.,
B as in Back (v. i.) To bet on the success of; -- as, to back a race horse.,
B as in Back (v. i.) To move or go backward; as, the horse refuses to back.,
B as in Back (v. i.) To change from one quarter to another by a course opposite to that of the sun; -- used of the wind.,
B as in Back (v. i.) To stand still behind another dog which has pointed; -- said of a dog.,
B as in Back (adv.) In, to, or toward, the rear; as, to stand back; to step back.,
B as in Back (adv.) To the place from which one came; to the place or person from which something is taken or derived; as, to go back for something left behind; to go back to one's native place; to put a book back after reading it.,
B as in Back (adv.) To a former state, condition, or station; as, to go back to private life; to go back to barbarism.,
B as in Back (adv.) (Of time) In times past; ago.,
B as in Back (adv.) Away from contact; by reverse movement.,
B as in Back (adv.) In concealment or reserve; in one's own possession; as, to keep back the truth; to keep back part of the money due to another.,
B as in Back (adv.) In a state of restraint or hindrance.,
B as in Back (adv.) In return, repayment, or requital.,
B as in Back (adv.) In withdrawal from a statement, promise, or undertaking; as, he took back0 the offensive words.,
B as in Back (adv.) In arrear; as, to be back in one's rent.,
B as in Backarack (n.) See Bacharach.,
B as in Backare (interj.) Same as Baccare.,
B as in Backband (n.) The band which passes over the back of a horse and holds up the shafts of a carriage.,
B as in Backbite (v. i.) To wound by clandestine detraction; to censure meanly or spitefully (an absent person); to slander or speak evil of (one absent).,
B as in Backbite (v. i.) To censure or revile the absent.,
B as in Backbiter (n.) One who backbites; a secret calumniator or detractor.,
B as in Backbiting (n.) Secret slander; detraction.,
B as in Backboard (n.) A board which supports the back wen one is sitting;,
B as in Backboard (n.) A board serving as the back part of anything, as of a wagon.,
B as in Backboard (n.) A thin stuff used for the backs of framed pictures, mirrors, etc.,
B as in Backboard (n.) A board attached to the rim of a water wheel to prevent the water from running off the floats or paddies into the interior of the wheel.,
B as in Backboard (n.) A board worn across the back to give erectness to the figure.,
B as in Backbond (n.) An instrument which, in conjunction with another making an absolute disposition, constitutes a trust.,
B as in Backbone (n.) The column of bones in the back which sustains and gives firmness to the frame; the spine; the vertebral or spinal column.,
B as in Backbone (n.) Anything like , or serving the purpose of, a backbone.,
B as in Backbone (n.) Firmness; moral principle; steadfastness.,
B as in Backboned (a.) Vertebrate.,
B as in Backcast (n.) Anything which brings misfortune upon one, or causes failure in an effort or enterprise; a reverse.,
B as in Back door () A door in the back part of a building; hence, an indirect way.,
B as in Backdoor (a.) Acting from behind and in concealment; as, backdoor intrigues.,
B as in Backdown (n.) A receding or giving up; a complete surrender.,
B as in Backed (a.) Having a back; fitted with a back; as, a backed electrotype or stereotype plate. Used in composition; as, broad-backed; hump-backed.,
B as in Backer (n.) One who, or that which, backs; especially one who backs a person or thing in a contest.,
B as in Backfall (n.) A fall or throw on the back in wrestling.,
B as in Backfriend (n.) A secret enemy.,
B as in Backgammon (n.) A game of chance and skill, played by two persons on a "board" marked off into twenty-four spaces called "points". Each player has fifteen pieces, or "men", the movements of which from point to point are determined by throwing dice. Formerly called tables.,
B as in Backgammon (v. i.) In the game of backgammon, to beat by ending the game before the loser is clear of his first "table".,
B as in Background (n.) Ground in the rear or behind, or in the distance, as opposed to the foreground, or the ground in front.,
B as in Background (n.) The space which is behind and subordinate to a portrait or group of figures.,
B as in Background (n.) Anything behind, serving as a foil; as, the statue had a background of red hangings.,
B as in Background (n.) A place in obscurity or retirement, or out of sight.,
B as in Backhand (n.) A kind of handwriting in which the downward slope of the letters is from left to right.,
B as in Backhand (a.) Sloping from left to right; -- said of handwriting.,
B as in Backhand (a.) Backhanded; indirect; oblique.,
B as in Backhanded (a.) With the hand turned backward; as, a backhanded blow.,
B as in Backhanded (a.) Indirect; awkward; insincere; sarcastic; as, a backhanded compliment.,
B as in Backhanded (a.) Turned back, or inclining to the left; as, a backhanded letters.,
B as in Backhandedness (n.) State of being backhanded; the using of backhanded or indirect methods.,
B as in Backhander (n.) A backhanded blow.,
B as in Backhouse (n.) A building behind the main building. Specifically: A privy; a necessary.,
B as in Backing (n.) The act of moving backward, or of putting or moving anything backward.,
B as in Backing (n.) That which is behind, and forms the back of, anything, usually giving strength or stability.,
B as in Backing (n.) Support or aid given to a person or cause.,
B as in Backing (n.) The preparation of the back of a book with glue, etc., before putting on the cover.,
B as in Backjoint (n.) A rebate or chase in masonry left to receive a permanent slab or other filling.,
B as in Backlash (n.) The distance through which one part of connected machinery, as a wheel, piston, or screw, can be moved without moving the connected parts, resulting from looseness in fitting or from wear; also, the jarring or reflex motion caused in badly fitting machinery by irregularities in velocity or a reverse of motion.,
B as in Backless (a.) Without a back.,
B as in Backlog (n.) A large stick of wood, forming the back of a fire on the hearth.,
B as in Backpiece (n.) Alt. of Backplate,
B as in Backplate (n.) A piece, or plate which forms the back of anything, or which covers the back; armor for the back.,
B as in Backrack (n.) Alt. of Backrag,
B as in Backrag (n.) See Bacharach.,
B as in Backs (n. pl.) Among leather dealers, the thickest and stoutest tanned hides.,
B as in Backsaw (n.) A saw (as a tenon saw) whose blade is stiffened by an added metallic back.,
B as in Backset (n.) A check; a relapse; a discouragement; a setback.,
B as in Backset (n.) Whatever is thrown back in its course, as water.,
B as in Backset (v. i.) To plow again, in the fall; -- said of prairie land broken up in the spring.,
B as in Backsettler (n.) One living in the back or outlying districts of a community.,
B as in Backsheesh (n.) Alt. of Backshish,
B as in Backshish (n.) In Egypt and the Turkish empire, a gratuity; a "tip".,
B as in Backside (n.) The hinder part, posteriors, or rump of a person or animal.,
B as in Backsight (n.) The reading of the leveling staff in its unchanged position when the leveling instrument has been taken to a new position; a sight directed backwards to a station previously occupied. Cf. Foresight, n., 3.,
B as in Backslid (imp.) of Backslide,
B as in Backslidden (p. p.) of Backslide,
B as in Backslid () of Backslide,
B as in Backsliding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Backslide,
B as in Backslide (v. i.) To slide back; to fall away; esp. to abandon gradually the faith and practice of a religion that has been professed.,
B as in Backslider (n.) One who backslides.,
B as in Backsliding (a.) Slipping back; falling back into sin or error; sinning.,
B as in Backsliding (n.) The act of one who backslides; abandonment of faith or duty.,
B as in Backstaff (n.) An instrument formerly used for taking the altitude of the heavenly bodies, but now superseded by the quadrant and sextant; -- so called because the observer turned his back to the body observed.,
B as in Back stairs () Stairs in the back part of a house, as distinguished from the front stairs; hence, a private or indirect way.,
B as in Backstairs (a.) Alt. of Backstair,
B as in Backstair (a.) Private; indirect; secret; intriguing; -- as if finding access by the back stairs.,
B as in Backstay (n.) A rope or stay extending from the masthead to the side of a ship, slanting a little aft, to assist the shrouds in supporting the mast.,
B as in Backstay (n.) A rope or strap used to prevent excessive forward motion.,
B as in Backster (n.) A backer.,
B as in Backstitch (n.) A stitch made by setting the needle back of the end of the last stitch, and bringing it out in front of the end.,
B as in Backstitch (v. i.) To sew with backstitches; as, to backstitch a seam.,
B as in Backstress (n.) A female baker.,
B as in Backsword (n.) A sword with one sharp edge.,
B as in Backsword (n.) In England, a stick with a basket handle, used in rustic amusements; also, the game in which the stick is used. Also called singlestick.,
B as in Backward (adv.) Alt. of Backwards,
B as in Backwards (adv.) With the back in advance or foremost; as, to ride backward.,
B as in Backwards (adv.) Toward the back; toward the rear; as, to throw the arms backward.,
B as in Backwards (adv.) On the back, or with the back downward.,
B as in Backwards (adv.) Toward, or in, past time or events; ago.,
B as in Backwards (adv.) By way of reflection; reflexively.,
B as in Backwards (adv.) From a better to a worse state, as from honor to shame, from religion to sin.,
B as in Backwards (adv.) In a contrary or reverse manner, way, or direction; contrarily; as, to read backwards.,
B as in Backward (a.) Directed to the back or rear; as, backward glances.,
B as in Backward (a.) Unwilling; averse; reluctant; hesitating; loath.,
B as in Backward (a.) Not well advanced in learning; not quick of apprehension; dull; inapt; as, a backward child.,
B as in Backward (a.) Late or behindhand; as, a backward season.,
B as in Backward (a.) Not advanced in civilization; undeveloped; as, the country or region is in a backward state.,
B as in Backward (a.) Already past or gone; bygone.,
B as in Backward (n.) The state behind or past.,
B as in Backward (v. i.) To keep back; to hinder.,
B as in Backwardation (n.) The seller's postponement of delivery of stock or shares, with the consent of the buyer, upon payment of a premium to the latter; -- also, the premium so paid. See Contango.,
B as in Backwardly (adv.) Reluctantly; slowly; aversely.,
B as in Backwardly (adv.) Perversely; ill.,
B as in Backwardness (n.) The state of being backward.,
B as in Backwash (v. i.) To clean the oil from (wood) after combing.,
B as in Backwater (n.) Water turned back in its course by an obstruction, an opposing current , or the flow of the tide, as in a sewer or river channel, or across a river bar.,
B as in Backwater (n.) An accumulation of water overflowing the low lands, caused by an obstruction.,
B as in Backwater (n.) Water thrown back by the turning of a waterwheel, or by the paddle wheels of a steamer.,
B as in Backwoods (n. pl.) The forests or partly cleared grounds on the frontiers.,
B as in Backwoodsmen (pl. ) of Backwoodsman,
B as in Backwoodsman (n.) A man living in the forest in or beyond the new settlements, especially on the western frontiers of the older portions of the United States.,
B as in Backworm (n.) A disease of hawks. See Filanders.,
B as in Bacon (n.) The back and sides of a pig salted and smoked; formerly, the flesh of a pig salted or fresh.,
B as in Baconian (a.) Of or pertaining to Lord Bacon, or to his system of philosophy.,
B as in Bacteria (n.p.) See Bacterium.,
B as in Bacterial (a.) Of or pertaining to bacteria.,
B as in Bactericidal (a.) Destructive of bacteria.,
B as in Bactericide (n.) Same as Germicide.,
B as in Bacteriological (a.) Of or pertaining to bacteriology; as, bacteriological studies.,
B as in Bacteriologist (n.) One skilled in bacteriology.,
B as in Bacteriology (n.) The science relating to bacteria.,
B as in Bacterioscopic (a.) Relating to bacterioscopy; as, a bacterioscopic examination.,
B as in Bacterioscopist (n.) One skilled in bacterioscopic examinations.,
B as in Bacterioscopy (n.) The application of a knowledge of bacteria for their detection and identification, as in the examination of polluted water.,
B as in Bacteria (pl. ) of Bacterium,
B as in Bacterium (n.) A microscopic vegetable organism, belonging to the class Algae, usually in the form of a jointed rodlike filament, and found in putrefying organic infusions. Bacteria are destitute of chlorophyll, and are the smallest of microscopic organisms. They are very widely diffused in nature, and multiply with marvelous rapidity, both by fission and by spores. Certain species are active agents in fermentation, while others appear to be the cause of certain infectious diseases. See Bacillus.,
B as in Bacteroid (a.) Alt. of Bacteroidal,
B as in Bacteroidal (a.) Resembling bacteria; as, bacteroid particles.,
B as in Bactrian (a.) Of or pertaining to Bactria in Asia.,
B as in Bactrian (n.) A native of Bactria.,
B as in Bacule (n.) See Bascule.,
B as in Baculine (a.) Of or pertaining to the rod or punishment with the rod.,
B as in Baculite (n.) A cephalopod of the extinct genus Baculites, found fossil in the Cretaceous rocks. It is like an uncoiled ammonite.,
B as in Baculometry (n.) Measurement of distance or altitude by a staff or staffs.,
B as in Bad (imp.) Bade.,
B as in Bad (superl.) Wanting good qualities, whether physical or moral; injurious, hurtful, inconvenient, offensive, painful, unfavorable, or defective, either physically or morally; evil; vicious; wicked; -- the opposite of good; as, a bad man; bad conduct; bad habits; bad soil; bad health; bad crop; bad news.,
B as in Badder () compar. of Bad, a.,
B as in Badderlocks (n.) A large black seaweed (Alaria esculenta) sometimes eaten in Europe; -- also called murlins, honeyware, and henware.,
B as in Baddish (a.) Somewhat bad; inferior.,
B as in Bade () A form of the pat tense of Bid.,
B as in Badge (n.) A distinctive mark, token, sign, or cognizance, worn on the person; as, the badge of a society; the badge of a policeman.,
B as in Badge (n.) Something characteristic; a mark; a token.,
B as in Badge (n.) A carved ornament on the stern of a vessel, containing a window or the representation of one.,
B as in Badge (v. t.) To mark or distinguish with a badge.,
B as in Badgeless (a.) Having no badge.,
B as in Badger (n.) An itinerant licensed dealer in commodities used for food; a hawker; a huckster; -- formerly applied especially to one who bought grain in one place and sold it in another.,
B as in Badger (n.) A carnivorous quadruped of the genus Meles or of an allied genus. It is a burrowing animal, with short, thick legs, and long claws on the fore feet. One species (M. vulgaris), called also brock, inhabits the north of Europe and Asia; another species (Taxidea Americana / Labradorica) inhabits the northern parts of North America. See Teledu.,
B as in Badger (n.) A brush made of badgers' hair, used by artists.,
B as in Badgered (imp. & p. p.) of Badger,
B as in Badgering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Badger,
B as in Badger (v. t.) To tease or annoy, as a badger when baited; to worry or irritate persistently.,
B as in Badger (v. t.) To beat down; to cheapen; to barter; to bargain.,
B as in Badgerer (n.) One who badgers.,
B as in Badgerer (n.) A kind of dog used in badger baiting.,
B as in Badgering (n.) The act of one who badgers.,
B as in Badgering (n.) The practice of buying wheat and other kinds of food in one place and selling them in another for a profit.,
B as in Badger-legged (a.) Having legs of unequal length, as the badger was thought to have.,
B as in Badiaga (n.) A fresh-water sponge (Spongilla), common in the north of Europe, the powder of which is used to take away the livid marks of bruises.,
B as in Badian (n.) An evergreen Chinese shrub of the Magnolia family (Illicium anisatum), and its aromatic seeds; Chinese anise; star anise.,
B as in Badigeon (n.) A cement or paste (as of plaster and freestone, or of sawdust and glue or lime) used by sculptors, builders, and workers in wood or stone, to fill holes, cover defects, or finish a surface.,
B as in Badinage (n.) Playful raillery; banter.,
B as in Bad lands () Barren regions, especially in the western United States, where horizontal strata (Tertiary deposits) have been often eroded into fantastic forms, and much intersected by ca�ons, and where lack of wood, water, and forage increases the difficulty of traversing the country, whence the name, first given by the Canadian French, Mauvaises Terres (bad lands).,
B as in Badly (adv.) In a bad manner; poorly; not well; unskillfully; imperfectly; unfortunately; grievously; so as to cause harm; disagreeably; seriously.,
B as in Badminton (n.) A game, similar to lawn tennis, played with shuttlecocks.,
B as in Badminton (n.) A preparation of claret, spiced and sweetened.,
B as in Badness (n.) The state of being bad.,
B as in Baenomere (n.) One of the somites (arthromeres) that make up the thorax of Arthropods.,
B as in Baenopod (n.) One of the thoracic legs of Arthropods.,
B as in Baenosome (n.) The thorax of Arthropods.,
B as in Baff (n.) A blow; a stroke.,
B as in Baffled (imp. & p. p.) of Baffle,
B as in Baffling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Baffle,
B as in Baffle (v. t.) To cause to undergo a disgraceful punishment, as a recreant knight.,
B as in Baffle (v. t.) To check by shifts and turns; to elude; to foil.,
B as in Baffle (v. t.) To check by perplexing; to disconcert, frustrate, or defeat; to thwart.,
B as in Baffle (v. i.) To practice deceit.,
B as in Baffle (v. i.) To struggle against in vain; as, a ship baffles with the winds.,
B as in Baffle (n.) A defeat by artifice, shifts, and turns; discomfiture.,
B as in Bafflement (n.) The process or act of baffling, or of being baffled; frustration; check.,
B as in Baffler (n.) One who, or that which, baffles.,
B as in Baffling (a.) Frustrating; discomfiting; disconcerting; as, baffling currents, winds, tasks.,
B as in Baft (n.) Same as Bafta.,
B as in Bafta (n.) A coarse stuff, usually of cotton, originally made in India. Also, an imitation of this fabric made for export.,
B as in Bag (n.) A sack or pouch, used for holding anything; as, a bag of meal or of money.,
B as in Bag (n.) A sac, or dependent gland, in animal bodies, containing some fluid or other substance; as, the bag of poison in the mouth of some serpents; the bag of a cow.,
B as in Bag (n.) A sort of silken purse formerly tied about men's hair behind, by way of ornament.,
B as in Bag (n.) The quantity of game bagged.,
B as in Bag (n.) A certain quantity of a commodity, such as it is customary to carry to market in a sack; as, a bag of pepper or hops; a bag of coffee.,
B as in Bagged (imp. & p. p.) of Bag,
B as in Bagging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bag,
B as in Bag (v. t.) To put into a bag; as, to bag hops.,
B as in Bag (v. t.) To seize, capture, or entrap; as, to bag an army; to bag game.,
B as in Bag (v. t.) To furnish or load with a bag or with a well filled bag.,
B as in Bag (v. i.) To swell or hang down like a full bag; as, the skin bags from containing morbid matter.,
B as in Bag (v. i.) To swell with arrogance.,
B as in Bag (v. i.) To become pregnant.,
B as in Bagasse (n.) Sugar cane, as it comes crushed from the mill. It is then dried and used as fuel. Also extended to the refuse of beetroot sugar.,
B as in Bagatelle (n.) A trifle; a thing of no importance.,
B as in Bagatelle (n.) A game played on an oblong board, having, at one end, cups or arches into or through which balls are to be driven by a rod held in the hand of the player.,
B as in Baggage (n.) The clothes, tents, utensils, and provisions of an army.,
B as in Baggage (n.) The trunks, valises, satchels, etc., which a traveler carries with him on a journey; luggage.,
B as in Baggage (n.) Purulent matter.,
B as in Baggage (n.) Trashy talk.,
B as in Baggage (n.) A man of bad character.,
B as in Baggage (n.) A woman of loose morals; a prostitute.,
B as in Baggage (n.) A romping, saucy girl.,
B as in Baggage master () One who has charge of the baggage at a railway station or upon a line of public travel.,
B as in Baggager (n.) One who takes care of baggage; a camp follower.,
B as in Baggala (n.) A two-masted Arab or Indian trading vessel, used in Indian Ocean.,
B as in Baggily (adv.) In a loose, baggy way.,
B as in Bagging (n.) Cloth or other material for bags.,
B as in Bagging (n.) The act of putting anything into, or as into, a bag.,
B as in Bagging (n.) The act of swelling; swelling.,
B as in Bagging (n.) Reaping peas, beans, wheat, etc., with a chopping stroke.,
B as in Baggy (a.) Resembling a bag; loose or puffed out, or pendent, like a bag; flabby; as, baggy trousers; baggy cheeks.,
B as in Bagmen (pl. ) of Bagman,
B as in Bagman (n.) A commercial traveler; one employed to solicit orders for manufacturers and tradesmen.,
B as in Bag net () A bag-shaped net for catching fish.,
B as in Bagnio (n.) A house for bathing, sweating, etc.; -- also, in Turkey, a prison for slaves.,
B as in Bagnio (n.) A brothel; a stew; a house of prostitution.,
B as in Bagpipe (n.) A musical wind instrument, now used chiefly in the Highlands of Scotland.,
B as in Bagpipe (v. t.) To make to look like a bagpipe.,
B as in Bagpiper (n.) One who plays on a bagpipe; a piper.,
B as in Bagreef (n.) The lower reef of fore and aft sails; also, the upper reef of topsails.,
B as in Bague (n.) The annular molding or group of moldings dividing a long shaft or clustered column into two or more parts.,
B as in Baguet (n.) Alt. of Baguette,
B as in Baguette (n.) A small molding, like the astragal, but smaller; a bead.,
B as in Baguette (n.) One of the minute bodies seen in the divided nucleoli of some Infusoria after conjugation.,
B as in Bagwig (n.) A wig, in use in the 18th century, with the hair at the back of the head in a bag.,
B as in Bagworm (n.) One of several lepidopterous insects which construct, in the larval state, a baglike case which they carry about for protection. One species (Platoeceticus Gloveri) feeds on the orange tree. See Basket worm.,
B as in Bah (interj.) An exclamation expressive of extreme contempt.,
B as in Bahar (n.) A weight used in certain parts of the East Indies, varying considerably in different localities, the range being from 223 to 625 pounds.,
B as in Baigne (v. i.) To soak or drench.,
B as in Bail (n.) A bucket or scoop used in bailing water out of a boat.,
B as in Bailed (imp. & p. p.) of Bail,
B as in Bailing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bail,
B as in Bail (v. t.) To lade; to dip and throw; -- usually with out; as, to bail water out of a boat.,
B as in Bail (v. t.) To dip or lade water from; -- often with out to express completeness; as, to bail a boat.,
B as in Bail (v./t.) To deliver; to release.,
B as in Bail (v./t.) To set free, or deliver from arrest, or out of custody, on the undertaking of some other person or persons that he or they will be responsible for the appearance, at a certain day and place, of the person bailed.,
B as in Bail (v./t.) To deliver, as goods in trust, for some special object or purpose, upon a contract, expressed or implied, that the trust shall be faithfully executed on the part of the bailee, or person intrusted; as, to bail cloth to a tailor to be made into a garment; to bail goods to a carrier.,
B as in Bail (n.) Custody; keeping.,
B as in Bail (n.) The person or persons who procure the release of a prisoner from the custody of the officer, or from imprisonment, by becoming surely for his appearance in court.,
B as in Bail (n.) The security given for the appearance of a prisoner in order to obtain his release from custody of the officer; as, the man is out on bail; to go bail for any one.,
B as in Bail (n.) The arched handle of a kettle, pail, or similar vessel, usually movable.,
B as in Bail (n.) A half hoop for supporting the cover of a carrier's wagon, awning of a boat, etc.,
B as in Bail (n.) A line of palisades serving as an exterior defense.,
B as in Bail (n.) The outer wall of a feudal castle. Hence: The space inclosed by it; the outer court.,
B as in Bail (n.) A certain limit within a forest.,
B as in Bail (n.) A division for the stalls of an open stable.,
B as in Bail (n.) The top or cross piece ( or either of the two cross pieces) of the wicket.,
B as in Bailable (a.) Having the right or privilege of being admitted to bail, upon bond with sureties; -- used of persons.,
B as in Bailable (a.) Admitting of bail; as, a bailable offense.,
B as in Bailable (a.) That can be delivered in trust; as, bailable goods.,
B as in Bail bond () A bond or obligation given by a prisoner and his surety, to insure the prisoner's appearance in court, at the return of the writ.,
B as in Bail bond () Special bail in court to abide the judgment.,
B as in Bailee (n.) The person to whom goods are committed in trust, and who has a temporary possession and a qualified property in them, for the purposes of the trust.,
B as in Bailer (n.) See Bailor.,
B as in Bailer (n.) One who bails or lades.,
B as in Bailer (n.) A utensil, as a bucket or cup, used in bailing; a machine for bailing water out of a pit.,
B as in Bailey (n.) The outer wall of a feudal castle.,
B as in Bailey (n.) The space immediately within the outer wall of a castle or fortress.,
B as in Bailey (n.) A prison or court of justice; -- used in certain proper names; as, the Old Bailey in London; the New Bailey in Manchester.,
B as in Bailie (n.) An officer in Scotland, whose office formerly corresponded to that of sheriff, but now corresponds to that of an English alderman.,
B as in Bailiff (n.) Originally, a person put in charge of something especially, a chief officer, magistrate, or keeper, as of a county, town, hundred, or castle; one to whom power/ of custody or care are intrusted.,
B as in Bailiff (n.) A sheriff's deputy, appointed to make arrests, collect fines, summon juries, etc.,
B as in Bailiff (n.) An overseer or under steward of an estate, who directs husbandry operations, collects rents, etc.,
B as in Bailiffwick (n.) See Bailiwick.,
B as in Bailiwick (n.) The precincts within which a bailiff has jurisdiction; the limits of a bailiff's authority.,
B as in Baillie (n.) Bailiff.,
B as in Baillie (n.) Same as Bailie.,
B as in Bailment (n.) The action of bailing a person accused.,
B as in Bailment (n.) A delivery of goods or money by one person to another in trust, for some special purpose, upon a contract, expressed or implied, that the trust shall be faithfully executed.,
B as in Bailor (n.) One who delivers goods or money to another in trust.,
B as in Bailpiece (n.) A piece of parchment, or paper, containing a recognizance or bail bond.,
B as in Bain (n.) A bath; a bagnio.,
B as in Bain-marie (n.) A vessel for holding hot water in which another vessel may be heated without scorching its contents; -- used for warming or preparing food or pharmaceutical preparations.,
B as in Bairam (n.) The name of two Mohammedan festivals, of which one is held at the close of the fast called Ramadan, and the other seventy days after the fast.,
B as in Bairn (n.) A child.,
B as in Baisemains (n. pl.) Respects; compliments.,
B as in Bait (v. i.) Any substance, esp. food, used in catching fish, or other animals, by alluring them to a hook, snare, inclosure, or net.,
B as in Bait (v. i.) Anything which allures; a lure; enticement; temptation.,
B as in Bait (v. i.) A portion of food or drink, as a refreshment taken on a journey; also, a stop for rest and refreshment.,
B as in Bait (v. i.) A light or hasty luncheon.,
B as in Baited (imp. & p. p.) of Bait,
B as in Baiting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bait,
B as in Bait (v. t.) To provoke and harass; esp., to harass or torment for sport; as, to bait a bear with dogs; to bait a bull.,
B as in Bait (v. t.) To give a portion of food and drink to, upon the road; as, to bait horses.,
B as in Bait (v. t.) To furnish or cover with bait, as a trap or hook.,
B as in Bait (v. i.) To stop to take a portion of food and drink for refreshment of one's self or one's beasts, on a journey.,
B as in Bait (v. i.) To flap the wings; to flutter as if to fly; or to hover, as a hawk when she stoops to her prey.,
B as in Baiter (n.) One who baits; a tormentor.,
B as in Baize (n.) A coarse woolen stuff with a long nap; -- usually dyed in plain colors.,
B as in Bajocco (n.) A small copper coin formerly current in the Roman States, worth about a cent and a half.,
B as in Baked (imp. & p. p.) of Bake,
B as in Baking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bake,
B as in Bake (v. t.) To prepare, as food, by cooking in a dry heat, either in an oven or under coals, or on heated stone or metal; as, to bake bread, meat, apples.,
B as in Bake (v. t.) To dry or harden (anything) by subjecting to heat, as, to bake bricks; the sun bakes the ground.,
B as in Bake (v. t.) To harden by cold.,
B as in Bake (v. i.) To do the work of baking something; as, she brews, washes, and bakes.,
B as in Bake (v. i.) To be baked; to become dry and hard in heat; as, the bread bakes; the ground bakes in the hot sun.,
B as in Bake (n.) The process, or result, of baking.,
B as in Bakehouse (v. t.) A house for baking; a bakery.,
B as in Bakemeat (n.) Alt. of Baked-meat,
B as in Baked-meat (n.) A pie; baked food.,
B as in Baken () p. p. of Bake.,
B as in Baker (v. i.) One whose business it is to bake bread, biscuit, etc.,
B as in Baker (v. i.) A portable oven in which baking is done.,
B as in Baker-legged (a.) Having legs that bend inward at the knees.,
B as in Bakery (n.) The trade of a baker.,
B as in Bakery (n.) The place for baking bread; a bakehouse.,
B as in Baking (n.) The act or process of cooking in an oven, or of drying and hardening by heat or cold.,
B as in Baking (n.) The quantity baked at once; a batch; as, a baking of bread.,
B as in Bakingly (adv.) In a hot or baking manner.,
B as in Bakistre (n.) A baker.,
B as in Baksheesh (n.) Alt. of Bakshish,
B as in Bakshish (n.) Same as Backsheesh.,
B as in Balaam (n.) A paragraph describing something wonderful, used to fill out a newspaper column; -- an allusion to the miracle of Balaam's ass speaking.,
B as in Balachong (n.) A condiment formed of small fishes or shrimps, pounded up with salt and spices, and then dried. It is much esteemed in China.,
B as in Balaenoidea (n.) A division of the Cetacea, including the right whale and all other whales having the mouth fringed with baleen. See Baleen.,
B as in Balance (n.) An apparatus for weighing.,
B as in Balance (n.) Act of weighing mentally; comparison; estimate.,
B as in Balance (n.) Equipoise between the weights in opposite scales.,
B as in Balance (n.) The state of being in equipoise; equilibrium; even adjustment; steadiness.,
B as in Balance (n.) An equality between the sums total of the two sides of an account; as, to bring one's accounts to a balance; -- also, the excess on either side; as, the balance of an account.,
B as in Balance (n.) A balance wheel, as of a watch, or clock. See Balance wheel (in the Vocabulary).,
B as in Balance (n.) The constellation Libra.,
B as in Balance (n.) The seventh sign in the Zodiac, called Libra, which the sun enters at the equinox in September.,
B as in Balance (n.) A movement in dancing. See Balance, v. i., S.,
B as in Balanced (imp. & p. p.) of Balance,
B as in Balancing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Balance,
B as in Balance (n.) To bring to an equipoise, as the scales of a balance by adjusting the weights; to weigh in a balance.,
B as in Balance (n.) To support on a narrow base, so as to keep from falling; as, to balance a plate on the end of a cane; to balance one's self on a tight rope.,
B as in Balance (n.) To equal in number, weight, force, or proportion; to counterpoise, counterbalance, counteract, or neutralize.,
B as in Balance (n.) To compare in relative force, importance, value, etc.; to estimate.,
B as in Balance (n.) To settle and adjust, as an account; to make two accounts equal by paying the difference between them.,
B as in Balance (n.) To make the sums of the debits and credits of an account equal; -- said of an item; as, this payment, or credit, balances the account.,
B as in Balance (n.) To arrange accounts in such a way that the sum total of the debits is equal to the sum total of the credits; as, to balance a set of books.,
B as in Balance (n.) To move toward, and then back from, reciprocally; as, to balance partners.,
B as in Balance (n.) To contract, as a sail, into a narrower compass; as, to balance the boom mainsail.,
B as in Balance (v. i.) To have equal weight on each side; to be in equipoise; as, the scales balance.,
B as in Balance (v. i.) To fluctuate between motives which appear of equal force; to waver; to hesitate.,
B as in Balance (v. i.) To move toward a person or couple, and then back.,
B as in Balanceable (a.) Such as can be balanced.,
B as in Balancement (n.) The act or result of balancing or adjusting; equipoise; even adjustment of forces.,
B as in Balancer (n.) One who balances, or uses a balance.,
B as in Balancer (n.) In Diptera, the rudimentary posterior wing.,
B as in Balancereef (n.) The last reef in a fore-and-aft sail, taken to steady the ship.,
B as in Balance wheel () A wheel which regulates the beats or pulses of a watch or chronometer, answering to the pendulum of a clock; -- often called simply a balance.,
B as in Balance wheel () A ratchet-shaped scape wheel, which in some watches is acted upon by the axis of the balance wheel proper (in those watches called a balance).,
B as in Balance wheel () A wheel which imparts regularity to the movements of any engine or machine; a fly wheel.,
B as in Balaniferous (a.) Bearing or producing acorns.,
B as in Balanite (n.) A fossil balanoid shell.,
B as in Balanoglossus (n.) A peculiar marine worm. See Enteropneusta, and Tornaria.,
B as in Balanoid (a.) Resembling an acorn; -- applied to a group of barnacles having shells shaped like acorns. See Acornshell, and Barnacle.,
B as in Balas ruby () A variety of spinel ruby, of a pale rose red, or inclining to orange. See Spinel.,
B as in Balaustine (n.) The pomegranate tree (Punica granatum). The bark of the root, the rind of the fruit, and the flowers are used medicinally.,
B as in Balbutiate (v. i.) Alt. of Balbucinate,
B as in Balbucinate (v. i.) To stammer.,
B as in Balbuties (n.) The defect of stammering; also, a kind of incomplete pronunciation.,
B as in Balcon (n.) A balcony.,
B as in Balconied (a.) Having balconies.,
B as in Balconies (pl. ) of Balcony,
B as in Balcony (n.) A platform projecting from the wall of a building, usually resting on brackets or consoles, and inclosed by a parapet; as, a balcony in front of a window. Also, a projecting gallery in places of amusement; as, the balcony in a theater.,
B as in Balcony (n.) A projecting gallery once common at the stern of large ships.,
B as in Bald (a.) Destitute of the natural or common covering on the head or top, as of hair, feathers, foliage, trees, etc.; as, a bald head; a bald oak.,
B as in Bald (a.) Destitute of ornament; unadorned; bare; literal.,
B as in Bald (a.) Undisguised.,
B as in Bald (a.) Destitute of dignity or value; paltry; mean.,
B as in Bald (a.) Destitute of a beard or awn; as, bald wheat.,
B as in Bald (a.) Destitute of the natural covering.,
B as in Bald (a.) Marked with a white spot on the head; bald-faced.,
B as in Baldachin (n.) A rich brocade; baudekin.,
B as in Baldachin (n.) A structure in form of a canopy, sometimes supported by columns, and sometimes suspended from the roof or projecting from the wall; generally placed over an altar; as, the baldachin in St. Peter's.,
B as in Baldachin (n.) A portable canopy borne over shrines, etc., in procession.,
B as in Bald eagle () The white-headed eagle (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) of America. The young, until several years old, lack the white feathers on the head.,
B as in Balder (n.) The most beautiful and beloved of the gods; the god of peace; the son of Odin and Freya.,
B as in Balderdash (n.) A worthless mixture, especially of liquors.,
B as in Balderdash (n.) Senseless jargon; ribaldry; nonsense; trash.,
B as in Balderdash (v. t.) To mix or adulterate, as liquors.,
B as in Bald-faced (a.) Having a white face or a white mark on the face, as a stag.,
B as in Baldhead (n.) A person whose head is bald.,
B as in Baldhead (n.) A white-headed variety of pigeon.,
B as in Baldheaded (a.) Having a bald head.,
B as in Baldly (adv.) Nakedly; without reserve; inelegantly.,
B as in Baldness (n.) The state or condition of being bald; as, baldness of the head; baldness of style.,
B as in Baldpate (n.) A baldheaded person.,
B as in Baldpate (n.) The American widgeon (Anas Americana).,
B as in Baldpate (a.) Alt. of Baldpated,
B as in Baldpated (a.) Destitute of hair on the head; baldheaded.,
B as in Baldrib (n.) A piece of pork cut lower down than the sparerib, and destitute of fat.,
B as in Baldric (n.) A broad belt, sometimes richly ornamented, worn over one shoulder, across the breast, and under the opposite arm; less properly, any belt.,
B as in Baldwin (n.) A kind of reddish, moderately acid, winter apple.,
B as in Bale (n.) A bundle or package of goods in a cloth cover, and corded for storage or transportation; also, a bundle of straw / hay, etc., put up compactly for transportation.,
B as in Baled (imp. & p. p.) of Bale,
B as in Baling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bale,
B as in Bale (v. t.) To make up in a bale.,
B as in Bale (v. t.) See Bail, v. t., to lade.,
B as in Bale (n.) Misery; calamity; misfortune; sorrow.,
B as in Bale (n.) Evil; an evil, pernicious influence; something causing great injury.,
B as in Balearic (a.) Of or pertaining to the isles of Majorca, Minorca, Ivica, etc., in the Mediterranean Sea, off the coast of Valencia.,
B as in Baleen (n.) Plates or blades of "whalebone," from two to twelve feet long, and sometimes a foot wide, which in certain whales (Balaenoidea) are attached side by side along the upper jaw, and form a fringelike sieve by which the food is retained in the mouth.,
B as in Balefire (n.) A signal fire; an alarm fire.,
B as in Baleful (a.) Full of deadly or pernicious influence; destructive.,
B as in Baleful (a.) Full of grief or sorrow; woeful; sad.,
B as in Balefully (adv.) In a baleful manner; perniciously.,
B as in Balefulness (n.) The quality or state of being baleful.,
B as in Balisaur (n.) A badgerlike animal of India (Arcionyx collaris).,
B as in Balister (n.) A crossbow.,
B as in Balistoid (a.) Like a fish of the genus Balistes; of the family Balistidae. See Filefish.,
B as in Balistraria (n.) A narrow opening, often cruciform, through which arrows might be discharged.,
B as in Balize (n.) A pole or a frame raised as a sea beacon or a landmark.,
B as in Balk (v. i.) A ridge of land left unplowed between furrows, or at the end of a field; a piece missed by the plow slipping aside.,
B as in Balk (v. i.) A great beam, rafter, or timber; esp., the tie-beam of a house. The loft above was called "the balks.",
B as in Balk (v. i.) One of the beams connecting the successive supports of a trestle bridge or bateau bridge.,
B as in Balk (v. i.) A hindrance or disappointment; a check.,
B as in Balk (v. i.) A sudden and obstinate stop; a failure.,
B as in Balk (v. i.) A deceptive gesture of the pitcher, as if to deliver the ball.,
B as in Balked (imp. & p. p.) of Balk,
B as in Balking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Balk,
B as in Balk (v. t.) To leave or make balks in.,
B as in Balk (v. t.) To leave heaped up; to heap up in piles.,
B as in Balk (v. t.) To omit, miss, or overlook by chance.,
B as in Balk (v. t.) To miss intentionally; to avoid; to shun; to refuse; to let go by; to shirk.,
B as in Balk (v. t.) To disappoint; to frustrate; to foil; to baffle; to /hwart; as, to balk expectation.,
B as in Balk (v. i.) To engage in contradiction; to be in opposition.,
B as in Balk (v. i.) To stop abruptly and stand still obstinately; to jib; to stop short; to swerve; as, the horse balks.,
B as in Balk (v. i.) To indicate to fishermen, by shouts or signals from shore, the direction taken by the shoals of herring.,
B as in Balker (n.) One who, or that which balks.,
B as in Balker (n.) A person who stands on a rock or eminence to espy the shoals of herring, etc., and to give notice to the men in boats which way they pass; a conder; a huer.,
B as in Balkingly (adv.) In a manner to balk or frustrate.,
B as in Balkish (a.) Uneven; ridgy.,
B as in Balky (a.) Apt to balk; as, a balky horse.,
B as in Ball (n.) Any round or roundish body or mass; a sphere or globe; as, a ball of twine; a ball of snow.,
B as in Ball (n.) A spherical body of any substance or size used to play with, as by throwing, knocking, kicking, etc.,
B as in Ball (n.) A general name for games in which a ball is thrown, kicked, or knocked. See Baseball, and Football.,
B as in Ball (n.) Any solid spherical, cylindrical, or conical projectile of lead or iron, to be discharged from a firearm; as, a cannon ball; a rifle ball; -- often used collectively; as, powder and ball. Spherical balls for the smaller firearms are commonly called bullets.,
B as in Ball (n.) A flaming, roundish body shot into the air; a case filled with combustibles intended to burst and give light or set fire, or to produce smoke or stench; as, a fire ball; a stink ball.,
B as in Ball (n.) A leather-covered cushion, fastened to a handle called a ballstock; -- formerly used by printers for inking the form, but now superseded by the roller.,
B as in Ball (n.) A roundish protuberant portion of some part of the body; as, the ball of the thumb; the ball of the foot.,
B as in Ball (n.) A large pill, a form in which medicine is commonly given to horses; a bolus.,
B as in Ball (n.) The globe or earth.,
B as in Balled (imp. & p. p.) of Ball,
B as in Balling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ball,
B as in Ball (v. i.) To gather balls which cling to the feet, as of damp snow or clay; to gather into balls; as, the horse balls; the snow balls.,
B as in Ball (v. t.) To heat in a furnace and form into balls for rolling.,
B as in Ball (v. t.) To form or wind into a ball; as, to ball cotton.,
B as in Ball (n.) A social assembly for the purpose of dancing.,
B as in Ballad (n.) A popular kind of narrative poem, adapted for recitation or singing; as, the ballad of Chevy Chase; esp., a sentimental or romantic poem in short stanzas.,
B as in Ballad (v. i.) To make or sing ballads.,
B as in Ballad (v. t.) To make mention of in ballads.,
B as in Ballade (n.) A form of French versification, sometimes imitated in English, in which three or four rhymes recur through three stanzas of eight or ten lines each, the stanzas concluding with a refrain, and the whole poem with an envoy.,
B as in Ballader (n.) A writer of ballads.,
B as in Ballad monger () A seller or maker of ballads; a poetaster.,
B as in Balladry (n.) Ballad poems; the subject or style of ballads.,
B as in Ballahoo (n.) Alt. of Ballahou,
B as in Ballahou (n.) A fast-sailing schooner, used in the Bermudas and West Indies.,
B as in Ballarag (v. i.) To bully; to threaten.,
B as in Ballast (a.) Any heavy substance, as stone, iron, etc., put into the hold to sink a vessel in the water to such a depth as to prevent capsizing.,
B as in Ballast (a.) Any heavy matter put into the car of a balloon to give it steadiness.,
B as in Ballast (a.) Gravel, broken stone, etc., laid in the bed of a railroad to make it firm and solid.,
B as in Ballast (a.) The larger solids, as broken stone or gravel, used in making concrete.,
B as in Ballast (a.) Fig.: That which gives, or helps to maintain, uprightness, steadiness, and security.,
B as in Ballasted (imp. & p. p.) of Ballast,
B as in Ballasting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ballast,
B as in Ballast (v. t.) To steady, as a vessel, by putting heavy substances in the hold.,
B as in Ballast (v. t.) To fill in, as the bed of a railroad, with gravel, stone, etc., in order to make it firm and solid.,
B as in Ballast (v. t.) To keep steady; to steady, morally.,
B as in Ballastage (n.) A toll paid for the privilege of taking up ballast in a port or harbor.,
B as in Ballasting (n.) That which is used for steadying anything; ballast.,
B as in Ballatry (n.) See Balladry.,
B as in Ballet (n.) An artistic dance performed as a theatrical entertainment, or an interlude, by a number of persons, usually women. Sometimes, a scene accompanied by pantomime and dancing.,
B as in Ballet (n.) The company of persons who perform the ballet.,
B as in Ballet (n.) A light part song, or madrigal, with a fa la burden or chorus, -- most common with the Elizabethan madrigal composers.,
B as in Ballet (n.) A bearing in coats of arms, representing one or more balls, which are denominated bezants, plates, etc., according to color.,
B as in Ball-flower (n.) An ornament resembling a ball placed in a circular flower, the petals of which form a cup round it, -- usually inserted in a hollow molding.,
B as in Ballist/ (pl. ) of Ballista,
B as in Ballista (n.) An ancient military engine, in the form of a crossbow, used for hurling large missiles.,
B as in Ballister (n.) A crossbow.,
B as in Ballistic (a.) Of or pertaining to the ballista, or to the art of hurling stones or missile weapons by means of an engine.,
B as in Ballistic (a.) Pertaining to projection, or to a projectile.,
B as in Ballistics (n.) The science or art of hurling missile weapons by the use of an engine.,
B as in Ballium (n.) See Bailey.,
B as in Balloon (n.) A bag made of silk or other light material, and filled with hydrogen gas or heated air, so as to rise and float in the atmosphere; especially, one with a car attached for aerial navigation.,
B as in Balloon (n.) A ball or globe on the top of a pillar, church, etc., as at St. Paul's, in London.,
B as in Balloon (n.) A round vessel, usually with a short neck, to hold or receive whatever is distilled; a glass vessel of a spherical form.,
B as in Balloon (n.) A bomb or shell.,
B as in Balloon (n.) A game played with a large inflated ball.,
B as in Balloon (n.) The outline inclosing words represented as coming from the mouth of a pictured figure.,
B as in Balloon (v. t.) To take up in, or as if in, a balloon.,
B as in Balloon (v. i.) To go up or voyage in a balloon.,
B as in Balloon (v. i.) To expand, or puff out, like a balloon.,
B as in Ballooned (a.) Swelled out like a balloon.,
B as in Ballooner (n.) One who goes up in a balloon; an aeronaut.,
B as in Balloon fish () A fish of the genus Diodon or the genus Tetraodon, having the power of distending its body by taking air or water into its dilatable esophagus. See Globefish, and Bur fish.,
B as in Ballooning (n.) The art or practice of managing balloons or voyaging in them.,
B as in Ballooning (n.) The process of temporarily raising the value of a stock, as by fictitious sales.,
B as in Ballooning spider () A spider which has the habit of rising into the air. Many kinds ( esp. species of Lycosa) do this while young by ejecting threads of silk until the force of the wind upon them carries the spider aloft.,
B as in Balloonist (n.) An aeronaut.,
B as in Balloonry (n.) The art or practice of ascending in a balloon; aeronautics.,
B as in Ballot (n.) Originally, a ball used for secret voting. Hence: Any printed or written ticket used in voting.,
B as in Ballot (n.) The act of voting by balls or written or printed ballots or tickets; the system of voting secretly by balls or by tickets.,
B as in Ballot (n.) The whole number of votes cast at an election, or in a given territory or electoral district.,
B as in Balloted (imp. & p. p.) of Ballot,
B as in Balloting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ballot,
B as in Ballot (n.) To vote or decide by ballot; as, to ballot for a candidate.,
B as in Ballot (v. t.) To vote for or in opposition to.,
B as in Ballotade (v. i.) A leap of a horse, as between two pillars, or upon a straight line, so that when his four feet are in the air, he shows only the shoes of his hind feet, without jerking out.,
B as in Ballotation (n.) Voting by ballot.,
B as in Balloter (n.) One who votes by ballot.,
B as in Ballotin (n.) An officer who has charge of a ballot box.,
B as in Ballow (n.) A cudgel.,
B as in Ballproof (a.) Incapable of being penetrated by balls from firearms.,
B as in Ballroom (n.) A room for balls or dancing.,
B as in Balm (n.) An aromatic plant of the genus Melissa.,
B as in Balm (n.) The resinous and aromatic exudation of certain trees or shrubs.,
B as in Balm (n.) Any fragrant ointment.,
B as in Balm (n.) Anything that heals or that mitigates pain.,
B as in Balm (v. i.) To anoint with balm, or with anything medicinal. Hence: To soothe; to mitigate.,
B as in Balmify (v. t.) To render balmy.,
B as in Balmily (adv.) In a balmy manner.,
B as in Balmoral (n.) A long woolen petticoat, worn immediately under the dress.,
B as in Balmoral (n.) A kind of stout walking shoe, laced in front.,
B as in Balmy (a.) Having the qualities of balm; odoriferous; aromatic; assuaging; soothing; refreshing; mild.,
B as in Balmy (a.) Producing balm.,
B as in Balneal (a.) Of or pertaining to a bath.,
B as in Balneary (n.) A bathing room.,
B as in Balneation (n.) The act of bathing.,
B as in Balneatory (a.) Belonging to a bath.,
B as in Balneography (n.) A description of baths.,
B as in Balneology (n.) A treatise on baths; the science of bathing.,
B as in Balneotherapy (n.) The treatment of disease by baths.,
B as in Balotade (n.) See Ballotade.,
B as in Balsa (n.) A raft or float, used principally on the Pacific coast of South America.,
B as in Balsam (n.) A resin containing more or less of an essential or volatile oil.,
B as in Balsam (n.) A species of tree (Abies balsamea).,
B as in Balsam (n.) An annual garden plant (Impatiens balsamina) with beautiful flowers; balsamine.,
B as in Balsam (n.) Anything that heals, soothes, or restores.,
B as in Balsam (v. t.) To treat or anoint with balsam; to relieve, as with balsam; to render balsamic.,
B as in Balsamation (n.) The act of imparting balsamic properties.,
B as in Balsamation (n.) The art or process of embalming.,
B as in Balsamic (a.) Alt. of Balsamical,
B as in Balsamical (a.) Having the qualities of balsam; containing, or resembling, balsam; soft; mitigative; soothing; restorative.,
B as in Balsamiferous (a.) Producing balsam.,
B as in Balsamine (n.) The Impatiens balsamina, or garden balsam.,
B as in Balsamous (a.) Having the quality of balsam; containing balsam.,
B as in Balter (v. t.) To stick together.,
B as in Baltic (a.) Of or pertaining to the sea which separates Norway and Sweden from Jutland, Denmark, and Germany; situated on the Baltic Sea.,
B as in Baltimore bird () Alt. of Baltimore oriole,
B as in Baltimore oriole () A common American bird (Icterus galbula), named after Lord Baltimore, because its colors (black and orange red) are like those of his coat of arms; -- called also golden robin.,
B as in Baluster (n.) A small column or pilaster, used as a support to the rail of an open parapet, to guard the side of a staircase, or the front of a gallery. See Balustrade.,
B as in Balustered (a.) Having balusters.,
B as in Balustrade (n.) A row of balusters topped by a rail, serving as an open parapet, as along the edge of a balcony, terrace, bridge, staircase, or the eaves of a building.,
B as in Bam (n.) An imposition; a cheat; a hoax.,
B as in Bam (v. t.) To cheat; to wheedle.,
B as in Bambino (n.) A child or baby; esp., a representation in art of the infant Christ wrapped in swaddling clothes.,
B as in Bambino (n.) Babe Ruth.,
B as in Bambocciade (n.) A representation of a grotesque scene from common or rustic life.,
B as in Bamboo (n.) A plant of the family of grasses, and genus Bambusa, growing in tropical countries.,
B as in Bamboo (v. t.) To flog with the bamboo.,
B as in Bamboozled (imp. & p. p.) of Bamboozle,
B as in Bamboozling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bamboozle,
B as in Bamboozle (v. t.) To deceive by trickery; to cajole by confusing the senses; to hoax; to mystify; to humbug.,
B as in Bamboozler (n.) A swindler; one who deceives by trickery.,
B as in Ban (n.) A public proclamation or edict; a public order or notice, mandatory or prohibitory; a summons by public proclamation.,
B as in Ban (n.) A calling together of the king's (esp. the French king's) vassals for military service; also, the body of vassals thus assembled or summoned. In present usage, in France and Prussia, the most effective part of the population liable to military duty and not in the standing army.,
B as in Ban (n.) Notice of a proposed marriage, proclaimed in church. See Banns (the common spelling in this sense).,
B as in Ban (n.) An interdiction, prohibition, or proscription.,
B as in Ban (n.) A curse or anathema.,
B as in Ban (n.) A pecuniary mulct or penalty laid upon a delinquent for offending against a ban; as, a mulct paid to a bishop by one guilty of sacrilege or other crimes.,
B as in Banned (imp. & p. p.) of Ban,
B as in Banning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ban,
B as in Ban (v. t.) To curse; to invoke evil upon.,
B as in Ban (v. t.) To forbid; to interdict.,
B as in Ban (v. i.) To curse; to swear.,
B as in Ban (n.) An ancient title of the warden of the eastern marches of Hungary; now, a title of the viceroy of Croatia and Slavonia.,
B as in Banal (a.) Commonplace; trivial; hackneyed; trite.,
B as in Banalities (pl. ) of Banality,
B as in Banality (n.) Something commonplace, hackneyed, or trivial; the commonplace, in speech.,
B as in Banana (n.) A perennial herbaceous plant of almost treelike size (Musa sapientum); also, its edible fruit. See Musa.,
B as in Banat (n.) The territory governed by a ban.,
B as in Banc (n.) Alt. of Bank,
B as in Bancus (n.) Alt. of Bank,
B as in Bank (n.) A bench; a high seat, or seat of distinction or judgment; a tribunal or court.,
B as in Banco (n.) A bank, especially that of Venice.,
B as in Band (v. t.) A fillet, strap, or any narrow ligament with which a thing is encircled, or fastened, or by which a number of things are tied, bound together, or confined; a fetter.,
B as in Band (v. t.) A continuous tablet, stripe, or series of ornaments, as of carved foliage, of color, or of brickwork, etc.,
B as in Band (v. t.) In Gothic architecture, the molding, or suite of moldings, which encircles the pillars and small shafts.,
B as in Band (v. t.) That which serves as the means of union or connection between persons; a tie.,
B as in Band (v. t.) A linen collar or ruff worn in the 16th and 17th centuries.,
B as in Band (v. t.) Two strips of linen hanging from the neck in front as part of a clerical, legal, or academic dress.,
B as in Band (v. t.) A narrow strip of cloth or other material on any article of dress, to bind, strengthen, ornament, or complete it.,
B as in Band (v. t.) A company of persons united in any common design, especially a body of armed men.,
B as in Band (v. t.) A number of musicians who play together upon portable musical instruments, especially those making a loud sound, as certain wind instruments (trumpets, clarinets, etc.), and drums, or cymbals.,
B as in Band (v. t.) A space between elevated lines or ribs, as of the fruits of umbelliferous plants.,
B as in Band (v. t.) A stripe, streak, or other mark transverse to the axis of the body.,
B as in Band (v. t.) A belt or strap.,
B as in Band (v. t.) A bond,
B as in Band (v. t.) Pledge; security.,
B as in Banded (imp. & p. p.) of Band,
B as in Banding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Band,
B as in Band (v. t.) To bind or tie with a band.,
B as in Band (v. t.) To mark with a band.,
B as in Band (v. t.) To unite in a troop, company, or confederacy.,
B as in Band (v. i.) To confederate for some common purpose; to unite; to conspire together.,
B as in Band (v. t.) To bandy; to drive away.,
B as in Band () imp. of Bind.,
B as in Bandage (n.) A fillet or strip of woven material, used in dressing and binding up wounds, etc.,
B as in Bandage (n.) Something resembling a bandage; that which is bound over or round something to cover, strengthen, or compress it; a ligature.,
B as in Bandaged (imp. & p. p.) of Bandage,
B as in Bandaging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bandage,
B as in Bandage (v. t.) To bind, dress, or cover, with a bandage; as, to bandage the eyes.,
B as in Bandala (n.) A fabric made in Manilla from the older leaf sheaths of the abaca (Musa textilis).,
B as in Bandanna (n.) Alt. of Bandana,
B as in Bandana (n.) A species of silk or cotton handkerchief, having a uniformly dyed ground, usually of red or blue, with white or yellow figures of a circular, lozenge, or other simple form.,
B as in Bandana (n.) A style of calico printing, in which white or bright spots are produced upon cloth previously dyed of a uniform red or dark color, by discharging portions of the color by chemical means, while the rest of the cloth is under pressure.,
B as in Bandbox (n.) A light box of pasteboard or thin wood, usually cylindrical, for holding ruffs (the bands of the 17th century), collars, caps, bonnets, etc.,
B as in Bandeaux (pl. ) of Bandeau,
B as in Bandeau (n.) A narrow band or fillet; a part of a head-dress.,
B as in Bandelet (n.) Alt. of Bandlet,
B as in Bandlet (n.) A small band or fillet; any little band or flat molding, compassing a column, like a ring.,
B as in Bander (n.) One banded with others.,
B as in Banderole (n.) Alt. of Bandrol,
B as in Bandrol (n.) A little banner, flag, or streamer.,
B as in Band fish () A small red fish of the genus Cepola; the ribbon fish.,
B as in Bandicoot (n.) A species of very large rat (Mus giganteus), found in India and Ceylon. It does much injury to rice fields and gardens.,
B as in Bandicoot (n.) A ratlike marsupial animal (genus Perameles) of several species, found in Australia and Tasmania.,
B as in Banding plane () A plane used for cutting out grooves and inlaying strings and bands in straight and circular work.,
B as in Bandits (pl. ) of Bandit,
B as in Banditti (pl. ) of Bandit,
B as in Bandit (n.) An outlaw; a brigand.,
B as in Bandle (n.) An Irish measure of two feet in length.,
B as in Bandlet (n.) Same as Bandelet.,
B as in Bandmaster (n.) The conductor of a musical band.,
B as in Bandog (n.) A mastiff or other large and fierce dog, usually kept chained or tied up.,
B as in Bandoleer (n.) Alt. of Bandolier,
B as in Bandolier (n.) A broad leather belt formerly worn by soldiers over the right shoulder and across the breast under the left arm. Originally it was used for supporting the musket and twelve cases for charges, but later only as a cartridge belt.,
B as in Bandolier (n.) One of the leather or wooden cases in which the charges of powder were carried.,
B as in Bandoline (n.) A glutinous pomatum for the fair.,
B as in Bandon (n.) Disposal; control; license.,
B as in Bandore (n.) A musical stringed instrument, similar in form to a guitar; a pandore.,
B as in Bandrol (n.) Same as Banderole.,
B as in Bandy (n.) A carriage or cart used in India, esp. one drawn by bullocks.,
B as in Bandies (pl. ) of Bandy,
B as in Bandy (n.) A club bent at the lower part for striking a ball at play; a hockey stick.,
B as in Bandy (n.) The game played with such a club; hockey; shinney; bandy ball.,
B as in Bandied (imp. & p. p.) of Bandy,
B as in Bandying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bandy,
B as in Bandy (v. t.) To beat to and fro, as a ball in playing at bandy.,
B as in Bandy (v. t.) To give and receive reciprocally; to exchange.,
B as in Bandy (v. t.) To toss about, as from man to man; to agitate.,
B as in Bandy (v. i.) To content, as at some game in which each strives to drive the ball his own way.,
B as in Bandy (a.) Bent; crooked; curved laterally, esp. with the convex side outward; as, a bandy leg.,
B as in Bandy-legged (a.) Having crooked legs.,
B as in Bane (n.) That which destroys life, esp. poison of a deadly quality.,
B as in Bane (n.) Destruction; death.,
B as in Bane (n.) Any cause of ruin, or lasting injury; harm; woe.,
B as in Bane (n.) A disease in sheep, commonly termed the rot.,
B as in Bane (v. t.) To be the bane of; to ruin.,
B as in Baneberry (n.) A genus (Actaea) of plants, of the order Ranunculaceae, native in the north temperate zone. The red or white berries are poisonous.,
B as in Baneful (a.) Having poisonous qualities; deadly; destructive; injurious; noxious; pernicious.,
B as in Banewort (n.) Deadly nightshade.,
B as in Banged (imp. & p. p.) of Bang,
B as in Banging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bang,
B as in Bang (v. t.) To beat, as with a club or cudgel; to treat with violence; to handle roughly.,
B as in Bang (v. t.) To beat or thump, or to cause ( something) to hit or strike against another object, in such a way as to make a loud noise; as, to bang a drum or a piano; to bang a door (against the doorpost or casing) in shutting it.,
B as in Bang (v. i.) To make a loud noise, as if with a blow or succession of blows; as, the window blind banged and waked me; he was banging on the piano.,
B as in Bang (n.) A blow as with a club; a heavy blow.,
B as in Bang (n.) The sound produced by a sudden concussion.,
B as in Bang (v. t.) To cut squarely across, as the tail of a hors, or the forelock of human beings; to cut (the hair).,
B as in Bang (n.) The short, front hair combed down over the forehead, esp. when cut squarely across; a false front of hair similarly worn.,
B as in Bang (n.) Alt. of Bangue,
B as in Bangue (n.) See Bhang.,
B as in Banging (a.) Huge; great in size.,
B as in Bangle (v. t.) To waste by little and little; to fritter away.,
B as in Bangle (n.) An ornamental circlet, of glass, gold, silver, or other material, worn by women in India and Africa, and in some other countries, upon the wrist or ankle; a ring bracelet.,
B as in Banian (n.) A Hindoo trader, merchant, cashier, or money changer.,
B as in Banian (n.) A man's loose gown, like that worn by the Banians.,
B as in Banian (n.) The Indian fig. See Banyan.,
B as in Banished (imp. & p. p.) of Banish,
B as in Banishing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Banish,
B as in Banish (v. t.) To condemn to exile, or compel to leave one's country, by authority of the ruling power.,
B as in Banish (v. t.) To drive out, as from a home or familiar place; -- used with from and out of.,
B as in Banish (v. t.) To drive away; to compel to depart; to dispel.,
B as in Banisher (n.) One who banishes.,
B as in Banishment (n.) The act of banishing, or the state of being banished.,
B as in Banister (n.) A stringed musical instrument having a head and neck like the guitar, and its body like a tambourine. It has five strings, and is played with the fingers and hands.,
B as in Bank (n.) A mound, pile, or ridge of earth, raised above the surrounding level; hence, anything shaped like a mound or ridge of earth; as, a bank of clouds; a bank of snow.,
B as in Bank (n.) A steep acclivity, as the slope of a hill, or the side of a ravine.,
B as in Bank (n.) The margin of a watercourse; the rising ground bordering a lake, river, or sea, or forming the edge of a cutting, or other hollow.,
B as in Bank (n.) An elevation, or rising ground, under the sea; a shoal, shelf, or shallow; as, the banks of Newfoundland.,
B as in Bank (n.) The face of the coal at which miners are working.,
B as in Bank (n.) A deposit of ore or coal, worked by excavations above water level.,
B as in Bank (n.) The ground at the top of a shaft; as, ores are brought to bank.,
B as in Banked (imp. & p. p.) of Bank,
B as in Banking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bank,
B as in Bank (v. t.) To raise a mound or dike about; to inclose, defend, or fortify with a bank; to embank.,
B as in Bank (v. t.) To heap or pile up; as, to bank sand.,
B as in Bank (v. t.) To pass by the banks of.,
B as in Bank (n.) A bench, as for rowers in a galley; also, a tier of oars.,
B as in Bank (n.) The bench or seat upon which the judges sit.,
B as in Bank (n.) The regular term of a court of law, or the full court sitting to hear arguments upon questions of law, as distinguished from a sitting at Nisi Prius, or a court held for jury trials. See Banc.,
B as in Bank (n.) A sort of table used by printers.,
B as in Bank (n.) A bench, or row of keys belonging to a keyboard, as in an organ.,
B as in Bank (n.) An establishment for the custody, loan, exchange, or issue, of money, and for facilitating the transmission of funds by drafts or bills of exchange; an institution incorporated for performing one or more of such functions, or the stockholders (or their representatives, the directors), acting in their corporate capacity.,
B as in Bank (n.) The building or office used for banking purposes.,
B as in Bank (n.) A fund from deposits or contributions, to be used in transacting business; a joint stock or capital.,
B as in Bank (n.) The sum of money or the checks which the dealer or banker has as a fund, from which to draw his stakes and pay his losses.,
B as in Bank (n.) In certain games, as dominos, a fund of pieces from which the players are allowed to draw.,
B as in Bank (v. t.) To deposit in a bank.,
B as in Bank (v. i.) To keep a bank; to carry on the business of a banker.,
B as in Bank (v. i.) To deposit money in a bank; to have an account with a banker.,
B as in Bankable (a.) Receivable at a bank.,
B as in Bank bill () In America (and formerly in England), a promissory note of a bank payable to the bearer on demand, and used as currency; a bank note.,
B as in Bank bill () In England, a note, or a bill of exchange, of a bank, payable to order, and usually at some future specified time. Such bills are negotiable, but form, in the strict sense of the term, no part of the currency.,
B as in Bank book () A book kept by a depositor, in which an officer of a bank enters the debits and credits of the depositor's account with the bank.,
B as in Banker (n.) One who conducts the business of banking; one who, individually, or as a member of a company, keeps an establishment for the deposit or loan of money, or for traffic in money, bills of exchange, etc.,
B as in Banker (n.) A money changer.,
B as in Banker (n.) The dealer, or one who keeps the bank in a gambling house.,
B as in Banker (n.) A vessel employed in the cod fishery on the banks of Newfoundland.,
B as in Banker (n.) A ditcher; a drain digger.,
B as in Banker (n.) The stone bench on which masons cut or square their work.,
B as in Bankeress (n.) A female banker.,
B as in Banking (n.) The business of a bank or of a banker.,
B as in Bank note () A promissory note issued by a bank or banking company, payable to bearer on demand.,
B as in Bank note () Formerly, a promissory note made by a banker, or banking company, payable to a specified person at a fixed date; a bank bill. See Bank bill, 2.,
B as in Bank note () A promissory note payable at a bank.,
B as in Bankrupt (n.) A trader who secretes himself, or does certain other acts tending to defraud his creditors.,
B as in Bankrupt (n.) A trader who becomes unable to pay his debts; an insolvent trader; popularly, any person who is unable to pay his debts; an insolvent person.,
B as in Bankrupt (n.) A person who, in accordance with the terms of a law relating to bankruptcy, has been judicially declared to be unable to meet his liabilities.,
B as in Bankrupt (a.) Being a bankrupt or in a condition of bankruptcy; unable to pay, or legally discharged from paying, one's debts; as, a bankrupt merchant.,
B as in Bankrupt (a.) Depleted of money; not having the means of meeting pecuniary liabilities; as, a bankrupt treasury.,
B as in Bankrupt (a.) Relating to bankrupts and bankruptcy.,
B as in Bankrupt (a.) Destitute of, or wholly wanting (something once possessed, or something one should possess).,
B as in Bankrupted (imp. & p. p.) of Bankrupt,
B as in Bankrupting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bankrupt,
B as in Bankrupt (v. t.) To make bankrupt; to bring financial ruin upon; to impoverish.,
B as in Bankruptcies (pl. ) of Bankruptcy,
B as in Bankruptcy (n.) The state of being actually or legally bankrupt.,
B as in Bankruptcy (n.) The act or process of becoming a bankrupt.,
B as in Bankruptcy (n.) Complete loss; -- followed by of.,
B as in Bankside (n.) The slope of a bank, especially of the bank of a steam.,
B as in Bank-sided (a.) Having sides inclining inwards, as a ship; -- opposed to wall-sided.,
B as in Bank swallow () See under 1st Bank, n.,
B as in Banlieue (n.) The territory without the walls, but within the legal limits, of a town or city.,
B as in Banner (n.) A kind of flag attached to a spear or pike by a crosspiece, and used by a chief as his standard in battle.,
B as in Banner (n.) A large piece of silk or other cloth, with a device or motto, extended on a crosspiece, and borne in a procession, or suspended in some conspicuous place.,
B as in Banner (n.) Any flag or standard; as, the star-spangled banner.,
B as in Bannered (a.) Furnished with, or bearing, banners.,
B as in Banneret (n.) Originally, a knight who led his vassals into the field under his own banner; -- commonly used as a title of rank.,
B as in Banneret (n.) A title of rank, conferred for heroic deeds, and hence, an order of knighthood; also, the person bearing such title or rank.,
B as in Banneret (n.) A civil officer in some Swiss cantons.,
B as in Banneret (n.) A small banner.,
B as in Bannerol (n.) A banderole; esp. a banner displayed at a funeral procession and set over the tomb. See Banderole.,
B as in Bannition (n.) The act of expulsion.,
B as in Bannock (n.) A kind of cake or bread, in shape flat and roundish, commonly made of oatmeal or barley meal and baked on an iron plate, or griddle; -- used in Scotland and the northern counties of England.,
B as in Banns (n. pl.) Notice of a proposed marriage, proclaimed in a church, or other place prescribed by law, in order that any person may object, if he knows of just cause why the marriage should not take place.,
B as in Banquet (n.) A feast; a sumptuous entertainment of eating and drinking; often, a complimentary or ceremonious feast, followed by speeches.,
B as in Banquet (n.) A dessert; a course of sweetmeats; a sweetmeat or sweetmeats.,
B as in Banqueted (imp. & p. p.) of Banquet,
B as in Banqueting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Banquet,
B as in Banquet (v. t.) To treat with a banquet or sumptuous entertainment of food; to feast.,
B as in Banquet (v. i.) To regale one's self with good eating and drinking; to feast.,
B as in Banquet (v. i.) To partake of a dessert after a feast.,
B as in Banquetter (n.) One who banquets; one who feasts or makes feasts.,
B as in Banquette (n.) A raised way or foot bank, running along the inside of a parapet, on which musketeers stand to fire upon the enemy.,
B as in Banquette (n.) A narrow window seat; a raised shelf at the back or the top of a buffet or dresser.,
B as in Banshee (n.) Alt. of Banshie,
B as in Banshie (n.) A supernatural being supposed by the Irish and Scotch peasantry to warn a family of the speedy death of one of its members, by wailing or singing in a mournful voice under the windows of the house.,
B as in Banstickle (n.) A small fish, the three-spined stickleback.,
B as in Bantam (n.) A variety of small barnyard fowl, with feathered legs, probably brought from Bantam, a district of Java.,
B as in Bantam work () Carved and painted work in imitation of Japan ware.,
B as in Banteng (n.) The wild ox of Java (Bibos Banteng).,
B as in Bantered (imp. & p. p.) of Banter,
B as in Bantering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Banter,
B as in Banter (v. t.) To address playful good-natured ridicule to, -- the person addressed, or something pertaining to him, being the subject of the jesting; to rally; as, he bantered me about my credulity.,
B as in Banter (v. t.) To jest about; to ridicule in speaking of, as some trait, habit, characteristic, and the like.,
B as in Banter (v. t.) To delude or trick, -- esp. by way of jest.,
B as in Banter (v. t.) To challenge or defy to a match.,
B as in Banter (n.) The act of bantering; joking or jesting; humorous or good-humored raillery; pleasantry.,
B as in Banterer (n.) One who banters or rallies.,
B as in Bantingism (n.) A method of reducing corpulence by avoiding food containing much farinaceous, saccharine, or oily matter; -- so called from William Banting of London.,
B as in Bantling (n.) A young or small child; an infant. [Slightly contemptuous or depreciatory.],
B as in Banxring (n.) An East Indian insectivorous mammal of the genus Tupaia.,
B as in Banyan (n.) A tree of the same genus as the common fig, and called the Indian fig (Ficus Indica), whose branches send shoots to the ground, which take root and become additional trunks, until it may be the tree covers some acres of ground and is able to shelter thousands of men.,
B as in Baobab (n.) A gigantic African tree (Adansonia digitata), also naturalized in India. See Adansonia.,
B as in Baphomet (n.) An idol or symbolical figure which the Templars were accused of using in their mysterious rites.,
B as in Baptism (v. i.) The act of baptizing; the application of water to a person, as a sacrament or religious ceremony, by which he is initiated into the visible church of Christ. This is performed by immersion, sprinkling, or pouring.,
B as in Baptismal (a.) Pertaining to baptism; as, baptismal vows.,
B as in Baptismally (adv.) In a baptismal manner.,
B as in Baptist (n.) One who administers baptism; -- specifically applied to John, the forerunner of Christ.,
B as in Baptist (n.) One of a denomination of Christians who deny the validity of infant baptism and of sprinkling, and maintain that baptism should be administered to believers alone, and should be by immersion. See Anabaptist.,
B as in Baptisteries (pl. ) of Baptistry,
B as in -tries (pl. ) of Baptistry,
B as in Baptistery (n.) Alt. of Baptistry,
B as in Baptistry (n.) In early times, a separate building, usually polygonal, used for baptismal services. Small churches were often changed into baptisteries when larger churches were built near.,
B as in Baptistry (n.) A part of a church containing a font and used for baptismal services.,
B as in Baptistic (a.) Of or for baptism; baptismal.,
B as in Baptistical (a.) Baptistic.,
B as in Baptizable (a.) Capable of being baptized; fit to be baptized.,
B as in Baptization (n.) Baptism.,
B as in Baptized (imp. & p. p.) of Baptize,
B as in Baptizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Baptize,
B as in Baptize (v. t.) To administer the sacrament of baptism to.,
B as in Baptize (v. t.) To christen ( because a name is given to infants at their baptism); to give a name to; to name.,
B as in Baptize (v. t.) To sanctify; to consecrate.,
B as in Baptizement (n.) The act of baptizing.,
B as in Baptizer (n.) One who baptizes.,
B as in Bar (n.) A piece of wood, metal, or other material, long in proportion to its breadth or thickness, used as a lever and for various other purposes, but especially for a hindrance, obstruction, or fastening; as, the bars of a fence or gate; the bar of a door.,
B as in Bar (n.) An indefinite quantity of some substance, so shaped as to be long in proportion to its breadth and thickness; as, a bar of gold or of lead; a bar of soap.,
B as in Bar (n.) Anything which obstructs, hinders, or prevents; an obstruction; a barrier.,
B as in Bar (n.) A bank of sand, gravel, or other matter, esp. at the mouth of a river or harbor, obstructing navigation.,
B as in Bar (n.) Any railing that divides a room, or office, or hall of assembly, in order to reserve a space for those having special privileges; as, the bar of the House of Commons.,
B as in Bar (n.) The railing that incloses the place which counsel occupy in courts of justice. Hence, the phrase at the bar of the court signifies in open court.,
B as in Bar (n.) The place in court where prisoners are stationed for arraignment, trial, or sentence.,
B as in Bar (n.) The whole body of lawyers licensed in a court or district; the legal profession.,
B as in Bar (n.) A special plea constituting a sufficient answer to plaintiff's action.,
B as in Bar (n.) Any tribunal; as, the bar of public opinion; the bar of God.,
B as in Bar (n.) A barrier or counter, over which liquors and food are passed to customers; hence, the portion of the room behind the counter where liquors for sale are kept.,
B as in Bar (n.) An ordinary, like a fess but narrower, occupying only one fifth part of the field.,
B as in Bar (n.) A broad shaft, or band, or stripe; as, a bar of light; a bar of color.,
B as in Bar (n.) A vertical line across the staff. Bars divide the staff into spaces which represent measures, and are themselves called measures.,
B as in Bar (n.) The space between the tusks and grinders in the upper jaw of a horse, in which the bit is placed.,
B as in Bar (n.) The part of the crust of a horse's hoof which is bent inwards towards the frog at the heel on each side, and extends into the center of the sole.,
B as in Bar (n.) A drilling or tamping rod.,
B as in Bar (n.) A vein or dike crossing a lode.,
B as in Bar (n.) A gatehouse of a castle or fortified town.,
B as in Bar (n.) A slender strip of wood which divides and supports the glass of a window; a sash bar.,
B as in Barred (imp. & p. p.) of Bar,
B as in Barring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bar,
B as in Bar (n.) To fasten with a bar; as, to bar a door or gate.,
B as in Bar (n.) To restrict or confine, as if by a bar; to hinder; to obstruct; to prevent; to prohibit; as, to bar the entrance of evil; distance bars our intercourse; the statute bars my right; the right is barred by time; a release bars the plaintiff's recovery; -- sometimes with up.,
B as in Bar (n.) To except; to exclude by exception.,
B as in Bar (n.) To cross with one or more stripes or lines.,
B as in Barb (n.) Beard, or that which resembles it, or grows in the place of it.,
B as in Barb (n.) A muffler, worn by nuns and mourners.,
B as in Barb (n.) Paps, or little projections, of the mucous membrane, which mark the opening of the submaxillary glands under the tongue in horses and cattle. The name is mostly applied when the barbs are inflamed and swollen.,
B as in Barb (n.) The point that stands backward in an arrow, fishhook, etc., to prevent it from being easily extracted. Hence: Anything which stands out with a sharp point obliquely or crosswise to something else.,
B as in Barb (n.) A bit for a horse.,
B as in Barb (n.) One of the side branches of a feather, which collectively constitute the vane. See Feather.,
B as in Barb (n.) A southern name for the kingfishes of the eastern and southeastern coasts of the United States; -- also improperly called whiting.,
B as in Barb (n.) A hair or bristle ending in a double hook.,
B as in Barbed (imp. & p. p.) of Barb,
B as in Barbing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Barb,
B as in Barb (v. t.) To shave or dress the beard of.,
B as in Barb (v. t.) To clip; to mow.,
B as in Barb (v. t.) To furnish with barbs, or with that which will hold or hurt like barbs, as an arrow, fishhook, spear, etc.,
B as in Barb (n.) The Barbary horse, a superior breed introduced from Barbary into Spain by the Moors.,
B as in Barb (n.) A blackish or dun variety of the pigeon, originally brought from Barbary.,
B as in Barb (n.) Armor for a horse. Same as 2d Bard, n., 1.,
B as in Barbacan (n.) See Barbican.,
B as in Barbacanage (n.) See Barbicanage.,
B as in Barbadian (a.) Of or pertaining to Barbados.,
B as in Barbadian (n.) A native of Barbados.,
B as in Barbados (n.) Alt. of Barbadoes,
B as in Barbadoes (n.) A West Indian island, giving its name to a disease, to a cherry, etc.,
B as in Barbara (n.) The first word in certain mnemonic lines which represent the various forms of the syllogism. It indicates a syllogism whose three propositions are universal affirmatives.,
B as in Barbaresque (a.) Barbaric in form or style; as, barbaresque architecture.,
B as in Barbarian (n.) A foreigner.,
B as in Barbarian (n.) A man in a rule, savage, or uncivilized state.,
B as in Barbarian (n.) A person destitute of culture.,
B as in Barbarian (n.) A cruel, savage, brutal man; one destitute of pity or humanity.,
B as in Barbarian (a.) Of, or pertaining to, or resembling, barbarians; rude; uncivilized; barbarous; as, barbarian governments or nations.,
B as in Barbaic (a.) Of, or from, barbarian nations; foreign; -- often with reference to barbarous nations of east.,
B as in Barbaic (a.) Of or pertaining to, or resembling, an uncivilized person or people; barbarous; barbarian; destitute of refinement.,
B as in Barbarism (n.) An uncivilized state or condition; rudeness of manners; ignorance of arts, learning, and literature; barbarousness.,
B as in Barbarism (n.) A barbarous, cruel, or brutal action; an outrage.,
B as in Barbarism (n.) An offense against purity of style or language; any form of speech contrary to the pure idioms of a particular language. See Solecism.,
B as in Barbarities (pl. ) of Barbarity,
B as in Barbarity (n.) The state or manner of a barbarian; lack of civilization.,
B as in Barbarity (n.) Cruelty; ferociousness; inhumanity.,
B as in Barbarity (n.) A barbarous or cruel act.,
B as in Barbarity (n.) Barbarism; impurity of speech.,
B as in Barbarized (imp. & p. p.) of Barbarize,
B as in Barbarizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Barbarize,
B as in Barbarize (v. i.) To become barbarous.,
B as in Barbarize (v. i.) To adopt a foreign or barbarous mode of speech.,
B as in Barbarize (v. t.) To make barbarous.,
B as in Barbarous (a.) Being in the state of a barbarian; uncivilized; rude; peopled with barbarians; as, a barbarous people; a barbarous country.,
B as in Barbarous (a.) Foreign; adapted to a barbaric taste.,
B as in Barbarous (a.) Cruel; ferocious; inhuman; merciless.,
B as in Barbarous (a.) Contrary to the pure idioms of a language.,
B as in Barbarously (adv.) In a barbarous manner.,
B as in Barbarousness (n.) The quality or state of being barbarous; barbarity; barbarism.,
B as in Barbary (n.) The countries on the north coast of Africa from Egypt to the Atlantic. Hence: A Barbary horse; a barb. [Obs.] Also, a kind of pigeon.,
B as in Barbastel (n.) A European bat (Barbastellus communis), with hairy lips.,
B as in Barbate (a.) Bearded; beset with long and weak hairs.,
B as in Barbated (a.) Having barbed points.,
B as in Barbecue (n.) A hog, ox, or other large animal roasted or broiled whole for a feast.,
B as in Barbecue (n.) A social entertainment, where many people assemble, usually in the open air, at which one or more large animals are roasted or broiled whole.,
B as in Barbecue (n.) A floor, on which coffee beans are sun-dried.,
B as in Barbecued (imp. & p. p.) of Barbecue,
B as in Barbecuing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Barbecue,
B as in Barbecue (v. t.) To dry or cure by exposure on a frame or gridiron.,
B as in Barbecue (v. t.) To roast or broil whole, as an ox or hog.,
B as in Barbed (a.) Accoutered with defensive armor; -- said of a horse. See Barded ( which is the proper form.),
B as in Barbed (a.) Furnished with a barb or barbs; as, a barbed arrow; barbed wire.,
B as in Barbel (n.) A slender tactile organ on the lips of certain fished.,
B as in Barbel (n.) A large fresh-water fish ( Barbus vulgaris) found in many European rivers. Its upper jaw is furnished with four barbels.,
B as in Barbel (n.) Barbs or paps under the tongued of horses and cattle. See 1st Barb, 3.,
B as in Barbellate (a.) Having short, stiff hairs, often barbed at the point.,
B as in Barbellulate (a.) Barbellate with diminutive hairs or barbs.,
B as in Barber (n.) One whose occupation it is to shave or trim the beard, and to cut and dress the hair of his patrons.,
B as in Barbered (imp. & p. p.) of Barber,
B as in Barbering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Barber,
B as in Barber (v. t.) To shave and dress the beard or hair of.,
B as in Barber fish () See Surgeon fish.,
B as in Barbermonger (n.) A fop.,
B as in Barberry (n.) A shrub of the genus Berberis, common along roadsides and in neglected fields. B. vulgaris is the species best known; its oblong red berries are made into a preserve or sauce, and have been deemed efficacious in fluxes and fevers. The bark dyes a fine yellow, esp. the bark of the root.,
B as in Barbet (n.) A variety of small dog, having long curly hair.,
B as in Barbet (n.) A bird of the family Bucconidae, allied to the Cuckoos, having a large, conical beak swollen at the base, and bearded with five bunches of stiff bristles; the puff bird. It inhabits tropical America and Africa.,
B as in Barbet (n.) A larva that feeds on aphides.,
B as in Barbette (n.) A mound of earth or a platform in a fortification, on which guns are mounted to fire over the parapet.,
B as in Barbican (n.) Alt. of Barbacan,
B as in Barbacan (n.) A tower or advanced work defending the entrance to a castle or city, as at a gate or bridge. It was often large and strong, having a ditch and drawbridge of its own.,
B as in Barbacan (n.) An opening in the wall of a fortress, through which missiles were discharged upon an enemy.,
B as in Barbicanage (n.) Alt. of Barbacanage,
B as in Barbacanage (n.) Money paid for the support of a barbican.,
B as in Barbicel (n.) One of the small hooklike processes on the barbules of feathers.,
B as in Barbiers (n.) A variety of paralysis, peculiar to India and the Malabar coast; -- considered by many to be the same as beriberi in chronic form.,
B as in Barbigerous (a.) Having a beard; bearded; hairy.,
B as in Barbiton (n.) An ancient Greek instrument resembling a lyre.,
B as in Barbituric acid () A white, crystalline substance, CH2(CO.NH)2.CO, derived from alloxantin, also from malonic acid and urea, and regarded as a substituted urea.,
B as in Barble (n.) See Barbel.,
B as in Barbotine (n.) A paste of clay used in decorating coarse pottery in relief.,
B as in Barbre (a.) Barbarian.,
B as in Barbule (n.) A very minute barb or beard.,
B as in Barbule (n.) One of the processes along the edges of the barbs of a feather, by which adjacent barbs interlock. See Feather.,
B as in Barcarolle (n.) A popular song or melody sung by Venetian gondoliers.,
B as in Barcarolle (n.) A piece of music composed in imitation of such a song.,
B as in Barcon (n.) A vessel for freight; -- used in Mediterranean.,
B as in Bard (n.) A professional poet and singer, as among the ancient Celts, whose occupation was to compose and sing verses in honor of the heroic achievements of princes and brave men.,
B as in Bard (n.) Hence: A poet; as, the bard of Avon.,
B as in Bard (n.) Alt. of Barde,
B as in Barde (n.) A piece of defensive (or, sometimes, ornamental) armor for a horse's neck, breast, and flanks; a barb. [Often in the pl.],
B as in Barde (pl.) Defensive armor formerly worn by a man at arms.,
B as in Barde (pl.) A thin slice of fat bacon used to cover any meat or game.,
B as in Bard (v. t.) To cover (meat or game) with a thin slice of fat bacon.,
B as in Barded (p.a.) Accoutered with defensive armor; -- said of a horse.,
B as in Barded (p.a.) Wearing rich caparisons.,
B as in Bardic (a.) Of or pertaining to bards, or their poetry.,
B as in Bardish (a.) Pertaining to, or written by, a bard or bards.,
B as in Bardism (n.) The system of bards; the learning and maxims of bards.,
B as in Bardling (n.) An inferior bard.,
B as in Bardship (n.) The state of being a bard.,
B as in Bare (a.) Without clothes or covering; stripped of the usual covering; naked; as, his body is bare; the trees are bare.,
B as in Bare (a.) With head uncovered; bareheaded.,
B as in Bare (a.) Without anything to cover up or conceal one's thoughts or actions; open to view; exposed.,
B as in Bare (a.) Plain; simple; unadorned; without polish; bald; meager.,
B as in Bare (a.) Destitute; indigent; empty; unfurnished or scantily furnished; -- used with of (rarely with in) before the thing wanting or taken away; as, a room bare of furniture.,
B as in Bare (a.) Threadbare; much worn.,
B as in Bare (a.) Mere; alone; unaccompanied by anything else; as, a bare majority.,
B as in Bare (n.) Surface; body; substance.,
B as in Bare (n.) That part of a roofing slate, shingle, tile, or metal plate, which is exposed to the weather.,
B as in Bared (imp. & p. p.) of Bare,
B as in Baring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bare,
B as in Bare (a.) To strip off the covering of; to make bare; as, to bare the breast.,
B as in Bare () Bore; the old preterit of Bear, v.,
B as in Bareback (adv.) On the bare back of a horse, without using a saddle; as, to ride bareback.,
B as in Barebacked (a.) Having the back uncovered; as, a barebacked horse.,
B as in Barebone (n.) A very lean person; one whose bones show through the skin.,
B as in Barefaced (a.) With the face uncovered; not masked.,
B as in Barefaced (a.) Without concealment; undisguised. Hence: Shameless; audacious.,
B as in Barefacedly (adv.) Openly; shamelessly.,
B as in Barefacedness (n.) The quality of being barefaced; shamelessness; assurance; audaciousness.,
B as in Barefoot (a. & adv.) With the feet bare; without shoes or stockings.,
B as in Barefooted (a.) Having the feet bare.,
B as in Barege (n.) A gauzelike fabric for ladies' dresses, veils, etc. of worsted, silk and worsted, or cotton and worsted.,
B as in Barehanded (n.) Having bare hands.,
B as in Bareheaded (a. & adv.) Alt. of Barehead,
B as in Barehead (a. & adv.) Having the head uncovered; as, a bareheaded girl.,
B as in Barelegged (a.) Having the legs bare.,
B as in Barely (adv.) Without covering; nakedly.,
B as in Barely (adv.) Without concealment or disguise.,
B as in Barely (adv.) Merely; only.,
B as in Barely (adv.) But just; without any excess; with nothing to spare ( of quantity, time, etc.); hence, scarcely; hardly; as, there was barely enough for all; he barely escaped.,
B as in Barenecked (a.) Having the neck bare.,
B as in Bareness (n.) The state of being bare.,
B as in Baresark (n.) A Berserker, or Norse warrior who fought without armor, or shirt of mail. Hence, adverbially: Without shirt of mail or armor.,
B as in Barfish (n.) Same as Calico bass.,
B as in Barful (a.) Full of obstructions.,
B as in Bargain (n.) An agreement between parties concerning the sale of property; or a contract by which one party binds himself to transfer the right to some property for a consideration, and the other party binds himself to receive the property and pay the consideration.,
B as in Bargain (n.) An agreement or stipulation; mutual pledge.,
B as in Bargain (n.) A purchase; also ( when not qualified), a gainful transaction; an advantageous purchase; as, to buy a thing at a bargain.,
B as in Bargain (n.) The thing stipulated or purchased; also, anything bought cheap.,
B as in Bargain (n.) To make a bargain; to make a contract for the exchange of property or services; -- followed by with and for; as, to bargain with a farmer for a cow.,
B as in Bargained (imp. & p. p.) of Bargain,
B as in Bargaining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bargain,
B as in Bargain (v. t.) To transfer for a consideration; to barter; to trade; as, to bargain one horse for another.,
B as in Bargainee (v. i.) The party to a contract who receives, or agrees to receive, the property sold.,
B as in Bargainer (n.) One who makes a bargain; -- sometimes in the sense of bargainor.,
B as in Bargainor (n.) One who makes a bargain, or contracts with another; esp., one who sells, or contracts to sell, property to another.,
B as in Barge (n.) A pleasure boat; a vessel or boat of state, elegantly furnished and decorated.,
B as in Barge (n.) A large, roomy boat for the conveyance of passengers or goods; as, a ship's barge; a charcoal barge.,
B as in Barge (n.) A large boat used by flag officers.,
B as in Barge (n.) A double-decked passenger or freight vessel, towed by a steamboat.,
B as in Barge (n.) A large omnibus used for excursions.,
B as in Bargeboard (n.) A vergeboard.,
B as in Bargecourse (n.) A part of the tiling which projects beyond the principal rafters, in buildings where there is a gable.,
B as in Bargee (n.) A bargeman.,
B as in Bargeman (n.) The man who manages a barge, or one of the crew of a barge.,
B as in Bargemastter (n.) The proprietor or manager of a barge, or one of the crew of a barge.,
B as in Barger (n.) The manager of a barge.,
B as in Barghest (n.) A goblin, in the shape of a large dog, portending misfortune.,
B as in Baria (n.) Baryta.,
B as in Baric (a.) Of or pertaining to barium; as, baric oxide.,
B as in Baric (a.) Of or pertaining to weight, esp. to the weight or pressure of the atmosphere as measured by the barometer.,
B as in Barilla (n.) A name given to several species of Salsola from which soda is made, by burning the barilla in heaps and lixiviating the ashes.,
B as in Barilla (n.) The alkali produced from the plant, being an impure carbonate of soda, used for making soap, glass, etc., and for bleaching purposes.,
B as in Barilla (n.) Impure soda obtained from the ashes of any seashore plant, or kelp.,
B as in Barillet (n.) A little cask, or something resembling one.,
B as in Bar iron () See under Iron.,
B as in Barite (n.) Native sulphate of barium, a mineral occurring in transparent, colorless, white to yellow crystals (generally tabular), also in granular form, and in compact massive forms resembling marble. It has a high specific gravity, and hence is often called heavy spar. It is a common mineral in metallic veins.,
B as in Baritone (a. & n.) See Barytone.,
B as in Barium (n.) One of the elements, belonging to the alkaline earth group; a metal having a silver-white color, and melting at a very high temperature. It is difficult to obtain the pure metal, from the facility with which it becomes oxidized in the air. Atomic weight, 137. Symbol, Ba. Its oxide called baryta.,
B as in Bard (n.) The exterior covering of the trunk and branches of a tree; the rind.,
B as in Bard (n.) Specifically, Peruvian bark.,
B as in Barked (imp. & p. p.) of Bark,
B as in Barking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bark,
B as in Bark (v. t.) To strip the bark from; to peel.,
B as in Bark (v. t.) To abrade or rub off any outer covering from; as to bark one's heel.,
B as in Bark (v. t.) To girdle. See Girdle, v. t., 3.,
B as in Bark (v. t.) To cover or inclose with bark, or as with bark; as, to bark the roof of a hut.,
B as in Bark (v. i.) To make a short, loud, explosive noise with the vocal organs; -- said of some animals, but especially of dogs.,
B as in Bark (v. i.) To make a clamor; to make importunate outcries.,
B as in Bark (n.) The short, loud, explosive sound uttered by a dog; a similar sound made by some other animals.,
B as in Bark (n.) Alt. of Barque,
B as in Barque (n.) Formerly, any small sailing vessel, as a pinnace, fishing smack, etc.; also, a rowing boat; a barge. Now applied poetically to a sailing vessel or boat of any kind.,
B as in Barque (n.) A three-masted vessel, having her foremast and mainmast square-rigged, and her mizzenmast schooner-rigged.,
B as in Barkantine (n.) Same as Barkentine.,
B as in Bark beetle () A small beetle of many species (family Scolytidae), which in the larval state bores under or in the bark of trees, often doing great damage.,
B as in Barkbound (a.) Prevented from growing, by having the bark too firm or close.,
B as in Barkeeper (n.) One who keeps or tends a bar for the sale of liquors.,
B as in Barken (a.) Made of bark.,
B as in Barkentine (n.) A threemasted vessel, having the foremast square-rigged, and the others schooner-rigged. [Spelled also barquentine, barkantine, etc.] See Illust. in Append.,
B as in Barker (n.) An animal that barks; hence, any one who clamors unreasonably.,
B as in Barker (n.) One who stands at the doors of shops to urg/ passers by to make purchases.,
B as in Barker (n.) A pistol.,
B as in Barker (n.) The spotted redshank.,
B as in Barker (n.) One who strips trees of their bark.,
B as in Barker's mill () A machine, invented in the 17th century, worked by a form of reaction wheel. The water flows into a vertical tube and gushes from apertures in hollow horizontal arms, causing the machine to revolve on its axis.,
B as in Barkery (n.) A tanhouse.,
B as in Barking irons () Instruments used in taking off the bark of trees.,
B as in Barking irons () A pair of pistols.,
B as in Barkless (a.) Destitute of bark.,
B as in Bark louse () An insect of the family Coccidae, which infests the bark of trees and vines.,
B as in Barky (a.) Covered with, or containing, bark.,
B as in Barley (n.) A valuable grain, of the family of grasses, genus Hordeum, used for food, and for making malt, from which are prepared beer, ale, and whisky.,
B as in Barleybrake (n.) Alt. of Barleybreak,
B as in Barleybreak (n.) An ancient rural game, commonly played round stacks of barley, or other grain, in which some of the party attempt to catch others who run from a goal.,
B as in Barley-bree (n.) Liquor made from barley; strong ale.,
B as in Barleycorn (n.) A grain or "corn" of barley.,
B as in Barleycorn (n.) Formerly , a measure of length, equal to the average length of a grain of barley; the third part of an inch.,
B as in Barm (n.) Foam rising upon beer, or other malt liquors, when fermenting, and used as leaven in making bread and in brewing; yeast.,
B as in Barm (n.) The lap or bosom.,
B as in Barmaid (n.) A girl or woman who attends the customers of a bar, as in a tavern or beershop.,
B as in Barmaster (n.) Formerly, a local judge among miners; now, an officer of the barmote.,
B as in Barmcloth (n.) Apron.,
B as in Barmecidal (a.) Unreal; illusory.,
B as in Barmecide (n.) One who proffers some illusory advantage or benefit. Also used as an adj.: Barmecidal.,
B as in Barmote (n.) A court held in Derbyshire, in England, for deciding controversies between miners.,
B as in Balmy (a.) Full of barm or froth; in a ferment.,
B as in Barn (n.) A covered building used chiefly for storing grain, hay, and other productions of a farm. In the United States a part of the barn is often used for stables.,
B as in Barn (v. t.) To lay up in a barn.,
B as in Barn (n.) A child. [Obs.] See Bairn.,
B as in Barnabite (n.) A member of a religious order, named from St. Barnabas.,
B as in Barnacle (n.) Any cirriped crustacean adhering to rocks, floating timber, ships, etc., esp. (a) the sessile species (genus Balanus and allies), and (b) the stalked or goose barnacles (genus Lepas and allies). See Cirripedia, and Goose barnacle.,
B as in Barnacle (n.) A bernicle goose.,
B as in Barnacle (n.) An instrument for pinching a horse's nose, and thus restraining him.,
B as in Barnacle (sing.) Spectacles; -- so called from their resemblance to the barnacles used by farriers.,
B as in Barnyard (n.) A yard belonging to a barn.,
B as in Barocco (a.) See Baroque.,
B as in Barograph (n.) An instrument for recording automatically the variations of atmospheric pressure.,
B as in Baroko (n.) A form or mode of syllogism of which the first proposition is a universal affirmative, and the other two are particular negative.,
B as in Barology (n.) The science of weight or gravity.,
B as in Baromacrometer (n.) An instrument for ascertaining the weight and length of a newborn infant.,
B as in Barometer (n.) An instrument for determining the weight or pressure of the atmosphere, and hence for judging of the probable changes of weather, or for ascertaining the height of any ascent.,
B as in Barometric (a.) Alt. of Barometrical,
B as in Barometrical (a.) Pertaining to the barometer; made or indicated by a barometer; as, barometric changes; barometrical observations.,
B as in Barometrically (adv.) By means of a barometer, or according to barometric observations.,
B as in Barometrograph (n.) A form of barometer so constructed as to inscribe of itself upon paper a record of the variations of atmospheric pressure.,
B as in Barometry (n.) The art or process of making barometrical measurements.,
B as in Barometz (n.) The woolly-skinned rhizoma or rootstock of a fern (Dicksonia barometz), which, when specially prepared and inverted, somewhat resembles a lamb; -- called also Scythian lamb.,
B as in Baron (n.) A title or degree of nobility; originally, the possessor of a fief, who had feudal tenants under him; in modern times, in France and Germany, a nobleman next in rank below a count; in England, a nobleman of the lowest grade in the House of Lords, being next below a viscount.,
B as in Baron (n.) A husband; as, baron and feme, husband and wife.,
B as in Baronage (n.) The whole body of barons or peers.,
B as in Baronage (n.) The dignity or rank of a baron.,
B as in Baronage (n.) The land which gives title to a baron.,
B as in Baroness (n.) A baron's wife; also, a lady who holds the baronial title in her own right; as, the Baroness Burdett-Coutts.,
B as in Baronet (n.) A dignity or degree of honor next below a baron and above a knight, having precedency of all orders of knights except those of the Garter. It is the lowest degree of honor that is hereditary. The baronets are commoners.,
B as in Baronetage (n.) State or rank of a baronet.,
B as in Baronetage (n.) The collective body of baronets.,
B as in Baronetcy (n.) The rank or patent of a baronet.,
B as in Baronial (a.) Pertaining to a baron or a barony.,
B as in Baronies (pl. ) of Barony,
B as in Barony (n.) The fee or domain of a baron; the lordship, dignity, or rank of a baron.,
B as in Barony (n.) In Ireland, a territorial division, corresponding nearly to the English hundred, and supposed to have been originally the district of a native chief. There are 252 of these baronies. In Scotland, an extensive freehold. It may be held by a commoner.,
B as in Baroque (a.) In bad taste; grotesque; odd.,
B as in Baroscope (n.) Any instrument showing the changes in the weight of the atmosphere; also, less appropriately, any instrument that indicates -or foreshadows changes of the weather, as a deep vial of liquid holding in suspension some substance which rises and falls with atmospheric changes.,
B as in Baroscopic (a.) Alt. of Baroscopical,
B as in Baroscopical (a.) Pertaining to, or determined by, the baroscope.,
B as in Barouche (n.) A four-wheeled carriage, with a falling top, a seat on the outside for the driver, and two double seats on the inside arranged so that the sitters on the front seat face those on the back seat.,
B as in Barouchet (n.) A kind of light barouche.,
B as in Barpost (n.) A post sunk in the ground to receive the bars closing a passage into a field.,
B as in Barque (n.) Same as 3d Bark, n.,
B as in Barracan (n.) A thick, strong stuff, somewhat like camlet; -- still used for outer garments in the Levant.,
B as in Barrack (n.) A building for soldiers, especially when in garrison. Commonly in the pl., originally meaning temporary huts, but now usually applied to a permanent structure or set of buildings.,
B as in Barrack (n.) A movable roof sliding on four posts, to cover hay, straw, etc.,
B as in Barrack (v. t.) To supply with barracks; to establish in barracks; as, to barrack troops.,
B as in Barrack (v. i.) To live or lodge in barracks.,
B as in Barraclade (n.) A home-made woolen blanket without nap.,
B as in Barracoon (n.) A slave warehouse, or an inclosure where slaves are quartered temporarily.,
B as in Barracuda (n.) Alt. of Barracouata,
B as in Barracouata (n.) A voracious pikelike, marine fish, of the genus Sphyraena, sometimes used as food.,
B as in Barracouata (n.) A large edible fresh-water fish of Australia and New Zealand (Thyrsites atun).,
B as in Barrage (n.) An artificial bar or obstruction placed in a river or water course to increase the depth of water; as, the barrages of the Nile.,
B as in Barranca (n.) A ravine caused by heavy rains or a watercourse.,
B as in Barras (n.) A resin, called also galipot.,
B as in Barrator (v. i.) One guilty of barratry.,
B as in Barratrous (/) Tainter with, or constituting, barratry.,
B as in Barratry (n.) The practice of exciting and encouraging lawsuits and quarrels.,
B as in Barratry (n.) A fraudulent breach of duty or willful act of known illegality on the part of a master of a ship, in his character of master, or of the mariners, to the injury of the owner of the ship or cargo, and without his consent. It includes every breach of trust committed with dishonest purpose, as by running away with the ship, sinking or deserting her, etc., or by embezzling the cargo.,
B as in Barratry (n.) The crime of a judge who is influenced by bribery in pronouncing judgment.,
B as in Barred owl () A large American owl (Syrnium nebulosum); -- so called from the transverse bars of a dark brown color on the breast.,
B as in Barrel (n.) A round vessel or cask, of greater length than breadth, and bulging in the middle, made of staves bound with hoops, and having flat ends or heads.,
B as in Barrel (n.) The quantity which constitutes a full barrel. This varies for different articles and also in different places for the same article, being regulated by custom or by law. A barrel of wine is 31/ gallons; a barrel of flour is 196 pounds.,
B as in Barrel (n.) A solid drum, or a hollow cylinder or case; as, the barrel of a windlass; the barrel of a watch, within which the spring is coiled.,
B as in Barrel (n.) A metallic tube, as of a gun, from which a projectile is discharged.,
B as in Barrel (n.) A jar.,
B as in Barrel (n.) The hollow basal part of a feather.,
B as in Barreled (imp. & p. p.) of Barrel,
B as in Barrelled () of Barrel,
B as in Barreling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Barrel,
B as in Barrelling () of Barrel,
B as in Barrel (v. t.) To put or to pack in a barrel or barrels.,
B as in Barreled (a.) Alt. of Barrelled,
B as in Barrelled (a.) Having a barrel; -- used in composition; as, a double-barreled gun.,
B as in Barren (a.) Incapable of producing offspring; producing no young; sterile; -- said of women and female animals.,
B as in Barren (a.) Not producing vegetation, or useful vegetation; /rile.,
B as in Barren (a.) Unproductive; fruitless; unprofitable; empty.,
B as in Barren (a.) Mentally dull; stupid.,
B as in Barren (n.) A tract of barren land.,
B as in Barren (n.) Elevated lands or plains on which grow small trees, but not timber; as, pine barrens; oak barrens. They are not necessarily sterile, and are often fertile.,
B as in Barrenly (adv.) Unfruitfully; unproductively.,
B as in Barrenness (n.) The condition of being barren; sterility; unproductiveness.,
B as in Barrenwort (n.) An herbaceous plant of the Barberry family (Epimedium alpinum), having leaves that are bitter and said to be sudorific.,
B as in Barret (n.) A kind of cap formerly worn by soldiers; -- called also barret cap. Also, the flat cap worn by Roman Catholic ecclesiastics.,
B as in Barricade (n.) A fortification, made in haste, of trees, earth, palisades, wagons, or anything that will obstruct the progress or attack of an enemy. It is usually an obstruction formed in streets to block an enemy's access.,
B as in Barricade (n.) Any bar, obstruction, or means of defense.,
B as in Barricaded (imp. & p. p.) of Barricade,
B as in Barricading (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Barricade,
B as in Barricade (n.) To fortify or close with a barricade or with barricades; to stop up, as a passage; to obstruct; as, the workmen barricaded the streets of Paris.,
B as in Barricader (n.) One who constructs barricades.,
B as in Barricado (n. & v. t.) See Barricade.,
B as in Barrier (n.) A carpentry obstruction, stockade, or other obstacle made in a passage in order to stop an enemy.,
B as in Barrier (n.) A fortress or fortified town, on the frontier of a country, commanding an avenue of approach.,
B as in Barrier (n.) A fence or railing to mark the limits of a place, or to keep back a crowd.,
B as in Barrier (n.) An any obstruction; anything which hinders approach or attack.,
B as in Barrier (n.) Any limit or boundary; a line of separation.,
B as in Barrigudo (n.) A large, dark-colored, South American monkey, of the genus Lagothrix, having a long prehensile tail.,
B as in Barringout (n.) The act of closing the doors of a schoolroom against a schoolmaster; -- a boyish mode of rebellion in schools.,
B as in Barrister (n.) Counselor at law; a counsel admitted to plead at the bar, and undertake the public trial of causes, as distinguished from an attorney or solicitor. See Attorney.,
B as in Barroom (n.) A room containing a bar or counter at which liquors are sold.,
B as in Barrow (n.) A support having handles, and with or without a wheel, on which heavy or bulky things can be transported by hand. See Handbarrow, and Wheelbarrow.,
B as in Barrow (n.) A wicker case, in which salt is put to drain.,
B as in Barrow (n.) A hog, esp. a male hog castrated.,
B as in Barrow (n.) A large mound of earth or stones over the remains of the dead; a tumulus.,
B as in Barrow (n.) A heap of rubbish, attle, etc.,
B as in Barrowist (n.) A follower of Henry Barrowe, one of the founders of Independency or Congregationalism in England. Barrowe was executed for nonconformity in 1953.,
B as in Barrulet (n.) A diminutive of the bar, having one fourth its width.,
B as in Barruly (a.) Traversed by barrulets or small bars; -- said of the field.,
B as in Barry (a.) Divided into bars; -- said of the field.,
B as in Barse (n.) The common perch. See 1st Bass.,
B as in Bartender (n.) A barkeeper.,
B as in Bartered (imp. & p. p.) of Barter,
B as in Bartering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Barter,
B as in Barter (v. i.) To traffic or trade, by exchanging one commodity for another, in distinction from a sale and purchase, in which money is paid for the commodities transferred; to truck.,
B as in Barter (v. t.) To trade or exchange in the way of barter; to exchange (frequently for an unworthy consideration); to traffic; to truck; -- sometimes followed by away; as, to barter away goods or honor.,
B as in Barter (n.) The act or practice of trafficking by exchange of commodities; an exchange of goods.,
B as in Barter (n.) The thing given in exchange.,
B as in Barterer (n.) One who barters.,
B as in Bartery (n.) Barter.,
B as in Barth (n.) A place of shelter for cattle.,
B as in Bartholomew tide () Time of the festival of St. Bartholomew, August 24th.,
B as in Bartizan (n.) A small, overhanging structure for lookout or defense, usually projecting at an angle of a building or near an entrance gateway.,
B as in Bartlett (n.) A Bartlett pear, a favorite kind of pear, which originated in England about 1770, and was called Williams' Bonchretien. It was brought to America, and distributed by Mr. Enoch Bartlett, of Dorchester, Massachusetts.,
B as in Barton (n.) The demesne lands of a manor; also, the manor itself.,
B as in Barton (n.) A farmyard.,
B as in Bartram (n.) See Bertram.,
B as in Barway (n.) A passage into a field or yard, closed by bars made to take out of the posts.,
B as in Barwise (adv.) Horizontally.,
B as in Barwood (n.) A red wood of a leguminous tree (Baphia nitida), from Angola and the Gaboon in Africa. It is used as a dyewood, and also for ramrods, violin bows and turner's work.,
B as in Barycentric (a.) Of or pertaining to the center of gravity. See Barycentric calculus, under Calculus.,
B as in Baryphony (n.) Difficulty of speech.,
B as in Baryta (n.) An oxide of barium (or barytum); a heavy earth with a specific gravity above 4.,
B as in Barytes (n.) Barium sulphate, generally called heavy spar or barite. See Barite.,
B as in Barytic (a.) Of or pertaining to baryta.,
B as in Baryto-calcite (n.) A mineral of a white or gray color, occurring massive or crystallized. It is a compound of the carbonates of barium and calcium.,
B as in Barytone (a.) Alt. of Baritone,
B as in Baritone (a.) Grave and deep, as a kind of male voice.,
B as in Baritone (a.) Not marked with an accent on the last syllable, the grave accent being understood.,
B as in Barytone (n.) Alt. of Baritone,
B as in Baritone (n.) A male voice, the compass of which partakes of the common bass and the tenor, but which does not descend as low as the one, nor rise as high as the other.,
B as in Baritone (n.) A person having a voice of such range.,
B as in Baritone (n.) The viola di gamba, now entirely disused.,
B as in Baritone (n.) A word which has no accent marked on the last syllable, the grave accent being understood.,
B as in Barytum (n.) The metal barium. See Barium.,
B as in Basal (a.) Relating to, or forming, the base.,
B as in Basal-nerved (a.) Having the nerves radiating from the base; -- said of leaves.,
B as in Basalt (n.) A rock of igneous origin, consisting of augite and triclinic feldspar, with grains of magnetic or titanic iron, and also bottle-green particles of olivine frequently disseminated.,
B as in Basalt (n.) An imitation, in pottery, of natural basalt; a kind of black porcelain.,
B as in Basaltic (a.) Pertaining to basalt; formed of, or containing, basalt; as basaltic lava.,
B as in Basaltiform (a.) In the form of basalt; columnar.,
B as in Basaltoid (a.) Formed like basalt; basaltiform.,
B as in Basan (n.) Same as Basil, a sheepskin.,
B as in Basanite (n.) Lydian stone, or black jasper, a variety of siliceous or flinty slate, of a grayish or bluish black color. It is employed to test the purity of gold, the amount of alloy being indicated by the color left on the stone when rubbed by the metal.,
B as in Basbleu (n.) A bluestocking; a literary woman.,
B as in Bascinet (n.) A light helmet, at first open, but later made with a visor.,
B as in Bascule (n.) In mechanics an apparatus on the principle of the seesaw, in which one end rises as the other falls.,
B as in Base (a.) Of little, or less than the usual, height; of low growth; as, base shrubs.,
B as in Base (a.) Low in place or position.,
B as in Base (a.) Of humble birth; or low degree; lowly; mean.,
B as in Base (a.) Illegitimate by birth; bastard.,
B as in Base (a.) Of little comparative value, as metal inferior to gold and silver, the precious metals.,
B as in Base (a.) Alloyed with inferior metal; debased; as, base coin; base bullion.,
B as in Base (a.) Morally low. Hence: Low-minded; unworthy; without dignity of sentiment; ignoble; mean; illiberal; menial; as, a base fellow; base motives; base occupations.,
B as in Base (a.) Not classical or correct.,
B as in Base (a.) Deep or grave in sound; as, the base tone of a violin.,
B as in Base (a.) Not held by honorable service; as, a base estate, one held by services not honorable; held by villenage. Such a tenure is called base, or low, and the tenant, a base tenant.,
B as in Base (n.) The bottom of anything, considered as its support, or that on which something rests for support; the foundation; as, the base of a statue.,
B as in Base (n.) Fig.: The fundamental or essential part of a thing; the essential principle; a groundwork.,
B as in Base (n.) The lower part of a wall, pier, or column, when treated as a separate feature, usually in projection, or especially ornamented.,
B as in Base (n.) The lower part of a complete architectural design, as of a monument; also, the lower part of any elaborate piece of furniture or decoration.,
B as in Base (n.) That extremity of a leaf, fruit, etc., at which it is attached to its support.,
B as in Base (n.) The positive, or non-acid component of a salt; a substance which, combined with an acid, neutralizes the latter and forms a salt; -- applied also to the hydroxides of the positive elements or radicals, and to certain organic bodies resembling them in their property of forming salts with acids.,
B as in Base (n.) The chief ingredient in a compound.,
B as in Base (n.) A substance used as a mordant.,
B as in Base (n.) The exterior side of the polygon, or that imaginary line which connects the salient angles of two adjacent bastions.,
B as in Base (n.) The line or surface constituting that part of a figure on which it is supposed to stand.,
B as in Base (n.) The number from which a mathematical table is constructed; as, the base of a system of logarithms.,
B as in Base (n.) A low, or deep, sound. (Mus.) (a) The lowest part; the deepest male voice. (b) One who sings, or the instrument which plays, base.,
B as in Base (n.) A place or tract of country, protected by fortifications, or by natural advantages, from which the operations of an army proceed, forward movements are made, supplies are furnished, etc.,
B as in Base (n.) The smallest kind of cannon.,
B as in Base (n.) That part of an organ by which it is attached to another more central organ.,
B as in Base (n.) The basal plane of a crystal.,
B as in Base (n.) The ground mass of a rock, especially if not distinctly crystalline.,
B as in Base (n.) The lower part of the field. See Escutcheon.,
B as in Base (n.) The housing of a horse.,
B as in Base (n.) A kind of skirt ( often of velvet or brocade, but sometimes of mailed armor) which hung from the middle to about the knees, or lower.,
B as in Base (n.) The lower part of a robe or petticoat.,
B as in Base (n.) An apron.,
B as in Base (n.) The point or line from which a start is made; a starting place or a goal in various games.,
B as in Base (n.) A line in a survey which, being accurately determined in length and position, serves as the origin from which to compute the distances and positions of any points or objects connected with it by a system of triangles.,
B as in Base (n.) A rustic play; -- called also prisoner's base, prison base, or bars.,
B as in Base (n.) Any one of the four bounds which mark the circuit of the infield.,
B as in Based (imp. & p. p.) of Base,
B as in Basing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Base,
B as in Base (n.) To put on a base or basis; to lay the foundation of; to found, as an argument or conclusion; -- used with on or upon.,
B as in Base (a.) To abase; to let, or cast, down; to lower.,
B as in Base (a.) To reduce the value of; to debase.,
B as in Baseball (n.) A game of ball, so called from the bases or bounds ( four in number) which designate the circuit which each player must endeavor to make after striking the ball.,
B as in Baseball (n.) The ball used in this game.,
B as in Baseboard (n.) A board, or other woodwork, carried round the walls of a room and touching the floor, to form a base and protect the plastering; -- also called washboard (in England), mopboard, and scrubboard.,
B as in Baseborn (a.) Born out of wedlock.,
B as in Baseborn (a.) Born of low parentage.,
B as in Baseborn (a.) Vile; mean.,
B as in Base-burner (n.) A furnace or stove in which the fuel is contained in a hopper or chamber, and is fed to the fire as the lower stratum is consumed.,
B as in Base-court (n.) The secondary, inferior, or rear courtyard of a large house; the outer court of a castle.,
B as in Base-court (n.) An inferior court of law, not of record.,
B as in Based (a.) Having a base, or having as a base; supported; as, broad-based.,
B as in Based (n.) Wearing, or protected by, bases.,
B as in Basedow's disease () A disease characterized by enlargement of the thyroid gland, prominence of the eyeballs, and inordinate action of the heart; -- called also exophthalmic goiter.,
B as in Baselard (n.) A short sword or dagger, worn in the fifteenth century.,
B as in Baseless (a.) Without a base; having no foundation or support.,
B as in Basely (adv.) In a base manner; with despicable meanness; dishonorably; shamefully.,
B as in Basely (adv.) Illegitimately; in bastardy.,
B as in Basement (a.) The outer wall of the ground story of a building, or of a part of that story, when treated as a distinct substructure. ( See Base, n., 3 (a).) Hence: The rooms of a ground floor, collectively.,
B as in Baseness (n.) The quality or condition of being base; degradation; vileness.,
B as in Basenet (n.) See Bascinet.,
B as in Base viol () See Bass viol.,
B as in Bash (v. t. & i.) To abash; to disconcert or be disconcerted or put out of countenance.,
B as in Bashaw (n.) A Turkish title of honor, now written pasha. See Pasha.,
B as in Bashaw (n.) Fig.: A magnate or grandee.,
B as in Bashaw (n.) A very large siluroid fish (Leptops olivaris) of the Mississippi valley; -- also called goujon, mud cat, and yellow cat.,
B as in Bashful (a.) Abashed; daunted; dismayed.,
B as in Bashful (a.) Very modest, or modest excess; constitutionally disposed to shrink from public notice; indicating extreme or excessive modesty; shy; as, a bashful person, action, expression.,
B as in Bashfully (adv.) In a bashful manner.,
B as in Bashfulness (n.) The quality of being bashful.,
B as in Bashi-bazouk (n.) A soldier belonging to the irregular troops of the Turkish army.,
B as in Bashless (a.) Shameless; unblushing.,
B as in Bashyle (n.) See Basyle.,
B as in Basi- () A combining form, especially in anatomical and botanical words, to indicate the base or position at or near a base; forming a base; as, basibranchials, the most ventral of the cartilages or bones of the branchial arches; basicranial, situated at the base of the cranium; basifacial, basitemporal, etc.,
B as in Basic (a.) Relating to a base; performing the office of a base in a salt.,
B as in Basic (a.) Having the base in excess, or the amount of the base atomically greater than that of the acid, or exceeding in proportion that of the related neutral salt.,
B as in Basic (a.) Apparently alkaline, as certain normal salts which exhibit alkaline reactions with test paper.,
B as in Basic (a.) Said of crystalline rocks which contain a relatively low percentage of silica, as basalt.,
B as in Basicerite (n.) The second joint of the antennae of crustaceans.,
B as in Basicity (n.) The quality or state of being a base.,
B as in Basicity (n.) The power of an acid to unite with one or more atoms or equivalents of a base, as indicated by the number of replaceable hydrogen atoms contained in the acid.,
B as in Basidiospore (n.) A spore borne by a basidium.,
B as in Basidium (n.) A special oblong or pyriform cell, with slender branches, which bears the spores in that division of fungi called Basidiomycetes, of which the common mushroom is an example.,
B as in Basifier (n.) That which converts into a salifiable base.,
B as in Basifugal (n.) Tending or proceeding away from the base; as, a basifugal growth.,
B as in Basify (v. t.) To convert into a salifiable base.,
B as in Basigynium (n.) The pedicel on which the ovary of certain flowers, as the passion flower, is seated; a carpophore or thecaphore.,
B as in Basihyal (a.) Noting two small bones, forming the body of the inverted hyoid arch.,
B as in Basihyoid (n.) The central tongue bone.,
B as in Basil (n.) The slope or angle to which the cutting edge of a tool, as a plane, is ground.,
B as in Basiled (imp. & p. p.) of Basil,
B as in Basiling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Basil,
B as in Basil (v. t.) To grind or form the edge of to an angle.,
B as in Basil (n.) The name given to several aromatic herbs of the Mint family, but chiefly to the common or sweet basil (Ocymum basilicum), and the bush basil, or lesser basil (O. minimum), the leaves of which are used in cookery. The name is also given to several kinds of mountain mint (Pycnanthemum).,
B as in Basil (n.) The skin of a sheep tanned with bark.,
B as in Basilar (n.) Alt. of Basilary,
B as in Basilary (n.) Relating to, or situated at, the base.,
B as in Basilary (n.) Lower; inferior; applied to impulses or springs of action.,
B as in Basilic (n.) Basilica.,
B as in Basilic (a.) Alt. of Basilical,
B as in Basilical (a.) Royal; kingly; also, basilican.,
B as in Basilical (a.) Pertaining to certain parts, anciently supposed to have a specially important function in the animal economy, as the middle vein of the right arm.,
B as in Basilicas (pl. ) of Basilica,
B as in Basilic/ (pl. ) of Basilica,
B as in Basilica (n.) Originally, the place of a king; but afterward, an apartment provided in the houses of persons of importance, where assemblies were held for dispensing justice; and hence, any large hall used for this purpose.,
B as in Basilica (n.) A building used by the Romans as a place of public meeting, with court rooms, etc., attached.,
B as in Basilica (n.) A church building of the earlier centuries of Christianity, the plan of which was taken from the basilica of the Romans. The name is still applied to some churches by way of honorary distinction.,
B as in Basilica (n.) A digest of the laws of Justinian, translated from the original Latin into Greek, by order of Basil I., in the ninth century.,
B as in Basilican (a.) Of, relating to, or resembling, a basilica; basilical.,
B as in Basilicok (n.) The basilisk.,
B as in Basilicon (n.) An ointment composed of wax, pitch, resin, and olive oil, lard, or other fatty substance.,
B as in Basilisk (n.) A fabulous serpent, or dragon. The ancients alleged that its hissing would drive away all other serpents, and that its breath, and even its look, was fatal. See Cockatrice.,
B as in Basilisk (n.) A lizard of the genus Basiliscus, belonging to the family Iguanidae.,
B as in Basilisk (n.) A large piece of ordnance, so called from its supposed resemblance to the serpent of that name, or from its size.,
B as in Basin (n.) A hollow vessel or dish, to hold water for washing, and for various other uses.,
B as in Basin (n.) The quantity contained in a basin.,
B as in Basin (n.) A hollow vessel, of various forms and materials, used in the arts or manufactures, as that used by glass grinders for forming concave glasses, by hatters for molding a hat into shape, etc.,
B as in Basin (n.) A hollow place containing water, as a pond, a dock for ships, a little bay.,
B as in Basin (n.) A circular or oval valley, or depression of the surface of the ground, the lowest part of which is generally occupied by a lake, or traversed by a river.,
B as in Basin (n.) The entire tract of country drained by a river, or sloping towards a sea or lake.,
B as in Basin (n.) An isolated or circumscribed formation, particularly where the strata dip inward, on all sides, toward a center; -- especially applied to the coal formations, called coal basins or coal fields.,
B as in Basined (a.) Inclosed in a basin.,
B as in Basinet (n.) Same as Bascinet.,
B as in Basioccipital (a.) Of or pertaining to the bone in the base of the cranium, frequently forming a part of the occipital in the adult, but usually distinct in the young.,
B as in Basioccipital (n.) The basioccipital bone.,
B as in Basion (n.) The middle of the anterior margin of the great foramen of the skull.,
B as in Basipodite (n.) The basal joint of the legs of Crustacea.,
B as in Basipterygium (n.) A bar of cartilage at the base of the embryonic fins of some fishes. It develops into the metapterygium.,
B as in Basipterygoid (a. & n.) Applied to a protuberance of the base of the sphenoid bone.,
B as in Bases (pl. ) of Basis,
B as in Basis (n.) The foundation of anything; that on which a thing rests.,
B as in Basis (n.) The pedestal of a column, pillar, or statue.,
B as in Basis (n.) The ground work the first or fundamental principle; that which supports.,
B as in Basis (n.) The principal component part of a thing.,
B as in Basisolute (a.) Prolonged at the base, as certain leaves.,
B as in Basisphenoid (a.) Alt. of Basisphenoidal,
B as in Basisphenoidal (a.) Of or pertaining to that part of the base of the cranium between the basioccipital and the presphenoid, which usually ossifies separately in the embryo or in the young, and becomes a part of the sphenoid in the adult.,
B as in Basisphenoid (n.) The basisphenoid bone.,
B as in Basked (imp. & p. p.) of Bask,
B as in Basking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bask,
B as in Bask (v. t.) To lie in warmth; to be exposed to genial heat.,
B as in Bask (v. t.) To warm by continued exposure to heat; to warm with genial heat.,
B as in Basket (n.) A vessel made of osiers or other twigs, cane, rushes, splints, or other flexible material, interwoven.,
B as in Basket (n.) The contents of a basket; as much as a basket contains; as, a basket of peaches.,
B as in Basket (n.) The bell or vase of the Corinthian capital.,
B as in Basket (n.) The two back seats facing one another on the outside of a stagecoach.,
B as in Basket (v. t.) To put into a basket.,
B as in Basketfuls (pl. ) of Basketful,
B as in Basketful (n.) As much as a basket will contain.,
B as in Basketry (n.) The art of making baskets; also, baskets, taken collectively.,
B as in Basking shark () One of the largest species of sharks (Cetorhinus maximus), so called from its habit of basking in the sun; the liver shark, or bone shark. It inhabits the northern seas of Europe and America, and grows to a length of more than forty feet. It is a harmless species.,
B as in Basnet (n.) Same as Bascinet.,
B as in Basommatophora (n. pl.) A group of Pulmonifera having the eyes at the base of the tentacles, including the common pond snails.,
B as in Bason (n.) A basin.,
B as in Basque (a.) Pertaining to Biscay, its people, or their language.,
B as in Basque (n.) One of a race, of unknown origin, inhabiting a region on the Bay of Biscay in Spain and France.,
B as in Basque (n.) The language spoken by the Basque people.,
B as in Basque (n.) A part of a lady's dress, resembling a jacket with a short skirt; -- probably so called because this fashion of dress came from the Basques.,
B as in Basquish (a.) Pertaining to the country, people, or language of Biscay; Basque,
B as in Bas-relief (n.) Low relief; sculpture, the figures of which project less than half of their true proportions; -- called also bassrelief and basso-rilievo. See Alto-rilievo.,
B as in Bass (pl. ) of Bass,
B as in Basses (pl. ) of Bass,
B as in Bass (n.) An edible, spiny-finned fish, esp. of the genera Roccus, Labrax, and related genera. There are many species.,
B as in Bass (n.) The two American fresh-water species of black bass (genus Micropterus). See Black bass.,
B as in Bass (n.) Species of Serranus, the sea bass and rock bass. See Sea bass.,
B as in Bass (n.) The southern, red, or channel bass (Sciaena ocellata). See Redfish.,
B as in Bass (n.) The linden or lime tree, sometimes wrongly called whitewood; also, its bark, which is used for making mats. See Bast.,
B as in Bass (n.) A hassock or thick mat.,
B as in Bass (a.) A bass, or deep, sound or tone.,
B as in Bass (a.) The lowest part in a musical composition.,
B as in Bass (a.) One who sings, or the instrument which plays, bass.,
B as in Bass (a.) Deep or grave in tone.,
B as in Bass (v. t.) To sound in a deep tone.,
B as in Bassa (n.) Alt. of Bassaw,
B as in Bassaw (n.) See Bashaw.,
B as in Bass drum () The largest of the different kinds of drums, having two heads, and emitting a deep, grave sound. See Bass, a.,
B as in Basset (n.) A game at cards, resembling the modern faro, said to have been invented at Venice.,
B as in Basset (a.) Inclined upward; as, the basset edge of strata.,
B as in Basset (n.) The edge of a geological stratum at the surface of the ground; the outcrop.,
B as in Basseted (imp. & p. p.) of Basset,
B as in Basseting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Basset,
B as in Basset (v. i.) To inclined upward so as to appear at the surface; to crop out; as, a vein of coal bassets.,
B as in Basset horn (a.) An instrument blown with a reed, and resembling a clarinet, but of much greater compass, embracing nearly four octaves.,
B as in Basset hound () A small kind of hound with a long body and short legs, used as an earth dog.,
B as in Basseting (n.) The upward direction of a vein in a mine; the emergence of a stratum at the surface.,
B as in Bassetto (n.) A tenor or small bass viol.,
B as in Bass horn () A modification of the bassoon, much deeper in tone.,
B as in Bassinet (n.) A wicker basket, with a covering or hood over one end, in which young children are placed as in a cradle.,
B as in Bassinet (n.) See Bascinet.,
B as in Basso (a.) The bass or lowest part; as, to sing basso.,
B as in Basso (a.) One who sings the lowest part.,
B as in Basso (a.) The double bass, or contrabasso.,
B as in Bassock (n.) A hassock. See 2d Bass, 2.,
B as in Bassoon (n.) A wind instrument of the double reed kind, furnished with holes, which are stopped by the fingers, and by keys, as in flutes. It forms the natural bass to the oboe, clarinet, etc.,
B as in Bassoonist (n.) A performer on the bassoon.,
B as in Basso-rilievo (n.) Alt. of Basso-relievo,
B as in Basso-relievo (n.) Same as Bas-relief.,
B as in Bassorin (n.) A constituent part of a species of gum from Bassora, as also of gum tragacanth and some gum resins. It is one of the amyloses.,
B as in Bass-relief (n.) Some as Bas-relief.,
B as in Bass viol () A stringed instrument of the viol family, used for playing bass. See 3d Bass, n., and Violoncello.,
B as in Basswood (n.) The bass (Tilia) or its wood; especially, T. Americana. See Bass, the lime tree.,
B as in Bast (n.) The inner fibrous bark of various plants; esp. of the lime tree; hence, matting, cordage, etc., made therefrom.,
B as in Bast (n.) A thick mat or hassock. See 2d Bass, 2.,
B as in Basta (interj.) Enough; stop.,
B as in Bastard (n.) A "natural" child; a child begotten and born out of wedlock; an illegitimate child; one born of an illicit union.,
B as in Bastard (n.) An inferior quality of soft brown sugar, obtained from the sirups that / already had several boilings.,
B as in Bastard (n.) A large size of mold, in which sugar is drained.,
B as in Bastard (n.) A sweet Spanish wine like muscadel in flavor.,
B as in Bastard (n.) A writing paper of a particular size. See Paper.,
B as in Bastard (a.) Begotten and born out of lawful matrimony; illegitimate. See Bastard, n., note.,
B as in Bastard (n.) Lacking in genuineness; spurious; false; adulterate; -- applied to things which resemble those which are genuine, but are really not so.,
B as in Bastard (n.) Of an unusual make or proportion; as, a bastard musket; a bastard culverin.,
B as in Bastard (n.) Abbreviated, as the half title in a page preceding the full title page of a book.,
B as in Bastard (v. t.) To bastardize.,
B as in Bastardism (n.) The state of being a bastard; bastardy.,
B as in Bastardized (imp. & p. p.) of Bastardize,
B as in Bastardizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bastardize,
B as in Bastardize (v. t.) To make or prove to be a bastard; to stigmatize as a bastard; to declare or decide legally to be illegitimate.,
B as in Bastardize (v. t.) To beget out of wedlock.,
B as in Bastardly (a.) Bastardlike; baseborn; spurious; corrupt.,
B as in Bastardly (adv.) In the manner of a bastard; spuriously.,
B as in Bastardy (n.) The state of being a bastard; illegitimacy.,
B as in Bastardy (n.) The procreation of a bastard child.,
B as in Basted (imp. & p. p.) of Baste,
B as in Basting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Baste,
B as in Baste (v. t.) To beat with a stick; to cudgel.,
B as in Baste (v. t.) To sprinkle flour and salt and drip butter or fat on, as on meat in roasting.,
B as in Baste (v. t.) To mark with tar, as sheep.,
B as in Baste (v. t.) To sew loosely, or with long stitches; -- usually, that the work may be held in position until sewed more firmly.,
B as in Bastile Bastille (n.) A tower or an elevated work, used for the defense, or in the siege, of a fortified place.,
B as in Bastile Bastille (n.) "The Bastille", formerly a castle or fortress in Paris, used as a prison, especially for political offenders; hence, a rhetorical name for a prison.,
B as in Bastinade (n.) See Bastinado, n.,
B as in Bastinade (v. t.) To bastinado.,
B as in Bastinadoes (pl. ) of Bastinado,
B as in Bastinado (n.) A blow with a stick or cudgel.,
B as in Bastinado (n.) A sound beating with a stick or cudgel. Specifically: A form of punishment among the Turks, Chinese, and others, consisting in beating an offender on the soles of his feet.,
B as in Bastinadoes (imp. & p. p.) of Bastinado,
B as in Bastinadoing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bastinado,
B as in Bastinado (v. t.) To beat with a stick or cudgel, especially on the soles of the feet.,
B as in Bastion (n.) A work projecting outward from the main inclosure of a fortification, consisting of two faces and two flanks, and so constructed that it is able to defend by a flanking fire the adjacent curtain, or wall which extends from one bastion to another. Two adjacent bastions are connected by the curtain, which joins the flank of one with the adjacent flank of the other. The distance between the flanks of a bastion is called the gorge. A lunette is a detached bastion. See Ravelin.,
B as in Bastioned (a.) Furnished with a bastion; having bastions.,
B as in Basto (n.) The ace of clubs in quadrille and omber.,
B as in Baston (n.) A staff or cudgel.,
B as in Baston (n.) See Baton.,
B as in Baston (n.) An officer bearing a painted staff, who formerly was in attendance upon the king's court to take into custody persons committed by the court.,
B as in Basyle (n.) A positive or nonacid constituent of compound, either elementary, or, if compound, performing the functions of an element.,
B as in Basylous (a.) Pertaining to, or having the nature of, a basyle; electro-positive; basic; -- opposed to chlorous.,
B as in Bat (n.) A large stick; a club; specifically, a piece of wood with one end thicker or broader than the other, used in playing baseball, cricket, etc.,
B as in Bat (n.) Shale or bituminous shale.,
B as in Bat (n.) A sheet of cotton used for filling quilts or comfortables; batting.,
B as in Bat (n.) A part of a brick with one whole end.,
B as in Batted (imp. & p. p.) of Bat,
B as in Batting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bat,
B as in Bat (v. t.) To strike or hit with a bat or a pole; to cudgel; to beat.,
B as in Bat (v. i.) To use a bat, as in a game of baseball.,
B as in Bat (n.) One of the Cheiroptera, an order of flying mammals, in which the wings are formed by a membrane stretched between the elongated fingers, legs, and tail. The common bats are small and insectivorous. See Cheiroptera and Vampire.,
B as in Batable (a.) Disputable.,
B as in Batailled (a.) Embattled.,
B as in Batardeau (n.) A cofferdam.,
B as in Batardeau (n.) A wall built across the ditch of a fortification, with a sluice gate to regulate the height of water in the ditch on both sides of the wall.,
B as in Batatas (n.) Alt. of Batata,
B as in Batata (n.) An aboriginal American name for the sweet potato (Ipomaea batatas).,
B as in Batavian (a.) Of or pertaining to (a) the Batavi, an ancient Germanic tribe; or to (b) /atavia or Holland; as, a Batavian legion.,
B as in Batavian (n.) A native or inhabitant of Batavia or Holland.,
B as in Batch (v. t.) The quantity of bread baked at one time.,
B as in Batch (v. t.) A quantity of anything produced at one operation; a group or collection of persons or things of the same kind; as, a batch of letters; the next batch of business.,
B as in Bate (n.) Strife; contention.,
B as in Bated (imp. & p. p.) of Bate,
B as in Bating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bate,
B as in Bate (v. t.) To lessen by retrenching, deducting, or reducing; to abate; to beat down; to lower.,
B as in Bate (v. t.) To allow by way of abatement or deduction.,
B as in Bate (v. t.) To leave out; to except.,
B as in Bate (v. t.) To remove.,
B as in Bate (v. t.) To deprive of.,
B as in Bate (v. i.) To remit or retrench a part; -- with of.,
B as in Bate (v. i.) To waste away.,
B as in Bate (v. t.) To attack; to bait.,
B as in Bate () imp. of Bite.,
B as in Bate (v. i.) To flutter as a hawk; to bait.,
B as in Bate (n.) See 2d Bath.,
B as in Bate (n.) An alkaline solution consisting of the dung of certain animals; -- employed in the preparation of hides; grainer.,
B as in Bate (v. t.) To steep in bate, as hides, in the manufacture of leather.,
B as in Bateaux (pl. ) of Bateau,
B as in Bateau (n.) A boat; esp. a flat-bottomed, clumsy boat used on the Canadian lakes and rivers.,
B as in Bated (a.) Reduced; lowered; restrained; as, to speak with bated breath.,
B as in Bateful (a.) Exciting contention; contentious.,
B as in Bateless (a.) Not to be abated.,
B as in Batement (n.) Abatement; diminution.,
B as in Batfish (n.) A name given to several species of fishes: (a) The Malthe vespertilio of the Atlantic coast. (b) The flying gurnard of the Atlantic (Cephalacanthus spinarella). (c) The California batfish or sting ray (Myliobatis Californicus.),
B as in Batfowler (n.) One who practices or finds sport in batfowling.,
B as in Batfowling (n.) A mode of catching birds at night, by holding a torch or other light, and beating the bush or perch where they roost. The birds, flying to the light, are caught with nets or otherwise.,
B as in Batful (v. i.) Rich; fertile.,
B as in Baths (pl. ) of Bath,
B as in Bath (n.) The act of exposing the body, or part of the body, for purposes of cleanliness, comfort, health, etc., to water, vapor, hot air, or the like; as, a cold or a hot bath; a medicated bath; a steam bath; a hip bath.,
B as in Bath (n.) Water or other liquid for bathing.,
B as in Bath (n.) A receptacle or place where persons may immerse or wash their bodies in water.,
B as in Bath (n.) A building containing an apartment or a series of apartments arranged for bathing.,
B as in Bath (n.) A medium, as heated sand, ashes, steam, hot air, through which heat is applied to a body.,
B as in Bath (n.) A solution in which plates or prints are immersed; also, the receptacle holding the solution.,
B as in Bath (n.) A Hebrew measure containing the tenth of a homer, or five gallons and three pints, as a measure for liquids; and two pecks and five quarts, as a dry measure.,
B as in Bath (n.) A city in the west of England, resorted to for its hot springs, which has given its name to various objects.,
B as in Bathed (imp. & p. p.) of Bathe,
B as in Bathing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bathe,
B as in Bathe (v. t.) To wash by immersion, as in a bath; to subject to a bath.,
B as in Bathe (v. t.) To lave; to wet.,
B as in Bathe (v. t.) To moisten or suffuse with a liquid.,
B as in Bathe (v. t.) To apply water or some liquid medicament to; as, to bathe the eye with warm water or with sea water; to bathe one's forehead with camphor.,
B as in Bathe (v. t.) To surround, or envelop, as water surrounds a person immersed.,
B as in Bathe (v. i.) To bathe one's self; to take a bath or baths.,
B as in Bathe (v. i.) To immerse or cover one's self, as in a bath.,
B as in Bathe (v. i.) To bask in the sun.,
B as in Bathe (n.) The immersion of the body in water; as to take one's usual bathe.,
B as in Bather (n.) One who bathes.,
B as in Bathetic (a.) Having the character of bathos.,
B as in Bathing (n.) Act of taking a bath or baths.,
B as in Bathmism (n.) See Vital force.,
B as in Bathometer (n.) An instrument for measuring depths, esp. one for taking soundings without a sounding line.,
B as in Bathorse (n.) A horse which carries an officer's baggage during a campaign.,
B as in Bathos (n.) A ludicrous descent from the elevated to the low, in writing or speech; anticlimax.,
B as in Bathybius (n.) A name given by Prof. Huxley to a gelatinous substance found in mud dredged from the Atlantic and preserved in alcohol. He supposed that it was free living protoplasm, covering a large part of the ocean bed. It is now known that the substance is of chemical, not of organic, origin.,
B as in Bathymetric (a.) Alt. of Bathymetrical,
B as in Bathymetrical (a.) Pertaining to bathymetry; relating to the measurement of depths, especially of depths in the sea.,
B as in Bathymetry (n.) The art or science of sounding, or measuring depths in the sea.,
B as in Bating (prep.) With the exception of; excepting.,
B as in Batiste (n.) Originally, cambric or lawn of fine linen; now applied also to cloth of similar texture made of cotton.,
B as in Batlet (n.) A short bat for beating clothes in washing them; -- called also batler, batling staff, batting staff.,
B as in Batman (n.) A weight used in the East, varying according to the locality; in Turkey, the greater batman is about 157 pounds, the lesser only a fourth of this; at Aleppo and Smyrna, the batman is 17 pounds.,
B as in Batmen (pl. ) of Batman,
B as in Batman (n.) A man who has charge of a bathorse and his load.,
B as in Batoidei (n. pl.) The division of fishes which includes the rays and skates.,
B as in Baton (n.) A staff or truncheon, used for various purposes; as, the baton of a field marshal; the baton of a conductor in musical performances.,
B as in Baton (n.) An ordinary with its ends cut off, borne sinister as a mark of bastardy, and containing one fourth in breadth of the bend sinister; -- called also bastard bar. See Bend sinister.,
B as in Batoon (n.) See Baton, and Baston.,
B as in Bat printing () A mode of printing on glazed ware.,
B as in Batrachia (n. pl.) The order of amphibians which includes the frogs and toads; the Anura. Sometimes the word is used in a wider sense as equivalent to Amphibia.,
B as in Batrachian (a.) Pertaining to the Batrachia.,
B as in Batrachian (n.) One of the Batrachia.,
B as in Batrachoid (a.) Froglike. Specifically: Of or pertaining to the Batrachidae, a family of marine fishes, including the toadfish. Some have poisonous dorsal spines.,
B as in Batrachomyomachy (n.) The battle between the frogs and mice; -- a Greek parody on the Iliad, of uncertain authorship.,
B as in Batrachophagous (a.) Feeding on frogs.,
B as in Batsmen (pl. ) of Batsman,
B as in Batsman (n.) The one who wields the bat in cricket, baseball, etc.,
B as in Bat's-wing (a.) Alt. of Batwing,
B as in Batwing (a.) Shaped like a bat's wing; as, a bat's-wing burner.,
B as in Batta (n.) Extra pay; esp. an extra allowance to an English officer serving in India.,
B as in Batta (n.) Rate of exchange; also, the discount on uncurrent coins.,
B as in Battable (a.) Capable of cultivation; fertile; productive; fattening.,
B as in Battailant (v. i.) Prepared for battle; combatant; warlike.,
B as in Battailant (n.) A combatant.,
B as in Battailous (n.) Arrayed for battle; fit or eager for battle; warlike.,
B as in Battalia (n.) Order of battle; disposition or arrangement of troops (brigades, regiments, battalions, etc.), or of a naval force, for action.,
B as in Battalia (n.) An army in battle array; also, the main battalia or body.,
B as in Battalion (n.) A body of troops; esp. a body of troops or an army in battle array.,
B as in Battalion (n.) A regiment, or two or more companies of a regiment, esp. when assembled for drill or battle.,
B as in Battalion (v. t.) To form into battalions.,
B as in Battel (n.) A single combat; as, trial by battel. See Wager of battel, under Wager.,
B as in Battel (n.) Provisions ordered from the buttery; also, the charges for them; -- only in the pl., except when used adjectively.,
B as in Battel (v. i.) To be supplied with provisions from the buttery.,
B as in Battel (v. i.) To make fertile.,
B as in Battel (a.) Fertile; fruitful; productive.,
B as in Batteler (n.) Alt. of Battler,
B as in Battler (n.) A student at Oxford who is supplied with provisions from the buttery; formerly, one who paid for nothing but what he called for, answering nearly to a sizar at Cambridge.,
B as in Battened (imp. & p. p.) of Batten,
B as in Battening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Batten,
B as in Batten (v. t.) To make fat by plenteous feeding; to fatten.,
B as in Batten (v. t.) To fertilize or enrich, as land.,
B as in Batten (v. i.) To grow fat; to grow fat in ease and luxury; to glut one's self.,
B as in Batten (n .) A strip of sawed stuff, or a scantling; as, (a) pl. (Com. & Arch.) Sawed timbers about 7 by 2 1/2 inches and not less than 6 feet long. Brande & C. (b) (Naut.) A strip of wood used in fastening the edges of a tarpaulin to the deck, also around masts to prevent chafing. (c) A long, thin strip used to strengthen a part, to cover a crack, etc.,
B as in Batten (v. t.) To furnish or fasten with battens.,
B as in Batten (v. t.) The movable bar of a loom, which strikes home or closes the threads of a woof.,
B as in Battening (n.) Furring done with small pieces nailed directly upon the wall.,
B as in Battered (imp. & p. p.) of Batter,
B as in Battering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Batter,
B as in Batter (v. t.) To beat with successive blows; to beat repeatedly and with violence, so as to bruise, shatter, or demolish; as, to batter a wall or rampart.,
B as in Batter (v. t.) To wear or impair as if by beating or by hard usage.,
B as in Batter (v. t.) To flatten (metal) by hammering, so as to compress it inwardly and spread it outwardly.,
B as in Batter (v. t.) A semi-liquid mixture of several ingredients, as, flour, eggs, milk, etc., beaten together and used in cookery.,
B as in Batter (v. t.) Paste of clay or loam.,
B as in Batter (v. t.) A bruise on the face of a plate or of type in the form.,
B as in Batter (n.) A backward slope in the face of a wall or of a bank; receding slope.,
B as in Batter (v. i.) To slope gently backward.,
B as in Batter (n.) One who wields a bat; a batsman.,
B as in Batterer (n.) One who, or that which, batters.,
B as in Battering-ram (n.) An engine used in ancient times to beat down the walls of besieged places.,
B as in Battering-ram (n.) A blacksmith's hammer, suspended, and worked horizontally.,
B as in Battering train () A train of artillery for siege operations.,
B as in Batteries (pl. ) of Battery,
B as in Battery (v. t.) The act of battering or beating.,
B as in Battery (v. t.) The unlawful beating of another. It includes every willful, angry and violent, or negligent touching of another's person or clothes, or anything attached to his person or held by him.,
B as in Battery (v. t.) Any place where cannon or mortars are mounted, for attack or defense.,
B as in Battery (v. t.) Two or more pieces of artillery in the field.,
B as in Battery (v. t.) A company or division of artillery, including the gunners, guns, horses, and all equipments. In the United States, a battery of flying artillery consists usually of six guns.,
B as in Battery (v. t.) A number of coated jars (Leyden jars) so connected that they may be charged and discharged simultaneously.,
B as in Battery (v. t.) An apparatus for generating voltaic electricity.,
B as in Battery (v. t.) A number of similar machines or devices in position; an apparatus consisting of a set of similar parts; as, a battery of boilers, of retorts, condensers, etc.,
B as in Battery (v. t.) A series of stamps operated by one motive power, for crushing ores containing the precious metals.,
B as in Battery (v. t.) The box in which the stamps for crushing ore play up and down.,
B as in Battery (v. t.) The pitcher and catcher together.,
B as in Batting (n.) The act of one who bats; the management of a bat in playing games of ball.,
B as in Batting (n.) Cotton in sheets, prepared for use in making quilts, etc.; as, cotton batting.,
B as in Battle (a.) Fertile. See Battel, a.,
B as in Battle (v. t.) A general action, fight, or encounter, in which all the divisions of an army are or may be engaged; an engagement; a combat.,
B as in Battle (v. t.) A struggle; a contest; as, the battle of life.,
B as in Battle (v. t.) A division of an army; a battalion.,
B as in Battle (v. t.) The main body, as distinct from the van and rear; battalia.,
B as in Battled (imp. & p. p.) of Battle,
B as in Battling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Battle,
B as in Battle (n.) To join in battle; to contend in fight; as, to battle over theories.,
B as in Battle (v. t.) To assail in battle; to fight.,
B as in Battle-ax (n.) Alt. of Battle-axe,
B as in Battle-axe (n.) A kind of broadax formerly used as an offensive weapon.,
B as in Battled (p. p.) Embattled.,
B as in Battledoor (n.) An instrument, with a handle and a flat part covered with parchment or crossed with catgut, used to strike a shuttlecock in play; also, the play of battledoor and shuttlecock.,
B as in Battledoor (n.) A child's hornbook.,
B as in Battlement (n.) One of the solid upright parts of a parapet in ancient fortifications.,
B as in Battlement (n.) pl. The whole parapet, consisting of alternate solids and open spaces. At first purely a military feature, afterwards copied on a smaller scale with decorative features, as for churches.,
B as in Battlemented (a.) Having battlements.,
B as in Battologist (n.) One who battologizes.,
B as in Battologize (v. t.) To keep repeating needlessly; to iterate.,
B as in Battology (n.) A needless repetition of words in speaking or writing.,
B as in Batton (n.) See Batten, and Baton.,
B as in Battue (v. t.) The act of beating the woods, bushes, etc., for game.,
B as in Battue (v. t.) The game itself.,
B as in Battue (v. t.) The wanton slaughter of game.,
B as in Batture (n.) An elevated river bed or sea bed.,
B as in Battuta (n.) The measuring of time by beating.,
B as in Batty (a.) Belonging to, or resembling, a bat.,
B as in Batule (n.) A springboard in a circus or gymnasium; -- called also batule board.,
B as in Batzen (pl. ) of Batz,
B as in Batz (n.) A small copper coin, with a mixture of silver, formerly current in some parts of Germany and Switzerland. It was worth about four cents.,
B as in Baubee (n.) Same as Bawbee.,
B as in Bauble (n.) A trifling piece of finery; a gewgaw; that which is gay and showy without real value; a cheap, showy plaything.,
B as in Bauble (n.) The fool's club.,
B as in Baubling (a.) See Bawbling.,
B as in Baudekin (n.) The richest kind of stuff used in garments in the Middle Ages, the web being gold, and the woof silk, with embroidery : -- made originally at Bagdad.,
B as in Baudrick (n.) A belt. See Baldric.,
B as in Bauk (n. & v.) Alt. of Baulk,
B as in Baulk (n. & v.) See Balk.,
B as in Baunscheidtism (n.) A form of acupuncture, followed by the rubbing of the part with a stimulating fluid.,
B as in Bauxite (n.) Alt. of Beauxite,
B as in Beauxite (n.) A ferruginous hydrate of alumina. It is largely used in the preparation of aluminium and alumina, and for the lining of furnaces which are exposed to intense heat.,
B as in Bavarian (a.) Of or pertaining to Bavaria.,
B as in Bavarian (n.) A native or an inhabitant of Bavaria.,
B as in Bavaroy (n.) A kind of cloak or surtout.,
B as in Bavian (n.) A baboon.,
B as in Bavin (n.) A fagot of brushwood, or other light combustible matter, for kindling fires; refuse of brushwood.,
B as in Bavin (n.) Impure limestone.,
B as in Bawbee (n.) A halfpenny.,
B as in Bawble (n.) A trinket. See Bauble.,
B as in Bawbling (a.) Insignificant; contemptible.,
B as in Bawcock (n.) A fine fellow; -- a term of endearment.,
B as in Bawd (n.) A person who keeps a house of prostitution, or procures women for a lewd purpose; a procurer or procuress; a lewd person; -- usually applied to a woman.,
B as in Bawd (v. i.) To procure women for lewd purposes.,
B as in Bawdily (adv.) Obscenely; lewdly.,
B as in Bawdiness (n.) Obscenity; lewdness.,
B as in Bawdrick (n.) A belt. See Baldric.,
B as in Bawdry (n.) The practice of procuring women for the gratification of lust.,
B as in Bawdry (n.) Illicit intercourse; fornication.,
B as in Bawdry (n.) Obscenity; filthy, unchaste language.,
B as in Bawdy (a.) Dirty; foul; -- said of clothes.,
B as in Bawdy (a.) Obscene; filthy; unchaste.,
B as in Bawdyhouse (n.) A house of prostitution; a house of ill fame; a brothel.,
B as in Bawhorse (n.) Same as Bathorse.,
B as in Bawled (imp. & p. p.) of Bawl,
B as in Bawling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bawl,
B as in Bawl (v. i.) To cry out with a loud, full sound; to cry with vehemence, as in calling or exultation; to shout; to vociferate.,
B as in Bawl (v. i.) To cry loudly, as a child from pain or vexation.,
B as in Bawl (v. t.) To proclaim with a loud voice, or by outcry, as a hawker or town-crier does.,
B as in Bawl (n.) A loud, prolonged cry; an outcry.,
B as in Bawler (n.) One who bawls.,
B as in Bawn (n.) An inclosure with mud or stone walls, for keeping cattle; a fortified inclosure.,
B as in Bawn (n.) A large house.,
B as in Bawrel (n.) A kind of hawk.,
B as in Bawsin (n.) Alt. of Bawson,
B as in Bawson (n.) A badger.,
B as in Bawson (n.) A large, unwieldy person.,
B as in Baxter (n.) A baker; originally, a female baker.,
B as in Bay (a.) Reddish brown; of the color of a chestnut; -- applied to the color of horses.,
B as in Bay (n.) An inlet of the sea, usually smaller than a gulf, but of the same general character.,
B as in Bay (n.) A small body of water set off from the main body; as a compartment containing water for a wheel; the portion of a canal just outside of the gates of a lock, etc.,
B as in Bay (n.) A recess or indentation shaped like a bay.,
B as in Bay (n.) A principal compartment of the walls, roof, or other part of a building, or of the whole building, as marked off by the buttresses, vaulting, mullions of a window, etc.; one of the main divisions of any structure, as the part of a bridge between two piers.,
B as in Bay (n.) A compartment in a barn, for depositing hay, or grain in the stalks.,
B as in Bay (n.) A kind of mahogany obtained from Campeachy Bay.,
B as in Bay (n.) A berry, particularly of the laurel.,
B as in Bay (n.) The laurel tree (Laurus nobilis). Hence, in the plural, an honorary garland or crown bestowed as a prize for victory or excellence, anciently made or consisting of branches of the laurel.,
B as in Bay (n.) A tract covered with bay trees.,
B as in Bayed (imp. & p. p.) of Bay,
B as in Baying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bay,
B as in Bay (v. i.) To bark, as a dog with a deep voice does, at his game.,
B as in Bay (v. t.) To bark at; hence, to follow with barking; to bring or drive to bay; as, to bay the bear.,
B as in Bay (v. i.) Deep-toned, prolonged barking.,
B as in Bay (v. i.) A state of being obliged to face an antagonist or a difficulty, when escape has become impossible.,
B as in Bay (v. t.) To bathe.,
B as in Bay (n.) A bank or dam to keep back water.,
B as in Bay (v. t.) To dam, as water; -- with up or back.,
B as in Baya (n.) The East Indian weaver bird (Ploceus Philippinus).,
B as in Bayad (n.) Alt. of Bayatte,
B as in Bayatte (n.) A large, edible, siluroid fish of the Nile, of two species (Bagrina bayad and B. docmac).,
B as in Bayadere (n.) A female dancer in the East Indies.,
B as in Bay-antler (n.) The second tine of a stag's horn. See under Antler.,
B as in Bayard (a.) Properly, a bay horse, but often any horse. Commonly in the phrase blind bayard, an old blind horse.,
B as in Bayard (a.) A stupid, clownish fellow.,
B as in Bayardly (a.) Blind; stupid.,
B as in Bayberry (n.) The fruit of the bay tree or Laurus nobilis.,
B as in Bayberry (n.) A tree of the West Indies related to the myrtle (Pimenta acris).,
B as in Bayberry (n.) The fruit of Myrica cerifera (wax myrtle); the shrub itself; -- called also candleberry tree.,
B as in Baybolt (n.) A bolt with a barbed shank.,
B as in Bayed (a.) Having a bay or bays.,
B as in Bay ice () See under Ice.,
B as in Bay leaf () See under 3d Bay.,
B as in Bayonet (n.) A pointed instrument of the dagger kind fitted on the muzzle of a musket or rifle, so as to give the soldier increased means of offense and defense.,
B as in Bayonet (n.) A pin which plays in and out of holes made to receive it, and which thus serves to engage or disengage parts of the machinery.,
B as in Bayoneted (imp. & p. p.) of Bayonet,
B as in Bayoneting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bayonet,
B as in Bayonet (v. t.) To stab with a bayonet.,
B as in Bayonet (v. t.) To compel or drive by the bayonet.,
B as in Bayous (pl. ) of Bayou,
B as in Bayou (n.) An inlet from the Gulf of Mexico, from a lake, or from a large river, sometimes sluggish, sometimes without perceptible movement except from tide and wind.,
B as in Bay rum () A fragrant liquid, used for cosmetic and medicinal purposes.,
B as in Bays (n.) Alt. of Bayze,
B as in Bayze (n.) See Baize.,
B as in Bay salt () Salt which has been obtained from sea water, by evaporation in shallow pits or basins, by the heat of the sun; the large crystalline salt of commerce.,
B as in Bay tree () A species of laurel. (Laurus nobilis).,
B as in Bay window () A window forming a bay or recess in a room, and projecting outward from the wall, either in a rectangular, polygonal, or semicircular form; -- often corruptly called a bow window.,
B as in Bay yarn () Woolen yarn.,
B as in Bazaar (n.) Alt. of Bazar,
B as in Bazar (n.) In the East, an exchange, marketplace, or assemblage of shops where goods are exposed for sale.,
B as in Bazar (n.) A spacious hall or suite of rooms for the sale of goods, as at a fair.,
B as in Bazar (n.) A fair for the sale of fancy wares, toys, etc., commonly for a charitable objects.,
B as in Bdellium (n.) An unidentified substance mentioned in the Bible (Gen. ii. 12, and Num. xi. 7), variously taken to be a gum, a precious stone, or pearls, or perhaps a kind of amber found in Arabia.,
B as in Bdellium (n.) A gum resin of reddish brown color, brought from India, Persia, and Africa.,
B as in Bdelloidea (n. pl.) The order of Annulata which includes the leeches. See Hirudinea.,
B as in Bdellometer (n.) A cupping glass to which are attached a scarificator and an exhausting syringe.,
B as in Bdellomorpha (n.) An order of Nemertina, including the large leechlike worms (Malacobdella) often parasitic in clams.,
B as in Was (imp.) of Be,
B as in Been (p. p.) of Be,
B as in Being (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Be,
B as in Be (v. i.) To exist actually, or in the world of fact; to have ex/stence.,
B as in Be (v. i.) To exist in a certain manner or relation, -- whether as a reality or as a product of thought; to exist as the subject of a certain predicate, that is, as having a certain attribute, or as belonging to a certain sort, or as identical with what is specified, -- a word or words for the predicate being annexed; as, to be happy; to be here; to be large, or strong; to be an animal; to be a hero; to be a nonentity; three and two are five; annihilation is the cessation of existence; that is the man.,
B as in Be (v. i.) To take place; to happen; as, the meeting was on Thursday.,
B as in Be (v. i.) To signify; to represent or symbolize; to answer to.,
B as in Be- () A prefix, originally the same word as by;,
B as in Be- () To intensify the meaning; as, bespatter, bestir.,
B as in Be- () To render an intransitive verb transitive; as, befall (to fall upon); bespeak (to speak for).,
B as in Be- () To make the action of a verb particular or definite; as, beget (to get as offspring); beset (to set around).,
B as in Beaches (pl. ) of Beach,
B as in Beach (n.) Pebbles, collectively; shingle.,
B as in Beach (n.) The shore of the sea, or of a lake, which is washed by the waves; especially, a sandy or pebbly shore; the strand.,
B as in Beached (imp. & p. p.) of Beach,
B as in Beaching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Beach,
B as in Beach (v. t.) To run or drive (as a vessel or a boat) upon a beach; to strand; as, to beach a ship.,
B as in Beach comber () A long, curling wave rolling in from the ocean. See Comber.,
B as in Beached (p. p. & a.) Bordered by a beach.,
B as in Beached (p. p. & a.) Driven on a beach; stranded; drawn up on a beach; as, the ship is beached.,
B as in Beachy (a.) Having a beach or beaches; formed by a beach or beaches; shingly.,
B as in Beacon (n.) A signal fire to notify of the approach of an enemy, or to give any notice, commonly of warning.,
B as in Beacon (n.) A signal or conspicuous mark erected on an eminence near the shore, or moored in shoal water, as a guide to mariners.,
B as in Beacon (n.) A high hill near the shore.,
B as in Beacon (n.) That which gives notice of danger.,
B as in Beaconed (imp. & p. p.) of Beacon,
B as in Beaconing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Beacon,
B as in Beacon (v. t.) To give light to, as a beacon; to light up; to illumine.,
B as in Beacon (v. t.) To furnish with a beacon or beacons.,
B as in Beaconage (n.) Money paid for the maintenance of a beacon; also, beacons, collectively.,
B as in Beaconless (a.) Having no beacon.,
B as in Bead (n.) A prayer.,
B as in Bead (n.) A little perforated ball, to be strung on a thread, and worn for ornament; or used in a rosary for counting prayers, as by Roman Catholics and Mohammedans, whence the phrases to tell beads, to at one's beads, to bid beads, etc., meaning, to be at prayer.,
B as in Bead (n.) Any small globular body,
B as in Bead (n.) A bubble in spirits.,
B as in Bead (n.) A drop of sweat or other liquid.,
B as in Bead (n.) A small knob of metal on a firearm, used for taking aim (whence the expression to draw a bead, for, to take aim).,
B as in Bead (n.) A small molding of rounded surface, the section being usually an arc of a circle. It may be continuous, or broken into short embossments.,
B as in Bead (n.) A glassy drop of molten flux, as borax or microcosmic salt, used as a solvent and color test for several mineral earths and oxides, as of iron, manganese, etc., before the blowpipe; as, the borax bead; the iron bead, etc.,
B as in Beaded (imp. & p. p.) of Bead,
B as in Beading (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bead,
B as in Bead (v. t.) To ornament with beads or beading.,
B as in Bead (v. i.) To form beadlike bubbles.,
B as in Beadhouse (n.) Alt. of Bedehouse,
B as in Bedehouse (n.) An almshouse for poor people who pray daily for their benefactors.,
B as in Beading (n.) Molding in imitation of beads.,
B as in Beading (n.) The beads or bead-forming quality of certain liquors; as, the beading of a brand of whisky.,
B as in Beadle (v.) A messenger or crier of a court; a servitor; one who cites or bids persons to appear and answer; -- called also an apparitor or summoner.,
B as in Beadle (v.) An officer in a university, who precedes public processions of officers and students.,
B as in Beadle (v.) An inferior parish officer in England having a variety of duties, as the preservation of order in church service, the chastisement of petty offenders, etc.,
B as in Beadlery (n.) Office or jurisdiction of a beadle.,
B as in Beadleship (n.) The state of being, or the personality of, a beadle.,
B as in Bead proof () Among distillers, a certain degree of strength in alcoholic liquor, as formerly ascertained by the floating or sinking of glass globules of different specific gravities thrown into it; now ascertained by more accurate meters.,
B as in Bead proof () A degree of strength in alcoholic liquor as shown by beads or small bubbles remaining on its surface, or at the side of the glass, when shaken.,
B as in Beadroll (n.) A catalogue of persons, for the rest of whose souls a certain number of prayers are to be said or counted off on the beads of a chaplet; hence, a catalogue in general.,
B as in -men (pl. ) of Bedesman,
B as in Beadsman (n.) Alt. of Bedesman,
B as in Bedesman (n.) A poor man, supported in a beadhouse, and required to pray for the soul of its founder; an almsman.,
B as in Beadsnake (n.) A small poisonous snake of North America (Elaps fulvius), banded with yellow, red, and black.,
B as in -women (pl. ) of Bedeswoman,
B as in Beadswoman (n.) Alt. of Bedeswoman,
B as in Bedeswoman (n.) Fem. of Beadsman.,
B as in Beadwork (n.) Ornamental work in beads.,
B as in Beady (a.) Resembling beads; small, round, and glistening.,
B as in Beady (a.) Covered or ornamented with, or as with, beads.,
B as in Beady (a.) Characterized by beads; as, beady liquor.,
B as in Beagle (n.) A small hound, or hunting dog, twelve to fifteen inches high, used in hunting hares and other small game. See Illustration in Appendix.,
B as in Beagle (n.) Fig.: A spy or detective; a constable.,
B as in Beak (n.) The bill or nib of a bird, consisting of a horny sheath, covering the jaws. The form varied much according to the food and habits of the bird, and is largely used in the classification of birds.,
B as in Beak (n.) A similar bill in other animals, as the turtles.,
B as in Beak (n.) The long projecting sucking mouth of some insects, and other invertebrates, as in the Hemiptera.,
B as in Beak (n.) The upper or projecting part of the shell, near the hinge of a bivalve.,
B as in Beak (n.) The prolongation of certain univalve shells containing the canal.,
B as in Beak (n.) Anything projecting or ending in a point, like a beak, as a promontory of land.,
B as in Beak (n.) A beam, shod or armed at the end with a metal head or point, and projecting from the prow of an ancient galley, in order to pierce the vessel of an enemy; a beakhead.,
B as in Beak (n.) That part of a ship, before the forecastle, which is fastened to the stem, and supported by the main knee.,
B as in Beak (n.) A continuous slight projection ending in an arris or narrow fillet; that part of a drip from which the water is thrown off.,
B as in Beak (n.) Any process somewhat like the beak of a bird, terminating the fruit or other parts of a plant.,
B as in Beak (n.) A toe clip. See Clip, n. (Far.).,
B as in Beak (n.) A magistrate or policeman.,
B as in Beaked (a.) Having a beak or a beaklike point; beak-shaped.,
B as in Beaked (a.) Furnished with a process or a mouth like a beak; rostrate.,
B as in Beaker (n.) A large drinking cup, with a wide mouth, supported on a foot or standard.,
B as in Beaker (n.) An open-mouthed, thin glass vessel, having a projecting lip for pouring; -- used for holding solutions requiring heat.,
B as in Beakhead (n.) An ornament used in rich Norman doorways, resembling a head with a beak.,
B as in Beakhead (n.) A small platform at the fore part of the upper deck of a vessel, which contains the water closets of the crew.,
B as in Beakhead (n.) Same as Beak, 3.,
B as in Beakiron (n.) A bickern; a bench anvil with a long beak, adapted to reach the interior surface of sheet metal ware; the horn of an anvil.,
B as in Bealed (imp. & p. p.) of Beal,
B as in Bealing (p. pr & vb. n.) of Beal,
B as in Beal (v. i.) To gather matter; to swell and come to a head, as a pimple.,
B as in Be-all (n.) The whole; all that is to be.,
B as in Beam (n.) Any large piece of timber or iron long in proportion to its thickness, and prepared for use.,
B as in Beam (n.) One of the principal horizontal timbers of a building or ship.,
B as in Beam (n.) The width of a vessel; as, one vessel is said to have more beam than another.,
B as in Beam (n.) The bar of a balance, from the ends of which the scales are suspended.,
B as in Beam (n.) The principal stem or horn of a stag or other deer, which bears the antlers, or branches.,
B as in Beam (n.) The pole of a carriage.,
B as in Beam (n.) A cylinder of wood, making part of a loom, on which weavers wind the warp before weaving; also, the cylinder on which the cloth is rolled, as it is woven; one being called the fore beam, the other the back beam.,
B as in Beam (n.) The straight part or shank of an anchor.,
B as in Beam (n.) The main part of a plow, to which the handles and colter are secured, and to the end of which are attached the oxen or horses that draw it.,
B as in Beam (n.) A heavy iron lever having an oscillating motion on a central axis, one end of which is connected with the piston rod from which it receives motion, and the other with the crank of the wheel shaft; -- called also working beam or walking beam.,
B as in Beam (n.) A ray or collection of parallel rays emitted from the sun or other luminous body; as, a beam of light, or of heat.,
B as in Beam (n.) Fig.: A ray; a gleam; as, a beam of comfort.,
B as in Beam (n.) One of the long feathers in the wing of a hawk; -- called also beam feather.,
B as in Beamed (imp. & p. p.) of Beam,
B as in Beaming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Beam,
B as in Beam (v. t.) To send forth; to emit; -- followed ordinarily by forth; as, to beam forth light.,
B as in Beam (v. i.) To emit beams of light.,
B as in Beambird (n.) A small European flycatcher (Muscicapa gricola), so called because it often nests on a beam in a building.,
B as in Beamed (a.) Furnished with beams, as the head of a stag.,
B as in Beamful (a.) Beamy; radiant.,
B as in Beamily (adv.) In a beaming manner.,
B as in Beaminess (n.) The state of being beamy.,
B as in Beaming (a.) Emitting beams; radiant.,
B as in Beamingly (adv.) In a beaming manner; radiantly.,
B as in Beamless (a.) Not having a beam.,
B as in Beamless (a.) Not emitting light.,
B as in Beamlet (n.) A small beam of light.,
B as in Beam tree () A tree (Pyrus aria) related to the apple.,
B as in Beamy (a.) Emitting beams of light; radiant; shining.,
B as in Beamy (a.) Resembling a beam in size and weight; massy.,
B as in Beamy (a.) Having horns, or antlers.,
B as in Bean (n.) A name given to the seed of certain leguminous herbs, chiefly of the genera Faba, Phaseolus, and Dolichos; also, to the herbs.,
B as in Bean (n.) The popular name of other vegetable seeds or fruits, more or less resembling true beans.,
B as in Bean caper () A deciduous plant of warm climates, generally with fleshy leaves and flowers of a yellow or whitish yellow color, of the genus Zygophyllum.,
B as in Bean trefoil () A leguminous shrub of southern Europe, with trifoliate leaves (Anagyris foetida).,
B as in Bore (imp.) of Bear,
B as in Bare () of Bear,
B as in Born (p. p.) of Bear,
B as in Borne () of Bear,
B as in Bearing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bear,
B as in Bear (v. t.) To support or sustain; to hold up.,
B as in Bear (v. t.) To support and remove or carry; to convey.,
B as in Bear (v. t.) To conduct; to bring; -- said of persons.,
B as in Bear (v. t.) To possess and use, as power; to exercise.,
B as in Bear (v. t.) To sustain; to have on (written or inscribed, or as a mark), as, the tablet bears this inscription.,
B as in Bear (v. t.) To possess or carry, as a mark of authority or distinction; to wear; as, to bear a sword, badge, or name.,
B as in Bear (v. t.) To possess mentally; to carry or hold in the mind; to entertain; to harbor,
B as in Bear (v. t.) To endure; to tolerate; to undergo; to suffer.,
B as in Bear (v. t.) To gain or win.,
B as in Bear (v. t.) To sustain, or be answerable for, as blame, expense, responsibility, etc.,
B as in Bear (v. t.) To render or give; to bring forward.,
B as in Bear (v. t.) To carry on, or maintain; to have.,
B as in Bear (v. t.) To admit or be capable of; that is, to suffer or sustain without violence, injury, or change.,
B as in Bear (v. t.) To manage, wield, or direct.,
B as in Bear (v. t.) To behave; to conduct.,
B as in Bear (v. t.) To afford; to be to; to supply with.,
B as in Bear (v. t.) To bring forth or produce; to yield; as, to bear apples; to bear children; to bear interest.,
B as in Bear (v. i.) To produce, as fruit; to be fruitful, in opposition to barrenness.,
B as in Bear (v. i.) To suffer, as in carrying a burden.,
B as in Bear (v. i.) To endure with patience; to be patient.,
B as in Bear (v. i.) To press; -- with on or upon, or against.,
B as in Bear (v. i.) To take effect; to have influence or force; as, to bring matters to bear.,
B as in Bear (v. i.) To relate or refer; -- with on or upon; as, how does this bear on the question?,
B as in Bear (v. i.) To have a certain meaning, intent, or effect.,
B as in Bear (v. i.) To be situated, as to the point of compass, with respect to something else; as, the land bears N. by E.,
B as in Bear (n.) A bier.,
B as in Bear (n.) Any species of the genus Ursus, and of the closely allied genera. Bears are plantigrade Carnivora, but they live largely on fruit and insects.,
B as in Bear (n.) An animal which has some resemblance to a bear in form or habits, but no real affinity; as, the woolly bear; ant bear; water bear; sea bear.,
B as in Bear (n.) One of two constellations in the northern hemisphere, called respectively the Great Bear and the Lesser Bear, or Ursa Major and Ursa Minor.,
B as in Bear (n.) Metaphorically: A brutal, coarse, or morose person.,
B as in Bear (n.) A person who sells stocks or securities for future delivery in expectation of a fall in the market.,
B as in Bear (n.) A portable punching machine.,
B as in Bear (n.) A block covered with coarse matting; -- used to scour the deck.,
B as in Bear (v. t.) To endeavor to depress the price of, or prices in; as, to bear a railroad stock; to bear the market.,
B as in Bear (n.) Alt. of Bere,
B as in Bere (n.) Barley; the six-rowed barley or the four-rowed barley, commonly the former (Hord. vulgare).,
B as in Bearable (a.) Capable of being borne or endured; tolerable.,
B as in Bearberry (n.) A trailing plant of the heath family (Arctostaphylos uva-ursi), having leaves which are tonic and astringent, and glossy red berries of which bears are said to be fond.,
B as in Bearbind (n.) The bindweed (Convolvulus arvensis).,
B as in Beard (n.) The hair that grows on the chin, lips, and adjacent parts of the human face, chiefly of male adults.,
B as in Beard (n.) The long hairs about the face in animals, as in the goat.,
B as in Beard (n.) The cluster of small feathers at the base of the beak in some birds,
B as in Beard (n.) The appendages to the jaw in some Cetacea, and to the mouth or jaws of some fishes.,
B as in Beard (n.) The byssus of certain shellfish, as the muscle.,
B as in Beard (n.) The gills of some bivalves, as the oyster.,
B as in Beard (n.) In insects, the hairs of the labial palpi of moths and butterflies.,
B as in Beard (n.) Long or stiff hairs on a plant; the awn; as, the beard of grain.,
B as in Beard (n.) A barb or sharp point of an arrow or other instrument, projecting backward to prevent the head from being easily drawn out.,
B as in Beard (n.) That part of the under side of a horse's lower jaw which is above the chin, and bears the curb of a bridle.,
B as in Beard (n.) That part of a type which is between the shoulder of the shank and the face.,
B as in Beard (n.) An imposition; a trick.,
B as in Bearded (imp. & p. p.) of Beard,
B as in Bearding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Beard,
B as in Beard (v. t.) To take by the beard; to seize, pluck, or pull the beard of (a man), in anger or contempt.,
B as in Beard (v. t.) To oppose to the gills; to set at defiance.,
B as in Beard (v. t.) To deprive of the gills; -- used only of oysters and similar shellfish.,
B as in Bearded (a.) Having a beard.,
B as in Beardie (n.) The bearded loach (Nemachilus barbatus) of Europe.,
B as in Beardless (a.) Without a beard. Hence: Not having arrived at puberty or manhood; youthful.,
B as in Beardless (a.) Destitute of an awn; as, beardless wheat.,
B as in Beardlessness (n.) The state or quality of being destitute of beard.,
B as in Bearer (n.) One who, or that which, bears, sustains, or carries.,
B as in Bearer (n.) Specifically: One who assists in carrying a body to the grave; a pallbearer.,
B as in Bearer (n.) A palanquin carrier; also, a house servant.,
B as in Bearer (n.) A tree or plant yielding fruit; as, a good bearer.,
B as in Bearer (n.) One who holds a check, note, draft, or other order for the payment of money; as, pay to bearer.,
B as in Bearer (n.) A strip of reglet or other furniture to bear off the impression from a blank page; also, a type or type-high piece of metal interspersed in blank parts to support the plate when it is shaved.,
B as in Bearherd (n.) A man who tends a bear.,
B as in Bearhound (n.) A hound for baiting or hunting bears.,
B as in Bearing (n.) The manner in which one bears or conducts one's self; mien; behavior; carriage.,
B as in Bearing (n.) Patient endurance; suffering without complaint.,
B as in Bearing (n.) The situation of one object, with respect to another, such situation being supposed to have a connection with the object, or influence upon it, or to be influenced by it; hence, relation; connection.,
B as in Bearing (n.) Purport; meaning; intended significance; aspect.,
B as in Bearing (n.) The act, power, or time of producing or giving birth; as, a tree in full bearing; a tree past bearing.,
B as in Bearing (n.) That part of any member of a building which rests upon its supports; as, a lintel or beam may have four inches of bearing upon the wall.,
B as in Bearing (n.) The portion of a support on which anything rests.,
B as in Bearing (n.) Improperly, the unsupported span; as, the beam has twenty feet of bearing between its supports.,
B as in Bearing (n.) The part of an axle or shaft in contact with its support, collar, or boxing; the journal.,
B as in Bearing (n.) The part of the support on which a journal rests and rotates.,
B as in Bearing (n.) Any single emblem or charge in an escutcheon or coat of arms -- commonly in the pl.,
B as in Bearing (n.) The situation of a distant object, with regard to a ship's position, as on the bow, on the lee quarter, etc.; the direction or point of the compass in which an object is seen; as, the bearing of the cape was W. N. W.,
B as in Bearing (n.) The widest part of a vessel below the plank-sheer.,
B as in Bearing (n.) The line of flotation of a vessel when properly trimmed with cargo or ballast.,
B as in Bearing cloth () A cloth with which a child is covered when carried to be baptized.,
B as in Bearing rein () A short rein looped over the check hook or the hames to keep the horse's head up; -- called in the United States a checkrein.,
B as in Bearish (a.) Partaking of the qualities of a bear; resembling a bear in temper or manners.,
B as in Bearishness (n.) Behavior like that of a bear.,
B as in Bearn (n.) See Bairn.,
B as in Bear's-breech (n.) See Acanthus, n., 1.,
B as in Bear's-breech (n.) The English cow parsnip (Heracleum sphondylium),
B as in Bear's-ear (n.) A kind of primrose (Primula auricula), so called from the shape of the leaf.,
B as in Bear's-foot (n.) A species of hellebore (Helleborus foetidus), with digitate leaves. It has an offensive smell and acrid taste, and is a powerful emetic, cathartic, and anthelmintic.,
B as in Bearskin (n.) The skin of a bear.,
B as in Bearskin (n.) A coarse, shaggy, woolen cloth for overcoats.,
B as in Bearskin (n.) A cap made of bearskin, esp. one worn by soldiers.,
B as in Bear's-paw (n.) A large bivalve shell of the East Indies (Hippopus maculatus), often used as an ornament.,
B as in Bearward (n.) A keeper of bears. See Bearherd.,
B as in Beast (n.) Any living creature; an animal; -- including man, insects, etc.,
B as in Beast (n.) Any four-footed animal, that may be used for labor, food, or sport; as, a beast of burden.,
B as in Beast (n.) As opposed to man: Any irrational animal.,
B as in Beast (n.) Fig.: A coarse, brutal, filthy, or degraded fellow.,
B as in Beast (n.) A game at cards similar to loo.,
B as in Beast (n.) A penalty at beast, omber, etc. Hence: To be beasted, to be beaten at beast, omber, etc.,
B as in Beasthood (n.) State or nature of a beast.,
B as in Beastings (n. pl.) See Biestings.,
B as in Beastlihead (n.) Beastliness.,
B as in Beastlike (a.) Like a beast.,
B as in Beastliness (n.) The state or quality of being beastly.,
B as in Beastly (a.) Pertaining to, or having the form, nature, or habits of, a beast.,
B as in Beastly (a.) Characterizing the nature of a beast; contrary to the nature and dignity of man; brutal; filthy.,
B as in Beastly (a.) Abominable; as, beastly weather.,
B as in Beat (imp.) of Beat,
B as in Beat (p. p.) of Beat,
B as in Beaten () of Beat,
B as in Beating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Beat,
B as in Beat (v. t.) To strike repeatedly; to lay repeated blows upon; as, to beat one's breast; to beat iron so as to shape it; to beat grain, in order to force out the seeds; to beat eggs and sugar; to beat a drum.,
B as in Beat (v. t.) To punish by blows; to thrash.,
B as in Beat (v. t.) To scour or range over in hunting, accompanied with the noise made by striking bushes, etc., for the purpose of rousing game.,
B as in Beat (v. t.) To dash against, or strike, as with water or wind.,
B as in Beat (v. t.) To tread, as a path.,
B as in Beat (v. t.) To overcome in a battle, contest, strife, race, game, etc.; to vanquish or conquer; to surpass.,
B as in Beat (v. t.) To cheat; to chouse; to swindle; to defraud; -- often with out.,
B as in Beat (v. t.) To exercise severely; to perplex; to trouble.,
B as in Beat (v. t.) To give the signal for, by beat of drum; to sound by beat of drum; as, to beat an alarm, a charge, a parley, a retreat; to beat the general, the reveille, the tattoo. See Alarm, Charge, Parley, etc.,
B as in Beat (v. i.) To strike repeatedly; to inflict repeated blows; to knock vigorously or loudly.,
B as in Beat (v. i.) To move with pulsation or throbbing.,
B as in Beat (v. i.) To come or act with violence; to dash or fall with force; to strike anything, as, rain, wind, and waves do.,
B as in Beat (v. i.) To be in agitation or doubt.,
B as in Beat (v. i.) To make progress against the wind, by sailing in a zigzag line or traverse.,
B as in Beat (v. i.) To make a sound when struck; as, the drums beat.,
B as in Beat (v. i.) To make a succession of strokes on a drum; as, the drummers beat to call soldiers to their quarters.,
B as in Beat (v. i.) To sound with more or less rapid alternations of greater and less intensity, so as to produce a pulsating effect; -- said of instruments, tones, or vibrations, not perfectly in unison.,
B as in Beat (n.) A stroke; a blow.,
B as in Beat (n.) A recurring stroke; a throb; a pulsation; as, a beat of the heart; the beat of the pulse.,
B as in Beat (n.) The rise or fall of the hand or foot, marking the divisions of time; a division of the measure so marked. In the rhythm of music the beat is the unit.,
B as in Beat (n.) A transient grace note, struck immediately before the one it is intended to ornament.,
B as in Beat (n.) A sudden swelling or reenforcement of a sound, recurring at regular intervals, and produced by the interference of sound waves of slightly different periods of vibrations; applied also, by analogy, to other kinds of wave motions; the pulsation or throbbing produced by the vibrating together of two tones not quite in unison. See Beat, v. i., 8.,
B as in Beat (v. i.) A round or course which is frequently gone over; as, a watchman's beat.,
B as in Beat (v. i.) A place of habitual or frequent resort.,
B as in Beat (v. i.) A cheat or swindler of the lowest grade; -- often emphasized by dead; as, a dead beat.,
B as in Beat (a.) Weary; tired; fatigued; exhausted.,
B as in Beaten (a.) Made smooth by beating or treading; worn by use.,
B as in Beaten (a.) Vanquished; conquered; baffled.,
B as in Beaten (a.) Exhausted; tired out.,
B as in Beaten (a.) Become common or trite; as, a beaten phrase.,
B as in Beaten (a.) Tried; practiced.,
B as in Beater (n.) One who, or that which, beats.,
B as in Beater (n.) A person who beats up game for the hunters.,
B as in Beath (v. t.) To bathe; also, to dry or heat, as unseasoned wood.,
B as in Beatific (a.) Alt. of Beatifical,
B as in Beatifical (a.) Having the power to impart or complete blissful enjoyment; blissful.,
B as in Beatificate (v. t.) To beatify.,
B as in Beatification (n.) The act of beatifying, or the state of being beatified; esp., in the R. C. Church, the act or process of ascertaining and declaring that a deceased person is one of "the blessed," or has attained the second degree of sanctity, -- usually a stage in the process of canonization.,
B as in Beatified (imp. & p. p.) of Beatify,
B as in Beatifying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Beatify,
B as in Beatify (v. t.) To pronounce or regard as happy, or supremely blessed, or as conferring happiness.,
B as in Beatify (v. t.) To make happy; to bless with the completion of celestial enjoyment.,
B as in Beatify (v. t.) To ascertain and declare, by a public process and decree, that a deceased person is one of "the blessed" and is to be reverenced as such, though not canonized.,
B as in Beating (n.) The act of striking or giving blows; punishment or chastisement by blows.,
B as in Beating (n.) Pulsation; throbbing; as, the beating of the heart.,
B as in Beating (n.) Pulsative sounds. See Beat, n.,
B as in Beating (n.) The process of sailing against the wind by tacks in zigzag direction.,
B as in Beatitude (n.) Felicity of the highest kind; consummate bliss.,
B as in Beatitude (n.) Any one of the nine declarations (called the Beatitudes), made in the Sermon on the Mount (Matt. v. 3-12), with regard to the blessedness of those who are distinguished by certain specified virtues.,
B as in Beatitude (n.) Beatification.,
B as in Beaux (pl. ) of Beau,
B as in Beaus (pl. ) of Beau,
B as in Beau (n.) A man who takes great care to dress in the latest fashion; a dandy.,
B as in Beau (n.) A man who escorts, or pays attentions to, a lady; an escort; a lover.,
B as in Beaucatcher (n.) A small flat curl worn on the temple by women.,
B as in Beaufet (n.) A niche, cupboard, or sideboard for plate, china, glass, etc.; a buffet.,
B as in Beaufin (n.) See Biffin.,
B as in Beau ideal () A conception or image of consummate beauty, moral or physical, formed in the mind, free from all the deformities, defects, and blemishes seen in actual existence; an ideal or faultless standard or model.,
B as in Beauish (n.) Like a beau; characteristic of a beau; foppish; fine.,
B as in Beau monde () The fashionable world; people of fashion and gayety.,
B as in Beaupere (n.) A father.,
B as in Beaupere (n.) A companion.,
B as in Beauseant (n.) The black and white standard of the Knights Templars.,
B as in Beauship (n.) The state of being a beau; the personality of a beau.,
B as in Beauteous (a.) Full of beauty; beautiful; very handsome.,
B as in Beautied (p. a.) Beautiful; embellished.,
B as in Beautifier (n.) One who, or that which, beautifies or makes beautiful.,
B as in Beautiful (a.) Having the qualities which constitute beauty; pleasing to the sight or the mind.,
B as in Beautified (imp. & p. p.) of Beautify,
B as in Beautifying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Beautify,
B as in Beautify (v. t.) To make or render beautiful; to add beauty to; to adorn; to deck; to grace; to embellish.,
B as in Beautify (v. i.) To become beautiful; to advance in beauty.,
B as in Beautiless (a.) Destitute of beauty.,
B as in Beautie (pl. ) of Beauty,
B as in Beauty (n.) An assemblage or graces or properties pleasing to the eye, the ear, the intellect, the aesthetic faculty, or the moral sense.,
B as in Beauty (n.) A particular grace, feature, ornament, or excellence; anything beautiful; as, the beauties of nature.,
B as in Beauty (n.) A beautiful person, esp. a beautiful woman.,
B as in Beauty (n.) Prevailing style or taste; rage; fashion.,
B as in Beaux (n.) pl. of Beau.,
B as in Beauxite (n.) See Bauxite.,
B as in Beaver (n.) An amphibious rodent, of the genus Castor.,
B as in Beaver (n.) The fur of the beaver.,
B as in Beaver (n.) A hat, formerly made of the fur of the beaver, but now usually of silk.,
B as in Beaver (n.) Beaver cloth, a heavy felted woolen cloth, used chiefly for making overcoats.,
B as in Beaver (n.) That piece of armor which protected the lower part of the face, whether forming a part of the helmet or fixed to the breastplate. It was so constructed (with joints or otherwise) that the wearer could raise or lower it to eat and drink.,
B as in Beavered (a.) Covered with, or wearing, a beaver or hat.,
B as in Beaverteen (n.) A kind of fustian made of coarse twilled cotton, shorn after dyeing.,
B as in Bebeerine (n.) Alt. of Bebirine,
B as in Bebirine (n.) An alkaloid got from the bark of the bebeeru, or green heart of Guiana (Nectandra Rodioei). It is a tonic, antiperiodic, and febrifuge, and is used in medicine as a substitute for quinine.,
B as in Bebleed (v. t.) To make bloody; to stain with blood.,
B as in Beblood (v. t.) Alt. of Bebloody,
B as in Bebloody (v. t.) To make bloody; to stain with blood.,
B as in Beblot (v. t.) To blot; to stain.,
B as in Beblubber (v. t.) To make swollen and disfigured or sullied by weeping; as, her eyes or cheeks were beblubbered.,
B as in Becalmed (imp. & p. p.) of Becalm,
B as in Becalming (n.) of Becalm,
B as in Becalm (v. t.) To render calm or quiet; to calm; to still; to appease.,
B as in Becalm (v. t.) To keep from motion, or stop the progress of, by the stilling of the wind; as, the fleet was becalmed.,
B as in Became () imp. of Become.,
B as in Becard (n.) A South American bird of the flycatcher family. (Tityra inquisetor).,
B as in Because (conj.) By or for the cause that; on this account that; for the reason that.,
B as in Because (conj.) In order that; that.,
B as in Beccabunga (n.) See Brooklime.,
B as in Beccaficos (pl. ) of Beccafico,
B as in Beccafico (n.) A small bird. (Silvia hortensis), which is highly prized by the Italians for the delicacy of its flesh in the autumn, when it has fed on figs, grapes, etc.,
B as in Bechamel (n.) A rich, white sauce, prepared with butter and cream.,
B as in Bechance (adv.) By chance; by accident.,
B as in Bechance (v. t. & i.) To befall; to chance; to happen to.,
B as in Becharm (v. t.) To charm; to captivate.,
B as in Beche de mer () The trepang.,
B as in Bechic () Pertaining to, or relieving, a cough.,
B as in Bechic (n.) A medicine for relieving coughs.,
B as in Beck (n.) See Beak.,
B as in Beck (n.) A small brook.,
B as in Beck (n.) A vat. See Back.,
B as in Becked (imp. & p. p.) of Beck,
B as in Becking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Beck,
B as in Beck (v. i.) To nod, or make a sign with the head or hand.,
B as in Beck (v. t.) To notify or call by a nod, or a motion of the head or hand; to intimate a command to.,
B as in Beck (n.) A significant nod, or motion of the head or hand, esp. as a call or command.,
B as in Becker (n.) A European fish (Pagellus centrodontus); the sea bream or braise.,
B as in Becket (n.) A small grommet, or a ring or loop of rope / metal for holding things in position, as spars, ropes, etc.; also a bracket, a pocket, or a handle made of rope.,
B as in Becket (n.) A spade for digging turf.,
B as in Beckoned (imp. & p. p.) of Beckon,
B as in Beckoning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Beckon,
B as in Beckon (v. t.) To make a significant sign to; hence, to summon, as by a motion of the hand.,
B as in Beckon (n.) A sign made without words; a beck.,
B as in Beclap (v. t.) To catch; to grasp; to insnare.,
B as in Beclipped (imp. & p. p.) of Beclip,
B as in Beclip (v. t.) To embrace; to surround.,
B as in Beclouded (imp. & p. p.) of Becloud,
B as in Beclouding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Becloud,
B as in Becloud (v. t.) To cause obscurity or dimness to; to dim; to cloud.,
B as in Became (imp.) of Become,
B as in Become (p. p.) of Become,
B as in Becoming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Become,
B as in Become (v. i.) To pass from one state to another; to enter into some state or condition, by a change from another state, or by assuming or receiving new properties or qualities, additional matter, or a new character.,
B as in Become (v. i.) To come; to get.,
B as in Become (v. t.) To suit or be suitable to; to be congruous with; to befit; to accord with, in character or circumstances; to be worthy of, or proper for; to cause to appear well; -- said of persons and things.,
B as in Becomed (a.) Proper; decorous.,
B as in Becoming (a.) Appropriate or fit; congruous; suitable; graceful; befitting.,
B as in Becoming (n.) That which is becoming or appropriate.,
B as in Becomingly (adv.) In a becoming manner.,
B as in Becomingness (n.) The quality of being becoming, appropriate, or fit; congruity; fitness.,
B as in Becripple (v. t.) To make a cripple of; to cripple; to lame.,
B as in Becuna (n.) A fish of the Mediterranean (Sphyraena spet). See Barracuda.,
B as in Becurl (v. t.) To curl; to adorn with curls.,
B as in Bed (n.) An article of furniture to sleep or take rest in or on; a couch. Specifically: A sack or mattress, filled with some soft material, in distinction from the bedstead on which it is placed (as, a feather bed), or this with the bedclothes added. In a general sense, any thing or place used for sleeping or reclining on or in, as a quantity of hay, straw, leaves, or twigs.,
B as in Bed (n.) (Used as the symbol of matrimony) Marriage.,
B as in Bed (n.) A plat or level piece of ground in a garden, usually a little raised above the adjoining ground.,
B as in Bed (n.) A mass or heap of anything arranged like a bed; as, a bed of ashes or coals.,
B as in Bed (n.) The bottom of a watercourse, or of any body of water; as, the bed of a river.,
B as in Bed (n.) A layer or seam, or a horizontal stratum between layers; as, a bed of coal, iron, etc.,
B as in Bed (n.) See Gun carriage, and Mortar bed.,
B as in Bed (n.) The horizontal surface of a building stone; as, the upper and lower beds.,
B as in Bed (n.) A course of stone or brick in a wall.,
B as in Bed (n.) The place or material in which a block or brick is laid.,
B as in Bed (n.) The lower surface of a brick, slate, or tile.,
B as in Bed (n.) The foundation or the more solid and fixed part or framing of a machine; or a part on which something is laid or supported; as, the bed of an engine.,
B as in Bed (n.) The superficial earthwork, or ballast, of a railroad.,
B as in Bed (n.) The flat part of the press, on which the form is laid.,
B as in Bedded (imp. & p. p.) of Bed,
B as in Bedding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bed,
B as in Bed (v. t.) To place in a bed.,
B as in Bed (v. t.) To make partaker of one's bed; to cohabit with.,
B as in Bed (v. t.) To furnish with a bed or bedding.,
B as in Bed (v. t.) To plant or arrange in beds; to set, or cover, as in a bed of soft earth; as, to bed the roots of a plant in mold.,
B as in Bed (v. t.) To lay or put in any hollow place, or place of rest and security, surrounded or inclosed; to embed; to furnish with or place upon a bed or foundation; as, to bed a stone; it was bedded on a rock.,
B as in Bed (v. t.) To dress or prepare the surface of stone) so as to serve as a bed.,
B as in Bed (v. t.) To lay flat; to lay in order; to place in a horizontal or recumbent position.,
B as in Bed (v. i.) To go to bed; to cohabit.,
B as in Bedabbled (imp. & p. p.) of Bedabble,
B as in Bedabbling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bedabble,
B as in Bedabble (v. t.) To dabble; to sprinkle or wet.,
B as in Bedaff (v. t.) To make a daff or fool of.,
B as in Bedagat (n.) The sacred books of the Buddhists in Burmah.,
B as in Bedaggle (v. t.) To daggle.,
B as in Bedashed (imp. & p. p.) of Bedash,
B as in Bedashing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bedash,
B as in Bedash (v. t.) To wet by dashing or throwing water or other liquid upon; to bespatter.,
B as in Bedaubed (imp. & p. p.) of Bedaub,
B as in Bedaubing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bedaub,
B as in Bedaub (v. t.) To daub over; to besmear or soil with anything thick and dirty.,
B as in Bedazzled (imp. & p. p.) of Bedazzle,
B as in Bedazzling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bedazzle,
B as in Bedazzle (v. t.) To dazzle or make dim by a strong light.,
B as in Bedbug (n.) A wingless, bloodsucking, hemipterous insect (Cimex Lectularius), sometimes infesting houses and especially beds. See Illustration in Appendix.,
B as in Bedchair (n.) A chair with adjustable back, for the sick, to support them while sitting up in bed.,
B as in Bedchamber (n.) A chamber for a bed; an apartment form sleeping in.,
B as in Bedclothes (n. pl.) Blankets, sheets, coverlets, etc., for a bed.,
B as in Bedcord (n.) A cord or rope interwoven in a bedstead so as to support the bed.,
B as in Bedded (a.) Provided with a bed; as, double-bedded room; placed or arranged in a bed or beds.,
B as in Bedding (n.) A bed and its furniture; the materials of a bed, whether for man or beast; bedclothes; litter.,
B as in Bedding (n.) The state or position of beds and layers.,
B as in Bede (v. t.) To pray; also, to offer; to proffer.,
B as in Bede (n.) A kind of pickax.,
B as in Bedecked (imp. & p. p.) of Bedeck,
B as in Bedecking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bedeck,
B as in Bedeck (v. t.) To deck, ornament, or adorn; to grace.,
B as in Bedeguar (n.) Alt. of Bedegar,
B as in Bedegar (n.) A gall produced on rosebushes, esp. on the sweetbrier or eglantine, by a puncture from the ovipositor of a gallfly (Rhodites rosae). It was once supposed to have medicinal properties.,
B as in Bedehouse (n.) Same as Beadhouse.,
B as in Bedel (n.) Alt. of Bedell,
B as in Bedell (n.) Same as Beadle.,
B as in Bedelry (n.) Beadleship.,
B as in Beden (n.) The Abyssinian or Arabian ibex (Capra Nubiana). It is probably the wild goat of the Bible.,
B as in Bedesman (n.) Same as Beadsman.,
B as in Bedevilled (imp. & p. p.) of Bedevil,
B as in Bedeviling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bedevil,
B as in Bedevilling () of Bedevil,
B as in Bedevil (v. t.) To throw into utter disorder and confusion, as if by the agency of evil spirits; to bring under diabolical influence; to torment.,
B as in Bedevil (v. t.) To spoil; to corrupt.,
B as in Bedevilment (n.) The state of being bedeviled; bewildering confusion; vexatious trouble.,
B as in Bedewed (imp. & p. p.) of Bedew,
B as in Bedewing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bedew,
B as in Bedew (v. t.) To moisten with dew, or as with dew.,
B as in Bedewer (n.) One who, or that which, bedews.,
B as in Bedewy (a.) Moist with dew; dewy.,
B as in Bedfellow (n.) One who lies with another in the same bed; a person who shares one's couch.,
B as in Bedfere Bedphere (n.) A bedfellow.,
B as in Bedgown (n.) A nightgown.,
B as in Bedight (p. p.) of Bedight,
B as in Bedighted () of Bedight,
B as in Bedight (v. t.) To bedeck; to array or equip; to adorn.,
B as in Bedimmed (imp. & p. p.) of Bedim,
B as in Bedimming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bedim,
B as in Bedim (v. t.) To make dim; to obscure or darken.,
B as in Bedizen (v. t.) To dress or adorn tawdrily or with false taste.,
B as in Bedizenment (n.) That which bedizens; the act of dressing, or the state of being dressed, tawdrily.,
B as in Bedkey (n.) An instrument for tightening the parts of a bedstead.,
B as in Bedlam (n.) A place appropriated to the confinement and care of the insane; a madhouse.,
B as in Bedlam (n.) An insane person; a lunatic; a madman.,
B as in Bedlam (n.) Any place where uproar and confusion prevail.,
B as in Bedlam (a.) Belonging to, or fit for, a madhouse.,
B as in Bedlamite (n.) An inhabitant of a madhouse; a madman.,
B as in Bedmaker (n.) One who makes beds.,
B as in Bed-molding (n.) Alt. of Bed-moulding,
B as in Bed-moulding (n.) The molding of a cornice immediately below the corona.,
B as in Bedote (v. t.) To cause to dote; to deceive.,
B as in Bedouin (n.) One of the nomadic Arabs who live in tents, and are scattered over Arabia, Syria, and northern Africa, esp. in the deserts.,
B as in Bedouin (a.) Pertaining to the Bedouins; nomad.,
B as in Bedpan (n.) A pan for warming beds.,
B as in Bedpan (n.) A shallow chamber vessel, so constructed that it can be used by a sick person in bed.,
B as in Bedphere (n.) See Bedfere.,
B as in Bedpiece (n.) Alt. of Bedplate,
B as in Bedplate (n.) The foundation framing or piece, by which the other parts are supported and held in place; the bed; -- called also baseplate and soleplate.,
B as in Bedpost (n.) One of the four standards that support a bedstead or the canopy over a bedstead.,
B as in Bedpost (n.) Anciently, a post or pin on each side of the bed to keep the clothes from falling off. See Bedstaff.,
B as in Bedquilt (n.) A quilt for a bed; a coverlet.,
B as in Bedrabble (v. t.) To befoul with rain and mud; to drabble.,
B as in Bedraggled (imp. & p. p.) of Bedraggle,
B as in Bedraggling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bedraggle,
B as in Bedraggle (v. t.) To draggle; to soil, as garments which, in walking, are suffered to drag in dust, mud, etc.,
B as in Bedrenched (imp. & p. p.) of Bedrench,
B as in Bedrenching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bedrench,
B as in Bedrench (v. t.) To drench; to saturate with moisture; to soak.,
B as in Bedribble (v. t.) To dribble upon.,
B as in Bedrid (v. i.) Alt. of Bedridden,
B as in Bedridden (v. i.) Confined to the bed by sickness or infirmity.,
B as in Bedright Bedrite (n.) The duty or privilege of the marriage bed.,
B as in Bedrizzle (v. t.) To drizzle upon.,
B as in Bed rock () The solid rock underlying superficial formations. Also Fig.,
B as in Bedroom (n.) A room or apartment intended or used for a bed; a lodging room.,
B as in Bedroom (n.) Room in a bed.,
B as in Bedrop (v. t.) To sprinkle, as with drops.,
B as in Bedrug (v. t.) To drug abundantly or excessively.,
B as in Bed screw () A form of jack screw for lifting large bodies, and assisting in launching.,
B as in Bed screw () A long screw formerly used to fasten a bedpost to one of the adjacent side pieces.,
B as in Bedside (n.) The side of a bed.,
B as in Bedsite (n.) A recess in a room for a bed.,
B as in Bedsore (n.) A sore on the back or hips caused by lying for a long time in bed.,
B as in Bedspread (n.) A bedquilt; a counterpane; a coverlet.,
B as in Bedstaves (pl. ) of Bedstaff,
B as in Bedstaff (n.) "A wooden pin stuck anciently on the sides of the bedstead, to hold the clothes from slipping on either side.",
B as in Bedstead (n.) A framework for supporting a bed.,
B as in Bed steps () Steps for mounting a bed of unusual height.,
B as in Bedstock (n.) The front or the back part of the frame of a bedstead.,
B as in Bedstraw (n.) Straw put into a bed.,
B as in Bedstraw (n.) A genus of slender herbs, usually with square stems, whorled leaves, and small white flowers.,
B as in Bedswerver (n.) One who swerves from and is unfaithful to the marriage vow.,
B as in Bedtick (n.) A tick or bag made of cloth, used for inclosing the materials of a bed.,
B as in Bedtime (n.) The time to go to bed.,
B as in Beducked (imp. & p. p.) of Beduck,
B as in Beduck (v. t.) To duck; to put the head under water; to immerse.,
B as in Beduin (n.) See Bedouin.,
B as in Bedunged (imp. & p. p.) of Bedung,
B as in Bedung (v. t.) To cover with dung, as for manuring; to bedaub or defile, literally or figuratively.,
B as in Bedust (v. t.) To sprinkle, soil, or cover with dust.,
B as in Bedward (adv.) Towards bed.,
B as in Bedwarfed (imp. & p. p.) of Bedwarf,
B as in Bedwarf (v. t.) To make a dwarf of; to stunt or hinder the growth of; to dwarf.,
B as in Bedyed (imp. & p. p.) of Bedye,
B as in Bedyeing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bedye,
B as in Bedye (v. t.) To dye or stain.,
B as in Bee () p. p. of Be; -- used for been.,
B as in Bee (n.) An insect of the order Hymenoptera, and family Apidae (the honeybees), or family Andrenidae (the solitary bees.) See Honeybee.,
B as in Bee (n.) A neighborly gathering of people who engage in united labor for the benefit of an individual or family; as, a quilting bee; a husking bee; a raising bee.,
B as in Bee (n.) Pieces of hard wood bolted to the sides of the bowsprit, to reeve the fore-topmast stays through; -- called also bee blocks.,
B as in Beebread (n.) A brown, bitter substance found in some of the cells of honeycomb. It is made chiefly from the pollen of flowers, which is collected by bees as food for their young.,
B as in Beeches (pl. ) of Beech,
B as in Beech (n.) A tree of the genus Fagus.,
B as in Beechen (a.) Consisting, or made, of the wood or bark of the beech; belonging to the beech.,
B as in Beechnut (n.) The nut of the beech tree.,
B as in Beech tree () The beech.,
B as in Beechy (a.) Of or relating to beeches.,
B as in Bee-eater (n.) A bird of the genus Merops, that feeds on bees. The European species (M. apiaster) is remarkable for its brilliant colors.,
B as in Bee-eater (n.) An African bird of the genus Rhinopomastes.,
B as in Beef (n.) An animal of the genus Bos, especially the common species, B. taurus, including the bull, cow, and ox, in their full grown state; esp., an ox or cow fattened for food.,
B as in Beef (n.) The flesh of an ox, or cow, or of any adult bovine animal, when slaughtered for food.,
B as in Beef (n.) Applied colloquially to human flesh.,
B as in Beef (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, beef.,
B as in Beefeater (n.) One who eats beef; hence, a large, fleshy person.,
B as in Beefeater (n.) One of the yeomen of the guard, in England.,
B as in Beefeater (n.) An African bird of the genus Buphaga, which feeds on the larvae of botflies hatched under the skin of oxen, antelopes, etc. Two species are known.,
B as in Beefsteak (n.) A steak of beef; a slice of beef broiled or suitable for broiling.,
B as in Beef-witted (n.) Stupid; dull.,
B as in Beefwood (n.) An Australian tree (Casuarina), and its red wood, used for cabinetwork; also, the trees Stenocarpus salignus of New South Wales, and Banksia compar of Queensland.,
B as in Beefy (a.) Having much beef; of the nature of beef; resembling beef; fleshy.,
B as in Beehive (n.) A hive for a swarm of bees. Also used figuratively.,
B as in Beehouse (n.) A house for bees; an apiary.,
B as in Bee larkspur () (Bot.) See Larkspur.,
B as in Beeld (n.) Same as Beild.,
B as in Bee line () The shortest line from one place to another, like that of a bee to its hive when loaded with honey; an air line.,
B as in Beelzebub (n.) The title of a heathen deity to whom the Jews ascribed the sovereignty of the evil spirits; hence, the Devil or a devil. See Baal.,
B as in Beem (n.) A trumpet.,
B as in Beemaster (n.) One who keeps bees.,
B as in Been () The past participle of Be. In old authors it is also the pr. tense plural of Be. See 1st Bee.,
B as in Beer (n.) A fermented liquor made from any malted grain, but commonly from barley malt, with hops or some other substance to impart a bitter flavor.,
B as in Beer (n.) A fermented extract of the roots and other parts of various plants, as spruce, ginger, sassafras, etc.,
B as in Beeregar (n.) Sour beer.,
B as in Beerhouse (n.) A house where malt liquors are sold; an alehouse.,
B as in Beeriness (n.) Beery condition.,
B as in Beery (a.) Of or resembling beer; affected by beer; maudlin.,
B as in Beestings (n.) Same as Biestings.,
B as in Beeswax (n.) The wax secreted by bees, and of which their cells are constructed.,
B as in Beeswing (n.) The second crust formed in port and some other wines after long keeping. It consists of pure, shining scales of tartar, supposed to resemble the wing of a bee.,
B as in Beet (n.) A biennial plant of the genus Beta, which produces an edible root the first year and seed the second year.,
B as in Beet (n.) The root of plants of the genus Beta, different species and varieties of which are used for the table, for feeding stock, or in making sugar.,
B as in Beete (v. t.) Alt. of Bete,
B as in Bete (v. t.) To mend; to repair.,
B as in Bete (v. t.) To renew or enkindle (a fire).,
B as in Beetle (v. t.) A heavy mallet, used to drive wedges, beat pavements, etc.,
B as in Beetle (v. t.) A machine in which fabrics are subjected to a hammering process while passing over rollers, as in cotton mills; -- called also beetling machine.,
B as in Beetled (imp. & p. p.) of Beetle,
B as in Beetling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Beetle,
B as in Beetle (v. t.) To beat with a heavy mallet.,
B as in Beetle (v. t.) To finish by subjecting to a hammering process in a beetle or beetling machine; as, to beetle cotton goods.,
B as in Beetle (v. t.) Any insect of the order Coleoptera, having four wings, the outer pair being stiff cases for covering the others when they are folded up. See Coleoptera.,
B as in Beetle (v. i.) To extend over and beyond the base or support; to overhang; to jut.,
B as in Beetle brow () An overhanging brow.,
B as in Beetle-browed () Having prominent, overhanging brows; hence, lowering or sullen.,
B as in Beetlehead (n.) A stupid fellow; a blockhead.,
B as in Beetlehead (n.) The black-bellied plover, or bullhead (Squatarola helvetica). See Plover.,
B as in Beetle-headed (a.) Dull; stupid.,
B as in Beetlestock (n.) The handle of a beetle.,
B as in Beet radish () Same as Beetrave.,
B as in Beetrave (n.) The common beet (Beta vulgaris).,
B as in Beeve (n.) A beef; a beef creature.,
B as in Beeves (n.) plural of Beef, the animal.,
B as in Befell (imp.) of Befall,
B as in Befallen (p. p.) of Befall,
B as in Befalling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Befall,
B as in Befall (v. t.) To happen to.,
B as in Befall (v. i.) To come to pass; to happen.,
B as in Befitted (imp. & p. p.) of Befit,
B as in Befitting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Befit,
B as in Befit (v. t.) To be suitable to; to suit; to become.,
B as in Befitting (a.) Suitable; proper; becoming; fitting.,
B as in Befittingly (adv.) In a befitting manner; suitably.,
B as in Beflatter (v. t.) To flatter excessively.,
B as in Beflower (v. t.) To besprinkle or scatter over with, or as with, flowers.,
B as in Befogged (imp. & p. p.) of Befog,
B as in Befogging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Befog,
B as in Befog (v. t.) To involve in a fog; -- mostly as a participle or part. adj.,
B as in Befog (v. t.) Hence: To confuse; to mystify.,
B as in Befooled (imp. & p. p.) of Befool,
B as in Befooling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Befool,
B as in Befool (v. t.) To fool; to delude or lead into error; to infatuate; to deceive.,
B as in Befool (v. t.) To cause to behave like a fool; to make foolish.,
B as in Before (prep.) In front of; preceding in space; ahead of; as, to stand before the fire; before the house.,
B as in Before (prep.) Preceding in time; earlier than; previously to; anterior to the time when; -- sometimes with the additional idea of purpose; in order that.,
B as in Before (prep.) An advance of; farther onward, in place or time.,
B as in Before (prep.) Prior or preceding in dignity, order, rank, right, or worth; rather than.,
B as in Before (prep.) In presence or sight of; face to face with; facing.,
B as in Before (prep.) Under the cognizance or jurisdiction of.,
B as in Before (prep.) Open for; free of access to; in the power of.,
B as in Before (adv.) On the fore part; in front, or in the direction of the front; -- opposed to in the rear.,
B as in Before (adv.) In advance.,
B as in Before (adv.) In time past; previously; already.,
B as in Before (adv.) Earlier; sooner than; until then.,
B as in Beforehand (adv.) In a state of anticipation ore preoccupation; in advance; -- often followed by with.,
B as in Beforehand (adv.) By way of preparation, or preliminary; previously; aforetime.,
B as in Beforehand (a.) In comfortable circumstances as regards property; forehanded.,
B as in Beforetime (adv.) Formerly; aforetime.,
B as in Befortune (v. t.) To befall.,
B as in Befouled (imp. & p. p.) of Befoul,
B as in Befouling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Befoul,
B as in Befoul (a.) To make foul; to soil.,
B as in Befoul (a.) To entangle or run against so as to impede motion.,
B as in Befriended (imp. & p. p.) of Befriend,
B as in Befriending (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Befriend,
B as in Befriend (v. t.) To act as a friend to; to favor; to aid, benefit, or countenance.,
B as in Befriendment (n.) Act of befriending.,
B as in Befrill (v. t.) To furnish or deck with a frill.,
B as in Befringe (v. t.) To furnish with a fringe; to form a fringe upon; to adorn as with fringe.,
B as in Befuddled (imp. & p. p.) of Befuddle,
B as in Befuddle (v. t.) To becloud and confuse, as with liquor.,
B as in Beg (n.) A title of honor in Turkey and in some other parts of the East; a bey.,
B as in Begged (imp. & p. p.) of Beg,
B as in Begging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Beg,
B as in Beg (v. t.) To ask earnestly for; to entreat or supplicate for; to beseech.,
B as in Beg (v. t.) To ask for as a charity, esp. to ask for habitually or from house to house.,
B as in Beg (v. t.) To make petition to; to entreat; as, to beg a person to grant a favor.,
B as in Beg (v. t.) To take for granted; to assume without proof.,
B as in Beg (v. t.) To ask to be appointed guardian for, or to ask to have a guardian appointed for.,
B as in Beg (v. i.) To ask alms or charity, especially to ask habitually by the wayside or from house to house; to live by asking alms.,
B as in Bega (n.) See Bigha.,
B as in Begemmed (imp. & p. p.) of Begem,
B as in Begemming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Begem,
B as in Begem (v. t.) To adorn with gems, or as with gems.,
B as in Begot (imp.) of Beget,
B as in Begat () of Beget,
B as in Begot (p. p.) of Beget,
B as in Begotten () of Beget,
B as in Begetting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Beget,
B as in Beget (v. t.) To procreate, as a father or sire; to generate; -- commonly said of the father.,
B as in Beget (v. t.) To get (with child.),
B as in Beget (v. t.) To produce as an effect; to cause to exist.,
B as in Begetter (n.) One who begets; a father.,
B as in Beggable (a.) Capable of being begged.,
B as in Beggar (n.) One who begs; one who asks or entreats earnestly, or with humility; a petitioner.,
B as in Beggar (n.) One who makes it his business to ask alms.,
B as in Beggar (n.) One who is dependent upon others for support; -- a contemptuous or sarcastic use.,
B as in Beggar (n.) One who assumes in argument what he does not prove.,
B as in Beggared (imp. & p. p.) of Beggar,
B as in Beggaring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Beggar,
B as in Beggar (v. t.) To reduce to beggary; to impoverish; as, he had beggared himself.,
B as in Beggar (v. t.) To cause to seem very poor and inadequate.,
B as in Beggarhood (n.) The condition of being a beggar; also, the class of beggars.,
B as in Beggarism (n.) Beggary.,
B as in Beggarliness (n.) The quality or state of being beggarly; meanness.,
B as in Beggarly (a.) In the condition of, or like, a beggar; suitable for a beggar; extremely indigent; poverty-stricken; mean; poor; contemptible.,
B as in Beggarly (a.) Produced or occasioned by beggary.,
B as in Beggarly (adv.) In an indigent, mean, or despicable manner; in the manner of a beggar.,
B as in Beggar's lice () The prickly fruit or seed of certain plants (as some species of Echinospermum and Cynoglossum) which cling to the clothing of those who brush by them.,
B as in Beggar's ticks () The bur marigold (Bidens) and its achenes, which are armed with barbed awns, and adhere to clothing and fleeces with unpleasant tenacity.,
B as in Beggary (n.) The act of begging; the state of being a beggar; mendicancy; extreme poverty.,
B as in Beggary (n.) Beggarly appearance.,
B as in Beggary (a.) Beggarly.,
B as in Beggestere (n.) A beggar.,
B as in Beghard (n.) Alt. of Beguard,
B as in Beguard (n.) One of an association of religious laymen living in imitation of the Beguines. They arose in the thirteenth century, were afterward subjected to much persecution, and were suppressed by Innocent X. in 1650. Called also Beguins.,
B as in Begilded (imp. & p. p.) of Begild,
B as in Begilt () of Begild,
B as in Begild (v. t.) To gild.,
B as in Began (imp. & p. p.) of Begin,
B as in Begun () of Begin,
B as in Beginning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Begin,
B as in Begin (v. i.) To have or commence an independent or first existence; to take rise; to commence.,
B as in Begin (v. i.) To do the first act or the first part of an action; to enter upon or commence something new, as a new form or state of being, or course of action; to take the first step; to start.,
B as in Begin (v. t.) To enter on; to commence.,
B as in Begin (v. t.) To trace or lay the foundation of; to make or place a beginning of.,
B as in Begin (n.) Beginning.,
B as in Beginner (n.) One who begins or originates anything. Specifically: A young or inexperienced practitioner or student; a tyro.,
B as in Beginning (n.) The act of doing that which begins anything; commencement of an action, state, or space of time; entrance into being or upon a course; the first act, effort, or state of a succession of acts or states.,
B as in Beginning (n.) That which begins or originates something; the first cause; origin; source.,
B as in Beginning (n.) That which is begun; a rudiment or element.,
B as in Beginning (n.) Enterprise.,
B as in Begirt (imp.) of Begird,
B as in Begirded () of Begird,
B as in Begirt (p. p.) of Begird,
B as in Begirding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Begird,
B as in Begird (v. t.) To bind with a band or girdle; to gird.,
B as in Begird (v. t.) To surround as with a band; to encompass.,
B as in Begirdle (v. t.) To surround as with a girdle.,
B as in Begirt (v. t.) To encompass; to begird.,
B as in Beglerbeg (n.) The governor of a province of the Ottoman empire, next in dignity to the grand vizier.,
B as in Begnawed (p. p.) of Begnaw,
B as in Begnawn () of Begnaw,
B as in Begnaw (v. t.) To gnaw; to eat away; to corrode.,
B as in Begodded (imp. & p. p.) of Begod,
B as in Begod (v. t.) To exalt to the dignity of a god; to deify.,
B as in Begone (interj.) Go away; depart; get you gone.,
B as in Begone (p. p.) Surrounded; furnished; beset; environed (as in woe-begone).,
B as in Begonia (n.) A genus of plants, mostly of tropical America, many species of which are grown as ornamental plants. The leaves are curiously one-sided, and often exhibit brilliant colors.,
B as in Begore (v. t.) To besmear with gore.,
B as in Begot () imp. & p. p. of Beget.,
B as in Begotten () p. p. of Beget.,
B as in Begrave (v. t.) To bury; also, to engrave.,
B as in Begrease (v. t.) To soil or daub with grease or other oily matter.,
B as in Begrimed (imp. & p. p.) of Begrime,
B as in Begriming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Begrime,
B as in Begrime (v. t.) To soil with grime or dirt deeply impressed or rubbed in.,
B as in Begrimer (n.) One who, or that which, begrimes.,
B as in Begrudged (imp. & p. p.) of Begrudge,
B as in Begrudging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Begrudge,
B as in Begrudge (v. t.) To grudge; to envy the possession of.,
B as in Beguiled (imp. & p. p.) of Beguile,
B as in Beguiling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Beguile,
B as in Beguile (v. t.) To delude by guile, artifice, or craft; to deceive or impose on, as by a false statement; to lure.,
B as in Beguile (v. t.) To elude, or evade by craft; to foil.,
B as in Beguile (v. t.) To cause the time of to pass without notice; to relieve the tedium or weariness of; to while away; to divert.,
B as in Beguilement (n.) The act of beguiling, or the state of being beguiled.,
B as in Beguiler (n.) One who, or that which, beguiles.,
B as in Beguiling (a.) Alluring by guile; deluding; misleading; diverting.,
B as in Beguin (n.) See Beghard.,
B as in Beguinage (n.) A collection of small houses surrounded by a wall and occupied by a community of Beguines.,
B as in Beguine (n.) A woman belonging to one of the religious and charitable associations or communities in the Netherlands, and elsewhere, whose members live in beguinages and are not bound by perpetual vows.,
B as in Begum (n.) In the East Indies, a princess or lady of high rank.,
B as in Begun () p. p. of Begin.,
B as in Behalf (n.) Advantage; favor; stead; benefit; interest; profit; support; defense; vindication.,
B as in Behappen (v. t.) To happen to.,
B as in Behaved (imp. & p. p.) of Behave,
B as in Behaving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Behave,
B as in Behave (v. t.) To manage or govern in point of behavior; to discipline; to handle; to restrain.,
B as in Behave (v. t.) To carry; to conduct; to comport; to manage; to bear; -- used reflexively.,
B as in Behave (v. i.) To act; to conduct; to bear or carry one's self; as, to behave well or ill.,
B as in Behavior (n.) Manner of behaving, whether good or bad; mode of conducting one's self; conduct; deportment; carriage; -- used also of inanimate objects; as, the behavior of a ship in a storm; the behavior of the magnetic needle.,
B as in Beheaded (imp. & p. p.) of Behead,
B as in Beheading (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Behead,
B as in Behead (v. t.) To sever the head from; to take off the head of.,
B as in Beheadal (n.) Beheading.,
B as in Beheld () imp. & p. p. of Behold.,
B as in Behemoth (n.) An animal, probably the hippopotamus, described in Job xl. 15-24.,
B as in Behen (n.) Alt. of Behn,
B as in Behn (n.) The Centaurea behen, or saw-leaved centaury.,
B as in Behn (n.) The Cucubalus behen, or bladder campion, now called Silene inflata.,
B as in Behn (n.) The Statice limonium, or sea lavender.,
B as in Behest (n.) That which is willed or ordered; a command; a mandate; an injunction.,
B as in Behest (n.) A vow; a promise.,
B as in Behest (v. t.) To vow.,
B as in Behete (v. t.) See Behight.,
B as in Behight (imp.) of Behight,
B as in Behight (p. p.) of Behight,
B as in Behoten () of Behight,
B as in Behight (v.) To promise; to vow.,
B as in Behight (v.) To give in trust; to commit; to intrust.,
B as in Behight (v.) To adjudge; to assign by authority.,
B as in Behight (v.) To mean, or intend.,
B as in Behight (v.) To consider or esteem to be; to declare to be.,
B as in Behight (v.) To call; to name; to address.,
B as in Behight (v.) To command; to order.,
B as in Behight (n.) A vow; a promise.,
B as in Behind (a.) On the side opposite the front or nearest part; on the back side of; at the back of; on the other side of; as, behind a door; behind a hill.,
B as in Behind (a.) Left after the departure of, whether this be by removing to a distance or by death.,
B as in Behind (a.) Left a distance by, in progress of improvement Hence: Inferior to in dignity, rank, knowledge, or excellence, or in any achievement.,
B as in Behind (adv.) At the back part; in the rear.,
B as in Behind (adv.) Toward the back part or rear; backward; as, to look behind.,
B as in Behind (adv.) Not yet brought forward, produced, or exhibited to view; out of sight; remaining.,
B as in Behind (adv.) Backward in time or order of succession; past.,
B as in Behind (adv.) After the departure of another; as, to stay behind.,
B as in Behind (n.) The backside; the rump.,
B as in Behindhand (adv. & a.) In arrears financially; in a state where expenditures have exceeded the receipt of funds.,
B as in Behindhand (adv. & a.) In a state of backwardness, in respect to what is seasonable or appropriate, or as to what should have been accomplished; not equally forward with some other person or thing; dilatory; backward; late; tardy; as, behindhand in studies or in work.,
B as in Behither (prep.) On this side of.,
B as in Beheld (imp. & p. p.) of Behold,
B as in Beholden (p. p.) of Behold,
B as in Beholding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Behold,
B as in Behold (v. t.) To have in sight; to see clearly; to look at; to regard with the eyes.,
B as in Behold (v. i.) To direct the eyes to, or fix them upon, an object; to look; to see.,
B as in Beholden (p. a.) Obliged; bound in gratitude; indebted.,
B as in Beholder (n.) One who beholds; a spectator.,
B as in Beholding (a.) Obliged; beholden.,
B as in Beholding (n.) The act of seeing; sight; also, that which is beheld.,
B as in Beholdingness (n.) The state of being obliged or beholden.,
B as in Behoof (v. t.) Advantage; profit; benefit; interest; use.,
B as in Behoovable (a.) Supplying need; profitable; advantageous.,
B as in Behooved (imp. & p. p.) of Behoove,
B as in Behooving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Behoove,
B as in Behoove (v. t.) To be necessary for; to be fit for; to be meet for, with respect to necessity, duty, or convenience; -- mostly used impersonally.,
B as in Behoove (v. i.) To be necessary, fit, or suitable; to befit; to belong as due.,
B as in Behoove (n.) Advantage; behoof.,
B as in Behooveful (a.) Advantageous; useful; profitable.,
B as in Behove (v.) and derivatives. See Behoove, &c.,
B as in Behovely (a. & adv.) Useful, or usefully.,
B as in Behowl (v. t.) To howl at.,
B as in Beige (n.) Debeige.,
B as in Beild (n.) A place of shelter; protection; refuge.,
B as in Being (p. pr.) Existing.,
B as in Being (n.) Existence, as opposed to nonexistence; state or sphere of existence.,
B as in Being (n.) That which exists in any form, whether it be material or spiritual, actual or ideal; living existence, as distinguished from a thing without life; as, a human being; spiritual beings.,
B as in Being (n.) Lifetime; mortal existence.,
B as in Being (n.) An abode; a cottage.,
B as in Being (adv.) Since; inasmuch as.,
B as in Bejade (v. t.) To jade or tire.,
B as in Bejape (v. t.) To jape; to laugh at; to deceive.,
B as in Bejaundice (v. t.) To infect with jaundice.,
B as in Bejeweled (imp. & p. p.) of Bejewel,
B as in Bejewelled () of Bejewel,
B as in Bejeweling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bejewel,
B as in Bejewelling () of Bejewel,
B as in Bejewel (v. t.) To ornament with a jewel or with jewels; to spangle.,
B as in Bejumble (v. t.) To jumble together.,
B as in Bekah (n.) Half a shekel.,
B as in Beknave (v. t.) To call knave.,
B as in Beknow (v. t.) To confess; to acknowledge.,
B as in Bel (n.) The Babylonian name of the god known among the Hebrews as Baal. See Baal.,
B as in Belabored (imp. & p. p.) of Belabor,
B as in Belaboring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Belabor,
B as in Belabor (v. t.) To ply diligently; to work carefully upon.,
B as in Belabor (v. t.) To beat soundly; to cudgel.,
B as in Bel-accoyle (n.) A kind or favorable reception or salutation.,
B as in Belaced (imp. & p. p.) of Belace,
B as in Belace (v. t.) To fasten, as with a lace or cord.,
B as in Belace (v. t.) To cover or adorn with lace.,
B as in Belace (v. t.) To beat with a strap. See Lace.,
B as in Belam (v. t.) To beat or bang.,
B as in Belamour (n.) A lover.,
B as in Belamour (n.) A flower, but of what kind is unknown.,
B as in Belamy (n.) Good friend; dear friend.,
B as in Belated (imp. & p. p.) of Belate,
B as in Belating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Belate,
B as in Belate (v. t.) To retard or make too late.,
B as in Belated (a.) Delayed beyond the usual time; too late; overtaken by night; benighted.,
B as in Belaud (v. t.) To laud or praise greatly.,
B as in Belaid (imp. & p. p.) of Belay,
B as in Belayed () of Belay,
B as in Belaying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Belay,
B as in Belay (v. t.) To lay on or cover; to adorn.,
B as in Belay (v. t.) To make fast, as a rope, by taking several turns with it round a pin, cleat, or kevel.,
B as in Belay (v. t.) To lie in wait for with a view to assault. Hence: to block up or obstruct.,
B as in Belaying pin () A strong pin in the side of a vessel, or by the mast, round which ropes are wound when they are fastened or belayed.,
B as in Belched (imp. & p. p.) of Belch,
B as in Belching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Belch,
B as in Belch (v. i.) To eject or throw up from the stomach with violence; to eruct.,
B as in Belch (v. i.) To eject violently from within; to cast forth; to emit; to give vent to; to vent.,
B as in Belch (v. i.) To eject wind from the stomach through the mouth; to eructate.,
B as in Belch (v. i.) To issue with spasmodic force or noise.,
B as in Belch (n.) The act of belching; also, that which is belched; an eructation.,
B as in Belch (n.) Malt liquor; -- vulgarly so called as causing eructation.,
B as in Belcher (n.) One who, or that which, belches.,
B as in Beldam (n.) Alt. of Beldame,
B as in Beldame (n.) Grandmother; -- corresponding to belsire.,
B as in Beldame (n.) An old woman in general; especially, an ugly old woman; a hag.,
B as in Beleaguered (imp. & p. p.) of Beleaguer,
B as in Beleaguering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Beleaguer,
B as in Beleaguer (v. t.) To surround with an army so as to preclude escape; to besiege; to blockade.,
B as in Beleaguerer (n.) One who beleaguers.,
B as in Beleft (imp. & p. p.) of Beleave,
B as in Beleave (v. t. & i.) To leave or to be left.,
B as in Belectured (imp. & p. p.) of Belecture,
B as in Belecturing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Belecture,
B as in Belecture (v. t.) To vex with lectures; to lecture frequently.,
B as in Belee (v. t.) To place under the lee, or unfavorably to the wind.,
B as in Belemnite (n.) A conical calcareous fossil, tapering to a point at the lower extremity, with a conical cavity at the other end, where it is ordinarily broken; but when perfect it contains a small chambered cone, called the phragmocone, prolonged, on one side, into a delicate concave blade; the thunderstone. It is the internal shell of a cephalopod related to the sepia, and belonging to an extinct family. The belemnites are found in rocks of the Jurassic and Cretaceous ages.,
B as in Belepered (imp. & p. p.) of Beleper,
B as in Beleper (v. t.) To infect with leprosy.,
B as in Beaux (pl. ) of Bel-esprit,
B as in -esprits (pl. ) of Bel-esprit,
B as in Bel-esprit (n.) A fine genius, or man of wit.,
B as in Belfry (n.) A movable tower erected by besiegers for purposes of attack and defense.,
B as in Belfry (n.) A bell tower, usually attached to a church or other building, but sometimes separate; a campanile.,
B as in Belfry (n.) A room in a tower in which a bell is or may be hung; or a cupola or turret for the same purpose.,
B as in Belfry (n.) The framing on which a bell is suspended.,
B as in Belgard (n.) A sweet or loving look.,
B as in Belgian (a.) Of or pertaining to Belgium.,
B as in Belgian (n.) A native or inhabitant of Belgium.,
B as in Belgic (a.) Of or pertaining to the Belgae, a German tribe who anciently possessed the country between the Rhine, the Seine, and the ocean.,
B as in Belgic (a.) Of or pertaining to the Netherlands or to Belgium.,
B as in Belgravian (a.) Belonging to Belgravia (a fashionable quarter of London, around Pimlico), or to fashionable life; aristocratic.,
B as in Belial (n.) An evil spirit; a wicked and unprincipled person; the personification of evil.,
B as in Belibel (v. t.) To libel or traduce; to calumniate.,
B as in Belied (imp. & p. p.) of Belie,
B as in Belying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Belie,
B as in Belie (n.) To show to be false; to convict of, or charge with, falsehood.,
B as in Belie (n.) To give a false representation or account of.,
B as in Belie (n.) To tell lie about; to calumniate; to slander.,
B as in Belie (n.) To mimic; to counterfeit.,
B as in Belie (n.) To fill with lies.,
B as in Belief (n.) Assent to a proposition or affirmation, or the acceptance of a fact, opinion, or assertion as real or true, without immediate personal knowledge; reliance upon word or testimony; partial or full assurance without positive knowledge or absolute certainty; persuasion; conviction; confidence; as, belief of a witness; the belief of our senses.,
B as in Belief (n.) A persuasion of the truths of religion; faith.,
B as in Belief (n.) The thing believed; the object of belief.,
B as in Belief (n.) A tenet, or the body of tenets, held by the advocates of any class of views; doctrine; creed.,
B as in Beliefful (a.) Having belief or faith.,
B as in Believable (a.) Capable of being believed; credible.,
B as in Believed (imp. & p. p.) of Believe,
B as in Believing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Believe,
B as in Believe (n.) To exercise belief in; to credit upon the authority or testimony of another; to be persuaded of the truth of, upon evidence furnished by reasons, arguments, and deductions of the mind, or by circumstances other than personal knowledge; to regard or accept as true; to place confidence in; to think; to consider; as, to believe a person, a statement, or a doctrine.,
B as in Believe (v. i.) To have a firm persuasion, esp. of the truths of religion; to have a persuasion approaching to certainty; to exercise belief or faith.,
B as in Believe (v. i.) To think; to suppose.,
B as in Believer (n.) One who believes; one who is persuaded of the truth or reality of some doctrine, person, or thing.,
B as in Believer (n.) One who gives credit to the truth of the Scriptures, as a revelation from God; a Christian; -- in a more restricted sense, one who receives Christ as his Savior, and accepts the way of salvation unfolded in the gospel.,
B as in Believer (n.) One who was admitted to all the rights of divine worship and instructed in all the mysteries of the Christian religion, in distinction from a catechumen, or one yet under instruction.,
B as in Believing (a.) That believes; having belief.,
B as in Belight (v. t.) To illuminate.,
B as in Belike (adv.) It is likely or probably; perhaps.,
B as in Belimed (imp. & p. p.) of Belime,
B as in Belime (v. t.) To besmear or insnare with birdlime.,
B as in Belittled (imp. & p. p.) of Belittle,
B as in Belittling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Belittle,
B as in Belittle (v. t.) To make little or less in a moral sense; to speak of in a depreciatory or contemptuous way.,
B as in Belive (a.) Forthwith; speedily; quickly.,
B as in Belk (v. t.) To vomit.,
B as in Bell (n.) A hollow metallic vessel, usually shaped somewhat like a cup with a flaring mouth, containing a clapper or tongue, and giving forth a ringing sound on being struck.,
B as in Bell (n.) A hollow perforated sphere of metal containing a loose ball which causes it to sound when moved.,
B as in Bell (n.) Anything in the form of a bell, as the cup or corol of a flower.,
B as in Bell (n.) That part of the capital of a column included between the abacus and neck molding; also used for the naked core of nearly cylindrical shape, assumed to exist within the leafage of a capital.,
B as in Bell (n.) The strikes of the bell which mark the time; or the time so designated.,
B as in Belled (imp. & p. p.) of Bell,
B as in Belling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bell,
B as in Bell (v. t.) To put a bell upon; as, to bell the cat.,
B as in Bell (v. t.) To make bell-mouthed; as, to bell a tube.,
B as in Bell (v. i.) To develop bells or corollas; to take the form of a bell; to blossom; as, hops bell.,
B as in Bell (v. t.) To utter by bellowing.,
B as in Bell (v. i.) To call or bellow, as the deer in rutting time; to make a bellowing sound; to roar.,
B as in Belladonna (n.) An herbaceous European plant (Atropa belladonna) with reddish bell-shaped flowers and shining black berries. The whole plant and its fruit are very poisonous, and the root and leaves are used as powerful medicinal agents. Its properties are largely due to the alkaloid atropine which it contains. Called also deadly nightshade.,
B as in Belladonna (n.) A species of Amaryllis (A. belladonna); the belladonna lily.,
B as in Bell animalcule () An infusorian of the family Vorticellidae, common in fresh-water ponds.,
B as in Bell bearer () A Brazilian leaf hopper (Bocydium tintinnabuliferum), remarkable for the four bell-shaped appendages of its thorax.,
B as in Bellbird (n.) A South American bird of the genus Casmarhincos, and family Cotingidae, of several species; the campanero.,
B as in Bellbird (n.) The Myzantha melanophrys of Australia.,
B as in Bell crank () A lever whose two arms form a right angle, or nearly a right angle, having its fulcrum at the apex of the angle. It is used in bell pulls and in changing the direction of bell wires at angles of rooms, etc., and also in machinery.,
B as in Belle (n.) A young lady of superior beauty and attractions; a handsome lady, or one who attracts notice in society; a fair lady.,
B as in Belled (a.) Hung with a bell or bells.,
B as in Belle-lettrist (n.) One versed in belles-lettres.,
B as in Bellerophon (n.) A genus of fossil univalve shells, believed to belong to the Heteropoda, peculiar to the Paleozoic age.,
B as in Belles-lettres (n. pl.) Polite or elegant literature; the humanities; -- used somewhat vaguely for literary works in which imagination and taste are predominant.,
B as in Belletristic (a.) Alt. of Belletristical,
B as in Belletristical (a.) Occupied with, or pertaining to, belles-lettres.,
B as in Bell-faced (a.) Having the striking surface convex; -- said of hammers.,
B as in Bellflower (n.) A plant of the genus Campanula; -- so named from its bell-shaped flowers.,
B as in Bellflower (n.) A kind of apple. The yellow bellflower is a large, yellow winter apple.,
B as in Bellibone (n.) A woman excelling both in beauty and goodness; a fair maid.,
B as in Bellic (a.) Alt. of Bellical,
B as in Bellical (a.) Of or pertaining to war; warlike; martial.,
B as in Bellicose (a.) Inclined to war or contention; warlike; pugnacious.,
B as in Bellicosely (adv.) In a bellicose manner.,
B as in Bellicous (a.) Bellicose.,
B as in Bellied (a.) Having (such) a belly; puffed out; -- used in composition; as, pot-bellied; shad-bellied.,
B as in Belligerence (n.) Alt. of Belligerency,
B as in Belligerency (n.) The quality of being belligerent; act or state of making war; warfare.,
B as in Belligerent (p. pr.) Waging war; carrying on war.,
B as in Belligerent (p. pr.) Pertaining, or tending, to war; of or relating to belligerents; as, a belligerent tone; belligerent rights.,
B as in Belligerent (n.) A nation or state recognized as carrying on war; a person engaged in warfare.,
B as in Belligerently (adv.) In a belligerent manner; hostilely.,
B as in Belling (n.) A bellowing, as of a deer in rutting time.,
B as in Bellipotent (p. pr.) Mighty in war; armipotent.,
B as in Bell jar () A glass vessel, varying in size, open at the bottom and closed at the top like a bell, and having a knob or handle at the top for lifting it. It is used for a great variety of purposes; as, with the air pump, and for holding gases, also for keeping the dust from articles exposed to view.,
B as in Bellman (n.) A man who rings a bell, especially to give notice of anything in the streets. Formerly, also, a night watchman who called the hours.,
B as in Bell metal () A hard alloy or bronze, consisting usually of about three parts of copper to one of tin; -- used for making bells.,
B as in Bell-mouthed (a.) Expanding at the mouth; as, a bell-mouthed gun.,
B as in Bellon (n.) Lead colic.,
B as in Bellona (n.) The goddess of war.,
B as in Bellowed (imp. & p. p.) of Bellow,
B as in Bellowing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bellow,
B as in Bellow (v.) To make a hollow, loud noise, as an enraged bull.,
B as in Bellow (v.) To bowl; to vociferate; to clamor.,
B as in Bellow (v.) To roar; as the sea in a tempest, or as the wind when violent; to make a loud, hollow, continued sound.,
B as in Bellow (v. t.) To emit with a loud voice; to shout; -- used with out.,
B as in Bellow (n.) A loud resounding outcry or noise, as of an enraged bull; a roar.,
B as in Bellower (n.) One who, or that which, bellows.,
B as in Bellows (n. sing. & pl.) An instrument, utensil, or machine, which, by alternate expansion and contraction, or by rise and fall of the top, draws in air through a valve and expels it through a tube for various purposes, as blowing fires, ventilating mines, or filling the pipes of an organ with wind.,
B as in Bellows fish () A European fish (Centriscus scolopax), distinguished by a long tubular snout, like the pipe of a bellows; -- called also trumpet fish, and snipe fish.,
B as in Bell pepper () A species of Capsicum, or Guinea pepper (C. annuum). It is the red pepper of the gardens.,
B as in Bell-shaped (a.) Having the shape of a wide-mouthed bell; campanulate.,
B as in Belluine (a.) Pertaining to, or like, a beast; brutal.,
B as in Bellwether (n.) A wether, or sheep, which leads the flock, with a bell on his neck.,
B as in Bellwether (n.) Hence: A leader.,
B as in Bellwort (n.) A genus of plants (Uvularia) with yellowish bell-shaped flowers.,
B as in Bellies (pl. ) of Belly,
B as in Belly (n.) That part of the human body which extends downward from the breast to the thighs, and contains the bowels, or intestines; the abdomen.,
B as in Belly (n.) The under part of the body of animals, corresponding to the human belly.,
B as in Belly (n.) The womb.,
B as in Belly (n.) The part of anything which resembles the human belly in protuberance or in cavity; the innermost part; as, the belly of a flask, muscle, sail, ship.,
B as in Belly (n.) The hollow part of a curved or bent timber, the convex part of which is the back.,
B as in Bellied (imp. & p. p.) of Belly,
B as in Bellying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Belly,
B as in Belly (v. t.) To cause to swell out; to fill.,
B as in Belly (v. i.) To swell and become protuberant, like the belly; to bulge.,
B as in Bellyache (n.) Pain in the bowels; colic.,
B as in Bellyband (n.) A band that passes under the belly of a horse and holds the saddle or harness in place; a girth.,
B as in Bellyband (n.) A band of flannel or other cloth about the belly.,
B as in Bellyband (n.) A band of canvas, to strengthen a sail.,
B as in Bellybound (a.) Costive; constipated.,
B as in Bellycheat (n.) An apron or covering for the front of the person.,
B as in Bellycheer (n.) Good cheer; viands.,
B as in Bellycheer (v. i.) To revel; to feast.,
B as in Bellyful (n.) As much as satisfies the appetite. Hence: A great abundance; more than enough.,
B as in Belly-god (n.) One whose great pleasure it is to gratify his appetite; a glutton; an epicure.,
B as in Belly-pinched (a.) Pinched with hunger; starved.,
B as in Belocked (imp. & p. p.) of Belock,
B as in Belock (v. t.) To lock, or fasten as with a lock.,
B as in Belomancy (n.) A kind of divination anciently practiced by means of marked arrows drawn at random from a bag or quiver, the marks on the arrows drawn being supposed to foreshow the future.,
B as in Belonged (imp. & p. p.) of Belong,
B as in Belonging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Belong,
B as in Belong (v. i.) To be the property of; as, Jamaica belongs to Great Britain.,
B as in Belong (v. i.) To be a part of, or connected with; to be appendant or related; to owe allegiance or service.,
B as in Belong (v. i.) To be the concern or proper business or function of; to appertain to.,
B as in Belong (v. i.) To be suitable for; to be due to.,
B as in Belong (v. i.) To be native to, or an inhabitant of; esp. to have a legal residence, settlement, or inhabitancy, whether by birth or operation of law, so as to be entitled to maintenance by the parish or town.,
B as in Belong (v. t.) To be deserved by.,
B as in Belonging (n.) That which belongs to one; that which pertains to one; hence, goods or effects.,
B as in Belonging (n.) That which is connected with a principal or greater thing; an appendage; an appurtenance.,
B as in Belonging (n.) Family; relations; household.,
B as in Belonite (n.) Minute acicular or dendritic crystalline forms sometimes observed in glassy volcanic rocks.,
B as in Belooche Beloochee (a.) Of or pertaining to Beloochistan, or to its inhabitants.,
B as in Belooche Beloochee (n.) A native or an inhabitant of Beloochistan.,
B as in Belord (v. t.) To act the lord over.,
B as in Belord (v. t.) To address by the title of "lord".,
B as in Beloved (imp. & p. p.) of Belove,
B as in Belove (v. t.) To love.,
B as in Beloved (p. p. & a.) Greatly loved; dear to the heart.,
B as in Beloved (n.) One greatly loved.,
B as in Below (prep.) Under, or lower in place; beneath not so high; as, below the moon; below the knee.,
B as in Below (prep.) Inferior to in rank, excellence, dignity, value, amount, price, etc.; lower in quality.,
B as in Below (prep.) Unworthy of; unbefitting; beneath.,
B as in Below (adv.) In a lower place, with respect to any object; in a lower room; beneath.,
B as in Below (adv.) On the earth, as opposed to the heavens.,
B as in Below (adv.) In hell, or the regions of the dead.,
B as in Below (adv.) In court or tribunal of inferior jurisdiction; as, at the trial below.,
B as in Below (adv.) In some part or page following.,
B as in Belowt (v. t.) To treat as a lout; to talk abusively to.,
B as in Belsire (n.) A grandfather, or ancestor.,
B as in Belswagger (n.) A lewd man; also, a bully.,
B as in Belt (n.) That which engirdles a person or thing; a band or girdle; as, a lady's belt; a sword belt.,
B as in Belt (n.) That which restrains or confines as a girdle.,
B as in Belt (n.) Anything that resembles a belt, or that encircles or crosses like a belt; a strip or stripe; as, a belt of trees; a belt of sand.,
B as in Belt (n.) Same as Band, n., 2. A very broad band is more properly termed a belt.,
B as in Belt (n.) One of certain girdles or zones on the surface of the planets Jupiter and Saturn, supposed to be of the nature of clouds.,
B as in Belt (n.) A narrow passage or strait; as, the Great Belt and the Lesser Belt, leading to the Baltic Sea.,
B as in Belt (n.) A token or badge of knightly rank.,
B as in Belt (n.) A band of leather, or other flexible substance, passing around two wheels, and communicating motion from one to the other.,
B as in Belt (n.) A band or stripe, as of color, round any organ; or any circular ridge or series of ridges.,
B as in Belted (imp. & p. p.) of Belt,
B as in Belting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Belt,
B as in Belt (v. t.) To encircle with, or as with, a belt; to encompass; to surround.,
B as in Belt (v. t.) To shear, as the buttocks and tails of sheep.,
B as in Beltane (n.) The first day of May (Old Style).,
B as in Beltane (n.) A festival of the heathen Celts on the first day of May, in the observance of which great bonfires were kindled. It still exists in a modified form in some parts of Scotland and Ireland.,
B as in Belted (a.) Encircled by, or secured with, a belt; as, a belted plaid; girt with a belt, as an honorary distinction; as, a belted knight; a belted earl.,
B as in Belted (a.) Marked with a band or circle; as, a belted stalk.,
B as in Belted (a.) Worn in, or suspended from, the belt.,
B as in Beltein (n.) Alt. of Beltin,
B as in Beltin (n.) See Beltane.,
B as in Belting (n.) The material of which belts for machinery are made; also, belts, taken collectively.,
B as in Beluga (n.) A cetacean allied to the dolphins.,
B as in Beluted (imp. & p. p.) of Belute,
B as in Beluting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Belute,
B as in Belute (v. t.) To bespatter, as with mud.,
B as in Belvedere (n.) A small building, or a part of a building, more or less open, constructed in a place commanding a fine prospect.,
B as in Belzebuth (n.) A spider monkey (Ateles belzebuth) of Brazil.,
B as in Bema (n.) A platform from which speakers addressed an assembly.,
B as in Bema (n.) That part of an early Christian church which was reserved for the higher clergy; the inner or eastern part of the chancel.,
B as in Bema (n.) Erroneously: A pulpit.,
B as in Bemad (v. t.) To make mad.,
B as in Bemangle (v. t.) To mangle; to tear asunder.,
B as in Bemask (v. t.) To mask; to conceal.,
B as in Bemaster (v. t.) To master thoroughly.,
B as in Bemaul (v. t.) To maul or beat severely; to bruise.,
B as in Bemaze (v. t.) To bewilder.,
B as in Bemean (v. t.) To make mean; to lower.,
B as in Bemet (imp. & p. p.) of Bemeet,
B as in Bemeeting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bemeet,
B as in Bemeet (v. t.) To meet.,
B as in Bemete (v. t.) To mete.,
B as in Bemingle (v. t.) To mingle; to mix.,
B as in Bemired (imp. & p. p.) of Bemire,
B as in Bemiring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bemire,
B as in Bemire (v. t.) To drag through, encumber with, or fix in, the mire; to soil by passing through mud or dirt.,
B as in Bemist (v. t.) To envelop in mist.,
B as in Bemoaned (imp. & p. p.) of Bemoan,
B as in Bemoaning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bemoan,
B as in Bemoan (v. t.) To express deep grief for by moaning; to express sorrow for; to lament; to bewail; to pity or sympathize with.,
B as in Bemoaner (n.) One who bemoans.,
B as in Bemock (v. t.) To mock; to ridicule.,
B as in Bemoil (v. t.) To soil or encumber with mire and dirt.,
B as in Bemol (n.) The sign /; the same as B flat.,
B as in Bemonster (v. t.) To make monstrous or like a monster.,
B as in Bemourn (v. t.) To mourn over.,
B as in Bemuddle (v. t.) To muddle; to stupefy or bewilder; to confuse.,
B as in Bemuffle (v. t.) To cover as with a muffler; to wrap up.,
B as in Bemuse (v. t.) To muddle, daze, or partially stupefy, as with liquor.,
B as in Ben () Alt. of Ben nut,
B as in Ben nut () The seed of one or more species of moringa; as, oil of ben. See Moringa.,
B as in Ben (adv. & prep.) Within; in; in or into the interior; toward the inner apartment.,
B as in Ben (adv.) The inner or principal room in a hut or house of two rooms; -- opposed to but, the outer apartment.,
B as in Ben () An old form of the pl. indic. pr. of Be.,
B as in Benamed (p. p.) of Bename,
B as in Benempt () of Bename,
B as in Bename (v. t.) To promise; to name.,
B as in Benches (pl. ) of Bench,
B as in Bench (n.) A long seat, differing from a stool in its greater length.,
B as in Bench (n.) A long table at which mechanics and other work; as, a carpenter's bench.,
B as in Bench (n.) The seat where judges sit in court.,
B as in Bench (n.) The persons who sit as judges; the court; as, the opinion of the full bench. See King's Bench.,
B as in Bench (n.) A collection or group of dogs exhibited to the public; -- so named because the animals are usually placed on benches or raised platforms.,
B as in Bench (n.) A conformation like a bench; a long stretch of flat ground, or a kind of natural terrace, near a lake or river.,
B as in Benched (imp. & p. p.) of Bench,
B as in Benching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bench,
B as in Bench (v. t.) To furnish with benches.,
B as in Bench (v. t.) To place on a bench or seat of honor.,
B as in Bench (v. i.) To sit on a seat of justice.,
B as in Bencher (n.) One of the senior and governing members of an Inn of Court.,
B as in Bencher (n.) An alderman of a corporation.,
B as in Bencher (n.) A member of a court or council.,
B as in Bencher (n.) One who frequents the benches of a tavern; an idler.,
B as in Bench warrant () A process issued by a presiding judge or by a court against a person guilty of some contempt, or indicted for some crime; -- so called in distinction from a justice's warrant.,
B as in Bended (imp. & p. p.) of Bend,
B as in Bent () of Bend,
B as in Bending (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bend,
B as in Bend (v. t.) To strain or move out of a straight line; to crook by straining; to make crooked; to curve; to make ready for use by drawing into a curve; as, to bend a bow; to bend the knee.,
B as in Bend (v. t.) To turn toward some certain point; to direct; to incline.,
B as in Bend (v. t.) To apply closely or with interest; to direct.,
B as in Bend (v. t.) To cause to yield; to render submissive; to subdue.,
B as in Bend (v. t.) To fasten, as one rope to another, or as a sail to its yard or stay; or as a cable to the ring of an anchor.,
B as in Bend (v. i.) To be moved or strained out of a straight line; to crook or be curving; to bow.,
B as in Bend (v. i.) To jut over; to overhang.,
B as in Bend (v. i.) To be inclined; to be directed.,
B as in Bend (v. i.) To bow in prayer, or in token of submission.,
B as in Bend (n.) A turn or deflection from a straight line or from the proper direction or normal position; a curve; a crook; as, a slight bend of the body; a bend in a road.,
B as in Bend (n.) Turn; purpose; inclination; ends.,
B as in Bend (n.) A knot by which one rope is fastened to another or to an anchor, spar, or post.,
B as in Bend (n.) The best quality of sole leather; a butt. See Butt.,
B as in Bend (n.) Hard, indurated clay; bind.,
B as in Bend (n.) same as caisson disease. Usually referred to as the bends.,
B as in Bend (n.) A band.,
B as in Bend (n.) One of the honorable ordinaries, containing a third or a fifth part of the field. It crosses the field diagonally from the dexter chief to the sinister base.,
B as in Bendable (a.) Capable of being bent.,
B as in Bender (n.) One who, or that which, bends.,
B as in Bender (n.) An instrument used for bending.,
B as in Bender (n.) A drunken spree.,
B as in Bender (n.) A sixpence.,
B as in Bending (n.) The marking of the clothes with stripes or horizontal bands.,
B as in Bendlet (n.) A narrow bend, esp. one half the width of the bend.,
B as in Bendwise (adv.) Diagonally.,
B as in Bendy (a.) Divided into an even number of bends; -- said of a shield or its charge.,
B as in Bene (n.) See Benne.,
B as in Bene (n.) A prayer; boon.,
B as in Bene (n.) Alt. of Ben,
B as in Ben (n.) A hoglike mammal of New Guinea (Porcula papuensis).,
B as in Beneaped (a.) See Neaped.,
B as in Beneath (prep.) Lower in place, with something directly over or on; under; underneath; hence, at the foot of.,
B as in Beneath (prep.) Under, in relation to something that is superior, or that oppresses or burdens.,
B as in Beneath (prep.) Lower in rank, dignity, or excellence than; as, brutes are beneath man; man is beneath angels in the scale of beings. Hence: Unworthy of; unbecoming.,
B as in Beneath (adv.) In a lower place; underneath.,
B as in Beneath (adv.) Below, as opposed to heaven, or to any superior region or position; as, in earth beneath.,
B as in Benedicite (n.) A canticle (the Latin version of which begins with this word) which may be used in the order for morning prayer in the Church of England. It is taken from an apocryphal addition to the third chapter of Daniel.,
B as in Benedicite (n.) An exclamation corresponding to Bless you !.,
B as in Benedict (n.) Alt. of Benedick,
B as in Benedick (n.) A married man, or a man newly married.,
B as in Benedict (a.) Having mild and salubrious qualities.,
B as in Benedictine (a.) Pertaining to the monks of St. Benedict, or St. Benet.,
B as in Benedictine (n.) One of a famous order of monks, established by St. Benedict of Nursia in the sixth century. This order was introduced into the United States in 1846.,
B as in Benediction (n.) The act of blessing.,
B as in Benediction (n.) A blessing; an expression of blessing, prayer, or kind wishes in favor of any person or thing; a solemn or affectionate invocation of happiness.,
B as in Benediction (n.) The short prayer which closes public worship; as, to give the benediction.,
B as in Benediction (n.) The form of instituting an abbot, answering to the consecration of a bishop.,
B as in Benediction (n.) A solemn rite by which bells, banners, candles, etc., are blessed with holy water, and formally dedicated to God.,
B as in Benedictional (n.) A book of benedictions.,
B as in Benedictionary (n.) A collected series of benedictions.,
B as in Benedictive (a.) Tending to bless.,
B as in Benedictory (a.) Expressing wishes for good; as, a benedictory prayer.,
B as in Benedictus (a.) The song of Zacharias at the birth of John the Baptist (Luke i. 68); -- so named from the first word of the Latin version.,
B as in Benedight (a.) Blessed.,
B as in Benefaction (n.) The act of conferring a benefit.,
B as in Benefaction (n.) A benefit conferred; esp. a charitable donation.,
B as in Benefactor (n.) One who confers a benefit or benefits.,
B as in Benefactress (n.) A woman who confers a benefit.,
B as in Benefic (a.) Favorable; beneficent.,
B as in Benefice (n.) A favor or benefit.,
B as in Benefice (n.) An estate in lands; a fief.,
B as in Benefice (n.) An ecclesiastical living and church preferment, as in the Church of England; a church endowed with a revenue for the maintenance of divine service. See Advowson.,
B as in Beneficed (imp. & p. p.) of Benefice,
B as in Benefice (v. t.) To endow with a benefice.,
B as in Beneficed (a.) Possessed of a benefice or church preferment.,
B as in Beneficeless (a.) Having no benefice.,
B as in Beneficence (n.) The practice of doing good; active goodness, kindness, or charity; bounty springing from purity and goodness.,
B as in Beneficent (a.) Doing or producing good; performing acts of kindness and charity; characterized by beneficence.,
B as in Beneficential (a.) Relating to beneficence.,
B as in Beneficently (adv.) In a beneficent manner; with beneficence.,
B as in Beneficial (a.) Conferring benefits; useful; profitable; helpful; advantageous; serviceable; contributing to a valuable end; -- followed by to.,
B as in Beneficial (a.) Receiving, or entitled to have or receive, advantage, use, or benefit; as, the beneficial owner of an estate.,
B as in Beneficial (a.) King.,
B as in Beneficially (adv.) In a beneficial or advantageous manner; profitably; helpfully.,
B as in Beneficialness (n.) The quality of being beneficial; profitableness.,
B as in Beneficiary (a.) Holding some office or valuable possession, in subordination to another; holding under a feudal or other superior; having a dependent and secondary possession.,
B as in Beneficiary (a.) Bestowed as a gratuity; as, beneficiary gifts.,
B as in Beneficiaries (pl. ) of Beneficiary,
B as in Beneficiary (n.) A feudatory or vassal; hence, one who holds a benefice and uses its proceeds.,
B as in Beneficiary (n.) One who receives anything as a gift; one who receives a benefit or advantage; esp. one who receives help or income from an educational fund or a trust estate.,
B as in Beneficiate (v. t.) To reduce (ores).,
B as in Beneficient (a.) Beneficent.,
B as in Benefit (n.) An act of kindness; a favor conferred.,
B as in Benefit (n.) Whatever promotes prosperity and personal happiness, or adds value to property; advantage; profit.,
B as in Benefit (n.) A theatrical performance, a concert, or the like, the proceeds of which do not go to the lessee of the theater or to the company, but to some individual actor, or to some charitable use.,
B as in Benefit (n.) Beneficence; liberality.,
B as in Benefit (n.) Natural advantages; endowments; accomplishments.,
B as in Benefited (imp. & p. p.) of Benefit,
B as in Benefitting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Benefit,
B as in Benefit (v. t.) To be beneficial to; to do good to; to advantage; to advance in health or prosperity; to be useful to; to profit.,
B as in Benefit (v. i.) To gain advantage; to make improvement; to profit; as, he will benefit by the change.,
B as in Benefiter (n.) One who confers a benefit; -- also, one who receives a benefit.,
B as in Beneme (v. t.) To deprive (of), or take away (from).,
B as in Benempt (p. p.) Promised; vowed.,
B as in Benempt (p. p.) Named; styled.,
B as in Bene placito () At or during pleasure.,
B as in Bene placito () At pleasure; ad libitum.,
B as in Benetted (imp. & p. p.) of Benet,
B as in Benet (v. t.) To catch in a net; to insnare.,
B as in Benevolence (n.) The disposition to do good; good will; charitableness; love of mankind, accompanied with a desire to promote their happiness.,
B as in Benevolence (n.) An act of kindness; good done; charity given.,
B as in Benevolence (n.) A species of compulsory contribution or tax, which has sometimes been illegally exacted by arbitrary kings of England, and falsely represented as a gratuity.,
B as in Benevolent (a.) Having a disposition to do good; possessing or manifesting love to mankind, and a desire to promote their prosperity and happiness; disposed to give to good objects; kind; charitable.,
B as in Benevolous (a.) Kind; benevolent.,
B as in Bengal (n.) A province in India, giving its name to various stuffs, animals, etc.,
B as in Bengal (n.) A thin stuff, made of silk and hair, originally brought from Bengal.,
B as in Bengal (n.) Striped gingham, originally brought from Bengal; Bengal stripes.,
B as in Bengalee (n.) Alt. of Bengali,
B as in Bengali (n.) The language spoken in Bengal.,
B as in Bengalese (a.) Of or pertaining to Bengal.,
B as in Bengalese (n. sing. & pl) A native or natives of Bengal.,
B as in Bengola (n.) A Bengal light.,
B as in Benighted (imp. & p. p.) of Benight,
B as in Benighting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Benight,
B as in Benight (v. t.) To involve in darkness; to shroud with the shades of night; to obscure.,
B as in Benight (v. t.) To overtake with night or darkness, especially before the end of a day's journey or task.,
B as in Benight (v. t.) To involve in moral darkness, or ignorance; to debar from intellectual light.,
B as in Benightment (n.) The condition of being benighted.,
B as in Benign (a.) Of a kind or gentle disposition; gracious; generous; favorable; benignant.,
B as in Benign (a.) Exhibiting or manifesting kindness, gentleness, favor, etc.; mild; kindly; salutary; wholesome.,
B as in Benign (a.) Of a mild type or character; as, a benign disease.,
B as in Benignancy (n.) Benignant quality; kindliness.,
B as in Benignant (a.) Kind; gracious; favorable.,
B as in Benignity (n.) The quality of being benign; goodness; kindness; graciousness.,
B as in Benignity (n.) Mildness; gentleness.,
B as in Benignity (n.) Salubrity; wholesome quality.,
B as in Benignly (adv.) In a benign manner.,
B as in Benim (v. t.) To take away.,
B as in Benison (n.) Blessing; beatitude; benediction.,
B as in Benitier (n.) A holy-water stoup.,
B as in Benjamin (n.) See Benzoin.,
B as in Benjamin (n.) A kind of upper coat for men.,
B as in Benjamite (n.) A descendant of Benjamin; one of the tribe of Benjamin.,
B as in Benne (n.) The name of two plants (Sesamum orientale and S. indicum), originally Asiatic; -- also called oil plant. From their seeds an oil is expressed, called benne oil, used mostly for making soap. In the southern United States the seeds are used in candy.,
B as in Bennet (a.) The common yellow-flowered avens of Europe (Geum urbanum); herb bennet. The name is sometimes given to other plants, as the hemlock, valerian, etc.,
B as in Benshee (n.) See Banshee.,
B as in Bent () imp. & p. p. of Bend.,
B as in Bent (a. & p. p.) Changed by pressure so as to be no longer straight; crooked; as, a bent pin; a bent lever.,
B as in Bent (a. & p. p.) Strongly inclined toward something, so as to be resolved, determined, set, etc.; -- said of the mind, character, disposition, desires, etc., and used with on; as, to be bent on going to college; he is bent on mischief.,
B as in Bent (v.) The state of being curved, crooked, or inclined from a straight line; flexure; curvity; as, the bent of a bow.,
B as in Bent (v.) A declivity or slope, as of a hill.,
B as in Bent (v.) A leaning or bias; proclivity; tendency of mind; inclination; disposition; purpose; aim.,
B as in Bent (v.) Particular direction or tendency; flexion; course.,
B as in Bent (v.) A transverse frame of a framed structure.,
B as in Bent (v.) Tension; force of acting; energy; impetus.,
B as in Bent (n.) A reedlike grass; a stalk of stiff, coarse grass.,
B as in Bent (n.) A grass of the genus Agrostis, esp. Agrostis vulgaris, or redtop. The name is also used of many other grasses, esp. in America.,
B as in Bent (n.) Any neglected field or broken ground; a common; a moor.,
B as in Bent grass () Same as Bent, a kind of grass.,
B as in Benthal (a.) Relating to the deepest zone or region of the ocean.,
B as in Benthamic (a.) Of or pertaining to Bentham or Benthamism.,
B as in Benthamism (n.) That phase of the doctrine of utilitarianism taught by Jeremy Bentham; the doctrine that the morality of actions is estimated and determined by their utility; also, the theory that the sensibility to pleasure and the recoil from pain are the only motives which influence human desires and actions, and that these are the sufficient explanation of ethical and jural conceptions.,
B as in Benthamite (n.) One who believes in Benthamism.,
B as in Benting time () The season when pigeons are said to feed on bents, before peas are ripe.,
B as in Benty (a.) A bounding in bents, or the stalks of coarse, stiff, withered grass; as, benty fields.,
B as in Benty (a.) Resembling bent.,
B as in Benumbed (imp. & p. p.) of Benumb,
B as in Benumbing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Benumb,
B as in Benumb (a.) To make torpid; to deprive of sensation or sensibility; to stupefy; as, a hand or foot benumbed by cold.,
B as in Benumbed (a.) Made torpid; numbed; stupefied; deadened; as, a benumbed body and mind.,
B as in Benumbment (n.) Act of benumbing, or state of being benumbed; torpor.,
B as in Benzal (n.) A compound radical, C6H5.CH, of the aromatic series, related to benzyl and benzoyl; -- used adjectively or in combination.,
B as in Benzamide (n.) A transparent crystalline substance, C6H5.CO.NH2, obtained by the action of ammonia upon chloride of benzoyl, as also by several other reactions with benzoyl compounds.,
B as in Benzene (n.) A volatile, very inflammable liquid, C6H6, contained in the naphtha produced by the destructive distillation of coal, from which it is separated by fractional distillation. The name is sometimes applied also to the impure commercial product or benzole, and also, but rarely, to a similar mixed product of petroleum.,
B as in Benzile (n.) A yellowish crystalline substance, C6H5.CO.CO.C6H5, formed from benzoin by the action of oxidizing agents, and consisting of a doubled benzoyl radical.,
B as in Benzine (n.) A liquid consisting mainly of the lighter and more volatile hydrocarbons of petroleum or kerosene oil, used as a solvent and for cleansing soiled fabrics; -- called also petroleum spirit, petroleum benzine. Varieties or similar products are gasoline, naphtha, rhigolene, ligroin, etc.,
B as in Benzine (n.) Same as Benzene.,
B as in Benzoate (n.) A salt formed by the union of benzoic acid with any salifiable base.,
B as in Benzoic (a.) Pertaining to, or obtained from, benzoin.,
B as in Benzoin (n.) A resinous substance, dry and brittle, obtained from the Styrax benzoin, a tree of Sumatra, Java, etc., having a fragrant odor, and slightly aromatic taste. It is used in the preparation of benzoic acid, in medicine, and as a perfume.,
B as in Benzoin (n.) A white crystalline substance, C14H12O2, obtained from benzoic aldehyde and some other sources.,
B as in Benzoin (n.) The spicebush (Lindera benzoin).,
B as in Benzoinated (a.) Containing or impregnated with benzoin; as, benzoinated lard.,
B as in Benzole (n.) Alt. of Benzol,
B as in Benzol (n.) An impure benzene, used in the arts as a solvent, and for various other purposes. See Benzene.,
B as in Benzoline (n.) Same as Benzole.,
B as in Benzoline (n.) Same as Amarine.,
B as in Benzoyl (n.) A compound radical, C6H5.CO; the base of benzoic acid, of the oil of bitter almonds, and of an extensive series of compounds.,
B as in Benzyl (n.) A compound radical, C6H5.CH2, related to toluene and benzoic acid; -- commonly used adjectively.,
B as in Bepaint (v. t.) To paint; to cover or color with, or as with, paint.,
B as in Bepelt (v. t.) To pelt roundly.,
B as in Bepinched (imp. & p. p.) of Bepinch,
B as in Bepinch (v. t.) To pinch, or mark with pinches.,
B as in Beplastered (imp. & p. p.) of Beplaster,
B as in Beplastering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Beplaster,
B as in Beplaster (v. t.) To plaster over; to cover or smear thickly; to bedaub.,
B as in Beplumed (a.) Decked with feathers.,
B as in Bepommeled (imp. & p. p.) of Bepommel,
B as in Bepommeling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bepommel,
B as in Bepommel (v. t.) To pommel; to beat, as with a stick; figuratively, to assail or criticise in conversation, or in writing.,
B as in Bepowder (v. t.) To sprinkle or cover with powder; to powder.,
B as in Bepraise (v. t.) To praise greatly or extravagantly.,
B as in Beprose (v. t.) To reduce to prose.,
B as in Bepuffed (a.) Puffed; praised.,
B as in Bepurple (v. t.) To tinge or dye with a purple color.,
B as in Bequeathed (imp. & p. p.) of Bequeath,
B as in Bequeathing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bequeath,
B as in Bequeath (v. t.) To give or leave by will; to give by testament; -- said especially of personal property.,
B as in Bequeath (v. t.) To hand down; to transmit.,
B as in Bequeath (v. t.) To give; to offer; to commit.,
B as in Bequeathable (a.) Capable of being bequeathed.,
B as in Bequeathal (n.) The act of bequeathing; bequeathment; bequest.,
B as in Bequeathment (n.) The act of bequeathing, or the state of being bequeathed; a bequest.,
B as in Bequest (n.) The act of bequeathing or leaving by will; as, a bequest of property by A. to B.,
B as in Bequest (n.) That which is left by will, esp. personal property; a legacy; also, a gift.,
B as in Bequest (v. t.) To bequeath, or leave as a legacy.,
B as in Bequethen () old p. p. of Bequeath.,
B as in Bequote (v. t.) To quote constantly or with great frequency.,
B as in Berained (imp. & p. p.) of Berain,
B as in Beraining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Berain,
B as in Berain (v. t.) To rain upon; to wet with rain.,
B as in Berated (imp. & p. p.) of Berate,
B as in Berating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Berate,
B as in Berate (v. t.) To rate or chide vehemently; to scold.,
B as in Berattle (v. t.) To make rattle; to scold vociferously; to cry down.,
B as in Beray (v. t.) To make foul; to soil; to defile.,
B as in Berbe (n.) An African genet (Genetta pardina). See Genet.,
B as in Berber (n.) A member of a race somewhat resembling the Arabs, but often classed as Hamitic, who were formerly the inhabitants of the whole of North Africa from the Mediterranean southward into the Sahara, and who still occupy a large part of that region; -- called also Kabyles. Also, the language spoken by this people.,
B as in Berberine (n.) An alkaloid obtained, as a bitter, yellow substance, from the root of the barberry, gold thread, and other plants.,
B as in Berberry (n.) See Barberry.,
B as in Berdash (n.) A kind of neckcloth.,
B as in Bere (v. t.) To pierce.,
B as in Bere (n.) See Bear, barley.,
B as in Bereaved (imp. & p. p.) of Bereave,
B as in Bereft () of Bereave,
B as in Bereaving. (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bereave,
B as in Bereave (v. t.) To make destitute; to deprive; to strip; -- with of before the person or thing taken away.,
B as in Bereave (v. t.) To take away from.,
B as in Bereave (v. t.) To take away.,
B as in Bereavement (n.) The state of being bereaved; deprivation; esp., the loss of a relative by death.,
B as in Bereaver (n.) One who bereaves.,
B as in Bereft () imp. & p. p. of Bereave.,
B as in Beretta (n.) Same as Berretta.,
B as in Berg (n.) A large mass or hill, as of ice.,
B as in Bergamot (n.) A tree of the Orange family (Citrus bergamia), having a roundish or pear-shaped fruit, from the rind of which an essential oil of delicious odor is extracted, much prized as a perfume. Also, the fruit.,
B as in Bergamot (n.) A variety of mint (Mentha aquatica, var. glabrata).,
B as in Bergamot (n.) The essence or perfume made from the fruit.,
B as in Bergamot (n.) A variety of pear.,
B as in Bergamot (n.) A variety of snuff perfumed with bergamot.,
B as in Bergamot (n.) A coarse tapestry, manufactured from flock of cotton or hemp, mixed with ox's or goat's hair; -- said to have been invented at Bergamo, Italy. Encyc. Brit.,
B as in Bergander (n.) A European duck (Anas tadorna). See Sheldrake.,
B as in Bergeret (n.) A pastoral song.,
B as in Bergh (n.) A hill.,
B as in Bergmaster (n.) See Barmaster.,
B as in Bergmeal (n.) An earthy substance, resembling fine flour. It is composed of the shells of infusoria, and in Lapland and Sweden is sometimes eaten, mixed with flour or ground birch bark, in times of scarcity. This name is also given to a white powdery variety of calcite.,
B as in Bergmote (n.) See Barmote.,
B as in Bergomask (n.) A rustic dance, so called in ridicule of the people of Bergamo, in Italy, once noted for their clownishness.,
B as in Bergylt (n.) The Norway haddock. See Rosefish.,
B as in Berhymed (imp. & p. p.) of Berhyme,
B as in Berhyming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Berhyme,
B as in Berhyme (v. t.) To mention in rhyme or verse; to rhyme about.,
B as in Beriberi (n.) An acute disease occurring in India, characterized by multiple inflammatory changes in the nerves, producing great muscular debility, a painful rigidity of the limbs, and cachexy.,
B as in Berime (v. t.) To berhyme.,
B as in Berkeleian (a.) Of or relating to Bishop Berkeley or his system of idealism; as, Berkeleian philosophy.,
B as in Berlin (n.) A four-wheeled carriage, having a sheltered seat behind the body and separate from it, invented in the 17th century, at Berlin.,
B as in Berlin (n.) Fine worsted for fancy-work; zephyr worsted; -- called also Berlin wool.,
B as in Berm (n.) Alt. of Berme,
B as in Berme (n.) A narrow shelf or path between the bottom of a parapet and the ditch.,
B as in Berme (n.) A ledge at the bottom of a bank or cutting, to catch earth that may roll down the slope, or to strengthen the bank.,
B as in Bermuda grass () A kind of grass (Cynodon Dactylon) esteemed for pasture in the Southern United States. It is a native of Southern Europe, but is now wide-spread in warm countries; -- called also scutch grass, and in Bermuda, devil grass.,
B as in Bernacle (n.) See Barnacle.,
B as in Berna fly () A Brazilian dipterous insect of the genus Trypeta, which lays its eggs in the nostrils or in wounds of man and beast, where the larvae do great injury.,
B as in Bernardine (a.) Of or pertaining to St. Bernard of Clairvaux, or to the Cistercian monks.,
B as in Bernardine (n.) A Cistercian monk.,
B as in Bernese (a.) Pertaining to the city or canton of Bern, in Switzerland, or to its inhabitants.,
B as in Bernese (n. sing. & pl.) A native or natives of Bern.,
B as in Bernicle (n.) A bernicle goose.,
B as in Bernouse (n.) Same as Burnoose.,
B as in Berob (v. t.) To rob; to plunder.,
B as in Beroe (n.) A small, oval, transparent jellyfish, belonging to the Ctenophora.,
B as in Berretta (n.) A square cap worn by ecclesiastics of the Roman Catholic Church. A cardinal's berretta is scarlet; that worn by other clerics is black, except that a bishop's is lined with green.,
B as in Berried (a.) Furnished with berries; consisting of a berry; baccate; as, a berried shrub.,
B as in Berries (pl. ) of Berry,
B as in Berry (n.) Any small fleshy fruit, as the strawberry, mulberry, huckleberry, etc.,
B as in Berry (n.) A small fruit that is pulpy or succulent throughout, having seeds loosely imbedded in the pulp, as the currant, grape, blueberry.,
B as in Berry (n.) The coffee bean.,
B as in Berry (n.) One of the ova or eggs of a fish.,
B as in Berried (imp. & p. p.) of Berry,
B as in Berrying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Berry,
B as in Berry (v. i.) To bear or produce berries.,
B as in Berry (n.) A mound; a hillock.,
B as in Berrying (n.) A seeking for or gathering of berries, esp. of such as grow wild.,
B as in Berserk (n.) Alt. of Berserker,
B as in Berserker (n.) One of a class of legendary heroes, who fought frenzied by intoxicating liquors, and naked, regardless of wounds.,
B as in Berserker (n.) One who fights as if frenzied, like a Berserker.,
B as in Berstle (n.) See Bristle.,
B as in Berth (n.) Convenient sea room.,
B as in Berth (n.) A room in which a number of the officers or ship's company mess and reside.,
B as in Berth (n.) The place where a ship lies when she is at anchor, or at a wharf.,
B as in Berth (n.) An allotted place; an appointment; situation or employment.,
B as in Berth (n.) A place in a ship to sleep in; a long box or shelf on the side of a cabin or stateroom, or of a railway car, for sleeping in.,
B as in Berthed (imp. & p. p.) of Berth,
B as in Berthing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Berth,
B as in Berth (v. t.) To give an anchorage to, or a place to lie at; to place in a berth; as, she was berthed stem to stern with the Adelaide.,
B as in Berth (v. t.) To allot or furnish berths to, on shipboard; as, to berth a ship's company.,
B as in Bertha (n.) A kind of collar or cape worn by ladies.,
B as in Berthage (n.) A place for mooring vessels in a dock or harbor.,
B as in Berthierite (n.) A double sulphide of antimony and iron, of a dark steel-gray color.,
B as in Berthing (n.) The planking outside of a vessel, above the sheer strake.,
B as in Bertram (n.) Pellitory of Spain (Anacyclus pyrethrum).,
B as in Berycoid (a.) Of or pertaining to the Berycidae, a family of marine fishes.,
B as in Beryl (n.) A mineral of great hardness, and, when transparent, of much beauty. It occurs in hexagonal prisms, commonly of a green or bluish green color, but also yellow, pink, and white. It is a silicate of aluminium and glucinum (beryllium). The aquamarine is a transparent, sea-green variety used as a gem. The emerald is another variety highly prized in jewelry, and distinguished by its deep color, which is probably due to the presence of a little oxide of chromium.,
B as in Berylline (a.) Like a beryl; of a light or bluish green color.,
B as in Beryllium (n.) A metallic element found in the beryl. See Glucinum.,
B as in Berylloid (n.) A solid consisting of a double twelve-sided pyramid; -- so called because the planes of this form occur on crystals of beryl.,
B as in Besaiel (n.) Alt. of Besayle,
B as in Besaile (n.) Alt. of Besayle,
B as in Besayle (n.) A great-grandfather.,
B as in Besayle (n.) A kind of writ which formerly lay where a great-grandfather died seized of lands in fee simple, and on the day of his death a stranger abated or entered and kept the heir out. This is now abolished.,
B as in Besaint (v. t.) To make a saint of.,
B as in Besant (n.) See Bezant.,
B as in Bes-antler (n.) Same as Bez-antler.,
B as in Bescatter (v. t.) To scatter over.,
B as in Bescatter (v. t.) To cover sparsely by scattering (something); to strew.,
B as in Bescorn (v. t.) To treat with scorn.,
B as in Bescratch (v. t.) To tear with the nails; to cover with scratches.,
B as in Bescrawl (v. t.) To cover with scrawls; to scribble over.,
B as in Bescreen (v. t.) To cover with a screen, or as with a screen; to shelter; to conceal.,
B as in Bescribble (v. t.) To scribble over.,
B as in Bescumber (v. t.) Alt. of Bescummer,
B as in Bescummer (v. t.) To discharge ordure or dung upon.,
B as in Besee (v. t. & i.) To see; to look; to mind.,
B as in Besought (imp. & p. p.) of Beseech,
B as in Beseeching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Beseech,
B as in Beseech (v. t.) To ask or entreat with urgency; to supplicate; to implore.,
B as in Beseech (n.) Solicitation; supplication.,
B as in Beseecher (n.) One who beseeches.,
B as in Beseeching (a.) Entreating urgently; imploring; as, a beseeching look.,
B as in Beseechment (n.) The act of beseeching or entreating earnestly.,
B as in Beseek (v. t.) To beseech.,
B as in Beseemed (imp. & p. p.) of Beseem,
B as in Beseeming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Beseem,
B as in Beseem (v. t.) Literally: To appear or seem (well, ill, best, etc.) for (one) to do or to have. Hence: To be fit, suitable, or proper for, or worthy of; to become; to befit.,
B as in Beseem (v. i.) To seem; to appear; to be fitting.,
B as in Beseeming (n.) Appearance; look; garb.,
B as in Beseeming (n.) Comeliness.,
B as in Beseeming (a.) Becoming; suitable.,
B as in Beseemly (a.) Fit; suitable; becoming.,
B as in Beseen (a.) Seen; appearing.,
B as in Beseen (a.) Decked or adorned; clad.,
B as in Beseen (a.) Accomplished; versed.,
B as in Beset (imp. & p. p.) of Beset,
B as in Besetting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Beset,
B as in Beset (v. t.) To set or stud (anything) with ornaments or prominent objects.,
B as in Beset (v. t.) To hem in; to waylay; to surround; to besiege; to blockade.,
B as in Beset (v. t.) To set upon on all sides; to perplex; to harass; -- said of dangers, obstacles, etc.,
B as in Beset (v. t.) To occupy; to employ; to use up.,
B as in Besetment (n.) The act of besetting, or the state of being beset; also, that which besets one, as a sin.,
B as in Besetter (n.) One who, or that which, besets.,
B as in Besetting (a.) Habitually attacking, harassing, or pressing upon or about; as, a besetting sin.,
B as in Beshone (imp. & p. p.) of Beshine,
B as in Beshining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Beshine,
B as in Beshine (v. t.) To shine upon; to illumine.,
B as in Beshow (n.) A large food fish (Anoplopoma fimbria) of the north Pacific coast; -- called also candlefish.,
B as in Beshrew (v. t.) To curse; to execrate.,
B as in Beshroud (v. t.) To cover with, or as with, a shroud; to screen.,
B as in Beshut (v. t.) To shut up or out.,
B as in Beside (n.) At the side of; on one side of.,
B as in Beside (n.) Aside from; out of the regular course or order of; in a state of deviation from; out of.,
B as in Beside (n.) Over and above; distinct from; in addition to.,
B as in Besides (adv.) Alt. of Beside,
B as in Beside (adv.) On one side.,
B as in Beside (adv.) More than that; over and above; not included in the number, or in what has been mentioned; moreover; in addition.,
B as in Besides (prep.) Over and above; separate or distinct from; in addition to; other than; else than. See Beside, prep., 3, and Syn. under Beside.,
B as in Besieged (imp. & p. p.) of Besiege,
B as in Besieging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Besiege,
B as in Besiege (v. t.) To beset or surround with armed forces, for the purpose of compelling to surrender; to lay siege to; to beleaguer; to beset.,
B as in Besiegement (n.) The act of besieging, or the state of being besieged.,
B as in Besieger (n.) One who besieges; -- opposed to the besieged.,
B as in Besieging (a.) That besieges; laying siege to.,
B as in Besit (v. t.) To suit; to fit; to become.,
B as in Beslabber (v. t.) To beslobber.,
B as in Beslave (v. t.) To enslave.,
B as in Beslavered (imp. & p. p.) of Beslaver,
B as in Beslavering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Beslaver,
B as in Beslaver (v. t.) To defile with slaver; to beslobber.,
B as in Beslime (v. t.) To daub with slime; to soil.,
B as in Beslobber (v. t.) To slobber on; to smear with spittle running from the mouth. Also Fig.: as, to beslobber with praise.,
B as in Beslubber (v. t.) To beslobber.,
B as in Besmeared (imp. & p. p.) of Besmear,
B as in Besmearing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Besmear,
B as in Besmear (v. t.) To smear with any viscous, glutinous matter; to bedaub; to soil.,
B as in Besmearer (n.) One that besmears.,
B as in Besmirched (imp. & p. p.) of Besmirch,
B as in Besmirching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Besmirch,
B as in Besmirch (v. t.) To smirch or soil; to discolor; to obscure. Hence: To dishonor; to sully.,
B as in Besmoke (v. t.) To foul with smoke.,
B as in Besmoke (v. t.) To harden or dry in smoke.,
B as in Besmutted (imp. & p. p.) of Besmut,
B as in Besmutting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Besmut,
B as in Besmut (v. t.) To blacken with smut; to foul with soot.,
B as in Besnowed (imp. & p. p.) of Besnow,
B as in Besnow (v. t.) To scatter like snow; to cover thick, as with snow flakes.,
B as in Besnow (v. t.) To cover with snow; to whiten with snow, or as with snow.,
B as in Besnuff (v. t.) To befoul with snuff.,
B as in Besogne (n.) A worthless fellow; a bezonian.,
B as in Besom (n.) A brush of twigs for sweeping; a broom; anything which sweeps away or destroys.,
B as in Besomed (imp. & p. p.) of Besom,
B as in Besom (v. t.) To sweep, as with a besom.,
B as in Besomer (n.) One who uses a besom.,
B as in Besort (v. t.) To assort or be congruous with; to fit, or become.,
B as in Besort (n.) Befitting associates or attendants.,
B as in Besotted (imp. & p. p.) of Besot,
B as in Besotting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Besot,
B as in Besot (v. t.) To make sottish; to make dull or stupid; to stupefy; to infatuate.,
B as in Besotted (a.) Made sottish, senseless, or infatuated; characterized by drunken stupidity, or by infatuation; stupefied.,
B as in Besottingly (adv.) In a besotting manner.,
B as in Besought () p. p. of Beseech.,
B as in Bespangled (imp. & p. p.) of Bespangle,
B as in Bespangling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bespangle,
B as in Bespangle (v. t.) To adorn with spangles; to dot or sprinkle with something brilliant or glittering.,
B as in Bespattered (imp. & p. p.) of Bespatter,
B as in Bespattering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bespatter,
B as in Bespatter (v. t.) To soil by spattering; to sprinkle, esp. with dirty water, mud, or anything which will leave foul spots or stains.,
B as in Bespatter (v. t.) To asperse with calumny or reproach.,
B as in Bespawl (v. t.) To daub, soil, or make foul with spawl or spittle.,
B as in Bespoke (imp.) of Bespeak,
B as in Bespake () of Bespeak,
B as in Bespoke (p. p.) of Bespeak,
B as in Bespoken () of Bespeak,
B as in Bespeaking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bespeak,
B as in Bespeak (v. t.) To speak or arrange for beforehand; to order or engage against a future time; as, to bespeak goods, a right, or a favor.,
B as in Bespeak (v. t.) To show beforehand; to foretell; to indicate.,
B as in Bespeak (v. t.) To betoken; to show; to indicate by external marks or appearances.,
B as in Bespeak (v. t.) To speak to; to address.,
B as in Bespeak (v. i.) To speak.,
B as in Bespeak (n.) A bespeaking. Among actors, a benefit (when a particular play is bespoken.),
B as in Bespeaker (n.) One who bespeaks.,
B as in Bespeckled (imp. & p. p.) of Bespeckle,
B as in Bespeckling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bespeckle,
B as in Bespeckle (v. t.) To mark with speckles or spots.,
B as in Bespew (v. t.) To soil or daub with spew; to vomit on.,
B as in Bespice (v. t.) To season with spice, or with some spicy drug.,
B as in Bespirt (v. t.) Same as Bespurt.,
B as in Bespit (imp.) of Bespit,
B as in Bespit (p. p.) of Bespit,
B as in Bespitten () of Bespit,
B as in Bespitting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bespit,
B as in Bespit (v. t.) To daub or soil with spittle.,
B as in Bespoke () imp. & p. p. of Bespeak.,
B as in Bespotted (imp. & p. p.) of Bespot,
B as in Bespotting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bespot,
B as in Bespot (v. t.) To mark with spots, or as with spots.,
B as in Bespread (imp. & p. p.) of Bespread,
B as in Bespreading (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bespread,
B as in Bespread (v. t.) To spread or cover over.,
B as in Besprent (p. p.) Sprinkled over; strewed.,
B as in Besprinkled (imp. & p. p.) of Besprinkle,
B as in Besprinkling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Besprinkle,
B as in Besprinkle (v. t.) To sprinkle over; to scatter over.,
B as in Besprinkler (n.) One who, or that which, besprinkles.,
B as in Besprinkling (n.) The act of sprinkling anything; a sprinkling over.,
B as in Bespurt (v. t.) To spurt on or over; to asperse.,
B as in Bessemer steel () Steel made directly from cast iron, by burning out a portion of the carbon and other impurities that the latter contains, through the agency of a blast of air which is forced through the molten metal; -- so called from Sir Henry Bessemer, an English engineer, the inventor of the process.,
B as in Best (a.) Having good qualities in the highest degree; most good, kind, desirable, suitable, etc.; most excellent; as, the best man; the best road; the best cloth; the best abilities.,
B as in Best (a.) Most advanced; most correct or complete; as, the best scholar; the best view of a subject.,
B as in Best (a.) Most; largest; as, the best part of a week.,
B as in Best (n.) Utmost; highest endeavor or state; most nearly perfect thing, or being, or action; as, to do one's best; to the best of our ability.,
B as in Best (superl.) In the highest degree; beyond all others.,
B as in Best (superl.) To the most advantage; with the most success, case, profit, benefit, or propriety.,
B as in Best (superl.) Most intimately; most thoroughly or correctly; as, what is expedient is best known to himself.,
B as in Best (v. t.) To get the better of.,
B as in Bestad (imp. & p. p.) Beset; put in peril.,
B as in Bestain (v. t.) To stain.,
B as in Bestarred (imp. & p. p.) of Bestar,
B as in Bestar (v. t.) To sprinkle with, or as with, stars; to decorate with, or as with, stars; to bestud.,
B as in Bestead (imp. & p. p.) of Bestead,
B as in Bested () of Bestead,
B as in Bestad () of Bestead,
B as in Besteaded () of Bestead,
B as in Bestead (v. t.) To put in a certain situation or condition; to circumstance; to place.,
B as in Bestead (v. t.) To put in peril; to beset.,
B as in Bestead (v. t.) To serve; to assist; to profit; to avail.,
B as in Bestial (a.) Belonging to a beast, or to the class of beasts.,
B as in Bestial (a.) Having the qualities of a beast; brutal; below the dignity of reason or humanity; irrational; carnal; beastly; sensual.,
B as in Bestial (n.) A domestic animal; also collectively, cattle; as, other kinds of bestial.,
B as in Bestiality (n.) The state or quality of being bestial.,
B as in Bestiality (n.) Unnatural connection with a beast.,
B as in Bestialized (imp. & p. p.) of Bestialize,
B as in Bestializing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bestialize,
B as in Bestialize (v. t.) To make bestial, or like a beast; to degrade; to brutalize.,
B as in Bestially (adv.) In a bestial manner.,
B as in Bestuck (imp. & p. p.) of Bestick,
B as in Besticking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bestick,
B as in Bestick (v. t.) To stick over, as with sharp points pressed in; to mark by infixing points or spots here and there; to pierce.,
B as in Bestill (v. t.) To make still.,
B as in Bestirred (imp. & p. p.) of Bestir,
B as in Bestirring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bestir,
B as in Bestir (v. t.) To put into brisk or vigorous action; to move with life and vigor; -- usually with the reciprocal pronoun.,
B as in Bestorm (v. i. & t.) To storm.,
B as in Bestowed (imp. & p. p.) of Bestow,
B as in Bestowing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bestow,
B as in Bestow (v. t.) To lay up in store; to deposit for safe keeping; to stow; to place; to put.,
B as in Bestow (v. t.) To use; to apply; to devote, as time or strength in some occupation.,
B as in Bestow (v. t.) To expend, as money.,
B as in Bestow (v. t.) To give or confer; to impart; -- with on or upon.,
B as in Bestow (v. t.) To give in marriage.,
B as in Bestow (v. t.) To demean; to conduct; to behave; -- followed by a reflexive pronoun.,
B as in Bestowal (n.) The act of bestowing; disposal.,
B as in Bestower (n.) One that bestows.,
B as in Bestowment (n.) The act of giving or bestowing; a conferring or bestowal.,
B as in Bestowment (n.) That which is given or bestowed.,
B as in Bestraddle (v. t.) To bestride.,
B as in Bestraught (a.) Out of one's senses; distracted; mad.,
B as in Bestreak (v. t.) To streak.,
B as in Bestrewed (imp.) of Bestrew,
B as in Bestrewed (p. p.) of Bestrew,
B as in Bestrown () of Bestrew,
B as in Bestrewing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bestrew,
B as in Bestrew (v. t.) To strew or scatter over; to besprinkle.,
B as in Bestrode (imp.) of Bestride,
B as in Bestrid () of Bestride,
B as in Bestridden (p. p.) of Bestride,
B as in Bestrid () of Bestride,
B as in Bestrode () of Bestride,
B as in Bestriding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bestride,
B as in Bestride (v. t.) To stand or sit with anything between the legs, or with the legs astride; to stand over,
B as in Bestride (v. t.) To step over; to stride over or across; as, to bestride a threshold.,
B as in Bestrode () imp. & p. p. of Bestride.,
B as in Bestrown () p. p. of Bestrew.,
B as in Bestuck () imp. & p. p. Bestick.,
B as in Bestudded (imp. & p. p.) of Bestud,
B as in Bestudding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bestud,
B as in Bestud (v. t.) To set or adorn, as with studs or bosses; to set thickly; to stud; as, to bestud with stars.,
B as in Beswike (v. t.) To lure; to cheat.,
B as in Bet (n.) That which is laid, staked, or pledged, as between two parties, upon the event of a contest or any contingent issue; the act of giving such a pledge; a wager.,
B as in Bet (imp. & p. p.) of Bet,
B as in Betted () of Bet,
B as in Betting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bet,
B as in Bet (v. t.) To stake or pledge upon the event of a contingent issue; to wager.,
B as in Bet () imp. & p. p. of Beat.,
B as in Bet (a. & adv.) An early form of Better.,
B as in Betaine (n.) A nitrogenous base, C5H11NO2, produced artificially, and also occurring naturally in beet-root molasses and its residues, from which it is extracted as a white crystalline substance; -- called also lycine and oxyneurine. It has a sweetish taste.,
B as in Betook (imp.) of Betake,
B as in Betaken (p. p.) of Betake,
B as in Betaking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Betake,
B as in Betake (v. t.) To take or seize.,
B as in Betake (v. t.) To have recourse to; to apply; to resort; to go; -- with a reflexive pronoun.,
B as in Betake (v. t.) To commend or intrust to; to commit to.,
B as in Betaught (a.) Delivered; committed in trust.,
B as in Bete (v. t.) To better; to mend. See Beete.,
B as in Beteela (n.) An East India muslin, formerly used for cravats, veils, etc.,
B as in Beteem (a.) To give ; to bestow; to grant; to accord; to consent.,
B as in Beteem (a.) To allow; to permit; to suffer.,
B as in Betel (n.) A species of pepper (Piper betle), the leaves of which are chewed, with the areca or betel nut and a little shell lime, by the inhabitants of the East Indies. It is a woody climber with ovate many-nerved leaves.,
B as in Betelguese (n.) A bright star of the first magnitude, near one shoulder of Orion.,
B as in Betel nut () The nutlike seed of the areca palm, chewed in the East with betel leaves (whence its name) and shell lime.,
B as in Bete noire () Something especially hated or dreaded; a bugbear.,
B as in Bethabara wood () A highly elastic wood, used for fishing rods, etc. The tree is unknown, but it is thought to be East Indian.,
B as in Bethel (n.) A place of worship; a hallowed spot.,
B as in Bethel (n.) A chapel for dissenters.,
B as in Bethel (n.) A house of worship for seamen.,
B as in Bethought (imp. & p. p.) of Bethink,
B as in Bethinking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bethink,
B as in Bethink (v. t.) To call to mind; to recall or bring to recollection, reflection, or consideration; to think; to consider; -- generally followed by a reflexive pronoun, often with of or that before the subject of thought.,
B as in Bethink (v. i.) To think; to recollect; to consider.,
B as in Bethlehem (n.) A hospital for lunatics; -- corrupted into bedlam.,
B as in Bethlehem (n.) In the Ethiopic church, a small building attached to a church edifice, in which the bread for the eucharist is made.,
B as in Bethlehemite (n.) Alt. of Bethlemite,
B as in Bethlemite (n.) An inhabitant of Bethlehem in Judea.,
B as in Bethlemite (n.) An insane person; a madman; a bedlamite.,
B as in Bethlemite (n.) One of an extinct English order of monks.,
B as in Bethought () imp. & p. p. of Bethink.,
B as in Bethrall (v. t.) To reduce to thralldom; to inthrall.,
B as in Bethumb (v. t.) To handle; to wear or soil by handling; as books.,
B as in Bethumped (imp. & p. p.) of Bethump,
B as in Bethumpt () of Bethump,
B as in Bethumping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bethump,
B as in Bethump (v. t.) To beat or thump soundly.,
B as in Betided (imp. & p. p.) of Betide,
B as in Betid (Obs) of Betide,
B as in Betiding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Betide,
B as in Betide (v. t.) To happen to; to befall; to come to ; as, woe betide the wanderer.,
B as in Betide (v. i.) To come to pass; to happen; to occur.,
B as in Betime (adv.) Alt. of Betimes,
B as in Betimes (adv.) In good season or time; before it is late; seasonably; early.,
B as in Betimes (adv.) In a short time; soon; speedily; forth with.,
B as in Betitle (v. t.) To furnish with a title or titles; to entitle.,
B as in Betokened (imp. & p. p.) of Betoken,
B as in Betokening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Betoken,
B as in Betoken (v. t.) To signify by some visible object; to show by signs or tokens.,
B as in Betoken (v. t.) To foreshow by present signs; to indicate something future by that which is seen or known; as, a dark cloud often betokens a storm.,
B as in Beton (n.) The French name for concrete; hence, concrete made after the French fashion.,
B as in Betongue (v. t.) To attack with the tongue; to abuse; to insult.,
B as in Betonies (pl. ) of Betony,
B as in Betony (n.) A plant of the genus Betonica (Linn.).,
B as in Betook () imp. of Betake.,
B as in Betorn (a.) Torn in pieces; tattered.,
B as in Betossed (imp. & p. p.) of Betoss,
B as in Betoss (v. t.) To put in violent motion; to agitate; to disturb; to toss.,
B as in Betrapped (imp. & p. p.) of Betrap,
B as in Betrap (v. t.) To draw into, or catch in, a trap; to insnare; to circumvent.,
B as in Betrap (v. t.) To put trappings on; to clothe; to deck.,
B as in Betrayed (imp. & p. p.) of Betray,
B as in Betraying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Betray,
B as in Betray (v. t.) To deliver into the hands of an enemy by treachery or fraud, in violation of trust; to give up treacherously or faithlessly; as, an officer betrayed the city.,
B as in Betray (v. t.) To prove faithless or treacherous to, as to a trust or one who trusts; to be false to; to deceive; as, to betray a person or a cause.,
B as in Betray (v. t.) To violate the confidence of, by disclosing a secret, or that which one is bound in honor not to make known.,
B as in Betray (v. t.) To disclose or discover, as something which prudence would conceal; to reveal unintentionally.,
B as in Betray (v. t.) To mislead; to expose to inconvenience not foreseen to lead into error or sin.,
B as in Betray (v. t.) To lead astray, as a maiden; to seduce (as under promise of marriage) and then abandon.,
B as in Betray (v. t.) To show or to indicate; -- said of what is not obvious at first, or would otherwise be concealed.,
B as in Betrayal (n.) The act or the result of betraying.,
B as in Betrayer (n.) One who, or that which, betrays.,
B as in Betrayment (n.) Betrayal.,
B as in Betrimmed (imp. & p. p.) of Betrim,
B as in Betrimming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Betrim,
B as in Betrim (v. t.) To set in order; to adorn; to deck, to embellish; to trim.,
B as in Betrothed (imp. & p. p.) of Betroth,
B as in Betrothing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Betroth,
B as in Betroth (v. t.) To contract to any one for a marriage; to engage or promise in order to marriage; to affiance; -- used esp. of a woman.,
B as in Betroth (v. t.) To promise to take (as a future spouse); to plight one's troth to.,
B as in Betroth (v. t.) To nominate to a bishopric, in order to consecration.,
B as in Betrothal (n.) The act of betrothing, or the fact of being betrothed; a mutual promise, engagement, or contract for a future marriage between the persons betrothed; betrothment; affiance.,
B as in Betrothment (n.) The act of betrothing, or the state of being betrothed; betrothal.,
B as in Betrust (v. t.) To trust or intrust.,
B as in Betrustment (n.) The act of intrusting, or the thing intrusted.,
B as in Betso (n.) A small brass Venetian coin.,
B as in Better (a.) Having good qualities in a greater degree than another; as, a better man; a better physician; a better house; a better air.,
B as in Better (a.) Preferable in regard to rank, value, use, fitness, acceptableness, safety, or in any other respect.,
B as in Better (a.) Greater in amount; larger; more.,
B as in Better (a.) Improved in health; less affected with disease; as, the patient is better.,
B as in Better (a.) More advanced; more perfect; as, upon better acquaintance; a better knowledge of the subject.,
B as in Better (n.) Advantage, superiority, or victory; -- usually with of; as, to get the better of an enemy.,
B as in Better (n.) One who has a claim to precedence; a superior, as in merit, social standing, etc.; -- usually in the plural.,
B as in Better (compar.) In a superior or more excellent manner; with more skill and wisdom, courage, virtue, advantage, or success; as, Henry writes better than John; veterans fight better than recruits.,
B as in Better (compar.) More correctly or thoroughly.,
B as in Better (compar.) In a higher or greater degree; more; as, to love one better than another.,
B as in Better (compar.) More, in reference to value, distance, time, etc.; as, ten miles and better.,
B as in Bettered (imp. & p. p.) of Better,
B as in Bettering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Better,
B as in Better (a.) To improve or ameliorate; to increase the good qualities of.,
B as in Better (a.) To improve the condition of, morally, physically, financially, socially, or otherwise.,
B as in Better (a.) To surpass in excellence; to exceed; to excel.,
B as in Better (a.) To give advantage to; to support; to advance the interest of.,
B as in Better (v. i.) To become better; to improve.,
B as in Better (n.) One who bets or lays a wager.,
B as in Betterment (n.) A making better; amendment; improvement.,
B as in Betterment (n.) An improvement of an estate which renders it better than mere repairing would do; -- generally used in the plural.,
B as in Bettermost (a.) Best.,
B as in Betterness (n.) The quality of being better or superior; superiority.,
B as in Betterness (n.) The difference by which fine gold or silver exceeds in fineness the standard.,
B as in Bettong (n.) A small, leaping Australian marsupial of the genus Bettongia; the jerboa kangaroo.,
B as in Bettor (n.) One who bets; a better.,
B as in Betty (n.) A short bar used by thieves to wrench doors open.,
B as in Betty (n.) A name of contempt given to a man who interferes with the duties of women in a household, or who occupies himself with womanish matters.,
B as in Betty (n.) A pear-shaped bottle covered round with straw, in which olive oil is sometimes brought from Italy; -- called by chemists a Florence flask.,
B as in Betulin (n.) A substance of a resinous nature, obtained from the outer bark of the common European birch (Betula alba), or from the tar prepared therefrom; -- called also birch camphor.,
B as in Betumbled (imp. & p. p.) of Betumble,
B as in Betumble (v. t.) To throw into disorder; to tumble.,
B as in Betutored (imp. & p. p.) of Betutor,
B as in Betutor (v. t.) To tutor; to instruct.,
B as in Between (prep.) In the space which separates; betwixt; as, New York is between Boston and Philadelphia.,
B as in Between (prep.) Used in expressing motion from one body or place to another; from one to another of two.,
B as in Between (prep.) Belonging in common to two; shared by both.,
B as in Between (prep.) Belonging to, or participated in by, two, and involving reciprocal action or affecting their mutual relation; as, opposition between science and religion.,
B as in Between (prep.) With relation to two, as involved in an act or attribute of which another is the agent or subject; as, to judge between or to choose between courses; to distinguish between you and me; to mediate between nations.,
B as in Between (prep.) In intermediate relation to, in respect to time, quantity, or degree; as, between nine and ten o'clock.,
B as in Between (n.) Intermediate time or space; interval.,
B as in Betwixt (prep.) In the space which separates; between.,
B as in Betwixt (prep.) From one to another of; mutually affecting.,
B as in Beurre (n.) A beurre (or buttery) pear, one with the meat soft and melting; -- used with a distinguishing word; as, Beurre d'Anjou; Beurre Clairgeau.,
B as in Bevel (n.) Any angle other than a right angle; the angle which one surface makes with another when they are not at right angles; the slant or inclination of such surface; as, to give a bevel to the edge of a table or a stone slab; the bevel of a piece of timber.,
B as in Bevel (n.) An instrument consisting of two rules or arms, jointed together at one end, and opening to any angle, for adjusting the surfaces of work to the same or a given inclination; -- called also a bevel square.,
B as in Bevel (a.) Having the slant of a bevel; slanting.,
B as in Bevel (a.) Hence: Morally distorted; not upright.,
B as in Beveled (imp. & p. p.) of Bevel,
B as in Bevelled () of Bevel,
B as in Beveling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bevel,
B as in Bevelling () of Bevel,
B as in Bevel (v. t.) To cut to a bevel angle; to slope the edge or surface of.,
B as in Bevel (v. i.) To deviate or incline from an angle of 90�, as a surface; to slant.,
B as in Beveled (a.) Alt. of Bevelled,
B as in Bevelled (a.) Formed to a bevel angle; sloping; as, the beveled edge of a table.,
B as in Bevelled (a.) Replaced by two planes inclining equally upon the adjacent planes, as an edge; having its edges replaced by sloping planes, as a cube or other solid.,
B as in Bevel gear () A kind of gear in which the two wheels working together lie in different planes, and have their teeth cut at right angles to the surfaces of two cones whose apices coincide with the point where the axes of the wheels would meet.,
B as in Bevelment (n.) The replacement of an edge by two similar planes, equally inclined to the including faces or adjacent planes.,
B as in Bever (n.) A light repast between meals; a lunch.,
B as in Bevered (imp. & p. p.) of Bever,
B as in Bever (v. i.) To take a light repast between meals.,
B as in Beverage (v. t.) Liquid for drinking; drink; -- usually applied to drink artificially prepared and of an agreeable flavor; as, an intoxicating beverage.,
B as in Beverage (v. t.) Specifically, a name applied to various kinds of drink.,
B as in Beverage (v. t.) A treat, or drink money.,
B as in Bevile (n.) A chief broken or opening like a carpenter's bevel.,
B as in Beviled (a.) Alt. of Bevilled,
B as in Bevilled (a.) Notched with an angle like that inclosed by a carpenter's bevel; -- said of a partition line of a shield.,
B as in Bevies (pl. ) of Bevy,
B as in Bevy (n.) A company; an assembly or collection of persons, especially of ladies.,
B as in Bevy (n.) A flock of birds, especially quails or larks; also, a herd of roes.,
B as in Bewailed (imp. & p. p.) of Bewail,
B as in Bewailing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bewail,
B as in Bewail (v. t.) To express deep sorrow for, as by wailing; to lament; to wail over.,
B as in Bewail (v. i.) To express grief; to lament.,
B as in Bewailable (a.) Such as may, or ought to, be bewailed; lamentable.,
B as in Bewailer (n.) One who bewails or laments.,
B as in Bewailing (a.) Wailing over; lamenting.,
B as in Bewailment (n.) The act of bewailing.,
B as in Bewake (v. t. & i.) To keep watch over; to keep awake.,
B as in Beware (v. i.) To be on one's guard; to be cautious; to take care; -- commonly followed by of or lest before the thing that is to be avoided.,
B as in Beware (v. i.) To have a special regard; to heed.,
B as in Beware (v. t.) To avoid; to take care of; to have a care for.,
B as in Bewash (v. t.) To drench or souse with water.,
B as in Bewept (imp. & p. p.) of Beweep,
B as in Beweeping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Beweep,
B as in Beweep (v. t.) To weep over; to deplore; to bedew with tears.,
B as in Beweep (v. i.) To weep.,
B as in Bewet (imp. & p. p.) of Bewet,
B as in Bewetted () of Bewet,
B as in Bewet (v. t.) To wet or moisten.,
B as in Bewhore (v. t.) To corrupt with regard to chastity; to make a whore of.,
B as in Bewhore (v. t.) To pronounce or characterize as a whore.,
B as in Bewigged (imp. & p. p.) of Bewig,
B as in Bewig (v. t.) To cover (the head) with a wig.,
B as in Bewildered (imp. & p. p.) of Bewilder,
B as in Bewildering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bewilder,
B as in Bewilder (v. t.) To lead into perplexity or confusion, as for want of a plain path; to perplex with mazes; or in general, to perplex or confuse greatly.,
B as in Bewildered (a.) Greatly perplexed; as, a bewildered mind.,
B as in Bewilderedness (n.) The state of being bewildered; bewilderment.,
B as in Bewildering (a.) Causing bewilderment or great perplexity; as, bewildering difficulties.,
B as in Bewilderment (n.) The state of being bewildered.,
B as in Bewilderment (n.) A bewildering tangle or confusion.,
B as in Bewinter (v. t.) To make wintry.,
B as in Bewit (n.) A double slip of leather by which bells are fastened to a hawk's legs.,
B as in Bewitched (imp. & p. p.) of Bewitch,
B as in Bewitching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bewitch,
B as in Bewitch (v. t.) To gain an ascendency over by charms or incantations; to affect (esp. to injure) by witchcraft or sorcery.,
B as in Bewitch (v. t.) To charm; to fascinate; to please to such a degree as to take away the power of resistance; to enchant.,
B as in Bewitchedness (n.) The state of being bewitched.,
B as in Bewitcher (n.) One who bewitches.,
B as in Bewitchery (n.) The power of bewitching or fascinating; bewitchment; charm; fascination.,
B as in Bewitching (a.) Having power to bewitch or fascinate; enchanting; captivating; charming.,
B as in Bewitchment (n.) The act of bewitching, or the state of being bewitched.,
B as in Bewitchment (n.) The power of bewitching or charming.,
B as in Bewondered (imp. & p. p.) of Bewonder,
B as in Bewonder (v. t.) To fill with wonder.,
B as in Bewonder (v. t.) To wonder at; to admire.,
B as in Bewrapped (imp. & p. p.) of Bewrap,
B as in Bewrap (v. t.) To wrap up; to cover.,
B as in Bewray (v. t.) To soil. See Beray.,
B as in Bewrayed (imp. & p. p.) of Bewray,
B as in Bewraying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bewray,
B as in Bewray (v. t.) To expose; to reveal; to disclose; to betray.,
B as in Bewrayer (n.) One who, or that which, bewrays; a revealer.,
B as in Bewrayment (n.) Betrayal.,
B as in Bewreck (v. t.) To wreck.,
B as in Bewreke (v. t.) To wreak; to avenge.,
B as in Bewrought (a.) Embroidered.,
B as in Bey (n.) A governor of a province or district in the Turkish dominions; also, in some places, a prince or nobleman; a beg; as, the bey of Tunis.,
B as in Beylic (n.) The territory ruled by a bey.,
B as in Beyond (prep.) On the further side of; in the same direction as, and further on or away than.,
B as in Beyond (prep.) At a place or time not yet reached; before.,
B as in Beyond (prep.) Past, out of the reach or sphere of; further than; greater than; as, the patient was beyond medical aid; beyond one's strength.,
B as in Beyond (prep.) In a degree or amount exceeding or surpassing; proceeding to a greater degree than; above, as in dignity, excellence, or quality of any kind.,
B as in Beyond (adv.) Further away; at a distance; yonder.,
B as in Bezant (n.) A gold coin of Byzantium or Constantinople, varying in weight and value, usually (those current in England) between a sovereign and a half sovereign. There were also white or silver bezants.,
B as in Bezant (n.) A circle in or, i. e., gold, representing the gold coin called bezant.,
B as in Bezant (n.) A decoration of a flat surface, as of a band or belt, representing circular disks lapping one upon another.,
B as in Bez-antler (n.) The second branch of a stag's horn.,
B as in Bezel (n.) The rim which encompasses and fastens a jewel or other object, as the crystal of a watch, in the cavity in which it is set.,
B as in Bezique (n.) A game at cards in which various combinations of cards in the hand, when declared, score points.,
B as in Bezoar (n.) A calculous concretion found in the intestines of certain ruminant animals (as the wild goat, the gazelle, and the Peruvian llama) formerly regarded as an unfailing antidote for poison, and a certain remedy for eruptive, pestilential, or putrid diseases. Hence: Any antidote or panacea.,
B as in Bezoardic (a.) Pertaining to, or compounded with, bezoar.,
B as in Bezoardic (n.) A medicine containing bezoar.,
B as in Bezoartic (a.) Alt. of Bezoartical,
B as in Bezoartical (a.) Having the qualities of an antidote, or of bezoar; healing.,
B as in Bezonian (n.) A low fellow or scoundrel; a beggar.,
B as in Bezzled (imp. & p. p.) of Bezzle,
B as in Bezzling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bezzle,
B as in Bezzle (v. t.) To plunder; to waste in riot.,
B as in Bezzle (v. i.) To drink to excess; to revel.,
B as in Bhang (n.) An astringent and narcotic drug made from the dried leaves and seed capsules of wild hemp (Cannabis Indica), and chewed or smoked in the East as a means of intoxication. See Hasheesh.,
B as in Bhunder (n.) An Indian monkey (Macacus Rhesus), protected by the Hindoos as sacred. See Rhesus.,
B as in Bi- () In most branches of science bi- in composition denotes two, twice, or doubly; as, bidentate, two-toothed; biternate, doubly ternate, etc.,
B as in Bi- () In the composition of chemical names bi- denotes two atoms, parts, or equivalents of that constituent to the name of which it is prefixed, to one of the other component, or that such constituent is present in double the ordinary proportion; as, bichromate, bisulphide. Be- and di- are often used interchangeably.,
B as in Biacid (a.) Having two hydrogen atoms which can be replaced by negative atoms or radicals to form salts; -- said of bases. See Diacid.,
B as in Biacuminate (a.) Having points in two directions.,
B as in Biangular (a.) Having two angles or corners.,
B as in Biangulate (a.) Alt. of Biangulated,
B as in Biangulated (a.) Biangular.,
B as in Biangulous (a.) Biangular.,
B as in Biantheriferous (a.) Having two anthers.,
B as in Biarticulate (a.) Having, or consisting of, tow joints.,
B as in Biases (pl. ) of Bias,
B as in Bias (n.) A weight on the side of the ball used in the game of bowls, or a tendency imparted to the ball, which turns it from a straight line.,
B as in Bias (n.) A leaning of the mind; propensity or prepossession toward an object or view, not leaving the mind indifferent; bent; inclination.,
B as in Bias (n.) A wedge-shaped piece of cloth taken out of a garment (as the waist of a dress) to diminish its circumference.,
B as in Bias (n.) A slant; a diagonal; as, to cut cloth on the bias.,
B as in Bias (a.) Inclined to one side; swelled on one side.,
B as in Bias (a.) Cut slanting or diagonally, as cloth.,
B as in Bias (adv.) In a slanting manner; crosswise; obliquely; diagonally; as, to cut cloth bias.,
B as in Biased (imp. & p. p.) of Bias,
B as in Biasing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bias,
B as in Bias (v. t.) To incline to one side; to give a particular direction to; to influence; to prejudice; to prepossess.,
B as in Biauriculate (a.) Having two auricles, as the heart of mammals, birds, and reptiles.,
B as in Biauriculate (a.) Having two earlike projections at its base, as a leaf.,
B as in Biaxal (a.) Alt. of Biaxial,
B as in Biaxial (a.) Having two axes; as, biaxial polarization.,
B as in Bib (n.) A small piece of cloth worn by children over the breast, to protect the clothes.,
B as in Bib (n.) An arctic fish (Gadus luscus), allied to the cod; -- called also pout and whiting pout.,
B as in Bib (n.) A bibcock.,
B as in Bib (v. t.) Alt. of Bibbe,
B as in Bibbe (v. t.) To drink; to tipple.,
B as in Bib (v. i.) To drink; to sip; to tipple.,
B as in Bibacious (a.) Addicted to drinking.,
B as in Bibacity (n.) The practice or habit of drinking too much; tippling.,
B as in Bibasic (a.) Having to hydrogen atoms which can be replaced by positive or basic atoms or radicals to form salts; -- said of acids. See Dibasic.,
B as in Bibb (n.) A bibcock. See Bib, n., 3.,
B as in Bibber (n.) One given to drinking alcoholic beverages too freely; a tippler; -- chiefly used in composition; as, winebibber.,
B as in Bibble-babble (n.) Idle talk; babble.,
B as in Bibbs (n. pl.) Pieces of timber bolted to certain parts of a mast to support the trestletrees.,
B as in Bibcock (n.) A cock or faucet having a bent down nozzle.,
B as in Bibirine (n.) See Bebeerine.,
B as in Bibitory (a.) Of or pertaining to drinking or tippling.,
B as in Bible (n.) A book.,
B as in Bible (n.) The Book by way of eminence, -- that is, the book which is made up of the writings accepted by Christians as of divine origin and authority, whether such writings be in the original language, or translated; the Scriptures of the Old and New Testaments; -- sometimes in a restricted sense, the Old Testament; as, King James's Bible; Douay Bible; Luther's Bible. Also, the book which is made up of writings similarly accepted by the Jews; as, a rabbinical Bible.,
B as in Bible (n.) A book containing the sacred writings belonging to any religion; as, the Koran is often called the Mohammedan Bible.,
B as in Bible (n.) A book with an authoritative exposition of some topic, respected by many who are experts in the field.,
B as in Bibler (v. t.) A great drinker; a tippler.,
B as in Biblical (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, the Bible; as, biblical learning; biblical authority.,
B as in Biblicality (n.) The quality of being biblical; a biblical subject.,
B as in Biblically (adv.) According to the Bible.,
B as in Biblicism (n.) Learning or literature relating to the Bible.,
B as in Biblicist (n.) One skilled in the knowledge of the Bible; a demonstrator of religious truth by the Scriptures.,
B as in Bibliograph (n.) Bibliographer.,
B as in Bibliographer (n.) One who writes, or is versed in, bibliography.,
B as in Bibliographic (a.) Alt. of Bibliographical,
B as in Bibliographical (a.) Pertaining to bibliography, or the history of books.,
B as in Bibliographies (pl. ) of Bibliography,
B as in Bibliography (n.) A history or description of books and manuscripts, with notices of the different editions, the times when they were printed, etc.,
B as in Bibliolater (n.) Alt. of Bibliolatrist,
B as in Bibliolatrist (n.) A worshiper of books; especially, a worshiper of the Bible; a believer in its verbal inspiration.,
B as in Bibliolatry (n.) Book worship, esp. of the Bible; -- applied by Roman Catholic divines to the exaltation of the authority of the Bible over that of the pope or the church, and by Protestants to an excessive regard to the letter of the Scriptures.,
B as in Bibliological (a.) Relating to bibliology.,
B as in Bibliology (n.) An account of books; book lore; bibliography.,
B as in Bibliology (n.) The literature or doctrine of the Bible.,
B as in Bibliomancy (n.) A kind of divination, performed by selecting passages of Scripture at hazard, and drawing from them indications concerning future events.,
B as in Bibliomania (n.) A mania for acquiring books.,
B as in Bibliomaniac (n.) One who has a mania for books.,
B as in Bibliomaniac (a.) Relating to a bibliomaniac.,
B as in Bibliomaniacal (a.) Pertaining to a passion for books; relating to a bibliomaniac.,
B as in Bibliopegic (a.) Relating to the binding of books.,
B as in Bibliopegist (n.) A bookbinder.,
B as in Bibliopegistic (a.) Pertaining to the art of binding books.,
B as in Bibliopegy (n.) The art of binding books.,
B as in Bibliophile (n.) A lover of books.,
B as in Bibliophilism (n.) Love of books.,
B as in Bibliophilist (n.) A lover of books.,
B as in Bibliophobia (n.) A dread of books.,
B as in Bibliopole (n.) One who sells books.,
B as in Bibliopolic (a.) Alt. of Bibliopolar,
B as in Bibliopolar (a.) Of or pertaining to the sale of books.,
B as in Bibliopolism (n.) The trade or business of selling books.,
B as in Bibliopolist (n.) Same as Bibliopole.,
B as in Bibliopolistic (a.) Of or pertaining to bibliopolism.,
B as in Bibliotaph (n.) Alt. of Bibliotaphist,
B as in Bibliotaphist (n.) One who hides away books, as in a tomb.,
B as in Bibliothec (n.) A librarian.,
B as in Bibliotheca (n.) A library.,
B as in Bibliothecal (a.) Belonging to a library.,
B as in Bibliothecary (n.) A librarian.,
B as in Bibliotheke (n.) A library.,
B as in Biblist (n.) One who makes the Bible the sole rule of faith.,
B as in Biblist (n.) A biblical scholar; a biblicist.,
B as in Bibracteate (a.) Furnished with, or having, two bracts.,
B as in Bibulous (v. t.) Readily imbibing fluids or moisture; spongy; as, bibulous blotting paper.,
B as in Bibulous (v. t.) Inclined to drink; addicted to tippling.,
B as in Bibulously (adv.) In a bibulous manner; with profuse imbibition or absorption.,
B as in Bicalcarate (a.) Having two spurs, as the wing or leg of a bird.,
B as in Bicallose (a.) Alt. of Bicallous,
B as in Bicallous (a.) Having two callosities or hard spots.,
B as in Bicameral (a.) Consisting of, or including, two chambers, or legislative branches.,
B as in Bicapsular (a.) Having two capsules; as, a bicapsular pericarp.,
B as in Bicarbonate (n.) A carbonate in which but half the hydrogen of the acid is replaced by a positive element or radical, thus making the proportion of the acid to the positive or basic portion twice what it is in the normal carbonates; an acid carbonate; -- sometimes called supercarbonate.,
B as in Bicarbureted (a.) Alt. of -retted,
B as in -retted (a.) Containing two atoms or equivalents of carbon in the molecule.,
B as in Bicarinate (a.) Having two keel-like projections, as the upper palea of grasses.,
B as in Bicaudal (a.) Having, or terminating in, two tails.,
B as in Bicaudate (a.) Two-tailed; bicaudal.,
B as in Bicched (a.) Pecked; pitted; notched.,
B as in Bice (n.) Alt. of Bise,
B as in Bise (n.) A pale blue pigment, prepared from the native blue carbonate of copper, or from smalt; -- called also blue bice.,
B as in Bicentenary (a.) Of or pertaining to two hundred, esp. to two hundred years; as, a bicentenary celebration.,
B as in Bicentenary (n.) The two hundredth anniversary, or its celebration.,
B as in Bicentennial (a.) Consisting of two hundred years.,
B as in Bicentennial (a.) Occurring every two hundred years.,
B as in Bicentennial (n.) The two hundredth year or anniversary, or its celebration.,
B as in Bicephalous (a.) Having two heads.,
B as in Biceps (n.) A muscle having two heads or origins; -- applied particularly to a flexor in the arm, and to another in the thigh.,
B as in Bichir (n.) A remarkable ganoid fish (Polypterus bichir) found in the Nile and other African rivers. See Brachioganoidei.,
B as in Bichloride (n.) A compound consisting of two atoms of chlorine with one or more atoms of another element; -- called also dichloride.,
B as in Bicho (n.) See Jigger.,
B as in Bichromate (n.) A salt containing two parts of chromic acid to one of the other ingredients; as, potassium bichromate; -- called also dichromate.,
B as in Bichromatize (v. t.) To combine or treat with a bichromate, esp. with bichromate of potassium; as, bichromatized gelatine.,
B as in Bicipital (a.) Having two heads or origins, as a muscle.,
B as in Bicipital (a.) Pertaining to a biceps muscle; as, bicipital furrows, the depressions on either side of the biceps of the arm.,
B as in Bicipital (a.) Dividing into two parts at one extremity; having two heads or two supports; as, a bicipital tree.,
B as in Bicipitous (a.) Having two heads; bicipital.,
B as in Bicker (n.) A small wooden vessel made of staves and hoops, like a tub.,
B as in Bickered (imp. & p. p.) of Bicker,
B as in Bickering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bicker,
B as in Bicker (v. i.) To skirmish; to exchange blows; to fight.,
B as in Bicker (v. i.) To contend in petulant altercation; to wrangle.,
B as in Bicker (v. i.) To move quickly and unsteadily, or with a pattering noise; to quiver; to be tremulous, like flame.,
B as in Bicker (n.) A skirmish; an encounter.,
B as in Bicker (n.) A fight with stones between two parties of boys.,
B as in Bicker (n.) A wrangle; also, a noise,, as in angry contention.,
B as in Bickerer (n.) One who bickers.,
B as in Bickering (n.) A skirmishing.,
B as in Bickering (n.) Altercation; wrangling.,
B as in Bickerment (n.) Contention.,
B as in Bickern (n.) An anvil ending in a beak or point (orig. in two beaks); also, the beak or horn itself.,
B as in Bicolligate (v. t.) Having the anterior toes connected by a basal web.,
B as in Bicolor (a.) Alt. of Bicolored,
B as in Bicolored (a.) Of two colors.,
B as in Biconcave (a.) Concave on both sides; as, biconcave vertebrae.,
B as in Biconjugate (a.) Twice paired, as when a petiole forks twice.,
B as in Biconvex (a.) Convex on both sides; as, a biconvex lens.,
B as in Bicorn (a.) Alt. of Bicornous,
B as in Bicorned (a.) Alt. of Bicornous,
B as in Bicornous (a.) Having two horns; two-horned; crescentlike.,
B as in Bicorporal (a.) Having two bodies.,
B as in Bicorporate (a.) Double-bodied, as a lion having one head and two bodies.,
B as in Bicostate (a.) Having two principal ribs running longitudinally, as a leaf.,
B as in Bicrenate (a.) Twice crenated, as in the case of leaves whose crenatures are themselves crenate.,
B as in Bicrescentic (a.) Having the form of a double crescent.,
B as in Bicrural (a.) Having two legs.,
B as in Bicuspid (a.) Alt. of Bicuspidate,
B as in Bicuspidate (a.) Having two points or prominences; ending in two points; -- said of teeth, leaves, fruit, etc.,
B as in Bicuspid (n.) One of the two double-pointed teeth which intervene between the canines (cuspids) and the molars, on each side of each jaw. See Tooth, n.,
B as in Bicyanide (n.) See Dicyanide.,
B as in Bicycle (n.) A light vehicle having two wheels one behind the other. It has a saddle seat and is propelled by the rider's feet acting on cranks or levers.,
B as in Bicycler (n.) One who rides a bicycle.,
B as in Bicyclic (a.) Relating to bicycles.,
B as in Bicycling (n.) The use of a bicycle; the act or practice of riding a bicycle.,
B as in Bicyclism (n.) The art of riding a bicycle.,
B as in Bicyclist (n.) A bicycler.,
B as in Bicycular (a.) Relating to bicycling.,
B as in Bade (imp.) of Bid,
B as in Bid () of Bid,
B as in Bad () of Bid,
B as in Bidden (p. p.) of Bid,
B as in Bid () of Bid,
B as in Bidding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bid,
B as in Bid (v. t.) To make an offer of; to propose. Specifically : To offer to pay ( a certain price, as for a thing put up at auction), or to take (a certain price, as for work to be done under a contract).,
B as in Bid (v. t.) To offer in words; to declare, as a wish, a greeting, a threat, or defiance, etc.; as, to bid one welcome; to bid good morning, farewell, etc.,
B as in Bid (v. t.) To proclaim; to declare publicly; to make known.,
B as in Bid (v. t.) To order; to direct; to enjoin; to command.,
B as in Bid (v. t.) To invite; to call in; to request to come.,
B as in Bid () imp. & p. p. of Bid.,
B as in Bid (n.) An offer of a price, especially at auctions; a statement of a sum which one will give for something to be received, or will take for something to be done or furnished; that which is offered.,
B as in Bid (v. t.) To pray.,
B as in Bid (v. t.) To make a bid; to state what one will pay or take.,
B as in Bidale (n.) An invitation of friends to drink ale at some poor man's house, and there to contribute in charity for his relief.,
B as in Biddable (a.) Obedient; docile.,
B as in Bidden () p. p. of Bid.,
B as in Bidder (n.) One who bids or offers a price.,
B as in Biddery ware () A kind of metallic ware made in India. The material is a composition of zinc, tin, and lead, in which ornaments of gold and silver are inlaid or damascened.,
B as in Bidding (n.) Command; order; a proclamation or notifying.,
B as in Bidding (n.) The act or process of making bids; an offer; a proposal of a price, as at an auction.,
B as in Bidding prayer () The prayer for the souls of benefactors, said before the sermon.,
B as in Bidding prayer () The prayer before the sermon, with petitions for various specified classes of persons.,
B as in Biddy (n.) A name used in calling a hen or chicken.,
B as in Biddy (n.) An Irish serving woman or girl.,
B as in Bided (imp. & p. p.) of Bide,
B as in Biding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bide,
B as in Bide (v. t.) To dwell; to inhabit; to abide; to stay.,
B as in Bide (v. t.) To remain; to continue or be permanent in a place or state; to continue to be.,
B as in Bide (v. t.) To encounter; to remain firm under (a hardship); to endure; to suffer; to undergo.,
B as in Bide (v. t.) To wait for; as, I bide my time. See Abide.,
B as in Bident (n.) An instrument or weapon with two prongs.,
B as in Bidental (a.) Having two teeth.,
B as in Bidentate (a.) Having two teeth or two toothlike processes; two-toothed.,
B as in Bidet (n.) A small horse formerly allowed to each trooper or dragoon for carrying his baggage.,
B as in Bidet (n.) A kind of bath tub for sitting baths; a sitz bath.,
B as in Bidigitate (a.) Having two fingers or fingerlike projections.,
B as in Biding (n.) Residence; habitation.,
B as in Bield (n.) A shelter. Same as Beild.,
B as in Bield (v. t.) To shelter.,
B as in Biennial (a.) Happening, or taking place, once in two years; as, a biennial election.,
B as in Biennial (a.) Continuing for two years, and then perishing, as plants which form roots and leaves the first year, and produce fruit the second.,
B as in Biennial (n.) Something which takes place or appears once in two years; esp. a biennial examination.,
B as in Biennial (n.) A plant which exists or lasts for two years.,
B as in Biennially (adv.) Once in two years.,
B as in Bier (n.) A handbarrow or portable frame on which a corpse is placed or borne to the grave.,
B as in Bier (n.) A count of forty threads in the warp or chain of woolen cloth.,
B as in Bierbalk (n.) A church road (e. g., a path across fields) for funerals.,
B as in Biestings (n. pl.) Alt. of Beestings,
B as in Beestings (n. pl.) The first milk given by a cow after calving.,
B as in Bifacial (a.) Having the opposite surfaces alike.,
B as in Bifarious (a.) Twofold; arranged in two rows.,
B as in Bifarious (a.) Pointing two ways, as leaves that grow only on opposite sides of a branch; in two vertical rows.,
B as in Bifariously (adv.) In a bifarious manner.,
B as in Biferous (a.) Bearing fruit twice a year.,
B as in Biffin (n.) A sort of apple peculiar to Norfolk, Eng.,
B as in Biffin (n.) A baked apple pressed down into a flat, round cake; a dried apple.,
B as in Bifid (a.) Cleft to the middle or slightly beyond the middle; opening with a cleft; divided by a linear sinus, with straight margins.,
B as in Bifidate (a.) See Bifid.,
B as in Bifilar (a.) Two-threaded; involving the use of two threads; as, bifilar suspension; a bifilar balance.,
B as in Biflabellate (a.) Flabellate on both sides.,
B as in Biflagellate (a.) Having two long, narrow, whiplike appendages.,
B as in Biflorate (a.) Alt. of Biflorous,
B as in Biflorous (a.) Bearing two flowers; two-flowered.,
B as in Bifold (a.) Twofold; double; of two kinds, degrees, etc.,
B as in Bifoliate (a.) Having two leaves; two-leaved.,
B as in Bifoliolate (a.) Having two leaflets, as some compound leaves.,
B as in Biforate (a.) Having two perforations.,
B as in Biforine (n.) An oval sac or cell, found in the leaves of certain plants of the order Araceae. It has an opening at each end through which raphides, generated inside, are discharged.,
B as in Biforked (a.) Bifurcate.,
B as in Biform (a.) Having two forms, bodies, or shapes.,
B as in Biformed (a.) Having two forms.,
B as in Biformity (n.) A double form.,
B as in Biforn (prep. & adv.) Before.,
B as in Biforous (a.) See Biforate.,
B as in Bifronted (a.) Having two fronts.,
B as in Bifurcate (a.) Alt. of Bifurcated,
B as in Bifurcated (a.) Two-pronged; forked.,
B as in Bifurcate (v. i.) To divide into two branches.,
B as in Bifurcation (n.) A forking, or division into two branches.,
B as in Bifurcous (a.) See Bifurcate, a.,
B as in Big (superl.) Having largeness of size; of much bulk or magnitude; of great size; large.,
B as in Big (superl.) Great with young; pregnant; swelling; ready to give birth or produce; -- often figuratively.,
B as in Big (superl.) Having greatness, fullness, importance, inflation, distention, etc., whether in a good or a bad sense; as, a big heart; a big voice; big looks; to look big. As applied to looks, it indicates haughtiness or pride.,
B as in Big (n.) Alt. of Bigg,
B as in Bigg (n.) Barley, especially the hardy four-rowed kind.,
B as in Big (v. t.) Alt. of Bigg,
B as in Bigg (v. t.) To build.,
B as in Biga (n.) A two-horse chariot.,
B as in Bigam (n.) A bigamist.,
B as in Bigamist (n.) One who is guilty of bigamy.,
B as in Bigamous (a.) Guilty of bigamy; involving bigamy; as, a bigamous marriage.,
B as in Bigamy (n.) The offense of marrying one person when already legally married to another.,
B as in Bigarreau (n.) Alt. of Bigaroon,
B as in Bigaroon (n.) The large white-heart cherry.,
B as in Big-bellied (a.) Having a great belly; as, a big-bellied man or flagon; advanced in pregnancy.,
B as in Bigeminate (a.) Having a forked petiole, and a pair of leaflets at the end of each division; biconjugate; twice paired; -- said of a decompound leaf.,
B as in Bigential (a.) Including two tribes or races of men.,
B as in Bigeye (n.) A fish of the genus Priacanthus, remarkable for the large size of the eye.,
B as in Bigg (n. & v.) See Big, n. & v.,
B as in Biggen (v. t. & i.) To make or become big; to enlarge.,
B as in Bigger (a.) compar. of Big.,
B as in Biggest (a.) superl. of Big.,
B as in Biggin (n.) A child's cap; a hood, or something worn on the head.,
B as in Biggin (n.) A coffeepot with a strainer or perforated metallic vessel for holding the ground coffee, through which boiling water is poured; -- so called from Mr. Biggin, the inventor.,
B as in Biggin (v. t.) Alt. of Bigging,
B as in Bigging (v. t.) A building.,
B as in Biggon (n.) Alt. of Biggonnet,
B as in Biggonnet (n.) A cap or hood with pieces covering the ears.,
B as in Bigha (n.) A measure of land in India, varying from a third of an acre to an acre.,
B as in Bighorn (n.) The Rocky Mountain sheep (Ovis / Caprovis montana).,
B as in Bight (v.) A corner, bend, or angle; a hollow; as, the bight of a horse's knee; the bight of an elbow.,
B as in Bight (v.) A bend in a coast forming an open bay; as, the Bight of Benin.,
B as in Bight (v.) The double part of a rope when folded, in distinction from the ends; that is, a round, bend, or coil not including the ends; a loop.,
B as in Biglandular (a.) Having two glands, as a plant.,
B as in Bigly (a.) In a tumid, swelling, blustering manner; haughtily; violently.,
B as in Bigness (n.) The state or quality of being big; largeness; size; bulk.,
B as in Bignonia (n.) A large genus of American, mostly tropical, climbing shrubs, having compound leaves and showy somewhat tubular flowers. B. capreolata is the cross vine of the Southern United States. The trumpet creeper was formerly considered to be of this genus.,
B as in Bignoniaceous (a.) Of pertaining to, or resembling, the family of plants of which the trumpet flower is an example.,
B as in Bigot (n.) A hypocrite; esp., a superstitious hypocrite.,
B as in Bigot (n.) A person who regards his own faith and views in matters of religion as unquestionably right, and any belief or opinion opposed to or differing from them as unreasonable or wicked. In an extended sense, a person who is intolerant of opinions which conflict with his own, as in politics or morals; one obstinately and blindly devoted to his own church, party, belief, or opinion.,
B as in Bigot (a.) Bigoted.,
B as in Bigoted (a.) Obstinately and blindly attached to some creed, opinion practice, or ritual; unreasonably devoted to a system or party, and illiberal toward the opinions of others.,
B as in Bigotedly (adv.) In the manner of a bigot.,
B as in Bigotry (n.) The state of mind of a bigot; obstinate and unreasoning attachment of one's own belief and opinions, with narrow-minded intolerance of beliefs opposed to them.,
B as in Bigotry (n.) The practice or tenets of a bigot.,
B as in Bigwig (a.) A person of consequence; as, the bigwigs of society.,
B as in Big-wigged (a.) characterized by pomposity of manner.,
B as in Bihydroguret (n.) A compound of two atoms of hydrogen with some other substance.,
B as in Bijoux (pl. ) of Bijou,
B as in Bijou (n.) A trinket; a jewel; -- a word applied to anything small and of elegant workmanship.,
B as in Bijoutry (n.) Small articles of virtu, as jewelry, trinkets, etc.,
B as in Bijugate (a.) Having two pairs, as of leaflets.,
B as in Bijugous (a.) Bijugate.,
B as in Bike (n.) A nest of wild bees, wasps, or ants; a swarm.,
B as in Bikh (n.) The East Indian name of a virulent poison extracted from Aconitum ferox or other species of aconite: also, the plant itself.,
B as in Bilabiate (a.) Having two lips, as the corols of certain flowers.,
B as in Bilaciniate (a.) Doubly fringed.,
B as in Bilalo (n.) A two-masted passenger boat or small vessel, used in the bay of Manila.,
B as in Bilamellate (a.) Alt. of Bilamellated,
B as in Bilamellated (a.) Formed of two plates, as the stigma of the Mimulus; also, having two elevated ridges, as in the lip of certain flowers.,
B as in Bilaminar (a.) Alt. of Bilaminate,
B as in Bilaminate (a.) Formed of, or having, two laminae, or thin plates.,
B as in Biland (n.) A byland.,
B as in Bilander (n.) A small two-masted merchant vessel, fitted only for coasting, or for use in canals, as in Holland.,
B as in Bilateral (a.) Having two sides; arranged upon two sides; affecting two sides or two parties.,
B as in Bilateral (a.) Of or pertaining to the two sides of a central area or organ, or of a central axis; as, bilateral symmetry in animals, where there is a similarity of parts on the right and left sides of the body.,
B as in Bilaterality (n.) State of being bilateral.,
B as in Bilberries (pl. ) of Bilberry,
B as in Bilberry (n.) The European whortleberry (Vaccinium myrtillus); also, its edible bluish black fruit.,
B as in Bilberry (n.) Any similar plant or its fruit; esp., in America, the species Vaccinium myrtilloides, V. caespitosum and V. uliginosum.,
B as in Bilboes (pl. ) of Bilbo,
B as in Bilbo (n.) A rapier; a sword; so named from Bilbao, in Spain.,
B as in Bilbo (n.) A long bar or bolt of iron with sliding shackles, and a lock at the end, to confine the feet of prisoners or offenders, esp. on board of ships.,
B as in Bilboquet (n.) The toy called cup and ball.,
B as in Bilcock (n.) The European water rail.,
B as in Bildstein (n.) Same as Agalmatolite.,
B as in Bile (n.) A yellow, or greenish, viscid fluid, usually alkaline in reaction, secreted by the liver. It passes into the intestines, where it aids in the digestive process. Its characteristic constituents are the bile salts, and coloring matters.,
B as in Bile (n.) Bitterness of feeling; choler; anger; ill humor; as, to stir one's bile.,
B as in Bile (n.) A boil.,
B as in Bilection (n.) That portion of a group of moldings which projects beyond the general surface of a panel; a bolection.,
B as in Bilestone (n.) A gallstone, or biliary calculus. See Biliary.,
B as in Bilge (n.) The protuberant part of a cask, which is usually in the middle.,
B as in Bilge (n.) That part of a ship's hull or bottom which is broadest and most nearly flat, and on which she would rest if aground.,
B as in Bilge (n.) Bilge water.,
B as in Bilged (imp. & p. p.) of Bilge,
B as in Bilging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bilge,
B as in Bilge (v. i.) To suffer a fracture in the bilge; to spring a leak by a fracture in the bilge.,
B as in Bilge (v. i.) To bulge.,
B as in Bilge (v. t.) To fracture the bilge of, or stave in the bottom of (a ship or other vessel).,
B as in Bilge (v. t.) To cause to bulge.,
B as in Bilgy (a.) Having the smell of bilge water.,
B as in Biliary (a.) Relating or belonging to bile; conveying bile; as, biliary acids; biliary ducts.,
B as in Biliation (n.) The production and excretion of bile.,
B as in Biliferous (a.) Generating bile.,
B as in Bilifuscin (n.) A brownish green pigment found in human gallstones and in old bile. It is a derivative of bilirubin.,
B as in Bilimbi (n.) Alt. of Bilimbing,
B as in Bilimbing (n.) The berries of two East Indian species of Averrhoa, of the Oxalideae or Sorrel family. They are very acid, and highly esteemed when preserved or pickled. The juice is used as a remedy for skin diseases.,
B as in Biliment (n.) A woman's ornament; habiliment.,
B as in Bilin (n.) A name applied to the amorphous or crystalline mass obtained from bile by the action of alcohol and ether. It is composed of a mixture of the sodium salts of the bile acids.,
B as in Bilinear (a.) Of, pertaining to, or included by, two lines; as, bilinear coordinates.,
B as in Bilingual (a.) Containing, or consisting of, two languages; expressed in two languages; as, a bilingual inscription; a bilingual dictionary.,
B as in Bilingualism (n.) Quality of being bilingual.,
B as in Bilinguar (a.) See Bilingual.,
B as in Bilinguist (n.) One versed in two languages.,
B as in Bilinguous (a.) Having two tongues, or speaking two languages.,
B as in Bilious (a.) Of or pertaining to the bile.,
B as in Bilious (a.) Disordered in respect to the bile; troubled with an excess of bile; as, a bilious patient; dependent on, or characterized by, an excess of bile; as, bilious symptoms.,
B as in Bilious (a.) Choleric; passionate; ill tempered.,
B as in Biliousness (n.) The state of being bilious.,
B as in Biliprasin (n.) A dark green pigment found in small quantity in human gallstones.,
B as in Bilirubin (n.) A reddish yellow pigment present in human bile, and in that from carnivorous and herbivorous animals; the normal biliary pigment.,
B as in Biliteral (a.) Consisting of two letters; as, a biliteral root of a Sanskrit verb.,
B as in Biliteral (n.) A word, syllable, or root, consisting of two letters.,
B as in Biliteralism (n.) The property or state of being biliteral.,
B as in Biliverdin (n.) A green pigment present in the bile, formed from bilirubin by oxidation.,
B as in Bilked (imp. & p. p.) of Bilk,
B as in Bilking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bilk,
B as in Bilk (v. t.) To frustrate or disappoint; to deceive or defraud, by nonfulfillment of engagement; to leave in the lurch; to give the slip to; as, to bilk a creditor.,
B as in Bilk (n.) A thwarting an adversary in cribbage by spoiling his score; a balk.,
B as in Bilk (n.) A cheat; a trick; a hoax.,
B as in Bilk (n.) Nonsense; vain words.,
B as in Bilk (n.) A person who tricks a creditor; an untrustworthy, tricky person.,
B as in Bill (n.) A beak, as of a bird, or sometimes of a turtle or other animal.,
B as in Billed (imp. & p. p.) of Bill,
B as in Billing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bill,
B as in Bill (v. i.) To strike; to peck.,
B as in Bill (v. i.) To join bills, as doves; to caress in fondness.,
B as in Bill (n.) The bell, or boom, of the bittern,
B as in Bill (n.) A cutting instrument, with hook-shaped point, and fitted with a handle; -- used in pruning, etc.; a billhook. When short, called a hand bill, when long, a hedge bill.,
B as in Bill (n.) A weapon of infantry, in the 14th and 15th centuries. A common form of bill consisted of a broad, heavy, double-edged, hook-shaped blade, having a short pike at the back and another at the top, and attached to the end of a long staff.,
B as in Bill (n.) One who wields a bill; a billman.,
B as in Bill (n.) A pickax, or mattock.,
B as in Bill (n.) The extremity of the arm of an anchor; the point of or beyond the fluke.,
B as in Bill (v. t.) To work upon ( as to dig, hoe, hack, or chop anything) with a bill.,
B as in Bill (n.) A declaration made in writing, stating some wrong the complainant has suffered from the defendant, or a fault committed by some person against a law.,
B as in Bill (n.) A writing binding the signer or signers to pay a certain sum at a future day or on demand, with or without interest, as may be stated in the document.,
B as in Bill (n.) A form or draft of a law, presented to a legislature for enactment; a proposed or projected law.,
B as in Bill (n.) A paper, written or printed, and posted up or given away, to advertise something, as a lecture, a play, or the sale of goods; a placard; a poster; a handbill.,
B as in Bill (n.) An account of goods sold, services rendered, or work done, with the price or charge; a statement of a creditor's claim, in gross or by items; as, a grocer's bill.,
B as in Bill (n.) Any paper, containing a statement of particulars; as, a bill of charges or expenditures; a weekly bill of mortality; a bill of fare, etc.,
B as in Bill (v. t.) To advertise by a bill or public notice.,
B as in Bill (v. t.) To charge or enter in a bill; as, to bill goods.,
B as in Billage (n. / v. t. & i.) Same as Bilge.,
B as in Billard (n.) An English fish, allied to the cod; the coalfish.,
B as in Billbeetle (n.) Alt. of Billbug,
B as in Billbug (n.) A weevil or curculio of various species, as the corn weevil. See Curculio.,
B as in Billboard (n.) A piece of thick plank, armed with iron plates, and fixed on the bow or fore channels of a vessel, for the bill or fluke of the anchor to rest on.,
B as in Billboard (n.) A flat surface, as of a panel or of a fence, on which bills are posted; a bulletin board.,
B as in Bill book () A book in which a person keeps an account of his notes, bills, bills of exchange, etc., thus showing all that he issues and receives.,
B as in Bill broker () One who negotiates the discount of bills.,
B as in Billed (a.) Furnished with, or having, a bill, as a bird; -- used in composition; as, broad-billed.,
B as in Billet (n.) A small paper; a note; a short letter.,
B as in Billet (n.) A ticket from a public officer directing soldiers at what house to lodge; as, a billet of residence.,
B as in Billeted (imp. & p. p.) of Billet,
B as in Billeting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Billet,
B as in Billet (v. t.) To direct, by a ticket or note, where to lodge. Hence: To quarter, or place in lodgings, as soldiers in private houses.,
B as in Billet (n.) A small stick of wood, as for firewood.,
B as in Billet (n.) A short bar of metal, as of gold or iron.,
B as in Billet (n.) An ornament in Norman work, resembling a billet of wood either square or round.,
B as in Billet (n.) A strap which enters a buckle.,
B as in Billet (n.) A loop which receives the end of a buckled strap.,
B as in Billet (n.) A bearing in the form of an oblong rectangle.,
B as in Billets-doux (pl. ) of Billet-doux,
B as in Billet-doux (n.) A love letter or note.,
B as in Billethead (n.) A round piece of timber at the bow or stern of a whaleboat, around which the harpoon lone is run out when the whale darts off.,
B as in Billfish (n.) A name applied to several distinct fishes,
B as in Billfish (n.) The garfish (Tylosurus, / Belone, longirostris) and allied species.,
B as in Billfish (n.) The saury, a slender fish of the Atlantic coast (Scomberesox saurus).,
B as in Billfish (n.) The Tetrapturus albidus, a large oceanic species related to the swordfish; the spearfish.,
B as in Billfish (n.) The American fresh-water garpike (Lepidosteus osseus).,
B as in Billhead (n.) A printed form, used by merchants in making out bills or rendering accounts.,
B as in Bill holder () A person who holds a bill or acceptance.,
B as in Bill holder () A device by means of which bills, etc., are held.,
B as in Billhook (n.) A thick, heavy knife with a hooked point, used in pruning hedges, etc. When it has a short handle, it is sometimes called a hand bill; when the handle is long, a hedge bill or scimiter.,
B as in Billiard (a.) Of or pertaining to the game of billiards.,
B as in Billiards (n.) A game played with ivory balls o a cloth-covered, rectangular table, bounded by elastic cushions. The player seeks to impel his ball with his cue so that it shall either strike (carom upon) two other balls, or drive another ball into one of the pockets with which the table sometimes is furnished.,
B as in Billing (a. & n.) Caressing; kissing.,
B as in Billingsgate (n.) A market near the Billings gate in London, celebrated for fish and foul language.,
B as in Billingsgate (n.) Coarsely abusive, foul, or profane language; vituperation; ribaldry.,
B as in Billion (n.) According to the French and American method of numeration, a thousand millions, or 1,000,000,000; according to the English method, a million millions, or 1,000,000,000,000. See Numeration.,
B as in Billmen (pl. ) of Billman,
B as in Billman (n.) One who uses, or is armed with, a bill or hooked ax.,
B as in Billon (n.) An alloy of gold and silver with a large proportion of copper or other base metal, used in coinage.,
B as in Billot (n.) Bullion in the bar or mass.,
B as in Billow (n.) A great wave or surge of the sea or other water, caused usually by violent wind.,
B as in Billow (n.) A great wave or flood of anything.,
B as in Billowed (imp. & p. p.) of Billow,
B as in Billowing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Billow,
B as in Billow (v. i.) To surge; to rise and roll in waves or surges; to undulate.,
B as in Billowy (a.) Of or pertaining to billows; swelling or swollen into large waves; full of billows or surges; resembling billows.,
B as in Billposter (n.) Alt. of Billsticker,
B as in Billsticker (n.) One whose occupation is to post handbills or posters in public places.,
B as in Billy (n.) A club; esp., a policeman's club.,
B as in Billy (n.) A slubbing or roving machine.,
B as in Billyboy (n.) A flat-bottomed river barge or coasting vessel.,
B as in Billy goat () A male goat.,
B as in Bilobate (a.) Divided into two lobes or segments.,
B as in Bilobed (a.) Bilobate.,
B as in Bilocation (n.) Double location; the state or power of being in two places at the same instant; -- a miraculous power attributed to some of the saints.,
B as in Bilocular (a.) Divided into two cells or compartments; as, a bilocular pericarp.,
B as in Bilsted (n.) See Sweet gum.,
B as in Biltong (n.) Lean meat cut into strips and sun-dried.,
B as in Bimaculate (a.) Having, or marked with, two spots.,
B as in Bimana (n. pl.) Animals having two hands; -- a term applied by Cuvier to man as a special order of Mammalia.,
B as in Bimanous (a.) Having two hands; two-handed.,
B as in Bimarginate (a.) Having a double margin, as certain shells.,
B as in Bimastism (n.) The condition of having two mammae or teats.,
B as in Bimedial (a.) Applied to a line which is the sum of two lines commensurable only in power (as the side and diagonal of a square).,
B as in Bimembral (a.) Having two members; as, a bimembral sentence.,
B as in Bimensal (a.) See Bimonthly, a.,
B as in Bimestrial (a.) Continuing two months.,
B as in Bimetallic (a.) Of or relating to, or using, a double metallic standard (as gold and silver) for a system of coins or currency.,
B as in Bimetallism (n.) The legalized use of two metals (as gold and silver) in the currency of a country, at a fixed relative value; -- in opposition to monometallism.,
B as in Bimetallist (n.) An advocate of bimetallism.,
B as in Bimonthly (a.) Occurring, done, or coming, once in two months; as, bimonthly visits; bimonthly publications.,
B as in Bimonthly (n.) A bimonthly publication.,
B as in Bimonthly (adv.) Once in two months.,
B as in Bimuscular (a.) Having two adductor muscles, as a bivalve mollusk.,
B as in Bin (n.) A box, frame, crib, or inclosed place, used as a receptacle for any commodity; as, a corn bin; a wine bin; a coal bin.,
B as in Binned (imp. & p. p.) of Bin,
B as in Binning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bin,
B as in Bin (v. t.) To put into a bin; as, to bin wine.,
B as in Bin () An old form of Be and Been.,
B as in Bin- () A euphonic form of the prefix Bi-.,
B as in Binal (a.) Twofold; double.,
B as in Binarseniate (n.) A salt having two equivalents of arsenic acid to one of the base.,
B as in Binary (a.) Compounded or consisting of two things or parts; characterized by two (things).,
B as in Binary (n.) That which is constituted of two figures, things, or parts; two; duality.,
B as in Binate (a.) Double; growing in pairs or couples.,
B as in Binaural (a.) Of or pertaining to, or used by, both ears.,
B as in Bound (imp.) of Bind,
B as in Bound (p. p.) of Bind,
B as in Bounden () of Bind,
B as in Binding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bind,
B as in Bind (v. t.) To tie, or confine with a cord, band, ligature, chain, etc.; to fetter; to make fast; as, to bind grain in bundles; to bind a prisoner.,
B as in Bind (v. t.) To confine, restrain, or hold by physical force or influence of any kind; as, attraction binds the planets to the sun; frost binds the earth, or the streams.,
B as in Bind (v. t.) To cover, as with a bandage; to bandage or dress; -- sometimes with up; as, to bind up a wound.,
B as in Bind (v. t.) To make fast ( a thing) about or upon something, as by tying; to encircle with something; as, to bind a belt about one; to bind a compress upon a part.,
B as in Bind (v. t.) To prevent or restrain from customary or natural action; as, certain drugs bind the bowels.,
B as in Bind (v. t.) To protect or strengthen by a band or binding, as the edge of a carpet or garment.,
B as in Bind (v. t.) To sew or fasten together, and inclose in a cover; as, to bind a book.,
B as in Bind (v. t.) Fig.: To oblige, restrain, or hold, by authority, law, duty, promise, vow, affection, or other moral tie; as, to bind the conscience; to bind by kindness; bound by affection; commerce binds nations to each other.,
B as in Bind (v. t.) To bring (any one) under definite legal obligations; esp. under the obligation of a bond or covenant.,
B as in Bind (v. t.) To place under legal obligation to serve; to indenture; as, to bind an apprentice; -- sometimes with out; as, bound out to service.,
B as in Bind (v. i.) To tie; to confine by any ligature.,
B as in Bind (v. i.) To contract; to grow hard or stiff; to cohere or stick together in a mass; as, clay binds by heat.,
B as in Bind (v. i.) To be restrained from motion, or from customary or natural action, as by friction.,
B as in Bind (v. i.) To exert a binding or restraining influence.,
B as in Bind (n.) That which binds or ties.,
B as in Bind (n.) Any twining or climbing plant or stem, esp. a hop vine; a bine.,
B as in Bind (n.) Indurated clay, when much mixed with the oxide of iron.,
B as in Bind (n.) A ligature or tie for grouping notes.,
B as in Binder (n.) One who binds; as, a binder of sheaves; one whose trade is to bind; as, a binder of books.,
B as in Binder (n.) Anything that binds, as a fillet, cord, rope, or band; a bandage; -- esp. the principal piece of timber intended to bind together any building.,
B as in Bindery (n.) A place where books, or other articles, are bound; a bookbinder's establishment.,
B as in Bindheimite (n.) An amorphous antimonate of lead, produced from the alteration of other ores, as from jamesonite.,
B as in Binding (a.) That binds; obligatory.,
B as in Binding (n.) The act or process of one who, or that which, binds.,
B as in Binding (n.) Anything that binds; a bandage; the cover of a book, or the cover with the sewing, etc.; something that secures the edge of cloth from raveling.,
B as in Binding (pl.) The transoms, knees, beams, keelson, and other chief timbers used for connecting and strengthening the parts of a vessel.,
B as in Bindingly (adv.) So as to bind.,
B as in Bindingness (n.) The condition or property of being binding; obligatory quality.,
B as in Bindweed (n.) A plant of the genus Convolvulus; as, greater bindweed (C. Sepium); lesser bindweed (C. arvensis); the white, the blue, the Syrian, bindweed. The black bryony, or Tamus, is called black bindweed, and the Smilax aspera, rough bindweed.,
B as in Bine (n.) The winding or twining stem of a hop vine or other climbing plant.,
B as in Binervate (a.) Two-nerved; -- applied to leaves which have two longitudinal ribs or nerves.,
B as in Binervate (a.) Having only two nerves, as the wings of some insects.,
B as in Bing (n.) A heap or pile; as, a bing of wood.,
B as in Biniodide (n.) Same as Diiodide.,
B as in Bink (n.) A bench.,
B as in Binnacle (n.) A case or box placed near the helmsman, containing the compass of a ship, and a light to show it at night.,
B as in Binny (n.) A large species of barbel (Barbus bynni), found in the Nile, and much esteemed for food.,
B as in Binocle (n.) A dioptric telescope, fitted with two tubes joining, so as to enable a person to view an object with both eyes at once; a double-barreled field glass or an opera glass.,
B as in Binocular (a.) Having two eyes.,
B as in Binocular (a.) Pertaining to both eyes; employing both eyes at once; as, binocular vision.,
B as in Binocular (a.) Adapted to the use of both eyes; as, a binocular microscope or telescope.,
B as in Binocular (n.) A binocular glass, whether opera glass, telescope, or microscope.,
B as in Binocularly (adv.) In a binocular manner.,
B as in Binoculate (a.) Having two eyes.,
B as in Binomial (n.) An expression consisting of two terms connected by the sign plus (+) or minus (-); as, a + b, or 7 - 3.,
B as in Binomial (a.) Consisting of two terms; pertaining to binomials; as, a binomial root.,
B as in Binomial (a.) Having two names; -- used of the system by which every animal and plant receives two names, the one indicating the genus, the other the species, to which it belongs.,
B as in Binominal (a.) Of or pertaining to two names; binomial.,
B as in Binominous (a.) Binominal.,
B as in Binotonous (a.) Consisting of two notes; as, a binotonous cry.,
B as in Binous (a.) Same as Binate.,
B as in Binoxalate (n.) A salt having two equivalents of oxalic acid to one of the base; an acid oxalate.,
B as in Binoxide (n.) Same as Dioxide.,
B as in Binturong (n.) A small Asiatic civet of the genus Arctilis.,
B as in Binuclear (a.) Alt. of Binucleate,
B as in Binucleate (a.) Having two nuclei; as, binucleate cells.,
B as in Binucleolate (a.) Having two nucleoli.,
B as in Bioblast (n.) Same as Bioplast.,
B as in Biocellate (a.) Having two ocelli (eyelike spots); -- said of a wing, etc.,
B as in Biochemistry (n.) The chemistry of living organisms; the chemistry of the processes incidental to, and characteristic of, life.,
B as in Biodynamics (n.) The doctrine of vital forces or energy.,
B as in Biogen (n.) Bioplasm.,
B as in Biogenesis (n.) Alt. of Biogeny,
B as in Biogeny (n.) A doctrine that the genesis or production of living organisms can take place only through the agency of living germs or parents; -- opposed to abiogenesis.,
B as in Biogeny (n.) Life development generally.,
B as in Biogenetic (a.) Pertaining to biogenesis.,
B as in Biogenist (n.) A believer in the theory of biogenesis.,
B as in Biognosis (n.) The investigation of life.,
B as in Biographer (n.) One who writes an account or history of the life of a particular person; a writer of lives, as Plutarch.,
B as in Biographic (a.) Alt. of Biographical,
B as in Biographical (a.) Of or pertaining to biography; containing biography.,
B as in Biographize (v. t.) To write a history of the life of.,
B as in Biographies (pl. ) of Biography,
B as in Biography (n.) The written history of a person's life.,
B as in Biography (n.) Biographical writings in general.,
B as in Biologic (a.) Alt. of Biological,
B as in Biological (a.) Of or relating to biology.,
B as in Biologist (n.) A student of biology; one versed in the science of biology.,
B as in Biology (n.) The science of life; that branch of knowledge which treats of living matter as distinct from matter which is not living; the study of living tissue. It has to do with the origin, structure, development, function, and distribution of animals and plants.,
B as in Biolysis (n.) The destruction of life.,
B as in Biolytic (a.) Relating to the destruction of life.,
B as in Biomagnetic (a.) Relating to biomagnetism.,
B as in Biomagnetism (n.) Animal magnetism.,
B as in Biometry (n.) Measurement of life; calculation of the probable duration of human life.,
B as in Bion (p. pr.) The physiological individual, characterized by definiteness and independence of function, in distinction from the morphological individual or morphon.,
B as in Bionomy (n.) Physiology.,
B as in Biophor Biophore (n.) One of the smaller vital units of a cell, the bearer of vitality and heredity. See Pangen, in Supplement.,
B as in Bioplasm (n.) A name suggested by Dr. Beale for the germinal matter supposed to be essential to the functions of all living beings; the material through which every form of life manifests itself; unaltered protoplasm.,
B as in Bioplasmic (a.) Pertaining to, or consisting of, bioplasm.,
B as in Bioplast (n.) A tiny mass of bioplasm, in itself a living unit and having formative power, as a living white blood corpuscle; bioblast.,
B as in Bioplastic (a.) Bioplasmic.,
B as in Biorgan (n.) A physiological organ; a living organ; an organ endowed with function; -- distinguished from idorgan.,
B as in Biostatics (n.) The physical phenomena of organized bodies, in opposition to their organic or vital phenomena.,
B as in Biostatistics (n.) Vital statistics.,
B as in Biotaxy (n.) The classification of living organisms according to their structural character; taxonomy.,
B as in Biotic (a.) Relating to life; as, the biotic principle.,
B as in Biotite (n.) Mica containing iron and magnesia, generally of a black or dark green color; -- a common constituent of crystalline rocks. See Mica.,
B as in Bipalmate (a.) Palmately branched, with the branches again palmated.,
B as in Biparietal (a.) Of or pertaining to the diameter of the cranium, from one parietal fossa to the other.,
B as in Biparous (a.) Bringing forth two at a birth.,
B as in Bipartible (a.) Capable of being divided into two parts.,
B as in Bipartient (p. pr.) Dividing into two parts.,
B as in Bipartient (n.) A number that divides another into two equal parts without a remainder.,
B as in Bipartile (a.) Divisible into two parts.,
B as in Bipartite (a.) Being in two parts; having two correspondent parts, as a legal contract or writing, one for each party; shared by two; as, a bipartite treaty.,
B as in Bipartite (a.) Divided into two parts almost to the base, as a leaf; consisting of two parts or subdivisions.,
B as in Bipartition (n.) The act of dividing into two parts, or of making two correspondent parts, or the state of being so divided.,
B as in Bipectinate (a.) Alt. of Bipectinated,
B as in Bipectinated (a.) Having two margins toothed like a comb.,
B as in Biped (n.) A two-footed animal, as man.,
B as in Biped (a.) Having two feet; two-footed.,
B as in Bipedal (n.) Having two feet; biped.,
B as in Bipedal (n.) Pertaining to a biped.,
B as in Bipeltate (a.) Having a shell or covering like a double shield.,
B as in Bipennate (a.) Alt. of Bipennated,
B as in Bipennated (a.) Having two wings.,
B as in Bipennis (n.) An ax with an edge or blade on each side of the handle.,
B as in Bipetalous (a.) Having two petals.,
B as in Bipinnaria (n.) The larva of certain starfishes as developed in the free-swimming stage.,
B as in Bipinnate (a.) Alt. of Bipinnated,
B as in Bipinnated (a.) Twice pinnate.,
B as in Bipinnatifid (a.) Doubly pinnatifid.,
B as in Biplicate (a.) Twice folded together.,
B as in Biplicity (n.) The state of being twice folded; reduplication.,
B as in Bipolar (a.) Doubly polar; having two poles; as, a bipolar cell or corpuscle.,
B as in Bipolarity (n.) Bipolar quality.,
B as in Bipont (a.) Alt. of Bipontine,
B as in Bipontine (a.) Relating to books printed at Deuxponts, or Bipontium (Zweibrucken), in Bavaria.,
B as in Bipunctate (a.) Having two punctures, or spots.,
B as in Bipunctual (a.) Having two points.,
B as in Bipupillate (a.) Having an eyelike spot on the wing, with two dots within it of a different color, as in some butterflies.,
B as in Bipyramidal (a.) Consisting of two pyramids placed base to base; having a pyramid at each of the extremities of a prism, as in quartz crystals.,
B as in Biquadrate (n.) The fourth power, or the square of the square. Thus 4x4=16, the square of 4, and 16x16=256, the biquadrate of 4.,
B as in Biquadratic (a.) Of or pertaining to the biquadrate, or fourth power.,
B as in Biquadratic (n.) A biquadrate.,
B as in Biquadratic (n.) A biquadratic equation.,
B as in Biquintile (n.) An aspect of the planets when they are distant from each other by twice the fifth part of a great circle -- that is, twice 72 degrees.,
B as in Biradiate (a.) Alt. of Biradiated,
B as in Biradiated (a.) Having two rays; as, a biradiate fin.,
B as in Biramous (a.) Having, or consisting of, two branches.,
B as in Birches (pl. ) of Birch,
B as in Birch (n.) A tree of several species, constituting the genus Betula; as, the white or common birch (B. alba) (also called silver birch and lady birch); the dwarf birch (B. glandulosa); the paper or canoe birch (B. papyracea); the yellow birch (B. lutea); the black or cherry birch (B. lenta).,
B as in Birch (n.) The wood or timber of the birch.,
B as in Birch (n.) A birch twig or birch twigs, used for flogging.,
B as in Birch (n.) A birch-bark canoe.,
B as in Birch (a.) Of or pertaining to the birch; birchen.,
B as in Birched (imp. & p. p.) of Birch,
B as in Birching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Birch,
B as in Birch (v. t.) To whip with a birch rod or twig; to flog.,
B as in Birchen (a.) Of or relating to birch.,
B as in Bird (n.) Orig., a chicken; the young of a fowl; a young eaglet; a nestling; and hence, a feathered flying animal (see 2).,
B as in Bird (n.) A warm-blooded, feathered vertebrate provided with wings. See Aves.,
B as in Bird (n.) Specifically, among sportsmen, a game bird.,
B as in Bird (n.) Fig.: A girl; a maiden.,
B as in Bird (v. i.) To catch or shoot birds.,
B as in Bird (v. i.) Hence: To seek for game or plunder; to thieve.,
B as in Birdbolt (n.) A short blunt arrow for killing birds without piercing them.,
B as in Birdbolt (n.) Anything which smites without penetrating.,
B as in Bird cage (n.) Alt. of Birdcage,
B as in Birdcage (n.) A cage for confining birds.,
B as in Birdcall (n.) A sound made in imitation of the note or cry of a bird for the purpose of decoying the bird or its mate.,
B as in Birdcall (n.) An instrument of any kind, as a whistle, used in making the sound of a birdcall.,
B as in Birdcatcher (n.) One whose employment it is to catch birds; a fowler.,
B as in Birdcatching (n.) The art, act, or occupation or catching birds or wild fowls.,
B as in Bird cherry () A shrub (Prunus Padus ) found in Northern and Central Europe. It bears small black cherries.,
B as in Birder (n.) A birdcatcher.,
B as in Bird-eyed (a.) Quick-sighted; catching a glance as one goes.,
B as in Bird fancier () One who takes pleasure in rearing or collecting rare or curious birds.,
B as in Bird fancier () One who has for sale the various kinds of birds which are kept in cages.,
B as in Birdie (n.) A pretty or dear little bird; -- a pet name.,
B as in Birdikin (n.) A young bird.,
B as in Birding (n.) Birdcatching or fowling.,
B as in Birdlet (n.) A little bird; a nestling.,
B as in Birdlike (a.) Resembling a bird.,
B as in Birdlime (n.) An extremely adhesive viscid substance, usually made of the middle bark of the holly, by boiling, fermenting, and cleansing it. When a twig is smeared with this substance it will hold small birds which may light upon it. Hence: Anything which insnares.,
B as in Birdlime (v. t.) To smear with birdlime; to catch with birdlime; to insnare.,
B as in Birdling (n.) A little bird; a nestling.,
B as in Birdman (n.) A fowler or birdcatcher.,
B as in Bird of paradise () The name of several very beautiful birds of the genus Paradisea and allied genera, inhabiting New Guinea and the adjacent islands. The males have brilliant colors, elegant plumes, and often remarkable tail feathers.,
B as in Bird pepper () A species of capsicum (Capsicum baccatum), whose small, conical, coral-red fruit is among the most piquant of all red peppers.,
B as in Bird's-beak (n.) A molding whose section is thought to resemble a beak.,
B as in Birdseed (n.) Canary seed, hemp, millet or other small seeds used for feeding caged birds.,
B as in Bird's-eye (a.) Seen from above, as if by a flying bird; embraced at a glance; hence, general; not minute, or entering into details; as, a bird's-eye view.,
B as in Bird's-eye (a.) Marked with spots resembling bird's eyes; as, bird's-eye diaper; bird's-eye maple.,
B as in Bird's-eye (n.) A plant with a small bright flower, as the Adonis or pheasant's eye, the mealy primrose (Primula farinosa), and species of Veronica, Geranium, etc.,
B as in Bird's-eye maple () See under Maple.,
B as in Bird's-foot (n.) A papilionaceous plant, the Ornithopus, having a curved, cylindrical pod tipped with a short, clawlike point.,
B as in Bird's-mouth (n.) An interior angle or notch cut across a piece of timber, for the reception of the edge of another, as that in a rafter to be laid on a plate; -- commonly called crow's-foot in the United States.,
B as in Bird's nest (n.) Alt. of Bird's-nest,
B as in Bird's-nest (n.) The nest in which a bird lays eggs and hatches her young.,
B as in Bird's-nest (n.) The nest of a small swallow (Collocalia nidifica and several allied species), of China and the neighboring countries, which is mixed with soups.,
B as in Bird's-nest (n.) An orchideous plant with matted roots, of the genus Neottia (N. nidus-avis.),
B as in Bird's-nesting (n.) Hunting for, or taking, birds' nests or their contents.,
B as in Bird's-tongue (n.) The knotgrass (Polygonum aviculare).,
B as in Bird-witted (a.) Flighty; passing rapidly from one subject to another; not having the faculty of attention.,
B as in Birectangular (a.) Containing or having two right angles; as, a birectangular spherical triangle.,
B as in Bireme (n.) An ancient galley or vessel with two banks or tiers of oars.,
B as in Biretta (n.) Same as Berretta.,
B as in Birgander (n.) See Bergander.,
B as in Birk (n.) A birch tree.,
B as in Birk (n.) A small European minnow (Leuciscus phoxinus).,
B as in Birken (v. t.) To whip with a birch or rod.,
B as in Birken (a.) Birchen; as, birken groves.,
B as in Birkie (n.) A lively or mettlesome fellow.,
B as in Birl (v. t. & i.) To revolve or cause to revolve; to spin.,
B as in Birl (v. t. & i.) To pour (beer or wine); to ply with drink; to drink; to carouse.,
B as in Birlaw (n.) A law made by husbandmen respecting rural affairs; a rustic or local law or by-law.,
B as in Birostrate (a.) Alt. of Birostrated,
B as in Birostrated (a.) Having a double beak, or two processes resembling beaks.,
B as in Birred (imp. & p. p.) of Birr,
B as in Birring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Birr,
B as in Birr (v. i.) To make, or move with, a whirring noise, as of wheels in motion.,
B as in Birr (n.) A whirring sound, as of a spinning wheel.,
B as in Birr (n.) A rush or impetus; force.,
B as in Birrus (n.) A coarse kind of thick woolen cloth, worn by the poor in the Middle Ages; also, a woolen cap or hood worn over the shoulders or over the head.,
B as in Birse (n.) A bristle or bristles.,
B as in Birt (n.) A fish of the turbot kind; the brill.,
B as in Birth (n.) The act or fact of coming into life, or of being born; -- generally applied to human beings; as, the birth of a son.,
B as in Birth (n.) Lineage; extraction; descent; sometimes, high birth; noble extraction.,
B as in Birth (n.) The condition to which a person is born; natural state or position; inherited disposition or tendency.,
B as in Birth (n.) The act of bringing forth; as, she had two children at a birth.,
B as in Birth (n.) That which is born; that which is produced, whether animal or vegetable.,
B as in Birth (n.) Origin; beginning; as, the birth of an empire.,
B as in Birth (n.) See Berth.,
B as in Birthday (n.) The day in which any person is born; day of origin or commencement.,
B as in Birthday (n.) The day of the month in which a person was born, in whatever succeeding year it may recur; the anniversary of one's birth.,
B as in Birthday (a.) Of or pertaining to the day of birth, or its anniversary; as, birthday gifts or festivities.,
B as in Birthdom (n.) The land of one's birth; one's inheritance.,
B as in Birthing (n.) Anything added to raise the sides of a ship.,
B as in Birthless (a.) Of mean extraction.,
B as in Birthmark (n.) Some peculiar mark or blemish on the body at birth.,
B as in Birthnight (n.) The night in which a person is born; the anniversary of that night in succeeding years.,
B as in Birthplace (n.) The town, city, or country, where a person is born; place of origin or birth, in its more general sense.,
B as in Birthright (n.) Any right, privilege, or possession to which a person is entitled by birth, such as an estate descendible by law to an heir, or civil liberty under a free constitution; esp. the rights or inheritance of the first born.,
B as in Birthroot (n.) An herbaceous plant (Trillium erectum), and its astringent rootstock, which is said to have medicinal properties.,
B as in Birthwort (n.) A genus of herbs and shrubs (Aristolochia), reputed to have medicinal properties.,
B as in Bis (adv.) Twice; -- a word showing that something is, or is to be, repeated; as a passage of music, or an item in accounts.,
B as in Bis- (pref.) A form of Bi-, sometimes used before s, c, or a vowel.,
B as in Bisa antelope () See Oryx.,
B as in Bisaccate (a.) Having two little bags, sacs, or pouches.,
B as in Biscayan (a.) Of or pertaining to Biscay in Spain.,
B as in Biscayan (n.) A native or inhabitant of Biscay.,
B as in Biscotin (n.) A confection made of flour, sugar, marmalade, and eggs; a sweet biscuit.,
B as in Biscuit (n.) A kind of unraised bread, of many varieties, plain, sweet, or fancy, formed into flat cakes, and bakes hard; as, ship biscuit.,
B as in Biscuit (n.) A small loaf or cake of bread, raised and shortened, or made light with soda or baking powder. Usually a number are baked in the same pan, forming a sheet or card.,
B as in Biscuit (n.) Earthen ware or porcelain which has undergone the first baking, before it is subjected to the glazing.,
B as in Biscuit (n.) A species of white, unglazed porcelain, in which vases, figures, and groups are formed in miniature.,
B as in Biscutate (a.) Resembling two bucklers placed side by side.,
B as in Bise (n.) A cold north wind which prevails on the northern coasts of the Mediterranean and in Switzerland, etc.; -- nearly the same as the mistral.,
B as in Bise (n.) See Bice.,
B as in Bisected (imp. & p. p.) of Bisect,
B as in Bisecting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bisect,
B as in Bisect (v. t.) To cut or divide into two parts.,
B as in Bisect (v. t.) To divide into two equal parts.,
B as in Bisection (n.) Division into two parts, esp. two equal parts.,
B as in Bisector (n.) One who, or that which, bisects; esp. (Geom.) a straight line which bisects an angle.,
B as in Bisectrix (n.) The line bisecting the angle between the optic axes of a biaxial crystal.,
B as in Bisegment (n.) One of tow equal parts of a line, or other magnitude.,
B as in Biseptate (a.) With two partitions or septa.,
B as in Biserial (a.) Alt. of Biseriate,
B as in Biseriate (a.) In two rows or series.,
B as in Biserrate (a.) Doubly serrate, or having the serratures serrate, as in some leaves.,
B as in Biserrate (a.) Serrate on both sides, as some antennae.,
B as in Bisetose (a.) Alt. of Bisetous,
B as in Bisetous (a.) Having two bristles.,
B as in Bisexous (a.) Bisexual.,
B as in Bisexual (a.) Of both sexes; hermaphrodite; as a flower with stamens and pistil, or an animal having ovaries and testes.,
B as in Bisexuous (a.) Bisexual.,
B as in Biseye () p. p. of Besee.,
B as in Bish (n.) Same as Bikh.,
B as in Bishop (n.) A spiritual overseer, superintendent, or director.,
B as in Bishop (n.) In the Roman Catholic, Greek, and Anglican or Protestant Episcopal churches, one ordained to the highest order of the ministry, superior to the priesthood, and generally claiming to be a successor of the Apostles. The bishop is usually the spiritual head or ruler of a diocese, bishopric, or see.,
B as in Bishop (n.) In the Methodist Episcopal and some other churches, one of the highest church officers or superintendents.,
B as in Bishop (n.) A piece used in the game of chess, bearing a representation of a bishop's miter; -- formerly called archer.,
B as in Bishop (n.) A beverage, being a mixture of wine, oranges or lemons, and sugar.,
B as in Bishop (n.) An old name for a woman's bustle.,
B as in Bishoped (imp. & p. p.) of Bishop,
B as in Bishoping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bishop,
B as in Bishop (v. t.) To admit into the church by confirmation; to confirm; hence, to receive formally to favor.,
B as in Bishoped (imp. & p. p.) of Bishop,
B as in Bishoping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bishop,
B as in Bishop (v. t.) To make seem younger, by operating on the teeth; as, to bishop an old horse or his teeth.,
B as in Bishopdom (n.) Jurisdiction of a bishop; episcopate.,
B as in Bishoplike (a.) Resembling a bishop; belonging to a bishop.,
B as in Bishoply (a.) Bishoplike; episcopal.,
B as in Bishoply (adv.) In the manner of a bishop.,
B as in Bishopric (n.) A diocese; the district over which the jurisdiction of a bishop extends.,
B as in Bishopric (n.) The office of a spiritual overseer, as of an apostle, bishop, or presbyter.,
B as in Bishop's cap () A plant of the genus Mitella; miterwort.,
B as in Bishop sleeve () A wide sleeve, once worn by women.,
B as in Bishop's length () A canvas for a portrait measuring 58 by 94 inches. The half bishop measures 45 by 56.,
B as in Bishop-stool (n.) A bishop's seat or see.,
B as in Bishop's-weed (n.) An umbelliferous plant of the genus Ammi.,
B as in Bishop's-weed (n.) Goutweed (Aegopodium podagraria).,
B as in Bishop's-wort (n.) Wood betony (Stachys betonica); also, the plant called fennel flower (Nigella Damascena), or devil-in-a-bush.,
B as in Bisie (v. t.) To busy; to employ.,
B as in Bisilicate (n.) A salt of metasilicic acid; -- so called because the ratio of the oxygen of the silica to the oxygen of the base is as two to one. The bisilicates include many of the most common and important minerals.,
B as in Bisk (n.) Soup or broth made by boiling several sorts of flesh together.,
B as in Bisk (n.) See Bisque.,
B as in Bismare (n.) Alt. of Bismer,
B as in Bismer (n.) Shame; abuse.,
B as in Bismer (n.) A rule steelyard.,
B as in Bismer (n.) The fifteen-spined (Gasterosteus spinachia).,
B as in Bismillah (interj.) An adjuration or exclamation common among the Mohammedans.,
B as in Bismite (n.) Bismuth trioxide, or bismuth ocher.,
B as in Bismuth (n.) One of the elements; a metal of a reddish white color, crystallizing in rhombohedrons. It is somewhat harder than lead, and rather brittle; masses show broad cleavage surfaces when broken across. It melts at 507� Fahr., being easily fused in the flame of a candle. It is found in a native state, and as a constituent of some minerals. Specific gravity 9.8. Atomic weight 207.5. Symbol Bi.,
B as in Bismuthal (a.) Containing bismuth.,
B as in Bismuthic (a.) Of or pertaining to bismuth; containing bismuth, when this element has its higher valence; as, bismuthic oxide.,
B as in Bismuthiferous (a.) Containing bismuth.,
B as in Bismuthine (n.) Alt. of Bismuthinite,
B as in Bismuthinite (n.) Native bismuth sulphide; -- sometimes called bismuthite.,
B as in Bismuthous (a.) Of, or containing, bismuth, when this element has its lower valence.,
B as in Bismuthyl (n.) Hydrous carbonate of bismuth, an earthy mineral of a dull white or yellowish color.,
B as in Bison (n.) The aurochs or European bison.,
B as in Bison (n.) The American bison buffalo (Bison Americanus), a large, gregarious bovine quadruped with shaggy mane and short black horns, which formerly roamed in herds over most of the temperate portion of North America, but is now restricted to very limited districts in the region of the Rocky Mountains, and is rapidly decreasing in numbers.,
B as in Bispinose (a.) Having two spines.,
B as in Bisque (n.) Unglazed white porcelain.,
B as in Bisque (n.) A point taken by the receiver of odds in the game of tennis; also, an extra innings allowed to a weaker player in croquet.,
B as in Bisque (n.) A white soup made of crayfish.,
B as in Bissextile (n.) Leap year; every fourth year, in which a day is added to the month of February on account of the excess of the tropical year (365 d. 5 h. 48 m. 46 s.) above 365 days. But one day added every four years is equivalent to six hours each year, which is 11 m. 14 s. more than the excess of the real year. Hence, it is necessary to suppress the bissextile day at the end of every century which is not divisible by 400, while it is retained at the end of those which are divisible by 400.,
B as in Bissextile (a.) Pertaining to leap year.,
B as in Bisson (a.) Purblind; blinding.,
B as in Bister (n.) Alt. of Bistre,
B as in Bistre (n.) A dark brown pigment extracted from the soot of wood.,
B as in Bistipuled (a.) Having two stipules.,
B as in Bistort (n.) An herbaceous plant of the genus Polygonum, section Bistorta; snakeweed; adderwort. Its root is used in medicine as an astringent.,
B as in Bistouries (pl. ) of Bistoury,
B as in Bistoury (n.) A surgical instrument consisting of a slender knife, either straight or curved, generally used by introducing it beneath the part to be divided, and cutting towards the surface.,
B as in Bistre (n.) See Bister.,
B as in Bisulcate (a.) Having two grooves or furrows.,
B as in Bisulcate (a.) Cloven; said of a foot or hoof.,
B as in Bisulcous (a.) Bisulcate.,
B as in Bisulphate (n.) A sulphate in which but half the hydrogen of the acid is replaced by a positive element or radical, thus making the proportion of the acid to the positive or basic portion twice what it is in the normal sulphates; an acid sulphate.,
B as in Bisulphide (n.) A sulphide having two atoms of sulphur in the molecule; a disulphide, as in iron pyrites, FeS2; -- less frequently called bisulphuret.,
B as in Bisulphite (n.) A salt of sulphurous acid in which the base replaces but half the hydrogen of the acid; an acid sulphite.,
B as in Bisulphuret (n.) See Bisulphide.,
B as in Bit (v.) The part of a bridle, usually of iron, which is inserted in the mouth of a horse, and having appendages to which the reins are fastened.,
B as in Bit (v.) Fig.: Anything which curbs or restrains.,
B as in Bitted (imp. & p. p.) of Bit,
B as in Bitting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bit,
B as in Bit (v. t.) To put a bridle upon; to put the bit in the mouth of.,
B as in Bit () imp. & p. p. of Bite.,
B as in Bit (v.) A part of anything, such as may be bitten off or taken into the mouth; a morsel; a bite. Hence: A small piece of anything; a little; a mite.,
B as in Bit (v.) Somewhat; something, but not very great.,
B as in Bit (v.) A tool for boring, of various forms and sizes, usually turned by means of a brace or bitstock. See Bitstock.,
B as in Bit (v.) The part of a key which enters the lock and acts upon the bolt and tumblers.,
B as in Bit (v.) The cutting iron of a plane.,
B as in Bit (v.) In the Southern and Southwestern States, a small silver coin (as the real) formerly current; commonly, one worth about 12 1/2 cents; also, the sum of 12 1/2 cents.,
B as in Bit () 3d sing. pr. of Bid, for biddeth.,
B as in Bitake (v. t.) To commend; to commit.,
B as in Bitangent (a.) Possessing the property of touching at two points.,
B as in Bitangent (n.) A line that touches a curve in two points.,
B as in Bitartrate (n.) A salt of tartaric acid in which the base replaces but half the acid hydrogen; an acid tartrate, as cream of tartar.,
B as in Bitch (n.) The female of the canine kind, as of the dog, wolf, and fox.,
B as in Bitch (n.) An opprobrious name for a woman, especially a lewd woman.,
B as in Bit (imp.) of Bite,
B as in Bitten (p. p.) of Bite,
B as in Bit () of Bite,
B as in Biting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bite,
B as in Bite (v. t.) To seize with the teeth, so that they enter or nip the thing seized; to lacerate, crush, or wound with the teeth; as, to bite an apple; to bite a crust; the dog bit a man.,
B as in Bite (v. t.) To puncture, abrade, or sting with an organ (of some insects) used in taking food.,
B as in Bite (v. t.) To cause sharp pain, or smarting, to; to hurt or injure, in a literal or a figurative sense; as, pepper bites the mouth.,
B as in Bite (v. t.) To cheat; to trick; to take in.,
B as in Bite (v. t.) To take hold of; to hold fast; to adhere to; as, the anchor bites the ground.,
B as in Bite (v. i.) To seize something forcibly with the teeth; to wound with the teeth; to have the habit of so doing; as, does the dog bite?,
B as in Bite (v. i.) To cause a smarting sensation; to have a property which causes such a sensation; to be pungent; as, it bites like pepper or mustard.,
B as in Bite (v. i.) To cause sharp pain; to produce anguish; to hurt or injure; to have the property of so doing.,
B as in Bite (v. i.) To take a bait into the mouth, as a fish does; hence, to take a tempting offer.,
B as in Bite (v. i.) To take or keep a firm hold; as, the anchor bites.,
B as in Bite (v.) The act of seizing with the teeth or mouth; the act of wounding or separating with the teeth or mouth; a seizure with the teeth or mouth, as of a bait; as, to give anything a hard bite.,
B as in Bite (v.) The act of puncturing or abrading with an organ for taking food, as is done by some insects.,
B as in Bite (v.) The wound made by biting; as, the pain of a dog's or snake's bite; the bite of a mosquito.,
B as in Bite (v.) A morsel; as much as is taken at once by biting.,
B as in Bite (v.) The hold which the short end of a lever has upon the thing to be lifted, or the hold which one part of a machine has upon another.,
B as in Bite (v.) A cheat; a trick; a fraud.,
B as in Bite (v.) A sharper; one who cheats.,
B as in Bite (v.) A blank on the edge or corner of a page, owing to a portion of the frisket, or something else, intervening between the type and paper.,
B as in Biter (n.) One who, or that which, bites; that which bites often, or is inclined to bite, as a dog or fish.,
B as in Biter (n.) One who cheats; a sharper.,
B as in Biternate (a.) Doubly ternate, as when a petiole has three ternate leaflets.,
B as in Bitheism (n.) Belief in the existence of two gods; dualism.,
B as in Biting (a.) That bites; sharp; cutting; sarcastic; caustic.,
B as in Biting in () The process of corroding or eating into metallic plates, by means of an acid. See Etch.,
B as in Bitingly (adv.) In a biting manner.,
B as in Bitless (a.) Not having a bit or bridle.,
B as in Bitstock (n.) A stock or handle for holding and rotating a bit; a brace.,
B as in Bitt (n.) See Bitts.,
B as in Bitt (v. t.) To put round the bitts; as, to bitt the cable, in order to fasten it or to slacken it gradually, which is called veering away.,
B as in Bittacle (n.) A binnacle.,
B as in Bitten () p. p. of Bite.,
B as in Bitten (a.) Terminating abruptly, as if bitten off; premorse.,
B as in Bitter (n.) AA turn of the cable which is round the bitts.,
B as in Bitter (v. t.) Having a peculiar, acrid, biting taste, like that of wormwood or an infusion of hops; as, a bitter medicine; bitter as aloes.,
B as in Bitter (v. t.) Causing pain or smart; piercing; painful; sharp; severe; as, a bitter cold day.,
B as in Bitter (v. t.) Causing, or fitted to cause, pain or distress to the mind; calamitous; poignant.,
B as in Bitter (v. t.) Characterized by sharpness, severity, or cruelty; harsh; stern; virulent; as, bitter reproach.,
B as in Bitter (v. t.) Mournful; sad; distressing; painful; pitiable.,
B as in Bitter (n.) Any substance that is bitter. See Bitters.,
B as in Bitter (v. t.) To make bitter.,
B as in Bitterbump (n.) the butterbump or bittern.,
B as in Bitterful (a.) Full of bitterness.,
B as in Bittering (n.) A bitter compound used in adulterating beer; bittern.,
B as in Bitterish (a.) Somewhat bitter.,
B as in Bitterling (n.) A roachlike European fish (Rhodima amarus).,
B as in Bitterly (adv.) In a bitter manner.,
B as in Bittern (n.) A wading bird of the genus Botaurus, allied to the herons, of various species.,
B as in Bittern (a.) The brine which remains in salt works after the salt is concreted, having a bitter taste from the chloride of magnesium which it contains.,
B as in Bittern (a.) A very bitter compound of quassia, cocculus Indicus, etc., used by fraudulent brewers in adulterating beer.,
B as in Bitterness (n.) The quality or state of being bitter, sharp, or acrid, in either a literal or figurative sense; implacableness; resentfulness; severity; keenness of reproach or sarcasm; deep distress, grief, or vexation of mind.,
B as in Bitterness (n.) A state of extreme impiety or enmity to God.,
B as in Bitterness (n.) Dangerous error, or schism, tending to draw persons to apostasy.,
B as in Bitternut (n.) The swamp hickory (Carya amara). Its thin-shelled nuts are bitter.,
B as in Bitterroot (n.) A plant (Lewisia rediviva) allied to the purslane, but with fleshy, farinaceous roots, growing in the mountains of Idaho, Montana, etc. It gives the name to the Bitter Root mountains and river. The Indians call both the plant and the river Spaet'lum.,
B as in Bitters (n. pl.) A liquor, generally spirituous in which a bitter herb, leaf, or root is steeped.,
B as in Bitter spar () A common name of dolomite; -- so called because it contains magnesia, the soluble salts of which are bitter. See Dolomite.,
B as in Bittersweet (a.) Sweet and then bitter or bitter and then sweet; esp. sweet with a bitter after taste; hence (Fig.), pleasant but painful.,
B as in Bittersweet (n.) Anything which is bittersweet.,
B as in Bittersweet (n.) A kind of apple so called.,
B as in Bittersweet (n.) A climbing shrub, with oval coral-red berries (Solanum dulcamara); woody nightshade. The whole plant is poisonous, and has a taste at first sweetish and then bitter. The branches are the officinal dulcamara.,
B as in Bittersweet (n.) An American woody climber (Celastrus scandens), whose yellow capsules open late in autumn, and disclose the red aril which covers the seeds; -- also called Roxbury waxwork.,
B as in Bitterweed (n.) A species of Ambrosia (A. artemisiaefolia); Roman worm wood.,
B as in Bitterwood (n.) A West Indian tree (Picraena excelsa) from the wood of which the bitter drug Jamaica quassia is obtained.,
B as in Bitterwort (n.) The yellow gentian (Gentiana lutea), which has a very bitter taste.,
B as in Bittock (n.) A small bit of anything, of indefinite size or quantity; a short distance.,
B as in Bittor Bittour (n.) The bittern.,
B as in Bitts (n. pl.) A frame of two strong timbers fixed perpendicularly in the fore part of a ship, on which to fasten the cables as the ship rides at anchor, or in warping. Other bitts are used for belaying (belaying bitts), for sustaining the windlass (carrick bitts, winch bitts, or windlass bitts), to hold the pawls of the windlass (pawl bitts) etc.,
B as in Bitume (n.) Bitumen.,
B as in Bitumed (a.) Smeared with bitumen.,
B as in Bitumen (n.) Mineral pitch; a black, tarry substance, burning with a bright flame; Jew's pitch. It occurs as an abundant natural product in many places, as on the shores of the Dead and Caspian Seas. It is used in cements, in the construction of pavements, etc. See Asphalt.,
B as in Bitumen (n.) By extension, any one of the natural hydrocarbons, including the hard, solid, brittle varieties called asphalt, the semisolid maltha and mineral tars, the oily petroleums, and even the light, volatile naphthas.,
B as in Bituminated (imp. & p. p.) of Bituminate,
B as in Bituminating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bituminate,
B as in Bituminate (v. t.) To treat or impregnate with bitumen; to cement with bitumen.,
B as in Bituminiferous (a.) Producing bitumen.,
B as in Bituminization (n.) The process of bituminizing.,
B as in Bituminized (imp. & p. p.) of Bituminize,
B as in Bituminizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bituminize,
B as in Bituminize (v. t.) To prepare, treat, impregnate, or coat with bitumen.,
B as in Bituminous (a.) Having the qualities of bitumen; compounded with bitumen; containing bitumen.,
B as in Biuret (n.) A white, crystalline, nitrogenous substance, C2O2N3H5, formed by heating urea. It is intermediate between urea and cyanuric acid.,
B as in Bivalency (n.) The quality of being bivalent.,
B as in Bivalent (p. pr.) Equivalent in combining or displacing power to two atoms of hydrogen; dyad.,
B as in Bivalve (n.) A mollusk having a shell consisting of two lateral plates or valves joined together by an elastic ligament at the hinge, which is usually strengthened by prominences called teeth. The shell is closed by the contraction of two transverse muscles attached to the inner surface, as in the clam, -- or by one, as in the oyster. See Mollusca.,
B as in Bivalve (n.) A pericarp in which the seed case opens or splits into two parts or valves.,
B as in Bivalve (a.) Having two shells or valves which open and shut, as the oyster and certain seed vessels.,
B as in Bivalved (a.) Having two valves, as the oyster and some seed pods; bivalve.,
B as in Bivalvous (a.) Bivalvular.,
B as in Bivalvular (a.) Having two valves.,
B as in Bivaulted (a.) Having two vaults or arches.,
B as in Bivector (n.) A term made up of the two parts / + /1 /-1, where / and /1 are vectors.,
B as in Biventral (a.) Having two bellies or protuberances; as, a biventral, or digastric, muscle, or the biventral lobe of the cerebellum.,
B as in Bivial (a.) Of or relating to the bivium.,
B as in Bivious (a.) Having, or leading, two ways.,
B as in Bivium (n.) One side of an echinoderm, including a pair of ambulacra, in distinction from the opposite side (trivium), which includes three ambulacra.,
B as in Bivouac (n.) The watch of a whole army by night, when in danger of surprise or attack.,
B as in Bivouac (n.) An encampment for the night without tents or covering.,
B as in Bivouacked (imp. & p. p.) of Bivouac,
B as in Bivouacking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bivouac,
B as in Bivouac (v. i.) To watch at night or be on guard, as a whole army.,
B as in Bivouac (v. i.) To encamp for the night without tents or covering.,
B as in Biweekly (a.) Occurring or appearing once every two weeks; fortnightly.,
B as in Biweekly (n.) A publication issued every two weeks.,
B as in Biwreye (v. t.) To bewray; to reveal.,
B as in Bizantine () See Byzantine.,
B as in Bizarre (a.) Odd in manner or appearance; fantastic; whimsical; extravagant; grotesque.,
B as in Bizet (n.) The upper faceted portion of a brilliant-cut diamond, which projects from the setting and occupies the zone between the girdle and the table. See Brilliant, n.,
B as in Blabbed (imp. & p. p.) of Blab,
B as in Blabbing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Blab,
B as in Blab (v.) To utter or tell unnecessarily, or in a thoughtless manner; to publish (secrets or trifles) without reserve or discretion.,
B as in Blab (v. i.) To talk thoughtlessly or without discretion; to tattle; to tell tales.,
B as in Blab (n.) One who blabs; a babbler; a telltale.,
B as in Blabber (n.) A tattler; a telltale.,
B as in Black (a.) Destitute of light, or incapable of reflecting it; of the color of soot or coal; of the darkest or a very dark color, the opposite of white; characterized by such a color; as, black cloth; black hair or eyes.,
B as in Black (a.) In a less literal sense: Enveloped or shrouded in darkness; very dark or gloomy; as, a black night; the heavens black with clouds.,
B as in Black (a.) Fig.: Dismal, gloomy, or forbidding, like darkness; destitute of moral light or goodness; atrociously wicked; cruel; mournful; calamitous; horrible.,
B as in Black (a.) Expressing menace, or discontent; threatening; sullen; foreboding; as, to regard one with black looks.,
B as in Black (adv.) Sullenly; threateningly; maliciously; so as to produce blackness.,
B as in Black (n.) That which is destitute of light or whiteness; the darkest color, or rather a destitution of all color; as, a cloth has a good black.,
B as in Black (n.) A black pigment or dye.,
B as in Black (n.) A negro; a person whose skin is of a black color, or shaded with black; esp. a member or descendant of certain African races.,
B as in Black (n.) A black garment or dress; as, she wears black,
B as in Black (n.) Mourning garments of a black color; funereal drapery.,
B as in Black (n.) The part of a thing which is distinguished from the rest by being black.,
B as in Black (n.) A stain; a spot; a smooch.,
B as in Blacked (imp. & p. p.) of Black,
B as in Blacking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Black,
B as in Black (a.) To make black; to blacken; to soil; to sully.,
B as in Black (a.) To make black and shining, as boots or a stove, by applying blacking and then polishing with a brush.,
B as in Blackamoor (n.) A negro or negress.,
B as in Black art () The art practiced by conjurers and witches; necromancy; conjuration; magic.,
B as in Black-a-vised (a.) Dark-visaged; swart.,
B as in Blackball (n.) A composition for blacking shoes, boots, etc.; also, one for taking impressions of engraved work.,
B as in Blackball (n.) A ball of black color, esp. one used as a negative in voting; -- in this sense usually two words.,
B as in Blackballed (imp. & p. p.) of Blackball,
B as in Blackballing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Blackball,
B as in Blackball (v. t.) To vote against, by putting a black ball into a ballot box; to reject or exclude, as by voting against with black balls; to ostracize.,
B as in Blackball (v. t.) To blacken (leather, shoes, etc.) with blacking.,
B as in Blackband (n.) An earthy carbonate of iron containing considerable carbonaceous matter; -- valuable as an iron ore.,
B as in Black bass () An edible, fresh-water fish of the United States, of the genus Micropterus. the small-mouthed kind is M. dolomiei; the large-mouthed is M. salmoides.,
B as in Black bass () The sea bass. See Blackfish, 3.,
B as in Blackberry (n.) The fruit of several species of bramble (Rubus); also, the plant itself. Rubus fruticosus is the blackberry of England; R. villosus and R. Canadensis are the high blackberry and low blackberry of the United States. There are also other kinds.,
B as in Blackbird (n.) In England, a species of thrush (Turdus merula), a singing bird with a fin note; the merle. In America the name is given to several birds, as the Quiscalus versicolor, or crow blackbird; the Agelaeus phoeniceus, or red-winged blackbird; the cowbird; the rusty grackle, etc. See Redwing.,
B as in Blackboard (n.) A broad board painted black, or any black surface on which writing, drawing, or the working of mathematical problems can be done with chalk or crayons. It is much used in schools.,
B as in Black book () One of several books of a political character, published at different times and for different purposes; -- so called either from the color of the binding, or from the character of the contents.,
B as in Black book () A book compiled in the twelfth century, containing a description of the court of exchequer of England, an official statement of the revenues of the crown, etc.,
B as in Black book () A book containing details of the enormities practiced in the English monasteries and religious houses, compiled by order of their visitors under Henry VIII., to hasten their dissolution.,
B as in Black book () A book of admiralty law, of the highest authority, compiled in the reign of Edw. III.,
B as in Black book () A book kept for the purpose of registering the names of persons liable to censure or punishment, as in the English universities, or the English armies.,
B as in Black book () Any book which treats of necromancy.,
B as in Black-browed (a.) Having black eyebrows. Hence: Gloomy; dismal; threatening; forbidding.,
B as in Blackburnian warbler () A beautiful warbler of the United States (Dendroica Blackburniae). The male is strongly marked with orange, yellow, and black on the head and neck, and has an orange-yellow breast.,
B as in Blackcap (n.) A small European song bird (Sylvia atricapilla), with a black crown; the mock nightingale.,
B as in Blackcap (n.) An American titmouse (Parus atricapillus); the chickadee.,
B as in Blackcap (n.) An apple roasted till black, to be served in a dish of boiled custard.,
B as in Blackcap (n.) The black raspberry.,
B as in Blackcoat (n.) A clergyman; -- familiarly so called, as a soldier is sometimes called a redcoat or a bluecoat.,
B as in Blackcock (n.) The male of the European black grouse (Tetrao tetrix, Linn.); -- so called by sportsmen. The female is called gray hen. See Heath grouse.,
B as in Black death () A pestilence which ravaged Europe and Asia in the fourteenth century.,
B as in Blackened (imp. & p. p.) of Blacken,
B as in Blackening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Blacken,
B as in Blacken (v. t.) To make or render black.,
B as in Blacken (v. t.) To make dark; to darken; to cloud.,
B as in Blacken (v. t.) To defame; to sully, as reputation; to make infamous; as, vice blackens the character.,
B as in Blacken (v. i.) To grow black or dark.,
B as in Blackener (n.) One who blackens.,
B as in Black-eyed (a.) Having black eyes.,
B as in Black-faced (a.) Having a black, dark, or gloomy face or aspect.,
B as in Blackfeet (n. pl.) A tribe of North American Indians formerly inhabiting the country from the upper Missouri River to the Saskatchewan, but now much reduced in numbers.,
B as in Blackfin (n.) See Bluefin.,
B as in Blackfish (n.) A small kind of whale, of the genus Globicephalus, of several species. The most common is G. melas. Also sometimes applied to other whales of larger size.,
B as in Blackfish (n.) The tautog of New England (Tautoga).,
B as in Blackfish (n.) The black sea bass (Centropristis atrarius) of the Atlantic coast. It is excellent food fish; -- locally called also black Harry.,
B as in Blackfish (n.) A fish of southern Europe (Centrolophus pompilus) of the Mackerel family.,
B as in Blackfish (n.) The female salmon in the spawning season.,
B as in Blackfoot (a.) Of or pertaining to the Blackfeet; as, a Blackfoot Indian.,
B as in Blackfoot (n.) A Blackfoot Indian.,
B as in Black friar () A friar of the Dominican order; -- called also predicant and preaching friar; in France, Jacobin. Also, sometimes, a Benedictine.,
B as in Blackguard (n.) The scullions and lower menials of a court, or of a nobleman's household, who, in a removal from one residence to another, had charge of the kitchen utensils, and being smutted by them, were jocularly called the "black guard"; also, the servants and hangers-on of an army.,
B as in Blackguard (n.) The criminals and vagrants or vagabonds of a town or community, collectively.,
B as in Blackguard (n.) A person of stained or low character, esp. one who uses scurrilous language, or treats others with foul abuse; a scoundrel; a rough.,
B as in Blackguard (n.) A vagrant; a bootblack; a gamin.,
B as in Blackguarded (imp. & p. p.) of Blackguard,
B as in Blackguarding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Blackguard,
B as in Blackguard (v. t.) To revile or abuse in scurrilous language.,
B as in Blackguard (a.) Scurrilous; abusive; low; worthless; vicious; as, blackguard language.,
B as in Blackguardism (n.) The conduct or language of a blackguard; ruffianism.,
B as in Blackguardly (adv. & a.) In the manner of or resembling a blackguard; abusive; scurrilous; ruffianly.,
B as in Blackhead (n.) The scaup duck.,
B as in Blackheart (n.) A heart-shaped cherry with a very dark-colored skin.,
B as in Black-hearted (a.) Having a wicked, malignant disposition; morally bad.,
B as in Black hole () A dungeon or dark cell in a prison; a military lock-up or guardroom; -- now commonly with allusion to the cell (the Black Hole) in a fort at Calcutta, into which 146 English prisoners were thrust by the nabob Suraja Dowla on the night of June 20, 17656, and in which 123 of the prisoners died before morning from lack of air.,
B as in Blacking (n.) Any preparation for making things black; esp. one for giving a black luster to boots and shoes, or to stoves.,
B as in Blacking (n.) The act or process of making black.,
B as in Blackish (a.) Somewhat black.,
B as in Black-jack (n.) A name given by English miners to sphalerite, or zinc blende; -- called also false galena. See Blende.,
B as in Black-jack (n.) Caramel or burnt sugar, used to color wines, spirits, ground coffee, etc.,
B as in Black-jack (n.) A large leather vessel for beer, etc.,
B as in Black-jack (n.) The Quercus nigra, or barren oak.,
B as in Black-jack (n.) The ensign of a pirate.,
B as in Black lead () Plumbago; graphite. It leaves a blackish mark somewhat like lead. See Graphite.,
B as in Blacklead (v. t.) To coat or to polish with black lead.,
B as in Blackleg (n.) A notorious gambler.,
B as in Blackleg (n.) A disease among calves and sheep, characterized by a settling of gelatinous matter in the legs, and sometimes in the neck.,
B as in Black letter () The old English or Gothic letter, in which the Early English manuscripts were written, and the first English books were printed. It was conspicuous for its blackness. See Type.,
B as in Black-letter (a.) Written or printed in black letter; as, a black-letter manuscript or book.,
B as in Black-letter (a.) Given to the study of books in black letter; that is, of old books; out of date.,
B as in Black-letter (a.) Of or pertaining to the days in the calendar not marked with red letters as saints' days. Hence: Unlucky; inauspicious.,
B as in Blacklist (v. t.) To put in a black list as deserving of suspicion, censure, or punishment; esp. to put in a list of persons stigmatized as insolvent or untrustworthy, -- as tradesmen and employers do for mutual protection; as, to blacklist a workman who has been discharged. See Black list, under Black, a.,
B as in Blackly (adv.) In a black manner; darkly, in color; gloomily; threateningly; atrociously.,
B as in Blackmail (n.) A certain rate of money, corn, cattle, or other thing, anciently paid, in the north of England and south of Scotland, to certain men who were allied to robbers, or moss troopers, to be by them protected from pillage.,
B as in Blackmail (n.) Payment of money exacted by means of intimidation; also, extortion of money from a person by threats of public accusation, exposure, or censure.,
B as in Blackmail (n.) Black rent, or rent paid in corn, flesh, or the lowest coin, a opposed to "white rent", which paid in silver.,
B as in Blackmailed (imp. & p. p.) of Blackmail,
B as in Blackmailing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Blackmail,
B as in Blackmail (v. t.) To extort money from by exciting fears of injury other than bodily harm, as injury to reputation, distress of mind, etc.; as, to blackmail a merchant by threatening to expose an alleged fraud.,
B as in Blackmailer (n.) One who extorts, or endeavors to extort, money, by black mailing.,
B as in Blackmailing (n.) The act or practice of extorting money by exciting fears of injury other than bodily harm, as injury to reputation.,
B as in Black Monday () Easter Monday, so called from the severity of that day in 1360, which was so unusual that many of Edward III.'s soldiers, then before Paris, died from the cold.,
B as in Black Monday () The first Monday after the holidays; -- so called by English schoolboys.,
B as in Black monk () A Benedictine monk.,
B as in Blackmoor (n.) See Blackamoor.,
B as in Black-mouthed (a.) Using foul or scurrilous language; slanderous.,
B as in Blackness (n.) The quality or state of being black; black color; atrociousness or enormity in wickedness.,
B as in Blackpoll (n.) A warbler of the United States (Dendroica striata).,
B as in Black pudding () A kind of sausage made of blood, suet, etc., thickened with meal.,
B as in Black Rod () the usher to the Chapter of the Garter, so called from the black rod which he carries. He is of the king's chamber, and also usher to the House of Lords.,
B as in Black Rod () An usher in the legislature of British colonies.,
B as in Blackroot (n.) See Colicroot.,
B as in Blacks (n. pl.) The name of a kind of in used in copperplate printing, prepared from the charred husks of the grape, and residue of the wine press.,
B as in Blacks (n. pl.) Soot flying in the air.,
B as in Blacks (n. pl.) Black garments, etc. See Black, n., 4.,
B as in Blacksalter (n.) One who makes crude potash, or black salts.,
B as in Black salts () Crude potash.,
B as in Blacksmith (n.) A smith who works in iron with a forge, and makes iron utensils, horseshoes, etc.,
B as in Blacksmith (n.) A fish of the Pacific coast (Chromis, / Heliastes, punctipinnis), of a blackish color.,
B as in Black snake (n.) Alt. of Blacksnake,
B as in Blacksnake (n.) A snake of a black color, of which two species are common in the United States, the Bascanium constrictor, or racer, sometimes six feet long, and the Scotophis Alleghaniensis, seven or eight feet long.,
B as in Blackstrap (n.) A mixture of spirituous liquor (usually rum) and molasses.,
B as in Blackstrap (n.) Bad port wine; any common wine of the Mediterranean; -- so called by sailors.,
B as in Blacktail (n.) A fish; the ruff or pope.,
B as in Blacktail (n.) The black-tailed deer (Cervus / Cariacus Columbianus) of California and Oregon; also, the mule deer of the Rocky Mountains. See Mule deer.,
B as in Blackthorn (n.) A spreading thorny shrub or small tree (Prunus spinosa), with blackish bark, and bearing little black plums, which are called sloes; the sloe.,
B as in Blackthorn (n.) A species of Crataegus or hawthorn (C. tomentosa). Both are used for hedges.,
B as in Black vomit () A copious vomiting of dark-colored matter; or the substance so discharged; -- one of the most fatal symptoms in yellow fever.,
B as in Black wash (n.) Alt. of Blackwash,
B as in Blackwash (n.) A lotion made by mixing calomel and lime water.,
B as in Blackwash (n.) A wash that blackens, as opposed to whitewash; hence, figuratively, calumny.,
B as in Blackwood (n.) A name given to several dark-colored timbers. The East Indian black wood is from the tree Dalbergia latifolia.,
B as in Blackwork (n.) Work wrought by blacksmiths; -- so called in distinction from that wrought by whitesmiths.,
B as in Bladder (n.) A bag or sac in animals, which serves as the receptacle of some fluid; as, the urinary bladder; the gall bladder; -- applied especially to the urinary bladder, either within the animal, or when taken out and inflated with air.,
B as in Bladder (n.) Any vesicle or blister, especially if filled with air, or a thin, watery fluid.,
B as in Bladder (n.) A distended, membranaceous pericarp.,
B as in Bladder (n.) Anything inflated, empty, or unsound.,
B as in Bladdered (imp. & p. p.) of Bladder,
B as in Bladdering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bladder,
B as in Bladder (v. t.) To swell out like a bladder with air; to inflate.,
B as in Bladder (v. t.) To put up in bladders; as, bladdered lard.,
B as in Bladderwort (n.) A genus (Utricularia) of aquatic or marshy plants, which usually bear numerous vesicles in the divisions of the leaves. These serve as traps for minute animals. See Ascidium.,
B as in Bladdery (a.) Having bladders; also, resembling a bladder.,
B as in Blade (n.) Properly, the leaf, or flat part of the leaf, of any plant, especially of gramineous plants. The term is sometimes applied to the spire of grasses.,
B as in Blade (n.) The cutting part of an instrument; as, the blade of a knife or a sword.,
B as in Blade (n.) The broad part of an oar; also, one of the projecting arms of a screw propeller.,
B as in Blade (n.) The scapula or shoulder blade.,
B as in Blade (n.) The principal rafters of a roof.,
B as in Blade (n.) The four large shell plates on the sides, and the five large ones of the middle, of the carapace of the sea turtle, which yield the best tortoise shell.,
B as in Blade (n.) A sharp-witted, dashing, wild, or reckless, fellow; -- a word of somewhat indefinite meaning.,
B as in Blade (v. t.) To furnish with a blade.,
B as in Blade (v. i.) To put forth or have a blade.,
B as in Bladebone (n.) The scapula. See Blade, 4.,
B as in Bladed (a.) Having a blade or blades; as, a two-bladed knife.,
B as in Bladed (a.) Divested of blades; as, bladed corn.,
B as in Bladed (a.) Composed of long and narrow plates, shaped like the blade of a knife.,
B as in Bladefish (n.) A long, thin, marine fish of Europe (Trichiurus lepturus); the ribbon fish.,
B as in Bladesmith (n.) A sword cutler.,
B as in Blady (a.) Consisting of blades.,
B as in Blae (a.) Dark blue or bluish gray; lead-colored.,
B as in Blaeberry (n.) The bilberry.,
B as in Blague (n.) Mendacious boasting; falsehood; humbug.,
B as in Blain (n.) An inflammatory swelling or sore; a bulla, pustule, or blister.,
B as in Blain (n.) A bladder growing on the root of the tongue of a horse, against the windpipe, and stopping the breath.,
B as in Blamable (a.) Deserving of censure; faulty; culpable; reprehensible; censurable; blameworthy.,
B as in Blamed (imp. & p. p.) of Blame,
B as in Blaming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Blame,
B as in Blame (v. t.) To censure; to express disapprobation of; to find fault with; to reproach.,
B as in Blame (v. t.) To bring reproach upon; to blemish.,
B as in Blame (v.) An expression of disapprobation fir something deemed to be wrong; imputation of fault; censure.,
B as in Blame (v.) That which is deserving of censure or disapprobation; culpability; fault; crime; sin.,
B as in Blame (v.) Hurt; injury.,
B as in Blameful (a.) Faulty; meriting blame.,
B as in Blameful (a.) Attributing blame or fault; implying or conveying censure; faultfinding; censorious.,
B as in Blameless (a.) Free from blame; without fault; innocent; guiltless; -- sometimes followed by of.,
B as in Blamelessly (adv.) In a blameless manner.,
B as in Blamelessness (n.) The quality or state of being blameless; innocence.,
B as in Blamer (n.) One who blames.,
B as in Blameworthy (a.) Deserving blame; culpable; reprehensible.,
B as in Blancard (n.) A kind of linen cloth made in Normandy, the thread of which is partly blanches before it is woven.,
B as in Blanched (imp. & p. p.) of Blanch,
B as in Blanching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Blanch,
B as in Blanch (a.) To take the color out of, and make white; to bleach; as, to blanch linen; age has blanched his hair.,
B as in Blanch (a.) To bleach by excluding the light, as the stalks or leaves of plants, by earthing them up or tying them together.,
B as in Blanch (a.) To make white by removing the skin of, as by scalding; as, to blanch almonds.,
B as in Blanch (a.) To whiten, as the surface of meat, by plunging into boiling water and afterwards into cold, so as to harden the surface and retain the juices.,
B as in Blanch (a.) To give a white luster to (silver, before stamping, in the process of coining.).,
B as in Blanch (a.) To cover (sheet iron) with a coating of tin.,
B as in Blanch (a.) Fig.: To whiten; to give a favorable appearance to; to whitewash; to palliate.,
B as in Blanch (v. i.) To grow or become white; as, his cheek blanched with fear; the rose blanches in the sun.,
B as in Blanch (v. t.) To avoid, as from fear; to evade; to leave unnoticed.,
B as in Blanch (v. t.) To cause to turn aside or back; as, to blanch a deer.,
B as in Blanch (v. i.) To use evasion.,
B as in Blanch (n.) Ore, not in masses, but mixed with other minerals.,
B as in Blancher (n.) One who, or that which, blanches or whitens; esp., one who anneals and cleanses money; also, a chemical preparation for this purpose.,
B as in Blancher (n.) One who, or that which, frightens away or turns aside.,
B as in Blanch holding () A mode of tenure by the payment of a small duty in white rent (silver) or otherwise.,
B as in Blanchimeter (n.) An instrument for measuring the bleaching power of chloride of lime and potash; a chlorometer.,
B as in Blancmange (n.) A preparation for desserts, etc., made from isinglass, sea moss, cornstarch, or other gelatinous or starchy substance, with mild, usually sweetened and flavored, and shaped in a mold.,
B as in Blancmanger (n.) A sort of fricassee with white sauce, variously made of capon, fish, etc.,
B as in Bland (a.) Mild; soft; gentle; smooth and soothing in manner; suave; as, a bland temper; bland persuasion; a bland sycophant.,
B as in Bland (a.) Having soft and soothing qualities; not drastic or irritating; not stimulating; as, a bland oil; a bland diet.,
B as in Blandation (n.) Flattery.,
B as in Blandiloquence (n.) Mild, flattering speech.,
B as in Blandiloquous (a.) Alt. of Blandiloquious,
B as in Blandiloquious (a.) Fair-spoken; flattering.,
B as in Blandise (v. i.) To blandish any one.,
B as in Blandished (imp. & p. p.) of Blandish,
B as in Blandishing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Blandish,
B as in Blandish (v. t.) To flatter with kind words or affectionate actions; to caress; to cajole.,
B as in Blandish (v. t.) To make agreeable and enticing.,
B as in Blandisher (n.) One who uses blandishments.,
B as in Blandishment (n.) The act of blandishing; a word or act expressive of affection or kindness, and tending to win the heart; soft words and artful caresses; cajolery; allurement.,
B as in Blandly (adv.) In a bland manner; mildly; suavely.,
B as in Blandness (n.) The state or quality of being bland.,
B as in Blank (a.) Of a white or pale color; without color.,
B as in Blank (a.) Free from writing, printing, or marks; having an empty space to be filled in with some special writing; -- said of checks, official documents, etc.; as, blank paper; a blank check; a blank ballot.,
B as in Blank (a.) Utterly confounded or discomfited.,
B as in Blank (a.) Empty; void; without result; fruitless; as, a blank space; a blank day.,
B as in Blank (a.) Lacking characteristics which give variety; as, a blank desert; a blank wall; destitute of interests, affections, hopes, etc.; as, to live a blank existence; destitute of sensations; as, blank unconsciousness.,
B as in Blank (a.) Lacking animation and intelligence, or their associated characteristics, as expression of face, look, etc.; expressionless; vacant.,
B as in Blank (a.) Absolute; downright; unmixed; as, blank terror.,
B as in Blank (n.) Any void space; a void space on paper, or in any written instrument; an interval void of consciousness, action, result, etc; a void.,
B as in Blank (n.) A lot by which nothing is gained; a ticket in a lottery on which no prize is indicated.,
B as in Blank (n.) A paper unwritten; a paper without marks or characters a blank ballot; -- especially, a paper on which are to be inserted designated items of information, for which spaces are left vacant; a bland form.,
B as in Blank (n.) A paper containing the substance of a legal instrument, as a deed, release, writ, or execution, with spaces left to be filled with names, date, descriptions, etc.,
B as in Blank (n.) The point aimed at in a target, marked with a white spot; hence, the object to which anything is directed.,
B as in Blank (n.) Aim; shot; range.,
B as in Blank (n.) A kind of base silver money, first coined in England by Henry V., and worth about 8 pence; also, a French coin of the seventeenth century, worth about 4 pence.,
B as in Blank (n.) A piece of metal prepared to be made into something by a further operation, as a coin, screw, nuts.,
B as in Blank (n.) A piece or division of a piece, without spots; as, the "double blank"; the "six blank.",
B as in Blanked (imp. & p. p.) of Blank,
B as in Blanking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Blank,
B as in Blank (v. t.) To make void; to annul.,
B as in Blank (v. t.) To blanch; to make blank; to damp the spirits of; to dispirit or confuse.,
B as in Blanket (a.) A heavy, loosely woven fabric, usually of wool, and having a nap, used in bed clothing; also, a similar fabric used as a robe; or any fabric used as a cover for a horse.,
B as in Blanket (a.) A piece of rubber, felt, or woolen cloth, used in the tympan to make it soft and elastic.,
B as in Blanket (a.) A streak or layer of blubber in whales.,
B as in Blanketed (imp. & p. p.) of Blanket,
B as in Blanketing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Blanket,
B as in Blanket (v. t.) To cover with a blanket.,
B as in Blanket (v. t.) To toss in a blanket by way of punishment.,
B as in Blanket (v. t.) To take the wind out of the sails of (another vessel) by sailing to windward of her.,
B as in Blanketing (n.) Cloth for blankets.,
B as in Blanketing (n.) The act or punishment of tossing in a blanket.,
B as in Blankly (adv.) In a blank manner; without expression; vacuously; as, to stare blankly.,
B as in Blankly (adv.) Directly; flatly; point blank.,
B as in Blankness (n.) The state of being blank.,
B as in Blanquette (n.) A white fricassee.,
B as in Blanquillo (n.) A large fish of Florida and the W. Indies (Caulolatilus chrysops). It is red, marked with yellow.,
B as in Blared (imp. & p. p.) of Blare,
B as in Blaring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Blare,
B as in Blare (v. i.) To sound loudly and somewhat harshly.,
B as in Blare (v. t.) To cause to sound like the blare of a trumpet; to proclaim loudly.,
B as in Blare (n.) The harsh noise of a trumpet; a loud and somewhat harsh noise, like the blast of a trumpet; a roar or bellowing.,
B as in Blarney (n.) Smooth, wheedling talk; flattery.,
B as in Blarneyed (imp. & p. p.) of Blarney,
B as in Blarneying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Blarney,
B as in Blarney (v. t.) To influence by blarney; to wheedle with smooth talk; to make or accomplish by blarney.,
B as in Blase (a.) Having the sensibilities deadened by excess or frequency of enjoyment; sated or surfeited with pleasure; used up.,
B as in Blasphemed (imp. & p. p.) of Blaspheme,
B as in Blaspheming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Blaspheme,
B as in Blaspheme (v.) To speak of, or address, with impious irreverence; to revile impiously (anything sacred); as, to blaspheme the Holy Spirit.,
B as in Blaspheme (v.) Figuratively, of persons and things not religiously sacred, but held in high honor: To calumniate; to revile; to abuse.,
B as in Blaspheme (v. i.) To utter blasphemy.,
B as in Blasphemer (n.) One who blasphemes.,
B as in Blasphemous (a.) Speaking or writing blasphemy; uttering or exhibiting anything impiously irreverent; profane; as, a blasphemous person; containing blasphemy; as, a blasphemous book; a blasphemous caricature.,
B as in Blasphemously (adv.) In a blasphemous manner.,
B as in Blasphemy (n.) An indignity offered to God in words, writing, or signs; impiously irreverent words or signs addressed to, or used in reference to, God; speaking evil of God; also, the act of claiming the attributes or prerogatives of deity.,
B as in Blasphemy (n.) Figuratively, of things held in high honor: Calumny; abuse; vilification.,
B as in -blast () A suffix or terminal formative, used principally in biological terms, and signifying growth, formation; as, bioblast, epiblast, mesoblast, etc.,
B as in Blast (n.) A violent gust of wind.,
B as in Blast (n.) A forcible stream of air from an orifice, as from a bellows, the mouth, etc. Hence: The continuous blowing to which one charge of ore or metal is subjected in a furnace; as, to melt so many tons of iron at a blast.,
B as in Blast (n.) The exhaust steam from and engine, driving a column of air out of a boiler chimney, and thus creating an intense draught through the fire; also, any draught produced by the blast.,
B as in Blast (n.) The sound made by blowing a wind instrument; strictly, the sound produces at one breath.,
B as in Blast (n.) A sudden, pernicious effect, as if by a noxious wind, especially on animals and plants; a blight.,
B as in Blast (n.) The act of rending, or attempting to rend, heavy masses of rock, earth, etc., by the explosion of gunpowder, dynamite, etc.; also, the charge used for this purpose.,
B as in Blast (n.) A flatulent disease of sheep.,
B as in Blasted (imp. & p. p.) of Blast,
B as in Blasting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Blast,
B as in Blast (v. t.) To injure, as by a noxious wind; to cause to wither; to stop or check the growth of, and prevent from fruit-bearing, by some pernicious influence; to blight; to shrivel.,
B as in Blast (v. t.) Hence, to affect with some sudden violence, plague, calamity, or blighting influence, which destroys or causes to fail; to visit with a curse; to curse; to ruin; as, to blast pride, hopes, or character.,
B as in Blast (v. t.) To confound by a loud blast or din.,
B as in Blast (v. t.) To rend open by any explosive agent, as gunpowder, dynamite, etc.; to shatter; as, to blast rocks.,
B as in Blast (v. i.) To be blighted or withered; as, the bud blasted in the blossom.,
B as in Blast (v. i.) To blow; to blow on a trumpet.,
B as in Blasted (a.) Blighted; withered.,
B as in Blasted (a.) Confounded; accursed; detestable.,
B as in Blasted (a.) Rent open by an explosive.,
B as in Blastemata (pl. ) of Blastema,
B as in Blastema (n.) The structureless, protoplasmic tissue of the embryo; the primitive basis of an organ yet unformed, from which it grows.,
B as in Blastemal (a.) Relating to the blastema; rudimentary.,
B as in Blastematic (a.) Connected with, or proceeding from, the blastema; blastemal.,
B as in Blaster (n.) One who, or that which, blasts or destroys.,
B as in Blastide (n.) A small, clear space in the segments of the ovum, the precursor of the nucleus.,
B as in Blasting (n.) A blast; destruction by a blast, or by some pernicious cause.,
B as in Blasting (n.) The act or process of one who, or that which, blasts; the business of one who blasts.,
B as in Blastment (n.) A sudden stroke or injury produced by some destructive cause.,
B as in Blastocarpous (a.) Germinating inside the pericarp, as the mangrove.,
B as in Blastocoele (n.) The cavity of the blastosphere, or segmentation cavity.,
B as in Blastocyst (n.) The germinal vesicle.,
B as in Blastoderm (n.) The germinal membrane in an ovum, from which the embryo is developed.,
B as in Blastodermatic (a.) Alt. of Blastodermic,
B as in Blastodermic (a.) Of or pertaining to the blastoderm.,
B as in Blastogenesis (n.) Multiplication or increase by gemmation or budding.,
B as in Blastoid (n.) One of the Blastoidea.,
B as in Blastoidea (n. pl.) One of the divisions of Crinoidea found fossil in paleozoic rocks; pentremites. They are so named on account of their budlike form.,
B as in Blastomere (n.) One of the segments first formed by the division of the ovum.,
B as in Blastophoral (a.) Alt. of Blastophoric,
B as in Blastophoric (a.) Relating to the blastophore.,
B as in Blastophore (n.) That portion of the spermatospore which is not converted into spermatoblasts, but carries them.,
B as in Blastopore (n.) The pore or opening leading into the cavity of invagination, or archenteron.,
B as in Blastosphere (n.) The hollow globe or sphere formed by the arrangement of the blastomeres on the periphery of an impregnated ovum.,
B as in Blastostyle (n.) In certain hydroids, an imperfect zooid, whose special function is to produce medusoid buds. See Hydroidea, and Athecata.,
B as in Blast pipe () The exhaust pipe of a steam engine, or any pipe delivering steam or air, when so constructed as to cause a blast.,
B as in Blastula (n.) That stage in the development of the ovum in which the outer cells of the morula become more defined and form the blastoderm.,
B as in Blastule (n.) Same as Blastula.,
B as in Blasty (a.) Affected by blasts; gusty.,
B as in Blasty (a.) Causing blast or injury.,
B as in Blat (v. i.) To cry, as a calf or sheep; to bleat; to make a senseless noise; to talk inconsiderately.,
B as in Blat (v. t.) To utter inconsiderately.,
B as in Blatancy (n.) Blatant quality.,
B as in Blatant (a.) Bellowing, as a calf; bawling; brawling; clamoring; disagreeably clamorous; sounding loudly and harshly.,
B as in Blatantly (adv.) In a blatant manner.,
B as in Blatherskite (n.) A blustering, talkative fellow.,
B as in Blattered (imp. & p. p.) of Blatter,
B as in Blatter (v. i.) To prate; to babble; to rail; to make a senseless noise; to patter.,
B as in Blatteration (n.) Blattering.,
B as in Blatterer (n.) One who blatters; a babbler; a noisy, blustering boaster.,
B as in Blattering (n.) Senseless babble or boasting.,
B as in Blatteroon (n.) A senseless babbler or boaster.,
B as in Blaubok (n.) The blue buck. See Blue buck, under Blue.,
B as in Blay (a.) A fish. See Bleak, n.,
B as in Blaze (n.) A stream of gas or vapor emitting light and heat in the process of combustion; a bright flame.,
B as in Blaze (n.) Intense, direct light accompanied with heat; as, to seek shelter from the blaze of the sun.,
B as in Blaze (n.) A bursting out, or active display of any quality; an outburst; a brilliant display.,
B as in Blaze (n.) A white spot on the forehead of a horse.,
B as in Blaze (n.) A spot made on trees by chipping off a piece of the bark, usually as a surveyor's mark.,
B as in Blazed (imp. & p. p.) of Blaze,
B as in Blazing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Blaze,
B as in Blaze (v. i.) To shine with flame; to glow with flame; as, the fire blazes.,
B as in Blaze (v. i.) To send forth or reflect glowing or brilliant light; to show a blaze.,
B as in Blaze (v. i.) To be resplendent.,
B as in Blaze (v. t.) To mark (a tree) by chipping off a piece of the bark.,
B as in Blaze (v. t.) To designate by blazing; to mark out, as by blazed trees; as, to blaze a line or path.,
B as in Blaze (v. i.) To make public far and wide; to make known; to render conspicuous.,
B as in Blaze (v. i.) To blazon.,
B as in Blazer (n.) One who spreads reports or blazes matters abroad.,
B as in Blazing (a.) Burning with a blaze; as, a blazing fire; blazing torches.,
B as in Blazon (n.) A shield.,
B as in Blazon (n.) An heraldic shield; a coat of arms, or a bearing on a coat of arms; armorial bearings.,
B as in Blazon (n.) The art or act of describing or depicting heraldic bearings in the proper language or manner.,
B as in Blazon (n.) Ostentatious display, either by words or other means; publication; show; description; record.,
B as in Blazoned (imp. & p. p.) of Blazon,
B as in Blazoning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Blazon,
B as in Blazon (v. t.) To depict in colors; to display; to exhibit conspicuously; to publish or make public far and wide.,
B as in Blazon (v. t.) To deck; to embellish; to adorn.,
B as in Blazon (v. t.) To describe in proper terms (the figures of heraldic devices); also, to delineate (armorial bearings); to emblazon.,
B as in Blazon (v. i.) To shine; to be conspicuous.,
B as in Blazoner (n.) One who gives publicity, proclaims, or blazons; esp., one who blazons coats of arms; a herald.,
B as in Blazonment (n.) The act of blazoning; blazoning; emblazonment.,
B as in Blazonry (n.) Same as Blazon, 3.,
B as in Blazonry (n.) A coat of arms; an armorial bearing or bearings.,
B as in Blazonry (n.) Artistic representation or display.,
B as in Blea (n.) The part of a tree which lies immediately under the bark; the alburnum or sapwood.,
B as in Bleaberry (n.) See Blaeberry.,
B as in Bleached (imp. & p. p.) of Bleach,
B as in Bleaching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bleach,
B as in Bleach (a.) To make white, or whiter; to remove the color, or stains, from; to blanch; to whiten.,
B as in Bleach (v. i.) To grow white or lose color; to whiten.,
B as in Bleached (a.) Whitened; make white.,
B as in Bleacher (n.) One who whitens, or whose occupation is to whiten, by bleaching.,
B as in Bleacheries (pl. ) of Bleachery,
B as in Bleachery (n.) A place or an establishment where bleaching is done.,
B as in Bleaching (n.) The act or process of whitening, by removing color or stains; esp. the process of whitening fabrics by chemical agents.,
B as in Bleak (a.) Without color; pale; pallid.,
B as in Bleak (a.) Desolate and exposed; swept by cold winds.,
B as in Bleak (a.) Cold and cutting; cheerless; as, a bleak blast.,
B as in Bleak (a.) A small European river fish (Leuciscus alburnus), of the family Cyprinidae; the blay.,
B as in Bleaky (a.) Bleak.,
B as in Blear (v.) Dim or sore with water or rheum; -- said of the eyes.,
B as in Blear (v.) Causing or caused by dimness of sight; dim.,
B as in Bleared (imp. & p. p.) of Blear,
B as in Blearing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Blear,
B as in Blear (v. t.) To make somewhat sore or watery, as the eyes; to dim, or blur, as the sight. Figuratively: To obscure (mental or moral perception); to blind; to hoodwink.,
B as in Bleared (a.) Dimmed, as by a watery humor; affected with rheum.,
B as in Bleareye (n.) A disease of the eyelids, consisting in chronic inflammation of the margins, with a gummy secretion of sebaceous matter.,
B as in Blear-eyed (a.) Having sore eyes; having the eyes dim with rheum; dim-sighted.,
B as in Blear-eyed (a.) Lacking in perception or penetration; short-sighted; as, a blear-eyed bigot.,
B as in Bleareyedness (n.) The state of being blear-eyed.,
B as in Bleary (a.) Somewhat blear.,
B as in Bleated (imp. & p. p.) of Bleat,
B as in Bleating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bleat,
B as in Bleat (v. i.) To make the noise of, or one like that of, a sheep; to cry like a sheep or calf.,
B as in Bleat (n.) A plaintive cry of, or like that of, a sheep.,
B as in Bleater (n.) One who bleats; a sheep.,
B as in Bleating (a.) Crying as a sheep does.,
B as in Bleating (n.) The cry of, or as of, a sheep.,
B as in Bleb (n.) A large vesicle or bulla, usually containing a serous fluid; a blister; a bubble, as in water, glass, etc.,
B as in Blebby (a.) Containing blebs, or characterized by blebs; as, blebby glass.,
B as in Bleck (v. t.) Alt. of Blek,
B as in Blek (v. t.) To blacken; also, to defile.,
B as in Bled () imp. & p. p. of Bleed.,
B as in Blee (n.) Complexion; color; hue; likeness; form.,
B as in Bled (imp. & p. p.) of Bleed,
B as in Bleeding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bleed,
B as in Bleed (v. i.) To emit blood; to lose blood; to run with blood, by whatever means; as, the arm bleeds; the wound bled freely; to bleed at the nose.,
B as in Bleed (v. i.) To withdraw blood from the body; to let blood; as, Dr. A. bleeds in fevers.,
B as in Bleed (v. i.) To lose or shed one's blood, as in case of a violent death or severe wounds; to die by violence.,
B as in Bleed (v. i.) To issue forth, or drop, as blood from an incision.,
B as in Bleed (v. i.) To lose sap, gum, or juice; as, a tree or a vine bleeds when tapped or wounded.,
B as in Bleed (v. i.) To pay or lose money; to have money drawn or extorted; as, to bleed freely for a cause.,
B as in Bleed (v. t.) To let blood from; to take or draw blood from, as by opening a vein.,
B as in Bleed (v. t.) To lose, as blood; to emit or let drop, as sap.,
B as in Bleed (v. t.) To draw money from (one); to induce to pay; as, they bled him freely for this fund.,
B as in Bleeder (n.) One who, or that which, draws blood.,
B as in Bleeder (n.) One in whom slight wounds give rise to profuse or uncontrollable bleeding.,
B as in Bleeding (a.) Emitting, or appearing to emit, blood or sap, etc.; also, expressing anguish or compassion.,
B as in Bleeding (n.) A running or issuing of blood, as from the nose or a wound; a hemorrhage; the operation of letting blood, as in surgery; a drawing or running of sap from a tree or plant.,
B as in Blemished (imp. & p. p.) of Blemish,
B as in Blemishing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Blemish,
B as in Blemish (v. t.) To mark with deformity; to injure or impair, as anything which is well formed, or excellent; to mar, or make defective, either the body or mind.,
B as in Blemish (v. t.) To tarnish, as reputation or character; to defame.,
B as in Blemishes (pl. ) of Blemish,
B as in Blemish (n.) Any mark of deformity or injury, whether physical or moral; anything that diminishes beauty, or renders imperfect that which is otherwise well formed; that which impairs reputation.,
B as in Blemishless (a.) Without blemish; spotless.,
B as in Blemishment (n.) The state of being blemished; blemish; disgrace; damage; impairment.,
B as in Blenched (imp. & p. p.) of Blench,
B as in Blenching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Blench,
B as in Blench (v. i.) To shrink; to start back; to draw back, from lack of courage or resolution; to flinch; to quail.,
B as in Blench (v. i.) To fly off; to turn aside.,
B as in Blench (v. t.) To baffle; to disconcert; to turn away; -- also, to obstruct; to hinder.,
B as in Blench (v. t.) To draw back from; to deny from fear.,
B as in Blench (n.) A looking aside or askance.,
B as in Blench (v. i. & t.) To grow or make pale.,
B as in Blencher (n.) One who, or that which, scares another; specifically, a person stationed to prevent the escape of the deer, at a hunt. See Blancher.,
B as in Blencher (n.) One who blenches, flinches, or shrinks back.,
B as in Blench holding () See Blanch holding.,
B as in Blended (imp. & p. p.) of Blend,
B as in Blent () of Blend,
B as in Blending (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Blend,
B as in Blend (v. t.) To mix or mingle together; esp. to mingle, combine, or associate so that the separate things mixed, or the line of demarcation, can not be distinguished. Hence: To confuse; to confound.,
B as in Blend (v. t.) To pollute by mixture or association; to spoil or corrupt; to blot; to stain.,
B as in Blend (v. i.) To mingle; to mix; to unite intimately; to pass or shade insensibly into each other, as colors.,
B as in Blend (n.) A thorough mixture of one thing with another, as color, tint, etc., into another, so that it cannot be known where one ends or the other begins.,
B as in Blend (a.) To make blind, literally or figuratively; to dazzle; to deceive.,
B as in Blende (n.) A mineral, called also sphalerite, and by miners mock lead, false galena, and black-jack. It is a zinc sulphide, but often contains some iron. Its color is usually yellow, brown, or black, and its luster resinous.,
B as in Blende (n.) A general term for some minerals, chiefly metallic sulphides which have a somewhat brilliant but nonmetallic luster.,
B as in Blender (n.) One who, or that which, blends; an instrument, as a brush, used in blending.,
B as in Blending (n.) The act of mingling.,
B as in Blending (n.) The method of laying on different tints so that they may mingle together while wet, and shade into each other insensibly.,
B as in Blendous (a.) Pertaining to, consisting of, or containing, blende.,
B as in Blendwater (n.) A distemper incident to cattle, in which their livers are affected.,
B as in Blenheim spaniel () A small variety of spaniel, kept as a pet.,
B as in Blenk (v. i.) To blink; to shine; to look.,
B as in Blennioid (a.) Alt. of Blenniid,
B as in Blenniid (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the blennies.,
B as in Blennogenous (a.) Generating mucus.,
B as in Blennorrhea (n.) An inordinate secretion and discharge of mucus.,
B as in Blennorrhea (n.) Gonorrhea.,
B as in Blennies (pl. ) of Blenny,
B as in Blenny (n.) A marine fish of the genus Blennius or family Blenniidae; -- so called from its coating of mucus. The species are numerous.,
B as in Blent (imp. & p. p.) Mingled; mixed; blended; also, polluted; stained.,
B as in Blent (imp. & p. p.) Blinded. Also (Chaucer), 3d sing. pres. Blindeth.,
B as in Blesbok (n.) A South African antelope (Alcelaphus albifrons), having a large white spot on the forehead.,
B as in Blessed (imp. & p. p.) of Bless,
B as in Blest () of Bless,
B as in Blessing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bless,
B as in Bless (v. t.) To make or pronounce holy; to consecrate,
B as in Bless (v. t.) To make happy, blithesome, or joyous; to confer prosperity or happiness upon; to grant divine favor to.,
B as in Bless (v. t.) To express a wish or prayer for the happiness of; to invoke a blessing upon; -- applied to persons.,
B as in Bless (v. t.) To invoke or confer beneficial attributes or qualities upon; to invoke or confer a blessing on, -- as on food.,
B as in Bless (v. t.) To make the sign of the cross upon; to cross (one's self).,
B as in Bless (v. t.) To guard; to keep; to protect.,
B as in Bless (v. t.) To praise, or glorify; to extol for excellences.,
B as in Bless (v. t.) To esteem or account happy; to felicitate.,
B as in Bless (v. t.) To wave; to brandish.,
B as in Blessed (a.) Hallowed; consecrated; worthy of blessing or adoration; heavenly; holy.,
B as in Blessed (a.) Enjoying happiness or bliss; favored with blessings; happy; highly favored.,
B as in Blessed (a.) Imparting happiness or bliss; fraught with happiness; blissful; joyful.,
B as in Blessed (a.) Enjoying, or pertaining to, spiritual happiness, or heavenly felicity; as, the blessed in heaven.,
B as in Blessed (a.) Beatified.,
B as in Blessed (a.) Used euphemistically, ironically, or intensively.,
B as in Blessedly (adv.) Happily; fortunately; joyfully.,
B as in Blessedness (n.) The state of being blessed; happiness; felicity; bliss; heavenly joys; the favor of God.,
B as in Blessed thistle () See under Thistle.,
B as in Blesser (n.) One who blesses; one who bestows or invokes a blessing.,
B as in Blessing (v. t.) The act of one who blesses.,
B as in Blessing (v. t.) A declaration of divine favor, or an invocation imploring divine favor on some or something; a benediction; a wish of happiness pronounces.,
B as in Blessing (v. t.) A means of happiness; that which promotes prosperity and welfare; a beneficent gift.,
B as in Blessing (v. t.) A gift.,
B as in Blessing (v. t.) Grateful praise or worship.,
B as in Blest (a.) Blessed.,
B as in Blet (n.) A form of decay in fruit which is overripe.,
B as in Bletonism (n.) The supposed faculty of perceiving subterraneous springs and currents by sensation; -- so called from one Bleton, of France.,
B as in Bletting (n.) A form of decay seen in fleshy, overripe fruit.,
B as in Blew () imp. of Blow.,
B as in Bleyme (n.) An inflammation in the foot of a horse, between the sole and the bone.,
B as in Bleynte () imp. of Blench.,
B as in Blickey (n.) A tin dinner pail.,
B as in Blighted (imp. & p. p.) of Blight,
B as in Blighting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Blight,
B as in Blight (v. t.) To affect with blight; to blast; to prevent the growth and fertility of.,
B as in Blight (v. t.) Hence: To destroy the happiness of; to ruin; to mar essentially; to frustrate; as, to blight one's prospects.,
B as in Blight (v. i.) To be affected by blight; to blast; as, this vine never blights.,
B as in Blight (n.) Mildew; decay; anything nipping or blasting; -- applied as a general name to various injuries or diseases of plants, causing the whole or a part to wither, whether occasioned by insects, fungi, or atmospheric influences.,
B as in Blight (n.) The act of blighting, or the state of being blighted; a withering or mildewing, or a stoppage of growth in the whole or a part of a plant, etc.,
B as in Blight (n.) That which frustrates one's plans or withers one's hopes; that which impairs or destroys.,
B as in Blight (n.) A downy species of aphis, or plant louse, destructive to fruit trees, infesting both the roots and branches; -- also applied to several other injurious insects.,
B as in Blight (n.) A rashlike eruption on the human skin.,
B as in Blighting (a.) Causing blight.,
B as in Blightingly (adv.) So as to cause blight.,
B as in Blimbi (n.) Alt. of Blimbing,
B as in Blimbing (n.) See Bilimbi, etc.,
B as in Blin (v. t. & i.) To stop; to cease; to desist.,
B as in Blin (n.) Cessation; end.,
B as in Blind (a.) Destitute of the sense of seeing, either by natural defect or by deprivation; without sight.,
B as in Blind (a.) Not having the faculty of discernment; destitute of intellectual light; unable or unwilling to understand or judge; as, authors are blind to their own defects.,
B as in Blind (a.) Undiscerning; undiscriminating; inconsiderate.,
B as in Blind (a.) Having such a state or condition as a thing would have to a person who is blind; not well marked or easily discernible; hidden; unseen; concealed; as, a blind path; a blind ditch.,
B as in Blind (a.) Involved; intricate; not easily followed or traced.,
B as in Blind (a.) Having no openings for light or passage; as, a blind wall; open only at one end; as, a blind alley; a blind gut.,
B as in Blind (a.) Unintelligible, or not easily intelligible; as, a blind passage in a book; illegible; as, blind writing.,
B as in Blind (a.) Abortive; failing to produce flowers or fruit; as, blind buds; blind flowers.,
B as in Blinded (imp. & p. p.) of Blind,
B as in Blinding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Blind,
B as in Blind (v. t.) To make blind; to deprive of sight or discernment.,
B as in Blind (v. t.) To deprive partially of vision; to make vision difficult for and painful to; to dazzle.,
B as in Blind (v. t.) To darken; to obscure to the eye or understanding; to conceal; to deceive.,
B as in Blind (v. t.) To cover with a thin coating of sand and fine gravel; as a road newly paved, in order that the joints between the stones may be filled.,
B as in Blind (n.) Something to hinder sight or keep out light; a screen; a cover; esp. a hinged screen or shutter for a window; a blinder for a horse.,
B as in Blind (n.) Something to mislead the eye or the understanding, or to conceal some covert deed or design; a subterfuge.,
B as in Blind (n.) A blindage. See Blindage.,
B as in Blind (n.) A halting place.,
B as in Blind (n.) Alt. of Blinde,
B as in Blinde (n.) See Blende.,
B as in Blindage (n.) A cover or protection for an advanced trench or approach, formed of fascines and earth supported by a framework.,
B as in Blinder (n.) One who, or that which, blinds.,
B as in Blinder (n.) One of the leather screens on a bridle, to hinder a horse from seeing objects at the side; a blinker.,
B as in Blindfish (n.) A small fish (Amblyopsis spelaeus) destitute of eyes, found in the waters of the Mammoth Cave, in Kentucky. Related fishes from other caves take the same name.,
B as in Blindfolded (imp. & p. p.) of Blindfold,
B as in Blindfolding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Blindfold,
B as in Blindfold (v. t.) To cover the eyes of, as with a bandage; to hinder from seeing.,
B as in Blindfold (a.) Having the eyes covered; blinded; having the mental eye darkened. Hence: Heedless; reckless; as, blindfold zeal; blindfold fury.,
B as in Blinding (a.) Making blind or as if blind; depriving of sight or of understanding; obscuring; as, blinding tears; blinding snow.,
B as in Blinding (n.) A thin coating of sand and fine gravel over a newly paved road. See Blind, v. t., 4.,
B as in Blindly (adv.) Without sight, discernment, or understanding; without thought, investigation, knowledge, or purpose of one's own.,
B as in Blindman's buff () A play in which one person is blindfolded, and tries to catch some one of the company and tell who it is.,
B as in Blindman's holiday () The time between daylight and candle light.,
B as in Blindness (n.) State or condition of being blind, literally or figuratively.,
B as in Blindstory (n.) The triforium as opposed to the clearstory.,
B as in Blindworm (n.) A small, burrowing, snakelike, limbless lizard (Anguis fragilis), with minute eyes, popularly believed to be blind; the slowworm; -- formerly a name for the adder.,
B as in Blinked (imp. & p. p.) of Blink,
B as in Blinking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Blink,
B as in Blink (v. i.) To wink; to twinkle with, or as with, the eye.,
B as in Blink (v. i.) To see with the eyes half shut, or indistinctly and with frequent winking, as a person with weak eyes.,
B as in Blink (v. i.) To shine, esp. with intermittent light; to twinkle; to flicker; to glimmer, as a lamp.,
B as in Blink (v. i.) To turn slightly sour, as beer, mild, etc.,
B as in Blink (v. t.) To shut out of sight; to avoid, or purposely evade; to shirk; as, to blink the question.,
B as in Blink (v. t.) To trick; to deceive.,
B as in Blink (v. i.) A glimpse or glance.,
B as in Blink (v. i.) Gleam; glimmer; sparkle.,
B as in Blink (v. i.) The dazzling whiteness about the horizon caused by the reflection of light from fields of ice at sea; ice blink.,
B as in Blink (pl.) Boughs cast where deer are to pass, to turn or check them.,
B as in Blinkard (n.) One who blinks with, or as with, weak eyes.,
B as in Blinkard (n.) That which twinkles or glances, as a dim star, which appears and disappears.,
B as in Blink beer () Beer kept unbroached until it is sharp.,
B as in Blinker (n.) One who, or that which, blinks.,
B as in Blinker (n.) A blinder for horses; a flap of leather on a horse's bridle to prevent him from seeing objects as his side hence, whatever obstructs sight or discernment.,
B as in Blinker (pl.) A kind of goggles, used to protect the eyes form glare, etc.,
B as in Blink-eyed (a.) Habitually winking.,
B as in Blirt (n.) A gust of wind and rain.,
B as in Blisses (pl. ) of Bliss,
B as in Bliss (n.) Orig., blithesomeness; gladness; now, the highest degree of happiness; blessedness; exalted felicity; heavenly joy.,
B as in Blissful (a.) Full of, characterized by, or causing, joy and felicity; happy in the highest degree.,
B as in Blissless (a.) Destitute of bliss.,
B as in Blissom (v. i.) To be lustful; to be lascivious.,
B as in Blissom (a.) Lascivious; also, in heat; -- said of ewes.,
B as in Blister (n.) A vesicle of the skin, containing watery matter or serum, whether occasioned by a burn or other injury, or by a vesicatory; a collection of serous fluid causing a bladderlike elevation of the cuticle.,
B as in Blister (n.) Any elevation made by the separation of the film or skin, as on plants; or by the swelling of the substance at the surface, as on steel.,
B as in Blister (n.) A vesicatory; a plaster of Spanish flies, or other matter, applied to raise a blister.,
B as in Blistered (imp. & p. p.) of Blister,
B as in Blistering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Blister,
B as in Blister (v. i.) To be affected with a blister or blisters; to have a blister form on.,
B as in Blister (v. t.) To raise a blister or blisters upon.,
B as in Blister (v. t.) To give pain to, or to injure, as if by a blister.,
B as in Blistery (a.) Full of blisters.,
B as in Blite (n.) A genus of herbs (Blitum) with a fleshy calyx. Blitum capitatum is the strawberry blite.,
B as in Blithe (a.) Gay; merry; sprightly; joyous; glad; cheerful; as, a blithe spirit.,
B as in Blitheful (a.) Gay; full of gayety; joyous.,
B as in Blithely (adv.) In a blithe manner.,
B as in Blitheness (n.) The state of being blithe.,
B as in Blithesome (a.) Cheery; gay; merry.,
B as in Blive (adv.) Quickly; forthwith.,
B as in Blizzard (n.) A gale of piercingly cold wind, usually accompanied with fine and blinding snow; a furious blast.,
B as in Bloated (imp. & p. p.) of Bloat,
B as in Bloating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bloat,
B as in Bloat (v. t.) To make turgid, as with water or air; to cause a swelling of the surface of, from effusion of serum in the cellular tissue, producing a morbid enlargement, often accompanied with softness.,
B as in Bloat (v. t.) To inflate; to puff up; to make vain.,
B as in Bloat (v. i.) To grow turgid as by effusion of liquid in the cellular tissue; to puff out; to swell.,
B as in Bloat (a.) Bloated.,
B as in Bloat (n.) A term of contempt for a worthless, dissipated fellow.,
B as in Bloat (v. t.) To dry (herrings) in smoke. See Blote.,
B as in Bloated (p. a.) Distended beyond the natural or usual size, as by the presence of water, serum, etc.; turgid; swollen; as, a bloated face. Also, puffed up with pride; pompous.,
B as in Bloatedness (n.) The state of being bloated.,
B as in Bloater (n.) The common herring, esp. when of large size, smoked, and half dried; -- called also bloat herring.,
B as in Blob (n.) Something blunt and round; a small drop or lump of something viscid or thick; a drop; a bubble; a blister.,
B as in Blob (n.) A small fresh-water fish (Uranidea Richardsoni); the miller's thumb.,
B as in Blobber (n.) A bubble; blubber.,
B as in Blobber-lipped (a.) Having thick lips.,
B as in Blocage (n.) The roughest and cheapest sort of rubblework, in masonry.,
B as in Block (v. t.) A piece of wood more or less bulky; a solid mass of wood, stone, etc., usually with one or more plane, or approximately plane, faces; as, a block on which a butcher chops his meat; a block by which to mount a horse; children's playing blocks, etc.,
B as in Block (v. t.) The solid piece of wood on which condemned persons lay their necks when they are beheaded.,
B as in Block (v. t.) The wooden mold on which hats, bonnets, etc., are shaped.,
B as in Block (v. t.) The pattern or shape of a hat.,
B as in Block (v. t.) A large or long building divided into separate houses or shops, or a number of houses or shops built in contact with each other so as to form one building; a row of houses or shops.,
B as in Block (v. t.) A square, or portion of a city inclosed by streets, whether occupied by buildings or not.,
B as in Block (v. t.) A grooved pulley or sheave incased in a frame or shell which is provided with a hook, eye, or strap, by which it may be attached to an object. It is used to change the direction of motion, as in raising a heavy object that can not be conveniently reached, and also, when two or more such sheaves are compounded, to change the rate of motion, or to exert increased force; -- used especially in the rigging of ships, and in tackles.,
B as in Block (v. t.) The perch on which a bird of prey is kept.,
B as in Block (v. t.) Any obstruction, or cause of obstruction; a stop; a hindrance; an obstacle; as, a block in the way.,
B as in Block (v. t.) A piece of box or other wood for engravers' work.,
B as in Block (v. t.) A piece of hard wood (as mahogany or cherry) on which a stereotype or electrotype plate is mounted to make it type high.,
B as in Block (v. t.) A blockhead; a stupid fellow; a dolt.,
B as in Block (v. t.) A section of a railroad where the block system is used. See Block system, below.,
B as in Blocked (imp. & p. p.) of Block,
B as in Blocking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Block,
B as in Block (n.) To obstruct so as to prevent passage or progress; to prevent passage from, through, or into, by obstructing the way; -- used both of persons and things; -- often followed by up; as, to block up a road or harbor.,
B as in Block (n.) To secure or support by means of blocks; to secure, as two boards at their angles of intersection, by pieces of wood glued to each.,
B as in Block (n.) To shape on, or stamp with, a block; as, to block a hat.,
B as in Blockade (v. t.) The shutting up of a place by troops or ships, with the purpose of preventing ingress or egress, or the reception of supplies; as, the blockade of the ports of an enemy.,
B as in Blockade (v. t.) An obstruction to passage.,
B as in Blockaded (imp. & p. p.) of Blockade,
B as in Blockading (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Blockade,
B as in Blockade (v. t. ) To shut up, as a town or fortress, by investing it with troops or vessels or war for the purpose of preventing ingress or egress, or the introduction of supplies. See note under Blockade, n.,
B as in Blockade (n.) Hence, to shut in so as to prevent egress.,
B as in Blockade (n.) To obstruct entrance to or egress from.,
B as in Blockader (n.) One who blockades.,
B as in Blockader (n.) A vessel employed in blockading.,
B as in Blockage (n.) The act of blocking up; the state of being blocked up.,
B as in Block book () A book printed from engraved wooden blocks instead of movable types.,
B as in Blockhead (n.) A stupid fellow; a dolt; a person deficient in understanding.,
B as in Blockheaded (a.) Stupid; dull.,
B as in Blockheadism (n.) That which characterizes a blockhead; stupidity.,
B as in Blockhouse (n.) An edifice or structure of heavy timbers or logs for military defense, having its sides loopholed for musketry, and often an upper story projecting over the lower, or so placed upon it as to have its sides make an angle wit the sides of the lower story, thus enabling the defenders to fire downward, and in all directions; -- formerly much used in America and Germany.,
B as in Blockhouse (n.) A house of squared logs.,
B as in Blocking (n.) The act of obstructing, supporting, shaping, or stamping with a block or blocks.,
B as in Blocking (n.) Blocks used to support (a building, etc.) temporarily.,
B as in Blocking course () The finishing course of a wall showing above a cornice.,
B as in Blockish (a.) Like a block; deficient in understanding; stupid; dull.,
B as in Blocklike (a.) Like a block; stupid.,
B as in Block tin () See under Tin.,
B as in Bloedite (n.) A hydrous sulphate of magnesium and sodium.,
B as in Blomary (n.) See Bloomery.,
B as in Bloncket (a.) Alt. of Blonket,
B as in Blonket (a.) Gray; bluish gray.,
B as in Blond (v. t.) Alt. of Blonde,
B as in Blonde (v. t.) Of a fair color; light-colored; as, blond hair; a blond complexion.,
B as in Blonde (n.) A person of very fair complexion, with light hair and light blue eyes.,
B as in Blonde (n.) A kind of silk lace originally of the color of raw silk, now sometimes dyed; -- called also blond lace.,
B as in Blond metal () A variety of clay ironstone, in Staffordshire, England, used for making tools.,
B as in Blondness (n.) The state of being blond.,
B as in Blood (n.) The fluid which circulates in the principal vascular system of animals, carrying nourishment to all parts of the body, and bringing away waste products to be excreted. See under Arterial.,
B as in Blood (n.) Relationship by descent from a common ancestor; consanguinity; kinship.,
B as in Blood (n.) Descent; lineage; especially, honorable birth; the highest royal lineage.,
B as in Blood (n.) Descent from parents of recognized breed; excellence or purity of breed.,
B as in Blood (n.) The fleshy nature of man.,
B as in Blood (n.) The shedding of blood; the taking of life, murder; manslaughter; destruction.,
B as in Blood (n.) A bloodthirsty or murderous disposition.,
B as in Blood (n.) Temper of mind; disposition; state of the passions; -- as if the blood were the seat of emotions.,
B as in Blood (n.) A man of fire or spirit; a fiery spark; a gay, showy man; a rake.,
B as in Blood (n.) The juice of anything, especially if red.,
B as in Blooded (imp. & p. p.) of Blood,
B as in Blooding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Blood,
B as in Blood (v. t.) To bleed.,
B as in Blood (v. t.) To stain, smear or wet, with blood.,
B as in Blood (v. t.) To give (hounds or soldiers) a first taste or sight of blood, as in hunting or war.,
B as in Blood (v. t.) To heat the blood of; to exasperate.,
B as in Bloodbird (n.) An Australian honeysucker (Myzomela sanguineolata); -- so called from the bright red color of the male bird.,
B as in Blood-boltered (a.) Having the hair matted with clotted blood.,
B as in Blooded (a.) Having pure blood, or a large admixture or pure blood; of approved breed; of the best stock.,
B as in Bloodflower (n.) A genus of bulbous plants, natives of Southern Africa, named Haemanthus, of the Amaryllis family. The juice of H. toxicarius is used by the Hottentots to poison their arrows.,
B as in Bloodguilty (a.) Guilty of murder or bloodshed.,
B as in Bloodhound (n.) A breed of large and powerful dogs, with long, smooth, and pendulous ears, and remarkable for acuteness of smell. It is employed to recover game or prey which has escaped wounded from a hunter, and for tracking criminals. Formerly it was used for pursuing runaway slaves. Other varieties of dog are often used for the same purpose and go by the same name. The Cuban bloodhound is said to be a variety of the mastiff.,
B as in Bloodily (adv.) In a bloody manner; cruelly; with a disposition to shed blood.,
B as in Bloodiness (n.) The state of being bloody.,
B as in Bloodiness (n.) Disposition to shed blood; bloodthirstiness.,
B as in Bloodless (a.) Destitute of blood, or apparently so; as, bloodless cheeks; lifeless; dead.,
B as in Bloodless (a.) Not attended with shedding of blood, or slaughter; as, a bloodless victory.,
B as in Bloodless (a.) Without spirit or activity.,
B as in Bloodlet (v. t. ) bleed; to let blood.,
B as in Bloodletter (n.) One who, or that which, lets blood; a phlebotomist.,
B as in Bloodletting (n.) The act or process of letting blood or bleeding, as by opening a vein or artery, or by cupping or leeches; -- esp. applied to venesection.,
B as in Blood money () Money paid to the next of kin of a person who has been killed by another.,
B as in Blood money () Money obtained as the price, or at the cost, of another's life; -- said of a reward for supporting a capital charge, of money obtained for betraying a fugitive or for committing murder, or of money obtained from the sale of that which will destroy the purchaser.,
B as in Bloodroot (n.) A plant (Sanguinaria Canadensis), with a red root and red sap, and bearing a pretty, white flower in early spring; -- called also puccoon, redroot, bloodwort, tetterwort, turmeric, and Indian paint. It has acrid emetic properties, and the rootstock is used as a stimulant expectorant. See Sanguinaria.,
B as in Bloodshed (n.) The shedding or spilling of blood; slaughter; the act of shedding human blood, or taking life, as in war, riot, or murder.,
B as in Bloodshedder (n.) One who sheds blood; a manslayer; a murderer.,
B as in Bloodshedding (n.) Bloodshed.,
B as in Bloodshot (a.) Red and inflamed; suffused with blood, or having the vessels turgid with blood, as when the conjunctiva is inflamed or irritated.,
B as in Blood-shotten (a.) Bloodshot.,
B as in Bloodstick (n.) A piece of hard wood loaded at one end with lead, and used to strike the fleam into the vein.,
B as in Bloodstone (n.) A green siliceous stone sprinkled with red jasper, as if with blood; hence the name; -- called also heliotrope.,
B as in Bloodstone (n.) Hematite, an ore of iron yielding a blood red powder or "streak.",
B as in Bloodstroke (n.) Loss of sensation and motion from hemorrhage or congestion in the brain.,
B as in Bloodsucker (n.) Any animal that sucks blood; esp., the leech (Hirudo medicinalis), and related species.,
B as in Bloodsucker (n.) One who sheds blood; a cruel, bloodthirsty man; one guilty of bloodshed; a murderer.,
B as in Bloodsucker (n.) A hard and exacting master, landlord, or money lender; an extortioner.,
B as in Bloodthirsty (a.) Eager to shed blood; cruel; sanguinary; murderous.,
B as in Bloodulf (n.) The European bullfinch.,
B as in Blood vessel () Any vessel or canal in which blood circulates in an animal, as an artery or vein.,
B as in Bloodwite (n.) Alt. of Bloodwit,
B as in Bloodwit (n.) A fine or amercement paid as a composition for the shedding of blood; also, a riot wherein blood was spilled.,
B as in Bloodwood (n.) A tree having the wood or the sap of the color of blood.,
B as in Bloodwort (n.) A plant, Rumex sanguineus, or bloody-veined dock. The name is applied also to bloodroot (Sanguinaria Canadensis), and to an extensive order of plants (Haemodoraceae), the roots of many species of which contain a red coloring matter useful in dyeing.,
B as in Bloody (a.) Containing or resembling blood; of the nature of blood; as, bloody excretions; bloody sweat.,
B as in Bloody (a.) Smeared or stained with blood; as, bloody hands; a bloody handkerchief.,
B as in Bloody (a.) Given, or tending, to the shedding of blood; having a cruel, savage disposition; murderous; cruel.,
B as in Bloody (a.) Attended with, or involving, bloodshed; sanguinary; esp., marked by great slaughter or cruelty; as, a bloody battle.,
B as in Bloody (a.) Infamous; contemptible; -- variously used for mere emphasis or as a low epithet.,
B as in Bloodied (imp. & p. p.) of Bloody,
B as in Bloodying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bloody,
B as in Bloody (v. t.) To stain with blood.,
B as in Bloodybones (n.) A terrible bugbear.,
B as in Bloody flux () The dysentery, a disease in which the flux or discharge from the bowels has a mixture of blood.,
B as in Bloody hand () A hand stained with the blood of a deer, which, in the old forest laws of England, was sufficient evidence of a man's trespass in the forest against venison.,
B as in Bloody hand () A red hand, as in the arms of Ulster, which is now the distinguishing mark of a baronet of the United Kingdom.,
B as in Bloody-minded (a.) Having a cruel, ferocious disposition; bloodthirsty.,
B as in Bloody sweat () A sweat accompanied by a discharge of blood; a disease, called sweating sickness, formerly prevalent in England and other countries.,
B as in Bloom (n.) A blossom; the flower of a plant; an expanded bud; flowers, collectively.,
B as in Bloom (n.) The opening of flowers in general; the state of blossoming or of having the flowers open; as, the cherry trees are in bloom.,
B as in Bloom (n.) A state or time of beauty, freshness, and vigor; an opening to higher perfection, analogous to that of buds into blossoms; as, the bloom of youth.,
B as in Bloom (n.) The delicate, powdery coating upon certain growing or newly-gathered fruits or leaves, as on grapes, plums, etc. Hence: Anything giving an appearance of attractive freshness; a flush; a glow.,
B as in Bloom (n.) The clouded appearance which varnish sometimes takes upon the surface of a picture.,
B as in Bloom (n.) A yellowish deposit or powdery coating which appears on well-tanned leather.,
B as in Bloom (n.) A popular term for a bright-hued variety of some minerals; as, the rose-red cobalt bloom.,
B as in Bloomed (imp. & p. p.) of Bloom,
B as in Blooming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bloom,
B as in Bloom (v. i.) To produce or yield blossoms; to blossom; to flower or be in flower.,
B as in Bloom (v. i.) To be in a state of healthful, growing youth and vigor; to show beauty and freshness, as of flowers; to give promise, as by or with flowers.,
B as in Bloom (v. t.) To cause to blossom; to make flourish.,
B as in Bloom (v. t.) To bestow a bloom upon; to make blooming or radiant.,
B as in Bloom (n.) A mass of wrought iron from the Catalan forge or from the puddling furnace, deprived of its dross, and shaped usually in the form of an oblong block by shingling.,
B as in Bloom (n.) A large bar of steel formed directly from an ingot by hammering or rolling, being a preliminary shape for further working.,
B as in Bloomary (n.) See Bloomery.,
B as in Bloomer (n.) A costume for women, consisting of a short dress, with loose trousers gathered round ankles, and (commonly) a broad-brimmed hat.,
B as in Bloomer (n.) A woman who wears a Bloomer costume.,
B as in Bloomery (n.) A furnace and forge in which wrought iron in the form of blooms is made directly from the ore, or (more rarely) from cast iron.,
B as in Blooming (n.) The process of making blooms from the ore or from cast iron.,
B as in Blooming (a.) Opening in blossoms; flowering.,
B as in Blooming (a.) Thriving in health, beauty, and vigor; indicating the freshness and beauties of youth or health.,
B as in Bloomingly (adv.) In a blooming manner.,
B as in Bloomingness (n.) A blooming condition.,
B as in Bloomless (a.) Without bloom or flowers.,
B as in Bloomy (a.) Full of bloom; flowery; flourishing with the vigor of youth; as, a bloomy spray.,
B as in Bloomy (a.) Covered with bloom, as fruit.,
B as in Blooth (n.) Bloom; a blossoming.,
B as in Blore (n.) The act of blowing; a roaring wind; a blast.,
B as in Blosmy (a.) Blossomy.,
B as in Blossom (n.) The flower of a plant, or the essential organs of reproduction, with their appendages; florescence; bloom; the flowers of a plant, collectively; as, the blossoms and fruit of a tree; an apple tree in blossom.,
B as in Blossom (n.) A blooming period or stage of development; something lovely that gives rich promise.,
B as in Blossom (n.) The color of a horse that has white hairs intermixed with sorrel and bay hairs; -- otherwise called peach color.,
B as in Blossomed (imp. & p. p.) of Blossom,
B as in Blossoming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Blossom,
B as in Blossom (n.) To put forth blossoms or flowers; to bloom; to blow; to flower.,
B as in Blossom (n.) To flourish and prosper.,
B as in Blossomless (a.) Without blossoms.,
B as in Blossomy (a.) Full of blossoms; flowery.,
B as in Blotted (imp. & p. p.) of Blot,
B as in Blotting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Blot,
B as in Blot (v. t.) To spot, stain, or bespatter, as with ink.,
B as in Blot (v. t.) To impair; to damage; to mar; to soil.,
B as in Blot (v. t.) To stain with infamy; to disgrace.,
B as in Blot (v. t.) To obliterate, as writing with ink; to cancel; to efface; -- generally with out; as, to blot out a word or a sentence. Often figuratively; as, to blot out offenses.,
B as in Blot (v. t.) To obscure; to eclipse; to shadow.,
B as in Blot (v. t.) To dry, as writing, with blotting paper.,
B as in Blot (v. i.) To take a blot; as, this paper blots easily.,
B as in Blot (n.) A spot or stain, as of ink on paper; a blur.,
B as in Blot (n.) An obliteration of something written or printed; an erasure.,
B as in Blot (n.) A spot on reputation; a stain; a disgrace; a reproach; a blemish.,
B as in Blot (n.) An exposure of a single man to be taken up.,
B as in Blot (n.) A single man left on a point, exposed to be taken up.,
B as in Blot (n.) A weak point; a failing; an exposed point or mark.,
B as in Blotch (a.) A blot or spot, as of color or of ink; especially a large or irregular spot. Also Fig.; as, a moral blotch.,
B as in Blotch (a.) A large pustule, or a coarse eruption.,
B as in Blotched (a.) Marked or covered with blotches.,
B as in Blotchy (a.) Having blotches.,
B as in Bloted (imp. & p. p.) of Blote,
B as in Bloting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Blote,
B as in Blote (v. t.) To cure, as herrings, by salting and smoking them; to bloat.,
B as in Blotless (a.) Without blot.,
B as in Blotter (n.) One who, or that which, blots; esp. a device for absorbing superfluous ink.,
B as in Blotter (n.) A wastebook, in which entries of transactions are made as they take place.,
B as in Blottesque (a.) Characterized by blots or heavy touches; coarsely depicted; wanting in delineation.,
B as in Blotting paper () A kind of thick, bibulous, unsized paper, used to absorb superfluous ink from freshly written manuscript, and thus prevent blots.,
B as in Blouse (n.) A light, loose over-garment, like a smock frock, worn especially by workingmen in France; also, a loose coat of any material, as the undress uniform coat of the United States army.,
B as in Blew (imp.) of Blow,
B as in Blown (p. p.) of Blow,
B as in Blowing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Blow,
B as in Blow (v. i.) To flower; to blossom; to bloom.,
B as in Blow (v. t.) To cause to blossom; to put forth (blossoms or flowers).,
B as in Blow (n.) A blossom; a flower; also, a state of blossoming; a mass of blossoms.,
B as in Blow (n.) A forcible stroke with the hand, fist, or some instrument, as a rod, a club, an ax, or a sword.,
B as in Blow (n.) A sudden or forcible act or effort; an assault.,
B as in Blow (n.) The infliction of evil; a sudden calamity; something which produces mental, physical, or financial suffering or loss (esp. when sudden); a buffet.,
B as in Blew (imp.) of Blow,
B as in Blown (p. p.) of Blow,
B as in Blowing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Blow,
B as in Blow (v. i.) To produce a current of air; to move, as air, esp. to move rapidly or with power; as, the wind blows.,
B as in Blow (v. i.) To send forth a forcible current of air, as from the mouth or from a pair of bellows.,
B as in Blow (v. i.) To breathe hard or quick; to pant; to puff.,
B as in Blow (v. i.) To sound on being blown into, as a trumpet.,
B as in Blow (v. i.) To spout water, etc., from the blowholes, as a whale.,
B as in Blow (v. i.) To be carried or moved by the wind; as, the dust blows in from the street.,
B as in Blow (v. i.) To talk loudly; to boast; to storm.,
B as in Blow (v. t.) To force a current of air upon with the mouth, or by other means; as, to blow the fire.,
B as in Blow (v. t.) To drive by a current air; to impel; as, the tempest blew the ship ashore.,
B as in Blow (v. t.) To cause air to pass through by the action of the mouth, or otherwise; to cause to sound, as a wind instrument; as, to blow a trumpet; to blow an organ.,
B as in Blow (v. t.) To clear of contents by forcing air through; as, to blow an egg; to blow one's nose.,
B as in Blow (v. t.) To burst, shatter, or destroy by an explosion; -- usually with up, down, open, or similar adverb; as, to blow up a building.,
B as in Blow (v. t.) To spread by report; to publish; to disclose.,
B as in Blow (v. t.) To form by inflation; to swell by injecting air; as, to blow bubbles; to blow glass.,
B as in Blow (v. t.) To inflate, as with pride; to puff up.,
B as in Blow (v. t.) To put out of breath; to cause to blow from fatigue; as, to blow a horse.,
B as in Blow (v. t.) To deposit eggs or larvae upon, or in (meat, etc.).,
B as in Blow (n.) A blowing, esp., a violent blowing of the wind; a gale; as, a heavy blow came on, and the ship put back to port.,
B as in Blow (n.) The act of forcing air from the mouth, or through or from some instrument; as, to give a hard blow on a whistle or horn; to give the fire a blow with the bellows.,
B as in Blow (n.) The spouting of a whale.,
B as in Blow (n.) A single heat or operation of the Bessemer converter.,
B as in Blow (n.) An egg, or a larva, deposited by a fly on or in flesh, or the act of depositing it.,
B as in Blowball (n.) The downy seed head of a dandelion, which children delight to blow away.,
B as in Blowen (n.) Alt. of Blowess,
B as in Blowess (n.) A prostitute; a courtesan; a strumpet.,
B as in Blower (n.) One who, or that which, blows.,
B as in Blower (n.) A device for producing a current of air; as: (a) A metal plate temporarily placed before the upper part of a grate or open fire. (b) A machine for producing an artificial blast or current of air by pressure, as for increasing the draft of a furnace, ventilating a building or shaft, cleansing gram, etc.,
B as in Blower (n.) A blowing out or excessive discharge of gas from a hole or fissure in a mine.,
B as in Blower (n.) The whale; -- so called by seamen, from the circumstance of its spouting up a column of water.,
B as in Blower (n.) A small fish of the Atlantic coast (Tetrodon turgidus); the puffer.,
B as in Blower (n.) A braggart, or loud talker.,
B as in Blowfly (n.) Any species of fly of the genus Musca that deposits its eggs or young larvae (called flyblows and maggots) upon meat or other animal products.,
B as in Blowgun (n.) A tube, as of cane or reed, sometimes twelve feet long, through which an arrow or other projectile may be impelled by the force of the breath. It is a weapon much used by certain Indians of America and the West Indies; -- called also blowpipe, and blowtube. See Sumpitan.,
B as in Blowhole (n.) A cavern in a cliff, at the water level, opening to the air at its farther extremity, so that the waters rush in with each surge and rise in a lofty jet from the extremity.,
B as in Blowhole (n.) A nostril or spiracle in the top of the head of a whale or other cetacean.,
B as in Blowhole (n.) A hole in the ice to which whales, seals, etc., come to breathe.,
B as in Blowhole (n.) An air hole in a casting.,
B as in Blown (p. p. & a.) Swollen; inflated; distended; puffed up, as cattle when gorged with green food which develops gas.,
B as in Blown (p. p. & a.) Stale; worthless.,
B as in Blown (p. p. & a.) Out of breath; tired; exhausted.,
B as in Blown (p. p. & a.) Covered with the eggs and larvae of flies; fly blown.,
B as in Blown (p. p. & a.) Opened; in blossom or having blossomed, as a flower.,
B as in Blow-off (n.) A blowing off steam, water, etc.;,
B as in Blow-off (adj.) as, a blow-off cock or pipe.,
B as in Blow-off (adj.) An outburst of temper or excitement.,
B as in Blow-out (n.) The cleaning of the flues of a boiler from scale, etc., by a blast of steam.,
B as in Blowpipe (n.) A tube for directing a jet of air into a fire or into the flame of a lamp or candle, so as to concentrate the heat on some object.,
B as in Blowpipe (n.) A blowgun; a blowtube.,
B as in Blowpoint (n.) A child's game.,
B as in Blowse (n.) See Blowze.,
B as in Blowth (n.) A blossoming; a bloom.,
B as in Blowtube (n.) A blowgun.,
B as in Blowtube (n.) A similar instrument, commonly of tin, used by boys for discharging paper wads and other light missiles.,
B as in Blowtube (n.) A long wrought iron tube, on the end of which the workman gathers a quantity of "metal" (melted glass), and through which he blows to expand or shape it; -- called also blowing tube, and blowpipe.,
B as in Blow valve () See Snifting valve.,
B as in Blowy (a.) Windy; as, blowy weather; a blowy upland.,
B as in Blowze (n.) A ruddy, fat-faced woman; a wench.,
B as in Blowzed (a.) Having high color from exposure to the weather; ruddy-faced; blowzy; disordered.,
B as in Blowzy (a.) Coarse and ruddy-faced; fat and ruddy; high colored; frowzy.,
B as in Blub (v. t. & i.) To swell; to puff out, as with weeping.,
B as in Blubber (n.) A bubble.,
B as in Blubber (n.) The fat of whales and other large sea animals from which oil is obtained. It lies immediately under the skin and over the muscular flesh.,
B as in Blubber (n.) A large sea nettle or medusa.,
B as in Blubbered (imp. & p. p.) of Blubber,
B as in Blubbering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Blubber,
B as in Blubber (v. i.) To weep noisily, or so as to disfigure the face; to cry in a childish manner.,
B as in Blubber (v. t.) To swell or disfigure (the face) with weeping; to wet with tears.,
B as in Blubber (v. t.) To give vent to (tears) or utter (broken words or cries); -- with forth or out.,
B as in Blubbered (p. p. & a.) Swollen; turgid; as, a blubbered lip.,
B as in Blubbering (n.) The act of weeping noisily.,
B as in Blubbery (a.) Swollen; protuberant.,
B as in Blubbery (a.) Like blubber; gelatinous and quivering; as, a blubbery mass.,
B as in Blucher (n.) A kind of half boot, named from the Prussian general Blucher.,
B as in Bludgeon (n.) A short stick, with one end loaded, or thicker and heavier that the other, used as an offensive weapon.,
B as in Blue (superl.) Having the color of the clear sky, or a hue resembling it, whether lighter or darker; as, the deep, blue sea; as blue as a sapphire; blue violets.,
B as in Blue (superl.) Pale, without redness or glare, -- said of a flame; hence, of the color of burning brimstone, betokening the presence of ghosts or devils; as, the candle burns blue; the air was blue with oaths.,
B as in Blue (superl.) Low in spirits; melancholy; as, to feel blue.,
B as in Blue (superl.) Suited to produce low spirits; gloomy in prospect; as, thongs looked blue.,
B as in Blue (superl.) Severe or over strict in morals; gloom; as, blue and sour religionists; suiting one who is over strict in morals; inculcating an impracticable, severe, or gloomy mortality; as, blue laws.,
B as in Blue (superl.) Literary; -- applied to women; -- an abbreviation of bluestocking.,
B as in Blue (n.) One of the seven colors into which the rays of light divide themselves, when refracted through a glass prism; the color of the clear sky, or a color resembling that, whether lighter or darker; a pigment having such color. Sometimes, poetically, the sky.,
B as in Blue (n.) A pedantic woman; a bluestocking.,
B as in Blue (pl.) Low spirits; a fit of despondency; melancholy.,
B as in Blued (imp. & p. p.) of Blue,
B as in Bluing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Blue,
B as in Blue (v. t.) To make blue; to dye of a blue color; to make blue by heating, as metals, etc.,
B as in Blueback (n.) A trout (Salmo oquassa) inhabiting some of the lakes of Maine.,
B as in Blueback (n.) A salmon (Oncorhynchus nerka) of the Columbia River and northward.,
B as in Blueback (n.) An American river herring (Clupea aestivalis), closely allied to the alewife.,
B as in Bluebeard (n.) The hero of a mediaeval French nursery legend, who, leaving home, enjoined his young wife not to open a certain room in his castle. She entered it, and found the murdered bodies of his former wives. -- Also used adjectively of a subject which it is forbidden to investigate.,
B as in Bluebell (n.) A plant of the genus Campanula, especially the Campanula rotundifolia, which bears blue bell-shaped flowers; the harebell.,
B as in Bluebell (n.) A plant of the genus Scilla (Scilla nutans).,
B as in Blueberry (n.) The berry of several species of Vaccinium, an ericaceous genus, differing from the American huckleberries in containing numerous minute seeds instead of ten nutlets. The commonest species are V. Pennsylvanicum and V. vacillans. V. corymbosum is the tall blueberry.,
B as in Bluebill (n.) A duck of the genus Fuligula. Two American species (F. marila and F. affinis) are common. See Scaup duck.,
B as in Bluebird (n.) A small song bird (Sialia sialis), very common in the United States, and, in the north, one of the earliest to arrive in spring. The male is blue, with the breast reddish. It is related to the European robin.,
B as in Blue bonnet (n.) Alt. of Blue-bonnet,
B as in Blue-bonnet (n.) A broad, flat Scottish cap of blue woolen, or one wearing such cap; a Scotchman.,
B as in Blue-bonnet (n.) A plant. Same as Bluebottle.,
B as in Blue-bonnet (n.) The European blue titmouse (Parus coeruleus); the bluecap.,
B as in Blue book () A parliamentary publication, so called from its blue paper covers.,
B as in Blue book () The United States official "Biennial Register.",
B as in Bluebottle (n.) A plant (Centaurea cyanus) which grows in grain fields. It receives its name from its blue bottle-shaped flowers.,
B as in Bluebottle (n.) A large and troublesome species of blowfly (Musca vomitoria). Its body is steel blue.,
B as in Bluebreast (n.) A small European bird; the blue-throated warbler.,
B as in Bluecap (n.) The bluepoll.,
B as in Bluecap (n.) The blue bonnet or blue titmouse.,
B as in Bluecap (n.) A Scot; a Scotchman; -- so named from wearing a blue bonnet.,
B as in Bluecoat (n.) One dressed in blue, as a soldier, a sailor, a beadle, etc.,
B as in Blue-eye (n.) The blue-cheeked honeysucker of Australia.,
B as in Blue-eyed (a.) Having blue eyes.,
B as in Blue-eyed grass () a grasslike plant (Sisyrinchium anceps), with small flowers of a delicate blue color.,
B as in Bluefin (n.) A species of whitefish (Coregonus nigripinnis) found in Lake Michigan.,
B as in Bluefish (n.) A large voracious fish (Pomatomus saitatrix), of the family Carangidae, valued as a food fish, and widely distributed on the American coast. On the New Jersey and Rhode Island coast it is called the horse mackerel, in Virginia saltwater tailor, or skipjack.,
B as in Bluefish (n.) A West Indian fish (Platyglossus radiatus), of the family Labridae.,
B as in Bluegown (n.) One of a class of paupers or pensioners, or licensed beggars, in Scotland, to whim annually on the king's birthday were distributed certain alms, including a blue gown; a beadsman.,
B as in Blue grass () A species of grass (Poa compressa) with bluish green stems, valuable in thin gravelly soils; wire grass.,
B as in Blue jay () The common jay of the United States (Cyanocitta, or Cyanura, cristata). The predominant color is bright blue.,
B as in Blue-john (n.) A name given to fluor spar in Derbyshire, where it is used for ornamental purposes.,
B as in Bluely (adv.) With a blue color.,
B as in Blueness (n.) The quality of being blue; a blue color.,
B as in Bluenose (n.) A nickname for a Nova Scotian.,
B as in Bluepoll (n.) A kind of salmon (Salmo Cambricus) found in Wales.,
B as in Blueprint () See under Print.,
B as in Bluestocking (n.) A literary lady; a female pedant.,
B as in Bluestocking (n.) The American avocet (Recurvirostra Americana).,
B as in Bluestockingism (n.) The character or manner of a bluestocking; female pedantry.,
B as in Bluestone (n.) Blue vitriol.,
B as in Bluestone (n.) A grayish blue building stone, as that commonly used in the eastern United States.,
B as in Bluethroat (n.) A singing bird of northern Europe and Asia (Cyanecula Suecica), related to the nightingales; -- called also blue-throated robin and blue-throated warbler.,
B as in Bluets (a.) A name given to several different species of plants having blue flowers, as the Houstonia coerulea, the Centaurea cyanus or bluebottle, and the Vaccinium angustifolium.,
B as in Blue-veined (a.) Having blue veins or blue streaks.,
B as in Bluewing (n.) The blue-winged teal. See Teal.,
B as in Bluey (a.) Bluish.,
B as in Bluff (a.) Having a broad, flattened front; as, the bluff bows of a ship.,
B as in Bluff (a.) Rising steeply with a flat or rounded front.,
B as in Bluff (a.) Surly; churlish; gruff; rough.,
B as in Bluff (a.) Abrupt; roughly frank; unceremonious; blunt; brusque; as, a bluff answer; a bluff manner of talking; a bluff sea captain.,
B as in Bluff (n.) A high, steep bank, as by a river or the sea, or beside a ravine or plain; a cliff with a broad face.,
B as in Bluff (n.) An act of bluffing; an expression of self-confidence for the purpose of intimidation; braggadocio; as, that is only bluff, or a bluff.,
B as in Bluff (n.) A game at cards; poker.,
B as in Bluffed (imp. & p. p.) of Bluff,
B as in Bluffing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bluff,
B as in Bluff (v. t.) To deter (an opponent) from taking the risk of betting on his hand of cards, as the bluffer does by betting heavily on his own hand although it may be of less value.,
B as in Bluff (v. t.) To frighten or deter from accomplishing a purpose by making a show of confidence in one's strength or resources; as, he bluffed me off.,
B as in Bluff (v. i.) To act as in the game of bluff.,
B as in Bluff-bowed (a.) Built with the stem nearly straight up and down.,
B as in Bluffer (n.) One who bluffs.,
B as in Bluff-headed (a.) Built with the stem nearly straight up and down.,
B as in Bluffness (n.) The quality or state of being bluff.,
B as in Bluffy (a.) Having bluffs, or bold, steep banks.,
B as in Bluffy (a.) Inclined to bo bluff; brusque.,
B as in Bluing (n.) The act of rendering blue; as, the bluing of steel.,
B as in Bluing (n.) Something to give a bluish tint, as indigo, or preparations used by washerwomen.,
B as in Bluish (a.) Somewhat blue; as, bluish veins.,
B as in Blundered (imp. & p. p.) of Blunder,
B as in Blundering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Blunder,
B as in Blunder (v. i.) To make a gross error or mistake; as, to blunder in writing or preparing a medical prescription.,
B as in Blunder (v. i.) To move in an awkward, clumsy manner; to flounder and stumble.,
B as in Blunder (v. t.) To cause to blunder.,
B as in Blunder (v. t.) To do or treat in a blundering manner; to confuse.,
B as in Blunder (n.) Confusion; disturbance.,
B as in Blunder (n.) A gross error or mistake, resulting from carelessness, stupidity, or culpable ignorance.,
B as in Blunderbuss (n.) A short gun or firearm, with a large bore, capable of holding a number of balls, and intended to do execution without exact aim.,
B as in Blunderbuss (n.) A stupid, blundering fellow.,
B as in Blunderer (n.) One who is apt to blunder.,
B as in Blunderhead (n.) A stupid, blundering fellow.,
B as in Blundering (a.) Characterized by blunders.,
B as in Blunderingly (adv.) In a blundering manner.,
B as in Blunge (v. t.) To amalgamate and blend; to beat up or mix in water, as clay.,
B as in Blunger (n.) A wooden blade with a cross handle, used for mi/ing the clay in potteries; a plunger.,
B as in Blunging (n.) The process of mixing clay in potteries with a blunger.,
B as in Blunt (a.) Having a thick edge or point, as an instrument; dull; not sharp.,
B as in Blunt (a.) Dull in understanding; slow of discernment; stupid; -- opposed to acute.,
B as in Blunt (a.) Abrupt in address; plain; unceremonious; wanting the forms of civility; rough in manners or speech.,
B as in Blunt (a.) Hard to impress or penetrate.,
B as in Blunted (imp. & p. p.) of Blunt,
B as in Blunting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Blunt,
B as in Blunt (v. t.) To dull the edge or point of, by making it thicker; to make blunt.,
B as in Blunt (v. t.) To repress or weaken, as any appetite, desire, or power of the mind; to impair the force, keenness, or susceptibility, of; as, to blunt the feelings.,
B as in Blunt (n.) A fencer's foil.,
B as in Blunt (n.) A short needle with a strong point. See Needle.,
B as in Blunt (n.) Money.,
B as in Bluntish (a.) Somewhat blunt.,
B as in Bluntly (adv.) In a blunt manner; coarsely; plainly; abruptly; without delicacy, or the usual forms of civility.,
B as in Bluntness (n.) Want of edge or point; dullness; obtuseness; want of sharpness.,
B as in Bluntness (n.) Abruptness of address; rude plainness.,
B as in Blunt-witted (n.) Dull; stupid.,
B as in Blurred (imp. & p. p.) of Blur,
B as in Blurring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Blur,
B as in Blur (v. t.) To render obscure by making the form or outline of confused and uncertain, as by soiling; to smear; to make indistinct and confused; as, to blur manuscript by handling it while damp; to blur the impression of a woodcut by an excess of ink.,
B as in Blur (v. t.) To cause imperfection of vision in; to dim; to darken.,
B as in Blur (v. t.) To sully; to stain; to blemish, as reputation.,
B as in Blur (n.) That which obscures without effacing; a stain; a blot, as upon paper or other substance.,
B as in Blur (n.) A dim, confused appearance; indistinctness of vision; as, to see things with a blur; it was all blur.,
B as in Blur (n.) A moral stain or blot.,
B as in Blurry (a.) Full of blurs; blurred.,
B as in Blurted (imp. & p. p.) of Blurt,
B as in Blurting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Blurt,
B as in Blurt (v. t.) To utter suddenly and unadvisedly; to divulge inconsiderately; to ejaculate; -- commonly with out.,
B as in Blushed (imp. & p. p.) of Blush,
B as in Blushing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Blush,
B as in Blush (v. i.) To become suffused with red in the cheeks, as from a sense of shame, modesty, or confusion; to become red from such cause, as the cheeks or face.,
B as in Blush (v. i.) To grow red; to have a red or rosy color.,
B as in Blush (v. i.) To have a warm and delicate color, as some roses and other flowers.,
B as in Blush (v. t.) To suffuse with a blush; to redden; to make roseate.,
B as in Blush (v. t.) To express or make known by blushing.,
B as in Blush (n.) A suffusion of the cheeks or face with red, as from a sense of shame, confusion, or modesty.,
B as in Blush (n.) A red or reddish color; a rosy tint.,
B as in Blusher (n.) One that blushes.,
B as in Blushet (n.) A modest girl.,
B as in Blushful (a.) Full of blushes.,
B as in Blushing (a.) Showing blushes; rosy red; having a warm and delicate color like some roses and other flowers; blooming; ruddy; roseate.,
B as in Blushing (n.) The act of turning red; the appearance of a reddish color or flush upon the cheeks.,
B as in Blushingly (adv.) In a blushing manner; with a blush or blushes; as, to answer or confess blushingly.,
B as in Blushless (a.) Free from blushes; incapable of blushing; shameless; impudent.,
B as in Blushy (a.) Like a blush; having the color of a blush; rosy.,
B as in Blustered (imp. & p. p.) of Bluster,
B as in Blustering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bluster,
B as in Bluster (v. i.) To blow fitfully with violence and noise, as wind; to be windy and boisterous, as the weather.,
B as in Bluster (v. i.) To talk with noisy violence; to swagger, as a turbulent or boasting person; to act in a noisy, tumultuous way; to play the bully; to storm; to rage.,
B as in Bluster (v. t.) To utter, or do, with noisy violence; to force by blustering; to bully.,
B as in Bluster (n.) Fitful noise and violence, as of a storm; violent winds; boisterousness.,
B as in Bluster (n.) Noisy and violent or threatening talk; noisy and boastful language.,
B as in Blusterer (n.) One who, or that which, blusters; a noisy swaggerer.,
B as in Blustering (a.) Exhibiting noisy violence, as the wind; stormy; tumultuous.,
B as in Blustering (a.) Uttering noisy threats; noisy and swaggering; boisterous.,
B as in Blusteringly (adv.) In a blustering manner.,
B as in Blusterous (a.) Inclined to bluster; given to blustering; blustering.,
B as in Blustrous (a.) Blusterous.,
B as in Bo (interj.) An exclamation used to startle or frighten.,
B as in Boas (pl. ) of Boa,
B as in Boa (n.) A genus of large American serpents, including the boa constrictor, the emperor boa of Mexico (B. imperator), and the chevalier boa of Peru (B. eques).,
B as in Boa (n.) A long, round fur tippet; -- so called from its resemblance in shape to the boa constrictor.,
B as in Boa constrictor () A large and powerful serpent of tropical America, sometimes twenty or thirty feet long. See Illustration in Appendix.,
B as in Boanerges () Any declamatory and vociferous preacher or orator.,
B as in Boar (n.) The uncastrated male of swine; specifically, the wild hog.,
B as in Board (n.) A piece of timber sawed thin, and of considerable length and breadth as compared with the thickness, -- used for building, etc.,
B as in Board (n.) A table to put food upon.,
B as in Board (n.) Hence: What is served on a table as food; stated meals; provision; entertainment; -- usually as furnished for pay; as, to work for one's board; the price of board.,
B as in Board (n.) A table at which a council or court is held. Hence: A council, convened for business, or any authorized assembly or meeting, public or private; a number of persons appointed or elected to sit in council for the management or direction of some public or private business or trust; as, the Board of Admiralty; a board of trade; a board of directors, trustees, commissioners, etc.,
B as in Board (n.) A square or oblong piece of thin wood or other material used for some special purpose, as, a molding board; a board or surface painted or arranged for a game; as, a chessboard; a backgammon board.,
B as in Board (n.) Paper made thick and stiff like a board, for book covers, etc.; pasteboard; as, to bind a book in boards.,
B as in Board (n.) The stage in a theater; as, to go upon the boards, to enter upon the theatrical profession.,
B as in Board (n.) The border or side of anything.,
B as in Board (n.) The side of a ship.,
B as in Board (n.) The stretch which a ship makes in one tack.,
B as in Boarded (imp. & p. p.) of Board,
B as in Boarding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Board,
B as in Board (v. t.) To cover with boards or boarding; as, to board a house.,
B as in Board (n.) To go on board of, or enter, as a ship, whether in a hostile or a friendly way.,
B as in Board (n.) To enter, as a railway car.,
B as in Board (n.) To furnish with regular meals, or with meals and lodgings, for compensation; to supply with daily meals.,
B as in Board (n.) To place at board, for compensation; as, to board one's horse at a livery stable.,
B as in Board (v. i.) To obtain meals, or meals and lodgings, statedly for compensation; as, he boards at the hotel.,
B as in Board (v. t.) To approach; to accost; to address; hence, to woo.,
B as in Boardable (a.) That can be boarded, as a ship.,
B as in Boarder (n.) One who has food statedly at another's table, or meals and lodgings in his house, for pay, or compensation of any kind.,
B as in Boarder (n.) One who boards a ship; one selected to board an enemy's ship.,
B as in Boarding (n.) The act of entering a ship, whether with a hostile or a friendly purpose.,
B as in Boarding (n.) The act of covering with boards; also, boards, collectively; or a covering made of boards.,
B as in Boarding (n.) The act of supplying, or the state of being supplied, with regular or specified meals, or with meals and lodgings, for pay.,
B as in Boarfish (n.) A Mediterranean fish (Capros aper), of the family Caproidae; -- so called from the resemblance of the extended lips to a hog's snout.,
B as in Boarfish (n.) An Australian percoid fish (Histiopterus recurvirostris), valued as a food fish.,
B as in Boarish (a.) Swinish; brutal; cruel.,
B as in Boasted (imp. & p. p.) of Boast,
B as in Boasting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Boast,
B as in Boast (v. i.) To vaunt one's self; to brag; to say or tell things which are intended to give others a high opinion of one's self or of things belonging to one's self; as, to boast of one's exploits courage, descent, wealth.,
B as in Boast (v. i.) To speak in exulting language of another; to glory; to exult.,
B as in Boast (v. t.) To display in ostentatious language; to speak of with pride, vanity, or exultation, with a view to self-commendation; to extol.,
B as in Boast (v. t.) To display vaingloriously.,
B as in Boast (v. t.) To possess or have; as, to boast a name.,
B as in Boast (v. t.) To dress, as a stone, with a broad chisel.,
B as in Boast (v. t.) To shape roughly as a preparation for the finer work to follow; to cut to the general form required.,
B as in Boast (n.) Act of boasting; vaunting or bragging.,
B as in Boast (n.) The cause of boasting; occasion of pride or exultation, -- sometimes of laudable pride or exultation.,
B as in Boastance (n.) Boasting.,
B as in Boaster (n.) One who boasts; a braggart.,
B as in Boaster (n.) A stone mason's broad-faced chisel.,
B as in Boastful (a.) Given to, or full of, boasting; inclined to boast; vaunting; vainglorious; self-praising.,
B as in Boasting (n.) The act of glorying or vaunting; vainglorious speaking; ostentatious display.,
B as in Boastingly (adv.) Boastfully; with boasting.,
B as in Boastive (a.) Presumptuous.,
B as in Boastless (a.) Without boasting or ostentation.,
B as in Boat (n.) A small open vessel, or water craft, usually moved by cars or paddles, but often by a sail.,
B as in Boat (n.) Hence, any vessel; usually with some epithet descriptive of its use or mode of propulsion; as, pilot boat, packet boat, passage boat, advice boat, etc. The term is sometimes applied to steam vessels, even of the largest class; as, the Cunard boats.,
B as in Boat (n.) A vehicle, utensil, or dish, somewhat resembling a boat in shape; as, a stone boat; a gravy boat.,
B as in Boated (imp. & p. p.) of Boat,
B as in Boating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Boat,
B as in Boat (v. t.) To transport in a boat; as, to boat goods.,
B as in Boat (v. t.) To place in a boat; as, to boat oars.,
B as in Boat (v. i.) To go or row in a boat.,
B as in Boatable (a.) Such as can be transported in a boat.,
B as in Boatable (a.) Navigable for boats, or small river craft.,
B as in Boatage (n.) Conveyance by boat; also, a charge for such conveyance.,
B as in Boatbill (n.) A wading bird (Cancroma cochlearia) of the tropical parts of South America. Its bill is somewhat like a boat with the keel uppermost.,
B as in Boatbill (n.) A perching bird of India, of the genus Eurylaimus.,
B as in Boat bug () An aquatic hemipterous insect of the genus Notonecta; -- so called from swimming on its back, which gives it the appearance of a little boat. Called also boat fly, boat insect, boatman, and water boatman.,
B as in Boatfuls (pl. ) of Boatful,
B as in Boatful (n.) The quantity or amount that fills a boat.,
B as in Boathouse (n.) A house for sheltering boats.,
B as in Boating (n.) The act or practice of rowing or sailing, esp. as an amusement; carriage in boats.,
B as in Boating (n.) In Persia, a punishment of capital offenders, by laying them on the back in a covered boat, where they are left to perish.,
B as in Boation (n.) A crying out; a roaring; a bellowing; reverberation.,
B as in Boatmen (pl. ) of Boatman,
B as in Boatman (n.) A man who manages a boat; a rower of a boat.,
B as in Boatman (n.) A boat bug. See Boat bug.,
B as in Boatmanship (n.) The art of managing a boat.,
B as in Boat-shaped (a.) See Cymbiform.,
B as in Boat shell () A marine gastropod of the genus Crepidula. The species are numerous. It is so named from its form and interior deck.,
B as in Boat shell () A marine univalve shell of the genus Cymba.,
B as in Boatsman (n.) A boatman.,
B as in Boatswain (n.) An officer who has charge of the boats, sails, rigging, colors, anchors, cables, cordage, etc., of a ship, and who also summons the crew, and performs other duties.,
B as in Boatswain (n.) The jager gull.,
B as in Boatswain (n.) The tropic bird.,
B as in Boat-tail (n.) A large grackle or blackbird (Quiscalus major), found in the Southern United States.,
B as in Boatwomen (pl. ) of Boatwoman,
B as in Boatwoman (n.) A woman who manages a boat.,
B as in Bob (n.) Anything that hangs so as to play loosely, or with a short abrupt motion, as at the end of a string; a pendant; as, the bob at the end of a kite's tail.,
B as in Bob (n.) A knot of worms, or of rags, on a string, used in angling, as for eels; formerly, a worm suitable for bait.,
B as in Bob (n.) A small piece of cork or light wood attached to a fishing line to show when a fish is biting; a float.,
B as in Bob (n.) The ball or heavy part of a pendulum; also, the ball or weight at the end of a plumb line.,
B as in Bob (n.) A small wheel, made of leather, with rounded edges, used in polishing spoons, etc.,
B as in Bob (n.) A short, jerking motion; act of bobbing; as, a bob of the head.,
B as in Bob (n.) A working beam.,
B as in Bob (n.) A knot or short curl of hair; also, a bob wig.,
B as in Bob (n.) A peculiar mode of ringing changes on bells.,
B as in Bob (n.) The refrain of a song.,
B as in Bob (n.) A blow; a shake or jog; a rap, as with the fist.,
B as in Bob (n.) A jeer or flout; a sharp jest or taunt; a trick.,
B as in Bob (n.) A shilling.,
B as in Bobbed (imp. & p. p.) of Bob,
B as in Bobbing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bob,
B as in Bob (n.) To cause to move in a short, jerking manner; to move (a thing) with a bob.,
B as in Bob (n.) To strike with a quick, light blow; to tap.,
B as in Bob (n.) To cheat; to gain by fraud or cheating; to filch.,
B as in Bob (n.) To mock or delude; to cheat.,
B as in Bob (n.) To cut short; as, to bob the hair, or a horse's tail.,
B as in Bob (v. i.) To have a short, jerking motion; to play to and fro, or up and down; to play loosely against anything.,
B as in Bob (v. i.) To angle with a bob. See Bob, n., 2 & 3.,
B as in Bobac (n.) The Poland marmot (Arctomys bobac).,
B as in Bobance (n.) A boasting.,
B as in Bobber (n.) One who, or that which, bobs.,
B as in Bobbery (n.) A squabble; a tumult; a noisy disturbance; as, to raise a bobbery.,
B as in Bobbin (n.) A small pin, or cylinder, formerly of bone, now most commonly of wood, used in the making of pillow lace. Each thread is wound on a separate bobbin which hangs down holding the thread at a slight tension.,
B as in Bobbin (n.) A spool or reel of various material and construction, with a head at one or both ends, and sometimes with a hole bored through its length by which it may be placed on a spindle or pivot. It is used to hold yarn or thread, as in spinning or warping machines, looms, sewing machines, etc.,
B as in Bobbin (n.) The little rounded piece of wood, at the end of a latch string, which is pulled to raise the latch.,
B as in Bobbin (n.) A fine cord or narrow braid.,
B as in Bobbin (n.) A cylindrical or spool-shaped coil or insulated wire, usually containing a core of soft iron which becomes magnetic when the wire is traversed by an electrical current.,
B as in Bobbinet (n.) A kind of cotton lace which is wrought by machines, and not by hand.,
B as in Bobbinwork (n.) Work woven with bobbins.,
B as in Bobbish (a.) Hearty; in good spirits.,
B as in Bobby (n.) A nickname for a policeman; -- from Sir Robert Peel, who remodeled the police force. See Peeler.,
B as in Bob-cherry (n.) A play among children, in which a cherry, hung so as to bob against the mouth, is to be caught with the teeth.,
B as in Bobfly (n.) The fly at the end of the leader; an end fly.,
B as in Bobolink (n.) An American singing bird (Dolichonyx oryzivorus). The male is black and white; the female is brown; -- called also, ricebird, reedbird, and Boblincoln.,
B as in Bobsled (n.) Alt. of Bobsleigh,
B as in Bobsleigh (n.) A short sled, mostly used as one of a pair connected by a reach or coupling; also, the compound sled so formed.,
B as in Bobstay (n.) A rope or chain to confine the bowsprit of a ship downward to the stem or cutwater; -- usually in the pl.,
B as in Bobtail (n.) An animal (as a horse or dog) with a short tail.,
B as in Bobtail (a.) Bobtailed.,
B as in Bobtailed (a.) Having the tail cut short, or naturally short; curtailed; as, a bobtailed horse or dog; a bobtailed coat.,
B as in Bobwhite (n.) The common quail of North America (Colinus, or Ortyx, Virginianus); -- so called from its note.,
B as in Bob wig () A short wig with bobs or short curls; -- called also bobtail wig.,
B as in Bocal (n.) A cylindrical glass vessel, with a large and short neck.,
B as in Bocardo (n.) A form of syllogism of which the first and third propositions are particular negatives, and the middle term a universal affirmative.,
B as in Bocardo (n.) A prison; -- originally the name of the old north gate in Oxford, which was used as a prison.,
B as in Bocasine (n.) A sort of fine buckram.,
B as in Bocca (n.) The round hole in the furnace of a glass manufactory through which the fused glass is taken out.,
B as in Boce (n.) A European fish (Box vulgaris), having a compressed body and bright colors; -- called also box, and bogue.,
B as in Bock beer () A strong beer, originally made in Bavaria.,
B as in Bockelet (n.) A kind of long-winged hawk; -- called also bockerel, and bockeret.,
B as in Bockey (n.) A bowl or vessel made from a gourd.,
B as in Bocking (n.) A coarse woolen fabric, used for floor cloths, to cover carpets, etc.; -- so called from the town of Bocking, in England, where it was first made.,
B as in Bockland (n.) See Bookland.,
B as in Boddice (n.) See Bodick.,
B as in Boded (imp. & p. p.) of Bode,
B as in Boding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bode,
B as in Bode (v. t.) To indicate by signs, as future events; to be the omen of; to portend to presage; to foreshow.,
B as in Bode (v. i.) To foreshow something; to augur.,
B as in Bode (n.) An omen; a foreshadowing.,
B as in Bode (n.) A bid; an offer.,
B as in Bode (v. t.) A messenger; a herald.,
B as in Bode (n.) A stop; a halting; delay.,
B as in Bode (imp. & p. p.) Abode.,
B as in Bode (p. p.) Bid or bidden.,
B as in Bodeful (a.) Portentous; ominous.,
B as in Bodement (n.) An omen; a prognostic.,
B as in Bodge (n.) A botch; a patch.,
B as in Bodged (imp. & p. p.) of Bodge,
B as in Bodge (v. t.) To botch; to mend clumsily; to patch.,
B as in Bodge (v. i.) See Budge.,
B as in Bodian (n.) A large food fish (Diagramma lineatum), native of the East Indies.,
B as in Bodice (n.) A kind of under waist stiffened with whalebone, etc., worn esp. by women; a corset; stays.,
B as in Bodice (n.) A close-fitting outer waist or vest forming the upper part of a woman's dress, or a portion of it.,
B as in Bodiced (a.) Wearing a bodice.,
B as in Bodied (a.) Having a body; -- usually in composition; as, able-bodied.,
B as in Bodiless (a.) Having no body.,
B as in Bodiless (a.) Without material form; incorporeal.,
B as in Bodiliness (n.) Corporeality.,
B as in Bodily (a.) Having a body or material form; physical; corporeal; consisting of matter.,
B as in Bodily (a.) Of or pertaining to the body, in distinction from the mind.,
B as in Bodily (a.) Real; actual; put in execution.,
B as in Bodily (adv.) Corporeally; in bodily form; united with a body or matter; in the body.,
B as in Bodily (adv.) In respect to, or so as to affect, the entire body or mass; entirely; all at once; completely; as, to carry away bodily. "Leapt bodily below.",
B as in Boding (a.) Foreshowing; presaging; ominous.,
B as in Boding (n.) A prognostic; an omen; a foreboding.,
B as in Bodkin (n.) A dagger.,
B as in Bodkin (n.) An implement of steel, bone, ivory, etc., with a sharp point, for making holes by piercing; a /tiletto; an eyeleteer.,
B as in Bodkin (n.) A sharp tool, like an awl, used for picking /ut letters from a column or page in making corrections.,
B as in Bodkin (n.) A kind of needle with a large eye and a blunt point, for drawing tape, ribbon, etc., through a loop or a hem; a tape needle.,
B as in Bodkin (n.) A kind of pin used by women to fasten the hair.,
B as in Bodkin (n.) See Baudekin.,
B as in Bodle (n.) A small Scotch coin worth about one sixth of an English penny.,
B as in Bodleian (a.) Of or pertaining to Sir Thomas Bodley, or to the celebrated library at Oxford, founded by him in the sixteenth century.,
B as in Bodock (n.) The Osage orange.,
B as in Bodrage (n.) A raid.,
B as in Bodies (pl. ) of Body,
B as in Body (n.) The material organized substance of an animal, whether living or dead, as distinguished from the spirit, or vital principle; the physical person.,
B as in Body (n.) The trunk, or main part, of a person or animal, as distinguished from the limbs and head; the main, central, or principal part, as of a tree, army, country, etc.,
B as in Body (n.) The real, as opposed to the symbolical; the substance, as opposed to the shadow.,
B as in Body (n.) A person; a human being; -- frequently in composition; as, anybody, nobody.,
B as in Body (n.) A number of individuals spoken of collectively, usually as united by some common tie, or as organized for some purpose; a collective whole or totality; a corporation; as, a legislative body; a clerical body.,
B as in Body (n.) A number of things or particulars embodied in a system; a general collection; as, a great body of facts; a body of laws or of divinity.,
B as in Body (n.) Any mass or portion of matter; any substance distinct from others; as, a metallic body; a moving body; an aeriform body.,
B as in Body (n.) Amount; quantity; extent.,
B as in Body (n.) That part of a garment covering the body, as distinguished from the parts covering the limbs.,
B as in Body (n.) The bed or box of a vehicle, on or in which the load is placed; as, a wagon body; a cart body.,
B as in Body (n.) The shank of a type, or the depth of the shank (by which the size is indicated); as, a nonpareil face on an agate body.,
B as in Body (n.) A figure that has length, breadth, and thickness; any solid figure.,
B as in Body (n.) Consistency; thickness; substance; strength; as, this color has body; wine of a good body.,
B as in Bodied (imp. & p. p.) of Body,
B as in Bodying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Body,
B as in Body (v. t.) To furnish with, or as with, a body; to produce in definite shape; to embody.,
B as in Bodyguard (n.) A guard to protect or defend the person; a lifeguard.,
B as in Bodyguard (n.) Retinue; attendance; following.,
B as in Boeotian (a.) Of or pertaining to Boeotia; hence, stupid; dull; obtuse.,
B as in Boeotian (n.) A native of Boeotia; also, one who is dull and ignorant.,
B as in Boer (n.) A colonist or farmer in South Africa of Dutch descent.,
B as in Boes (3d sing. pr.) Behoves or behooves.,
B as in Bog (n.) A quagmire filled with decayed moss and other vegetable matter; wet spongy ground where a heavy body is apt to sink; a marsh; a morass.,
B as in Bog (n.) A little elevated spot or clump of earth, roots, and grass, in a marsh or swamp.,
B as in Bogged (imp. & p. p.) of Bog,
B as in Bogging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bog,
B as in Bog (v. t.) To sink, as into a bog; to submerge in a bog; to cause to sink and stick, as in mud and mire.,
B as in Bogberry (n.) The small cranberry (Vaccinium oxycoccus), which grows in boggy places.,
B as in Bogey (n.) A goblin; a bugbear. See Bogy.,
B as in Boggard (n.) A bogey.,
B as in Boggled (imp. & p. p.) of Boggle,
B as in Boggling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Boggle,
B as in Boggle (n.) To stop or hesitate as if suddenly frightened, or in doubt, or impeded by unforeseen difficulties; to take alarm; to exhibit hesitancy and indecision.,
B as in Boggle (n.) To do anything awkwardly or unskillfully.,
B as in Boggle (n.) To play fast and loose; to dissemble.,
B as in Boggle (v. t.) To embarrass with difficulties; to make a bungle or botch of.,
B as in Boggler (n.) One who boggles.,
B as in Bogglish (a.) Doubtful; skittish.,
B as in Boggy (a.) Consisting of, or containing, a bog or bogs; of the nature of a bog; swampy; as, boggy land.,
B as in Bogie (n.) A four-wheeled truck, having a certain amount of play around a vertical axis, used to support in part a locomotive on a railway track.,
B as in Bogle (n.) A goblin; a specter; a frightful phantom; a bogy; a bugbear.,
B as in Bogsucker (n.) The American woodcock; -- so called from its feeding among the bogs.,
B as in Bogtrotter (n.) One who lives in a boggy country; -- applied in derision to the lowest class of Irish.,
B as in Bogtrotting (a.) Living among bogs.,
B as in Bogue (v. i.) To fall off from the wind; to edge away to leeward; -- said only of inferior craft.,
B as in Bogue (n.) The boce; -- called also bogue bream. See Boce.,
B as in Bogus (a.) Spurious; fictitious; sham; -- a cant term originally applied to counterfeit coin, and hence denoting anything counterfeit.,
B as in Bogus (n.) A liquor made of rum and molasses.,
B as in Bogwood (n.) The wood of trees, esp. of oaks, dug up from peat bogs. It is of a shining black or ebony color, and is largely used for making ornaments.,
B as in Bogies (pl. ) of Bogy,
B as in Bogy (n.) A specter; a hobgoblin; a bugbear.,
B as in Bohea (n.) Bohea tea, an inferior kind of black tea. See under Tea.,
B as in Bohemia (n.) A country of central Europe.,
B as in Bohemia (n.) Fig.: The region or community of social Bohemians. See Bohemian, n., 3.,
B as in Bohemian (a.) Of or pertaining to Bohemia, or to the language of its ancient inhabitants or their descendants. See Bohemian, n., 2.,
B as in Bohemian (n.) Of or pertaining to a social gypsy or "Bohemian" (see Bohemian, n., 3); vagabond; unconventional; free and easy.,
B as in Bohemian (n.) A native of Bohemia.,
B as in Bohemian (n.) The language of the Czechs (the ancient inhabitants of Bohemia), the richest and most developed of the dialects of the Slavic family.,
B as in Bohemian (n.) A restless vagabond; -- originally, an idle stroller or gypsy (as in France) thought to have come from Bohemia; in later times often applied to an adventurer in art or literature, of irregular, unconventional habits, questionable tastes, or free morals.,
B as in Bohemianism (n.) The characteristic conduct or methods of a Bohemian.,
B as in Bohun upas () See Upas.,
B as in Boiar (n.) See Boyar.,
B as in Boiled (imp. & p. p.) of Boil,
B as in Boiling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Boil,
B as in Boil (v.) To be agitated, or tumultuously moved, as a liquid by the generation and rising of bubbles of steam (or vapor), or of currents produced by heating it to the boiling point; to be in a state of ebullition; as, the water boils.,
B as in Boil (v.) To be agitated like boiling water, by any other cause than heat; to bubble; to effervesce; as, the boiling waves.,
B as in Boil (v.) To pass from a liquid to an aeriform state or vapor when heated; as, the water boils away.,
B as in Boil (v.) To be moved or excited with passion; to be hot or fervid; as, his blood boils with anger.,
B as in Boil (v.) To be in boiling water, as in cooking; as, the potatoes are boiling.,
B as in Boil (v. t.) To heat to the boiling point, or so as to cause ebullition; as, to boil water.,
B as in Boil (v. t.) To form, or separate, by boiling or evaporation; as, to boil sugar or salt.,
B as in Boil (v. t.) To subject to the action of heat in a boiling liquid so as to produce some specific effect, as cooking, cleansing, etc.; as, to boil meat; to boil clothes.,
B as in Boil (v. t.) To steep or soak in warm water.,
B as in Boil (n.) Act or state of boiling.,
B as in Boil (n.) A hard, painful, inflamed tumor, which, on suppuration, discharges pus, mixed with blood, and discloses a small fibrous mass of dead tissue, called the core.,
B as in Boilary (n.) See Boilery.,
B as in Boiled (a.) Dressed or cooked by boiling; subjected to the action of a boiling liquid; as, boiled meat; a boiled dinner; boiled clothes.,
B as in Boiler (n.) One who boils.,
B as in Boiler (n.) A vessel in which any thing is boiled.,
B as in Boiler (n.) A strong metallic vessel, usually of wrought iron plates riveted together, or a composite structure variously formed, in which steam is generated for driving engines, or for heating, cooking, or other purposes.,
B as in Boilery (n.) A place and apparatus for boiling, as for evaporating brine in salt making.,
B as in Boiling (a.) Heated to the point of bubbling; heaving with bubbles; in tumultuous agitation, as boiling liquid; surging; seething; swelling with heat, ardor, or passion.,
B as in Boiling (n.) The act of ebullition or of tumultuous agitation.,
B as in Boiling (n.) Exposure to the action of a hot liquid.,
B as in Boilingly (adv.) With boiling or ebullition.,
B as in Bois d'arc () The Osage orange (Maclura aurantiaca).,
B as in Bois durci () A hard, highly polishable composition, made of fine sawdust from hard wood (as rosewood) mixed with blood, and pressed.,
B as in Boist (n.) A box.,
B as in Boisterous (a.) Rough or rude; unbending; unyielding; strong; powerful.,
B as in Boisterous (a.) Exhibiting tumultuous violence and fury; acting with noisy turbulence; violent; rough; stormy.,
B as in Boisterous (a.) Noisy; rough; turbulent; as, boisterous mirth; boisterous behavior.,
B as in Boisterous (a.) Vehement; excessive.,
B as in Boisterously (adv.) In a boisterous manner.,
B as in Boisterousness (n.) The state or quality of being boisterous; turbulence; disorder; tumultuousness.,
B as in Boistous (a.) Rough or rude; coarse; strong; violent; boisterous; noisy.,
B as in Bojanus organ () A glandular organ of bivalve mollusca, serving in part as a kidney.,
B as in Bokadam (n.) See Cerberus.,
B as in Boke (v. t. & i.) To poke; to thrust.,
B as in Bolar (a.) Of or pertaining to bole or clay; partaking of the nature and qualities of bole; clayey.,
B as in Bolas (n. sing. & pl.) A kind of missile weapon consisting of one, two, or more balls of stone, iron, or other material, attached to the ends of a leather cord; -- used by the Gauchos of South America, and others, for hurling at and entangling an animal.,
B as in Bold (n.) Forward to meet danger; venturesome; daring; not timorous or shrinking from risk; brave; courageous.,
B as in Bold (n.) Exhibiting or requiring spirit and contempt of danger; planned with courage; daring; vigorous.,
B as in Bold (n.) In a bad sense, too forward; taking undue liberties; over assuming or confident; lacking proper modesty or restraint; rude; impudent.,
B as in Bold (n.) Somewhat overstepping usual bounds, or conventional rules, as in art, literature, etc.; taking liberties in composition or expression; as, the figures of an author are bold.,
B as in Bold (n.) Standing prominently out to view; markedly conspicuous; striking the eye; in high relief.,
B as in Bold (n.) Steep; abrupt; prominent.,
B as in Bold eagle () an Australian eagle (Aquila audax), which destroys lambs and even the kangaroo.,
B as in Bold (v. t.) To make bold or daring.,
B as in Bold (v. i.) To be or become bold.,
B as in Boldened (imp. & p. p.) of Bolden,
B as in Bolden (v. t.) To make bold; to encourage; to embolden.,
B as in Bold-faced (a.) Somewhat impudent; lacking modesty; as, a bold-faced woman.,
B as in Bold-faced (a.) Having a conspicuous or heavy face.,
B as in Boldly (adv.) In a bold manner.,
B as in Boldness (n.) The state or quality of being bold.,
B as in Boldo (n.) Alt. of Boldu,
B as in Boldu (n.) A fragrant evergreen shrub of Chili (Peumus Boldus). The bark is used in tanning, the wood for making charcoal, the leaves in medicine, and the drupes are eaten.,
B as in Bole (n.) The trunk or stem of a tree, or that which is like it.,
B as in Bole (n.) An aperture, with a wooden shutter, in the wall of a house, for giving, occasionally, air or light; also, a small closet.,
B as in Bole (n.) A measure. See Boll, n., 2.,
B as in Bole (n.) Any one of several varieties of friable earthy clay, usually colored more or less strongly red by oxide of iron, and used to color and adulterate various substances. It was formerly used in medicine. It is composed essentially of hydrous silicates of alumina, or more rarely of magnesia. See Clay, and Terra alba.,
B as in Bole (n.) A bolus; a dose.,
B as in Bolection (n.) A projecting molding round a panel. Same as Bilection.,
B as in Bolero (n.) A Spanish dance, or the lively music which accompanies it.,
B as in bolete (n.) any fungus of the family Boletaceae.,
B as in Boletic (a.) Pertaining to, or obtained from, the Boletus.,
B as in Boletus (n.) A genus of fungi having the under side of the pileus or cap composed of a multitude of fine separate tubes. A few are edible, and others very poisonous.,
B as in Boley (n.) Alt. of Bolye,
B as in Bolye (n.) Same as Booly.,
B as in Bolide (n.) A kind of bright meteor; a bolis.,
B as in Bolis (n.) A meteor or brilliant shooting star, followed by a train of light or sparks; esp. one which explodes.,
B as in Bolivian (a.) Of or pertaining to Bolivia.,
B as in Bolivian (n.) A native of Bolivia.,
B as in Boll (n.) The pod or capsule of a plant, as of flax or cotton; a pericarp of a globular form.,
B as in Boll (n.) A Scotch measure, formerly in use: for wheat and beans it contained four Winchester bushels; for oats, barley, and potatoes, six bushels. A boll of meal is 140 lbs. avoirdupois. Also, a measure for salt of two bushels.,
B as in Bolled (imp. & p. p.) of Boll,
B as in Boll (v. i.) To form a boll or seed vessel; to go to seed.,
B as in Bollandists (n. pl.) The Jesuit editors of the "Acta Sanctorum", or Lives of the Saints; -- named from John Bolland, who began the work.,
B as in Bollard (n.) An upright wooden or iron post in a boat or on a dock, used in veering or fastening ropes.,
B as in Bollen (a.) See Boln, a.,
B as in Bolling (v. t.) A tree from which the branches have been cut; a pollard.,
B as in Bollworm (n.) The larva of a moth (Heliothis armigera) which devours the bolls or unripe pods of the cotton plant, often doing great damage to the crops.,
B as in Boln (v. i.) To swell; to puff.,
B as in Boln (a.) Alt. of Bollen,
B as in Bollen (a.) Swollen; puffed out.,
B as in Bologna (n.) A city of Italy which has given its name to various objects.,
B as in Bologna (n.) A Bologna sausage.,
B as in Bolognese (a.) Of or pertaining to Bologna.,
B as in Bolognese (n.) A native of Bologna.,
B as in Bolognian (a. & n.) Bolognese.,
B as in Bolometer (n.) An instrument for measuring minute quantities of radiant heat, especially in different parts of the spectrum; -- called also actinic balance, thermic balance.,
B as in Bolster (n.) A long pillow or cushion, used to support the head of a person lying on a bed; -- generally laid under the pillows.,
B as in Bolster (n.) A pad, quilt, or anything used to hinder pressure, support any part of the body, or make a bandage sit easy upon a wounded part; a compress.,
B as in Bolster (n.) Anything arranged to act as a support, as in various forms of mechanism, etc.,
B as in Bolster (n.) A cushioned or a piece part of a saddle.,
B as in Bolster (n.) A cushioned or a piece of soft wood covered with tarred canvas, placed on the trestletrees and against the mast, for the collars of the shrouds to rest on, to prevent chafing.,
B as in Bolster (n.) Anything used to prevent chafing.,
B as in Bolster (n.) A plate of iron or a mass of wood under the end of a bridge girder, to keep the girder from resting directly on the abutment.,
B as in Bolster (n.) A transverse bar above the axle of a wagon, on which the bed or body rests.,
B as in Bolster (n.) The crossbeam forming the bearing piece of the body of a railway car; the central and principal cross beam of a car truck.,
B as in Bolster (n.) the perforated plate in a punching machine on which anything rests when being punched.,
B as in Bolster (n.) That part of a knife blade which abuts upon the end of the handle.,
B as in Bolster (n.) The metallic end of a pocketknife handle.,
B as in Bolster (n.) The rolls forming the ends or sides of the Ionic capital.,
B as in Bolster (n.) A block of wood on the carriage of a siege gun, upon which the breech of the gun rests when arranged for transportation.,
B as in Bolstered (imp. & p. p.) of Bolster,
B as in Bolstering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bolster,
B as in Bolster (v. t.) To support with a bolster or pillow.,
B as in Bolster (v. t.) To support, hold up, or maintain with difficulty or unusual effort; -- often with up.,
B as in Bolstered (a.) Supported; upheld.,
B as in Bolstered (a.) Swelled out.,
B as in Bolsterer (n.) A supporter.,
B as in Bolt (n.) A shaft or missile intended to be shot from a crossbow or catapult, esp. a short, stout, blunt-headed arrow; a quarrel; an arrow, or that which resembles an arrow; a dart.,
B as in Bolt (n.) Lightning; a thunderbolt.,
B as in Bolt (n.) A strong pin, of iron or other material, used to fasten or hold something in place, often having a head at one end and screw thread cut upon the other end.,
B as in Bolt (n.) A sliding catch, or fastening, as for a door or gate; the portion of a lock which is shot or withdrawn by the action of the key.,
B as in Bolt (n.) An iron to fasten the legs of a prisoner; a shackle; a fetter.,
B as in Bolt (n.) A compact package or roll of cloth, as of canvas or silk, often containing about forty yards.,
B as in Bolt (n.) A bundle, as of oziers.,
B as in Bolted (imp. & p. p.) of Bolt,
B as in Bolting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bolt,
B as in Bolt (v. t.) To shoot; to discharge or drive forth.,
B as in Bolt (v. t.) To utter precipitately; to blurt or throw out.,
B as in Bolt (v. t.) To swallow without chewing; as, to bolt food.,
B as in Bolt (v. t.) To refuse to support, as a nomination made by a party to which one has belonged or by a caucus in which one has taken part.,
B as in Bolt (v. t.) To cause to start or spring forth; to dislodge, as conies, rabbits, etc.,
B as in Bolt (v. t.) To fasten or secure with, or as with, a bolt or bolts, as a door, a timber, fetters; to shackle; to restrain.,
B as in Bolt (v. i.) To start forth like a bolt or arrow; to spring abruptly; to come or go suddenly; to dart; as, to bolt out of the room.,
B as in Bolt (v. i.) To strike or fall suddenly like a bolt.,
B as in Bolt (v. i.) To spring suddenly aside, or out of the regular path; as, the horse bolted.,
B as in Bolt (v. i.) To refuse to support a nomination made by a party or a caucus with which one has been connected; to break away from a party.,
B as in Bolt (adv.) In the manner of a bolt; suddenly; straight; unbendingly.,
B as in Bolt (v. i.) A sudden spring or start; a sudden spring aside; as, the horse made a bolt.,
B as in Bolt (v. i.) A sudden flight, as to escape creditors.,
B as in Bolt (v. i.) A refusal to support a nomination made by the party with which one has been connected; a breaking away from one's party.,
B as in Bolted (imp. & p. p.) of Bolt,
B as in Bolting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bolt,
B as in Bolt (v. t.) To sift or separate the coarser from the finer particles of, as bran from flour, by means of a bolter; to separate, assort, refine, or purify by other means.,
B as in Bolt (v. t.) To separate, as if by sifting or bolting; -- with out.,
B as in Bolt (v. t.) To discuss or argue privately, and for practice, as cases at law.,
B as in Bolt (n.) A sieve, esp. a long fine sieve used in milling for bolting flour and meal; a bolter.,
B as in Boltel (n.) See Boultel.,
B as in Bolter (n.) One who bolts; esp.: (a) A horse which starts suddenly aside. (b) A man who breaks away from his party.,
B as in Bolter (n.) One who sifts flour or meal.,
B as in Bolter (n.) An instrument or machine for separating bran from flour, or the coarser part of meal from the finer; a sieve.,
B as in Bolter (n.) A kind of fishing line. See Boulter.,
B as in Bolthead (n.) A long, straight-necked, glass vessel for chemical distillations; -- called also a matrass or receiver.,
B as in Bolthead (n.) The head of a bolt.,
B as in Bolting (n.) A darting away; a starting off or aside.,
B as in Bolting (n.) A sifting, as of flour or meal.,
B as in Bolting (n.) A private arguing of cases for practice by students, as in the Inns of Court.,
B as in Boltonite (n.) A granular mineral of a grayish or yellowish color, found in Bolton, Massachusetts. It is a silicate of magnesium, belonging to the chrysolite family.,
B as in Boltrope (n.) A rope stitched to the edges of a sail to strengthen the sail.,
B as in Boltsprit (n.) See Bowsprit.,
B as in Bolty (n.) An edible fish of the Nile (genus Chromis).,
B as in Boluses (pl. ) of Bolus,
B as in Bolus (n.) A rounded mass of anything, esp. a large pill.,
B as in Bom (n.) A large American serpent, so called from the sound it makes.,
B as in Bomb (n.) A great noise; a hollow sound.,
B as in Bomb (n.) A shell; esp. a spherical shell, like those fired from mortars. See Shell.,
B as in Bomb (n.) A bomb ketch.,
B as in Bomb (v. t.) To bombard.,
B as in Bomb (v. i.) To sound; to boom; to make a humming or buzzing sound.,
B as in Bombace (n.) Cotton; padding.,
B as in Bombard (n.) A piece of heavy ordnance formerly used for throwing stones and other ponderous missiles. It was the earliest kind of cannon.,
B as in Bombard (n.) A bombardment.,
B as in Bombard (n.) A large drinking vessel or can, or a leather bottle, for carrying liquor or beer.,
B as in Bombard (n.) Padded breeches.,
B as in Bombard (n.) See Bombardo.,
B as in Bombarded (imp. & p. p.) of Bombard,
B as in Bombarding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bombard,
B as in Bombard (v. t.) To attack with bombards or with artillery; especially, to throw shells, hot shot, etc., at or into.,
B as in Bombardier (n.) One who used or managed a bombard; an artilleryman; a gunner.,
B as in Bombardier (n.) A noncommissioned officer in the British artillery.,
B as in Bombardman (n.) One who carried liquor or beer in a can or bombard.,
B as in Bombardment (n.) An attack upon a fortress or fortified town, with shells, hot shot, rockets, etc.; the act of throwing bombs and shot into a town or fortified place.,
B as in Bombardo (n.) Alt. of Bombardon,
B as in Bombardon (n.) Originally, a deep-toned instrument of the oboe or bassoon family; thence, a bass reed stop on the organ. The name bombardon is now given to a brass instrument, the lowest of the saxhorns, in tone resembling the ophicleide.,
B as in Bombasine (n.) Same as Bombazine.,
B as in Bombast (n.) Originally, cotton, or cotton wool.,
B as in Bombast (n.) Cotton, or any soft, fibrous material, used as stuffing for garments; stuffing; padding.,
B as in Bombast (n.) Fig.: High-sounding words; an inflated style; language above the dignity of the occasion; fustian.,
B as in Bombast (a.) High-sounding; inflated; big without meaning; magniloquent; bombastic.,
B as in Bombast (v. t.) To swell or fill out; to pad; to inflate.,
B as in Bombastic (a.) Alt. of Bombastical,
B as in Bombastical (a.) Characterized by bombast; high-sounding; inflated.,
B as in Bombastry (n.) Swelling words without much meaning; bombastic language; fustian.,
B as in Bombax (n.) A genus of trees, called also the silkcotton tree; also, a tree of the genus Bombax.,
B as in Bombazet Bombazette (n.) A sort of thin woolen cloth. It is of various colors, and may be plain or twilled.,
B as in Bombazine (n.) A twilled fabric for dresses, of which the warp is silk, and the weft worsted. Black bombazine has been much used for mourning garments.,
B as in Bombic (a.) Pertaining to, or obtained from, the silkworm; as, bombic acid.,
B as in Bombilate (n.) To hum; to buzz.,
B as in Bombilation (n.) A humming sound; a booming.,
B as in Bombinate (v. i.) To hum; to boom.,
B as in Bombination (n.) A humming or buzzing.,
B as in Bomboloes (pl. ) of Bombolo,
B as in Bombolo (n.) A thin spheroidal glass retort or flask, used in the sublimation of camphor.,
B as in Bombproof (a.) Secure against the explosive force of bombs.,
B as in Bombproof (n.) A structure which heavy shot and shell will not penetrate.,
B as in Bombshell (n.) A bomb. See Bomb, n.,
B as in Bombycid (a.) Like or pertaining to the genus Bombyx, or the family Bombycidae.,
B as in Bombycinous (a.) Silken; made of silk.,
B as in Bombycinous (a.) Being of the color of the silkworm; transparent with a yellow tint.,
B as in Bombylious (a.) Buzzing, like a bumblebee; as, the bombylious noise of the horse fly.,
B as in Bombyx (n.) A genus of moths, which includes the silkworm moth. See Silkworm.,
B as in Bon (a.) Good; valid as security for something.,
B as in Bon-accord (n.) Good will; good fellowship; agreement.,
B as in Bona fide () In or with good faith; without fraud or deceit; real or really; actual or actually; genuine or genuinely; as, you must proceed bona fide; a bona fide purchaser or transaction.,
B as in Bonair (a.) Gentle; courteous; complaisant; yielding.,
B as in Bonanza (n.) In mining, a rich mine or vein of silver or gold; hence, anything which is a mine of wealth or yields a large income.,
B as in Bonapartean (a.) Of or pertaining to Napoleon Bonaparte or his family.,
B as in Bonapartism (n.) The policy of Bonaparte or of the Bonapartes.,
B as in Bonapartist (n.) One attached to the policy or family of Bonaparte, or of the Bonapartes.,
B as in Bona peritura () Perishable goods.,
B as in Bona roba () A showy wanton; a courtesan.,
B as in Bonasus (n.) Alt. of Bonassus,
B as in Bonassus (n.) The aurochs or European bison. See Aurochs.,
B as in Bonbon (n.) Sugar confectionery; a sugarplum; hence, any dainty.,
B as in Bonce (n.) A boy's game played with large marbles.,
B as in Bonchretien (n.) A name given to several kinds of pears. See Bartlett.,
B as in Boncilate (n.) A substance composed of ground bone, mineral matters, etc., hardened by pressure, and used for making billiard balls, boxes, etc.,
B as in Bond (n.) That which binds, ties, fastens, or confines, or by which anything is fastened or bound, as a cord, chain, etc.; a band; a ligament; a shackle or a manacle.,
B as in Bond (n.) The state of being bound; imprisonment; captivity, restraint.,
B as in Bond (n.) A binding force or influence; a cause of union; a uniting tie; as, the bonds of fellowship.,
B as in Bond (n.) Moral or political duty or obligation.,
B as in Bond (n.) A writing under seal, by which a person binds himself, his heirs, executors, and administrators, to pay a certain sum on or before a future day appointed. This is a single bond. But usually a condition is added, that, if the obligor shall do a certain act, appear at a certain place, conform to certain rules, faithfully perform certain duties, or pay a certain sum of money, on or before a time specified, the obligation shall be void; otherwise it shall remain in full force. If the condition is not performed, the bond becomes forfeited, and the obligor and his heirs are liable to the payment of the whole sum.,
B as in Bond (n.) An instrument (of the nature of the ordinary legal bond) made by a government or a corporation for purpose of borrowing money; as, a government, city, or railway bond.,
B as in Bond (n.) The state of goods placed in a bonded warehouse till the duties are paid; as, merchandise in bond.,
B as in Bond (n.) The union or tie of the several stones or bricks forming a wall. The bricks may be arranged for this purpose in several different ways, as in English or block bond (Fig. 1), where one course consists of bricks with their ends toward the face of the wall, called headers, and the next course of bricks with their lengths parallel to the face of the wall, called stretchers; Flemish bond (Fig.2), where each course consists of headers and stretchers alternately, so laid as always to break joints; Cross bond, which differs from the English by the change of the second stretcher line so that its joints come in the middle of the first, and the same position of stretchers comes back every fifth line; Combined cross and English bond, where the inner part of the wall is laid in the one method, the outer in the other.,
B as in Bond (n.) A unit of chemical attraction; as, oxygen has two bonds of affinity. It is often represented in graphic formulae by a short line or dash. See Diagram of Benzene nucleus, and Valence.,
B as in Bonded (imp. & p. p.) of Bond,
B as in Bonding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bond,
B as in Bond (v. t.) To place under the conditions of a bond; to mortgage; to secure the payment of the duties on (goods or merchandise) by giving a bond.,
B as in Bond (v. t.) To dispose in building, as the materials of a wall, so as to secure solidity.,
B as in Bond (n.) A vassal or serf; a slave.,
B as in Bond (a.) In a state of servitude or slavery; captive.,
B as in Bondage (a.) The state of being bound; condition of being under restraint; restraint of personal liberty by compulsion; involuntary servitude; slavery; captivity.,
B as in Bondage (a.) Obligation; tie of duty.,
B as in Bondage (a.) Villenage; tenure of land on condition of doing the meanest services for the owner.,
B as in Bondager (n.) A field worker, esp. a woman who works in the field.,
B as in Bondar (n.) A small quadruped of Bengal (Paradoxurus bondar), allied to the genet; -- called also musk cat.,
B as in Bonded (a.) Placed under, or covered by, a bond, as for the payment of duties, or for conformity to certain regulations.,
B as in Bonder (n.) One who places goods under bond or in a bonded warehouse.,
B as in Bonder (n.) A bonding stone or brick; a bondstone.,
B as in Bonder (n.) A freeholder on a small scale.,
B as in Bondholder (n.) A person who holds the bonds of a public or private corporation for the payment of money at a certain time.,
B as in Bondmaid (n.) A female slave, or one bound to service without wages, as distinguished from a hired servant.,
B as in Bondmen (pl. ) of Bondman,
B as in Bondman (n.) A man slave, or one bound to service without wages.,
B as in Bondman (n.) A villain, or tenant in villenage.,
B as in Bond servant () A slave; one who is bound to service without wages.,
B as in Bond service () The condition of a bond servant; service without wages; slavery.,
B as in Bondslave (n.) A person in a state of slavery; one whose person and liberty are subjected to the authority of a master.,
B as in Bondsmen (pl. ) of Bondsman,
B as in Bondsman (n.) A slave; a villain; a serf; a bondman.,
B as in Bondsman (n.) A surety; one who is bound, or who gives security, for another.,
B as in Bondstone (n.) A stone running through a wall from one face to another, to bind it together; a binding stone.,
B as in Bondswoman (n.) See Bondwoman.,
B as in Bonduc (n.) See Nicker tree.,
B as in Bondwomen (pl. ) of Bondwoman,
B as in Bondwoman (n.) A woman who is a slave, or in bondage.,
B as in Bone (n.) The hard, calcified tissue of the skeleton of vertebrate animals, consisting very largely of calcic carbonate, calcic phosphate, and gelatine; as, blood and bone.,
B as in Bone (n.) One of the pieces or parts of an animal skeleton; as, a rib or a thigh bone; a bone of the arm or leg; also, any fragment of bony substance. (pl.) The frame or skeleton of the body.,
B as in Bone (n.) Anything made of bone, as a bobbin for weaving bone lace.,
B as in Bone (n.) Two or four pieces of bone held between the fingers and struck together to make a kind of music.,
B as in Bone (n.) Dice.,
B as in Bone (n.) Whalebone; hence, a piece of whalebone or of steel for a corset.,
B as in Bone (n.) Fig.: The framework of anything.,
B as in Boned (imp. & p. p.) of Bone,
B as in Boning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bone,
B as in Bone (v. t.) To withdraw bones from the flesh of, as in cookery.,
B as in Bone (v. t.) To put whalebone into; as, to bone stays.,
B as in Bone (v. t.) To fertilize with bone.,
B as in Bone (v. t.) To steal; to take possession of.,
B as in Bone (v. t.) To sight along an object or set of objects, to see if it or they be level or in line, as in carpentry, masonry, and surveying.,
B as in Boneache (n.) Pain in the bones.,
B as in Boneblack (n.) See Bone black, under Bone, n.,
B as in Boned (a.) Having (such) bones; -- used in composition; as, big-boned; strong-boned.,
B as in Boned (a.) Deprived of bones; as, boned turkey or codfish.,
B as in Boned (a.) Manured with bone; as, boned land.,
B as in Bonedog (n.) The spiny dogfish.,
B as in Bonefish (n.) See Ladyfish.,
B as in Boneless (a.) Without bones.,
B as in Boneset (n.) A medicinal plant, the thoroughwort (Eupatorium perfoliatum). Its properties are diaphoretic and tonic.,
B as in Bonesetter (n.) One who sets broken or dislocated bones; -- commonly applied to one, not a regular surgeon, who makes an occupation of setting bones.,
B as in Boneshaw (n.) Sciatica.,
B as in Bonetta (n.) See Bonito.,
B as in Bonfire (n.) A large fire built in the open air, as an expression of public joy and exultation, or for amusement.,
B as in Bongrace (n.) A projecting bonnet or shade to protect the complexion; also, a wide-brimmed hat.,
B as in Bonhomie (n.) Alt. of Bonhommie,
B as in Bonhommie (n.) good nature; pleasant and easy manner.,
B as in Bonibell (n.) See Bonnibel.,
B as in Boniface (n.) An innkeeper.,
B as in Boniform (a.) Sensitive or responsive to moral excellence.,
B as in Bonify (v. t.) To convert into, or make, good.,
B as in Boniness (n.) The condition or quality of being bony.,
B as in Boning (n.) The clearing of bones from fish or meat.,
B as in Boning (n.) The manuring of land with bones.,
B as in Boning (n.) A method of leveling a line or surface by sighting along the tops of two or more straight edges, or a range of properly spaced poles. See 3d Bone, v. t.,
B as in Bonitary (a.) Beneficial, as opposed to statutory or civil; as, bonitary dominion of land.,
B as in Bonitoes (pl. ) of Bonito,
B as in Bonito (n.) A large tropical fish (Orcynus pelamys) allied to the tunny. It is about three feet long, blue above, with four brown stripes on the sides. It is sometimes found on the American coast.,
B as in Bonito (n.) The skipjack (Sarda Mediterranea) of the Atlantic, an important and abundant food fish on the coast of the United States, and (S. Chilensis) of the Pacific, and other related species. They are large and active fishes, of a blue color with black oblique stripes.,
B as in Bonito (n.) The medregal (Seriola fasciata), an edible fish of the southern of the United States and the West Indies.,
B as in Bonito (n.) The cobia or crab eater (Elacate canada), an edible fish of the Middle and Southern United States.,
B as in Bonsmots (pl. ) of Bonmot,
B as in Bonmot (n.) A witty repartee; a jest.,
B as in Bonne (n.) A female servant charged with the care of a young child.,
B as in Bonnes bouches (pl. ) of Bonne bouche,
B as in Bonne bouche () A delicious morsel or mouthful; a tidbit.,
B as in Bonnet (n.) A headdress for men and boys; a cap.,
B as in Bonnet (n.) A soft, elastic, very durable cap, made of thick, seamless woolen stuff, and worn by men in Scotland.,
B as in Bonnet (n.) A covering for the head, worn by women, usually protecting more or less the back and sides of the head, but no part of the forehead. The shape of the bonnet varies greatly at different times; formerly the front part projected, and spread outward, like the mouth of a funnel.,
B as in Bonnet (n.) Anything resembling a bonnet in shape or use,
B as in Bonnet (n.) A small defense work at a salient angle; or a part of a parapet elevated to screen the other part from enfilade fire.,
B as in Bonnet (n.) A metallic canopy, or projection, over an opening, as a fireplace, or a cowl or hood to increase the draught of a chimney, etc.,
B as in Bonnet (n.) A frame of wire netting over a locomotive chimney, to prevent escape of sparks.,
B as in Bonnet (n.) A roofing over the cage of a mine, to protect its occupants from objects falling down the shaft.,
B as in Bonnet (n.) In pumps, a metal covering for the openings in the valve chambers.,
B as in Bonnet (n.) An additional piece of canvas laced to the foot of a jib or foresail in moderate winds.,
B as in Bonnet (n.) The second stomach of a ruminating animal.,
B as in Bonnet (n.) An accomplice of a gambler, auctioneer, etc., who entices others to bet or to bid; a decoy.,
B as in Bonnet (v. i.) To take off the bonnet or cap as a mark of respect; to uncover.,
B as in Bonneted (a.) Wearing a bonnet.,
B as in Bonneted (a.) Protected by a bonnet. See Bonnet, 4 (a).,
B as in Bonnetless (a.) Without a bonnet.,
B as in Bonnibel (n.) A handsome girl.,
B as in Bonnie (a.) See Bonny, a.,
B as in Bonnilass (n.) A "bonny lass"; a beautiful girl.,
B as in Bonnily (adv.) Gayly; handsomely.,
B as in Bonniness (n.) The quality of being bonny; gayety; handsomeness.,
B as in Bonny (a.) Handsome; beautiful; pretty; attractively lively and graceful.,
B as in Bonny (a.) Gay; merry; frolicsome; cheerful; blithe.,
B as in Bonny (n.) A round and compact bed of ore, or a distinct bed, not communicating with a vein.,
B as in Bonnyclabber (n.) Coagulated sour milk; loppered milk; curdled milk; -- sometimes called simply clabber.,
B as in Bon Silene () A very fragrant tea rose with petals of various shades of pink.,
B as in Bonspiel (n.) A cur/ing match between clubs.,
B as in Bontebok (n.) The pied antelope of South Africa (Alcelaphus pygarga). Its face and rump are white. Called also nunni.,
B as in Bon ton () The height of the fashion; fashionable society.,
B as in Bonuses (pl. ) of Bonus,
B as in Bonus (n.) A premium given for a loan, or for a charter or other privilege granted to a company; as the bank paid a bonus for its charter.,
B as in Bonus (n.) An extra dividend to the shareholders of a joint stock company, out of accumulated profits.,
B as in Bonus (n.) Money paid in addition to a stated compensation.,
B as in Bons vivants (pl. ) of Bon vivant,
B as in Bon vivant (p. pr.) A good fellow; a jovial companion; a free liver.,
B as in Bony (a.) Consisting of bone, or of bones; full of bones; pertaining to bones.,
B as in Bony (a.) Having large or prominent bones.,
B as in Bonze (n.) A Buddhist or Fohist priest, monk, or nun.,
B as in Boobies (pl. ) of Booby,
B as in Booby (n.) A dunce; a stupid fellow.,
B as in Booby (n.) A swimming bird (Sula fiber or S. sula) related to the common gannet, and found in the West Indies, nesting on the bare rocks. It is so called on account of its apparent stupidity. The name is also sometimes applied to other species of gannets; as, S. piscator, the red-footed booby.,
B as in Booby (n.) A species of penguin of the antarctic seas.,
B as in Booby (a.) Having the characteristics of a booby; stupid.,
B as in Boobyish (a.) Stupid; dull.,
B as in Boodh (n.) Same as Buddha.,
B as in Boodhism (n.) Same as Buddhism.,
B as in Boodhist (n.) Same as Buddhist.,
B as in Boodle (n.) The whole collection or lot; caboodle.,
B as in Boodle (n.) Money given in payment for votes or political influence; bribe money; swag.,
B as in Boohooed (imp. & p. p.) of Boohoe,
B as in Boohooing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Boohoe,
B as in Boohoe (v. i.) To bawl; to cry loudly.,
B as in Boohoo (n.) The sailfish; -- called also woohoo.,
B as in Book (n.) A collection of sheets of paper, or similar material, blank, written, or printed, bound together; commonly, many folded and bound sheets containing continuous printing or writing.,
B as in Book (n.) A composition, written or printed; a treatise.,
B as in Book (n.) A part or subdivision of a treatise or literary work; as, the tenth book of "Paradise Lost.",
B as in Book (n.) A volume or collection of sheets in which accounts are kept; a register of debts and credits, receipts and expenditures, etc.,
B as in Book (n.) Six tricks taken by one side, in the game of whist; in certain other games, two or more corresponding cards, forming a set.,
B as in Booked (imp. & p. p.) of Book,
B as in Booking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Book,
B as in Book (v. t.) To enter, write, or register in a book or list.,
B as in Book (v. t.) To enter the name of (any one) in a book for the purpose of securing a passage, conveyance, or seat; as, to be booked for Southampton; to book a seat in a theater.,
B as in Book (v. t.) To mark out for; to destine or assign for; as, he is booked for the valedictory.,
B as in Bookbinder (n.) One whose occupation is to bind books.,
B as in Bookbindery (n.) A bookbinder's shop; a place or establishment for binding books.,
B as in Bookbinding (n.) The art, process, or business of binding books.,
B as in Bookcase (n.) A case with shelves for holding books, esp. one with glazed doors.,
B as in Bookcraft (n.) Authorship; literary skill.,
B as in Booked (a.) Registered.,
B as in Booked (a.) On the way; destined.,
B as in Booker (n.) One who enters accounts or names, etc., in a book; a bookkeeper.,
B as in Bookful (n.) As much as will fill a book; a book full.,
B as in Bookful (a.) Filled with book learning.,
B as in Bookholder (n.) A prompter at a theater.,
B as in Bookholder (n.) A support for a book, holding it open, while one reads or copies from it.,
B as in Booking clerk () A clerk who registers passengers, baggage, etc., for conveyance, as by railway or steamship, or who sells passage tickets at a booking office.,
B as in Booking office () An office where passengers, baggage, etc., are registered for conveyance, as by railway or steamship.,
B as in Booking office () An office where passage tickets are sold.,
B as in Bookish (a.) Given to reading; fond of study; better acquainted with books than with men; learned from books.,
B as in Bookish (a.) Characterized by a method of expression generally found in books; formal; labored; pedantic; as, a bookish way of talking; bookish sentences.,
B as in Bookkeeper (n.) One who keeps accounts; one who has the charge of keeping the books and accounts in an office.,
B as in Bookkeeping (n.) The art of recording pecuniary or business transactions in a regular and systematic manner, so as to show their relation to each other, and the state of the business in which they occur; the art of keeping accounts. The books commonly used are a daybook, cashbook, journal, and ledger. See Daybook, Cashbook, Journal, and Ledger.,
B as in Bookland (n.) Alt. of Bockland,
B as in Bockland (n.) Charter land held by deed under certain rents and free services, which differed in nothing from free socage lands. This species of tenure has given rise to the modern freeholds.,
B as in Book-learned (a.) Versed in books; having knowledge derived from books.,
B as in Bookless (a.) Without books; unlearned.,
B as in Booklet (n.) A little book.,
B as in Bookmaker (n.) One who writes and publishes books; especially, one who gathers his materials from other books; a compiler.,
B as in Bookmaker (n.) A betting man who "makes a book." See To make a book, under Book, n.,
B as in Bookmen (pl. ) of Bookman,
B as in Bookman (n.) A studious man; a scholar.,
B as in Bookmark (n.) Something placed in a book to guide in finding a particular page or passage; also, a label in a book to designate the owner; a bookplate.,
B as in Bookmate (n.) A schoolfellow; an associate in study.,
B as in Bookmonger (n.) A dealer in books.,
B as in Book muslin () A kind of muslin used for the covers of books.,
B as in Book muslin () A kind of thin white muslin for ladies' dresses.,
B as in Bookplate (n.) A label, placed upon or in a book, showing its ownership or its position in a library.,
B as in Bookseller (n.) One who sells books.,
B as in Bookselling (n.) The employment of selling books.,
B as in Bookshelves (pl. ) of Bookshelf,
B as in Bookshelf (n.) A shelf to hold books.,
B as in Bookshop (n.) A bookseller's shop.,
B as in Bookstall (n.) A stall or stand where books are sold.,
B as in Bookstand (n.) A place or stand for the sale of books in the streets; a bookstall.,
B as in Bookstand (n.) A stand to hold books for reading or reference.,
B as in Bookstore (n.) A store where books are kept for sale; -- called in England a bookseller's shop.,
B as in Bookwork (n.) Work done upon a book or books (as in a printing office), in distinction from newspaper or job work.,
B as in Bookwork (n.) Study; application to books.,
B as in Bookworm (n.) Any larva of a beetle or moth, which is injurious to books. Many species are known.,
B as in Bookworm (n.) A student closely attached to books or addicted to study; a reader without appreciation.,
B as in Booky (a.) Bookish.,
B as in Boolies (pl. ) of Booly,
B as in Booly (n.) A company of Irish herdsmen, or a single herdsman, wandering from place to place with flocks and herds, and living on their milk, like the Tartars; also, a place in the mountain pastures inclosed for the shelter of cattle or their keepers.,
B as in Boom (n.) A long pole or spar, run out for the purpose of extending the bottom of a particular sail; as, the jib boom, the studding-sail boom, etc.,
B as in Boom (n.) A long spar or beam, projecting from the mast of a derrick, from the outer end of which the body to be lifted is suspended.,
B as in Boom (n.) A pole with a conspicuous top, set up to mark the channel in a river or harbor.,
B as in Boom (n.) A strong chain cable, or line of spars bound together, extended across a river or the mouth of a harbor, to obstruct navigation or passage.,
B as in Boom (n.) A line of connected floating timbers stretched across a river, or inclosing an area of water, to keep saw logs, etc., from floating away.,
B as in Boom (v. t.) To extend, or push, with a boom or pole; as, to boom out a sail; to boom off a boat.,
B as in Boomed (imp. & p. p.) of Boom,
B as in Booming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Boom,
B as in Boom (v. i.) To cry with a hollow note; to make a hollow sound, as the bittern, and some insects.,
B as in Boom (v. i.) To make a hollow sound, as of waves or cannon.,
B as in Boom (v. i.) To rush with violence and noise, as a ship under a press of sail, before a free wind.,
B as in Boom (v. i.) To have a rapid growth in market value or in popular favor; to go on rushingly.,
B as in Boom (n.) A hollow roar, as of waves or cannon; also, the hollow cry of the bittern; a booming.,
B as in Boom (n.) A strong and extensive advance, with more or less noisy excitement; -- applied colloquially or humorously to market prices, the demand for stocks or commodities and to political chances of aspirants to office; as, a boom in the stock market; a boom in coffee.,
B as in Boom (v. t.) To cause to advance rapidly in price; as, to boom railroad or mining shares; to create a "boom" for; as to boom Mr. C. for senator.,
B as in Boomdas (n.) A small African hyracoid mammal (Dendrohyrax arboreus) resembling the daman.,
B as in Boomer (n.) One who, or that which, booms.,
B as in Boomer (n.) A North American rodent, so named because it is said to make a booming noise. See Sewellel.,
B as in Boomer (n.) A large male kangaroo.,
B as in Boomer (n.) One who works up a "boom".,
B as in Boomerang (n.) A very singular missile weapon used by the natives of Australia and in some parts of India. It is usually a curved stick of hard wood, from twenty to thirty inches in length, from two to three inches wide, and half or three quarters of an inch thick. When thrown from the hand with a quick rotary motion, it describes very remarkable curves, according to the shape of the instrument and the manner of throwing it, often moving nearly horizontally a long distance, then curving upward to a considerable height, and finally taking a retrograde direction, so as to fall near the place from which it was thrown, or even far in the rear of it.,
B as in Booming (a.) Rushing with violence; swelling with a hollow sound; making a hollow sound or note; roaring; resounding.,
B as in Booming (a.) Advancing or increasing amid noisy excitement; as, booming prices; booming popularity.,
B as in Booming (n.) The act of producing a hollow or roaring sound; a violent rushing with heavy roar; as, the booming of the sea; a deep, hollow sound; as, the booming of bitterns.,
B as in Boomkin (n.) Same as Bumkin.,
B as in Boomorah (n.) A small West African chevrotain (Hyaemoschus aquaticus), resembling the musk deer.,
B as in Boomslange (n.) A large South African tree snake (Bucephalus Capensis). Although considered venomous by natives, it has no poison fangs.,
B as in Boon (n.) A prayer or petition.,
B as in Boon (n.) That which is asked or granted as a benefit or favor; a gift; a benefaction; a grant; a present.,
B as in Boon (n.) Good; prosperous; as, boon voyage.,
B as in Boon (n.) Kind; bountiful; benign.,
B as in Boon (n.) Gay; merry; jovial; convivial.,
B as in Boon (n.) The woody portion flax, which is separated from the fiber as refuse matter by retting, braking, and scutching.,
B as in Boor (n.) A husbandman; a peasant; a rustic; esp. a clownish or unrefined countryman.,
B as in Boor (n.) A Dutch, German, or Russian peasant; esp. a Dutch colonist in South Africa, Guiana, etc.: a boer.,
B as in Boor (n.) A rude ill-bred person; one who is clownish in manners.,
B as in Boorish (a.) Like a boor; clownish; uncultured; unmannerly.,
B as in Boort (n.) See Bort.,
B as in Boose (n.) A stall or a crib for an ox, cow, or other animal.,
B as in Boose (v. i.) To drink excessively. See Booze.,
B as in Booser (n.) A toper; a guzzler. See Boozer.,
B as in Boosted (imp. & p. p.) of Boost,
B as in Boosting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Boost,
B as in Boost (v. i.) To lift or push from behind (one who is endeavoring to climb); to push up; hence, to assist in overcoming obstacles, or in making advancement.,
B as in Boost (n.) A push from behind, as to one who is endeavoring to climb; help.,
B as in Boot (n.) Remedy; relief; amends; reparation; hence, one who brings relief.,
B as in Boot (n.) That which is given to make an exchange equal, or to make up for the deficiency of value in one of the things exchanged.,
B as in Boot (n.) Profit; gain; advantage; use.,
B as in Booted (imp. & p. p.) of Boot,
B as in Booting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Boot,
B as in Boot (v. t.) To profit; to advantage; to avail; -- generally followed by it; as, what boots it?,
B as in Boot (v. t.) To enrich; to benefit; to give in addition.,
B as in Boot (n.) A covering for the foot and lower part of the leg, ordinarily made of leather.,
B as in Boot (n.) An instrument of torture for the leg, formerly used to extort confessions, particularly in Scotland.,
B as in Boot (n.) A place at the side of a coach, where attendants rode; also, a low outside place before and behind the body of the coach.,
B as in Boot (n.) A place for baggage at either end of an old-fashioned stagecoach.,
B as in Boot (n.) An apron or cover (of leather or rubber cloth) for the driving seat of a vehicle, to protect from rain and mud.,
B as in Boot (n.) The metal casing and flange fitted about a pipe where it passes through a roof.,
B as in Booted (imp. & p. p.) of Boot,
B as in Booting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Boot,
B as in Boot (v. t.) To put boots on, esp. for riding.,
B as in Boot (v. t.) To punish by kicking with a booted foot.,
B as in Boot (v. i.) To boot one's self; to put on one's boots.,
B as in Boot (n.) Booty; spoil.,
B as in Bootblack (n.) One who blacks boots.,
B as in Booted (a.) Wearing boots, especially boots with long tops, as for riding; as, a booted squire.,
B as in Booted (a.) Having an undivided, horny, bootlike covering; -- said of the tarsus of some birds.,
B as in Bootee (n.) A half boot or short boot.,
B as in Bootes (n.) A northern constellation, containing the bright star Arcturus.,
B as in Booth (n.) A house or shed built of boards, boughs, or other slight materials, for temporary occupation.,
B as in Booth (n.) A covered stall or temporary structure in a fair or market, or at a polling place.,
B as in Boothale (v. t. & i.) To forage for booty; to plunder.,
B as in Boothose (n.) Stocking hose, or spatterdashes, in lieu of boots.,
B as in Boothose (n.) Hose made to be worn with boots, as by travelers on horseback.,
B as in Boothy (n.) See Bothy.,
B as in Bootikin (n.) A little boot, legging, or gaiter.,
B as in Bootikin (n.) A covering for the foot or hand, worn as a cure for the gout.,
B as in Booting (n.) Advantage; gain; gain by plunder; booty.,
B as in Booting (n.) A kind of torture. See Boot, n., 2.,
B as in Booting (n.) A kicking, as with a booted foot.,
B as in Bootjack (n.) A device for pulling off boots.,
B as in Bootless (a.) Unavailing; unprofitable; useless; without advantage or success.,
B as in Bootlick (n.) A toady.,
B as in Bootmaker (n.) One who makes boots.,
B as in Boots (n.) A servant at a hotel or elsewhere, who cleans and blacks the boots and shoes.,
B as in Boottopping (n.) The act or process of daubing a vessel's bottom near the surface of the water with a mixture of tallow, sulphur, and resin, as a temporary protection against worms, after the slime, shells, etc., have been scraped off.,
B as in Boottopping (n.) Sheathing a vessel with planking over felt.,
B as in Boottree (n.) An instrument to stretch and widen the leg of a boot, consisting of two pieces, together shaped like a leg, between which, when put into the boot, a wedge is driven.,
B as in Booty (n.) That which is seized by violence or obtained by robbery, especially collective spoil taken in war; plunder; pillage.,
B as in Boozed (imp. & p. p.) of Booze,
B as in Boozing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Booze,
B as in Booze (v. i.) To drink greedily or immoderately, esp. alcoholic liquor; to tipple.,
B as in Booze (n.) A carouse; a drinking.,
B as in Boozer (n.) One who boozes; a toper; a guzzler of alcoholic liquors; a bouser.,
B as in Boozy (a.) A little intoxicated; fuddled; stupid with liquor; bousy.,
B as in Bopeep (n.) The act of looking out suddenly, as from behind a screen, so as to startle some one (as by children in play), or of looking out and drawing suddenly back, as if frightened.,
B as in Borable (a.) Capable of being bored.,
B as in Borachte (n.) A large leather bottle for liquors, etc., made of the skin of a goat or other animal. Hence: A drunkard.,
B as in Boracic (a.) Pertaining to, or produced from, borax; containing boron; boric; as, boracic acid.,
B as in Boracite (n.) A mineral of a white or gray color occurring massive and in isometric crystals; in composition it is a magnesium borate with magnesium chloride.,
B as in Boracous (a.) Relating to, or obtained from, borax; containing borax.,
B as in Borage (n.) A mucilaginous plant of the genus Borago (B. officinalis), which is used, esp. in France, as a demulcent and diaphoretic.,
B as in Boragewort (n.) Plant of the Borage family.,
B as in Boraginaceous (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a family of plants (Boraginaceae) which includes the borage, heliotrope, beggar's lice, and many pestiferous plants.,
B as in Boragineous (a.) Relating to the Borage tribe; boraginaceous.,
B as in Boramez (n.) See Barometz.,
B as in Borate (n.) A salt formed by the combination of boric acid with a base or positive radical.,
B as in Borax (n.) A white or gray crystalline salt, with a slight alkaline taste, used as a flux, in soldering metals, making enamels, fixing colors on porcelain, and as a soap. It occurs native in certain mineral springs, and is made from the boric acid of hot springs in Tuscany. It was originally obtained from a lake in Thibet, and was sent to Europe under the name of tincal. Borax is a pyroborate or tetraborate of sodium, Na2B4O7.10H2O.,
B as in Borborygm (n.) A rumbling or gurgling noise produced by wind in the bowels.,
B as in Bord (n.) A board; a table.,
B as in Bord (n.) The face of coal parallel to the natural fissures.,
B as in Bord (n.) See Bourd.,
B as in Bordage (n.) The base or servile tenure by which a bordar held his cottage.,
B as in Bordar (n.) A villein who rendered menial service for his cottage; a cottier.,
B as in Bordeaux (a.) Pertaining to Bordeaux in the south of France.,
B as in Bordeaux (n.) A claret wine from Bordeaux.,
B as in Bordel (n.) Alt. of Bordello,
B as in Bordello (n.) A brothel; a bawdyhouse; a house devoted to prostitution.,
B as in Bordelais (a.) Of or pertaining to Bordeaux, in France, or to the district around Bordeaux.,
B as in Bordeller (n.) A keeper or a frequenter of a brothel.,
B as in Border (n.) The outer part or edge of anything, as of a garment, a garden, etc.; margin; verge; brink.,
B as in Border (n.) A boundary; a frontier of a state or of the settled part of a country; a frontier district.,
B as in Border (n.) A strip or stripe arranged along or near the edge of something, as an ornament or finish.,
B as in Border (n.) A narrow flower bed.,
B as in Bordered (imp. & p. p.) of Border,
B as in Bordering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Border,
B as in Border (v. i.) To touch at the edge or boundary; to be contiguous or adjacent; -- with on or upon as, Connecticut borders on Massachusetts.,
B as in Border (v. i.) To approach; to come near to; to verge.,
B as in Border (v. t.) To make a border for; to furnish with a border, as for ornament; as, to border a garment or a garden.,
B as in Border (v. t.) To be, or to have, contiguous to; to touch, or be touched, as by a border; to be, or to have, near the limits or boundary; as, the region borders a forest, or is bordered on the north by a forest.,
B as in Border (v. t.) To confine within bounds; to limit.,
B as in Borderer (n.) One who dwells on a border, or at the extreme part or confines of a country, region, or tract of land; one who dwells near to a place or region.,
B as in Bordland (n.) Either land held by a bordar, or the land which a lord kept for the maintenance of his board, or table.,
B as in Bordlode (n.) The service formerly required of a tenant, to carry timber from the woods to the lord's house.,
B as in Bordman (n.) A bordar; a tenant in bordage.,
B as in Bordrag (n.) Alt. of Bordraging,
B as in Bordraging (n.) An incursion upon the borders of a country; a raid.,
B as in Bord service () Service due from a bordar; bordage.,
B as in Bordure (n.) A border one fifth the width of the shield, surrounding the field. It is usually plain, but may be charged.,
B as in Bored (imp. & p. p.) of Bore,
B as in Boring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bore,
B as in Bore (v. t.) To perforate or penetrate, as a solid body, by turning an auger, gimlet, drill, or other instrument; to make a round hole in or through; to pierce; as, to bore a plank.,
B as in Bore (v. t.) To form or enlarge by means of a boring instrument or apparatus; as, to bore a steam cylinder or a gun barrel; to bore a hole.,
B as in Bore (v. t.) To make (a passage) by laborious effort, as in boring; as, to bore one's way through a crowd; to force a narrow and difficult passage through.,
B as in Bore (v. t.) To weary by tedious iteration or by dullness; to tire; to trouble; to vex; to annoy; to pester.,
B as in Bore (v. t.) To befool; to trick.,
B as in Bore (v. i.) To make a hole or perforation with, or as with, a boring instrument; to cut a circular hole by the rotary motion of a tool; as, to bore for water or oil (i. e., to sink a well by boring for water or oil); to bore with a gimlet; to bore into a tree (as insects).,
B as in Bore (v. i.) To be pierced or penetrated by an instrument that cuts as it turns; as, this timber does not bore well, or is hard to bore.,
B as in Bore (v. i.) To push forward in a certain direction with laborious effort.,
B as in Bore (v. i.) To shoot out the nose or toss it in the air; -- said of a horse.,
B as in Bore (n.) A hole made by boring; a perforation.,
B as in Bore (n.) The internal cylindrical cavity of a gun, cannon, pistol, or other firearm, or of a pipe or tube.,
B as in Bore (n.) The size of a hole; the interior diameter of a tube or gun barrel; the caliber.,
B as in Bore (n.) A tool for making a hole by boring, as an auger.,
B as in Bore (n.) Caliber; importance.,
B as in Bore (n.) A person or thing that wearies by prolixity or dullness; a tiresome person or affair; any person or thing which causes ennui.,
B as in Bore (n.) A tidal flood which regularly or occasionally rushes into certain rivers of peculiar configuration or location, in one or more waves which present a very abrupt front of considerable height, dangerous to shipping, as at the mouth of the Amazon, in South America, the Hoogly and Indus, in India, and the Tsien-tang, in China.,
B as in Bore (n.) Less properly, a very high and rapid tidal flow, when not so abrupt, such as occurs at the Bay of Fundy and in the British Channel.,
B as in Bore () imp. of 1st & 2d Bear.,
B as in Boreal (a.) Northern; pertaining to the north, or to the north wind; as, a boreal bird; a boreal blast.,
B as in Boreas (n.) The north wind; -- usually a personification.,
B as in Borecole (n.) A brassicaceous plant of many varieties, cultivated for its leaves, which are not formed into a compact head like the cabbage, but are loose, and are generally curled or wrinkled; kale.,
B as in Boredom (n.) The state of being bored, or pestered; a state of ennui.,
B as in Boredom (n.) The realm of bores; bores, collectively.,
B as in Boree (n.) Same as BourrEe.,
B as in Borel (n.) See Borrel.,
B as in Borele (n.) The smaller two-horned rhinoceros of South Africa (Atelodus bicornis).,
B as in Borer (n.) One that bores; an instrument for boring.,
B as in Borer (n.) A marine, bivalve mollusk, of the genus Teredo and allies, which burrows in wood. See Teredo.,
B as in Borer (n.) Any bivalve mollusk (Saxicava, Lithodomus, etc.) which bores into limestone and similar substances.,
B as in Borer (n.) One of the larvae of many species of insects, which penetrate trees, as the apple, peach, pine, etc. See Apple borer, under Apple.,
B as in Borer (n.) The hagfish (Myxine).,
B as in Boric (a.) Of, pertaining to, or containing, boron.,
B as in Boride (n.) A binary compound of boron with a more positive or basic element or radical; -- formerly called boruret.,
B as in Boring (n.) The act or process of one who, or that which, bores; as, the boring of cannon; the boring of piles and ship timbers by certain marine mollusks.,
B as in Boring (n.) A hole made by boring.,
B as in Boring (n.) The chips or fragments made by boring.,
B as in Born (v. t.) Brought forth, as an animal; brought into life; introduced by birth.,
B as in Born (v. t.) Having from birth a certain character; by or from birth; by nature; innate; as, a born liar.,
B as in Borne (p. p.) Carried; conveyed; supported; defrayed. See Bear, v. t.,
B as in Borneol (n.) A rare variety of camphor, C10H17.OH, resembling ordinary camphor, from which it can be produced by reduction. It is said to occur in the camphor tree of Borneo and Sumatra (Dryobalanops camphora), but the natural borneol is rarely found in European or American commerce, being in great request by the Chinese. Called also Borneo camphor, Malay camphor, and camphol.,
B as in Bornite (n.) A valuable ore of copper, containing copper, iron, and sulphur; -- also called purple copper ore (or erubescite), in allusion to the colors shown upon the slightly tarnished surface.,
B as in Borofluoride (n.) A double fluoride of boron and hydrogen, or some other positive element, or radical; -- called also fluoboride, and formerly fluoborate.,
B as in Boroglyceride (n.) A compound of boric acid and glycerin, used as an antiseptic.,
B as in Boron (n.) A nonmetallic element occurring abundantly in borax. It is reduced with difficulty to the free state, when it can be obtained in several different forms; viz., as a substance of a deep olive color, in a semimetallic form, and in colorless quadratic crystals similar to the diamond in hardness and other properties. It occurs in nature also in boracite, datolite, tourmaline, and some other minerals. Atomic weight 10.9. Symbol B.,
B as in Borosilicate (n.) A double salt of boric and silicic acids, as in the natural minerals tourmaline, datolite, etc.,
B as in Borough (n.) In England, an incorporated town that is not a city; also, a town that sends members to parliament; in Scotland, a body corporate, consisting of the inhabitants of a certain district, erected by the sovereign, with a certain jurisdiction; in America, an incorporated town or village, as in Pennsylvania and Connecticut.,
B as in Borough (n.) The collective body of citizens or inhabitants of a borough; as, the borough voted to lay a tax.,
B as in Borough (n.) An association of men who gave pledges or sureties to the king for the good behavior of each other.,
B as in Borough (n.) The pledge or surety thus given.,
B as in Borough-English (n.) A custom, as in some ancient boroughs, by which lands and tenements descend to the youngest son, instead of the eldest; or, if the owner have no issue, to the youngest brother.,
B as in Boroughhead (n.) See Headborough.,
B as in Boroughholder (n.) A headborough; a borsholder.,
B as in Boroughmaster (n.) The mayor, governor, or bailiff of a borough.,
B as in Boroughmonger (n.) One who buys or sells the parliamentary seats of boroughs.,
B as in Boroughmongering (n.) Alt. of Boroughmongery,
B as in Boroughmongery (n.) The practices of a boroughmonger.,
B as in Borracho (n.) See Borachio.,
B as in Borrage (a.) Alt. of Borraginaceous,
B as in Borraginaceous (a.) See Borage, n., etc.,
B as in Borrel (n.) Coarse woolen cloth; hence, coarse clothing; a garment.,
B as in Borrel (n.) A kind of light stuff, of silk and wool.,
B as in Borrel (n.) Ignorant, unlearned; belonging to the laity.,
B as in Borrowed (imp. & p. p.) of Borrow,
B as in Borrowing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Borrow,
B as in Borrow (v. t.) To receive from another as a loan, with the implied or expressed intention of returning the identical article or its equivalent in kind; -- the opposite of lend.,
B as in Borrow (v. t.) To take (one or more) from the next higher denomination in order to add it to the next lower; -- a term of subtraction when the figure of the subtrahend is larger than the corresponding one of the minuend.,
B as in Borrow (v. t.) To copy or imitate; to adopt; as, to borrow the style, manner, or opinions of another.,
B as in Borrow (v. t.) To feign or counterfeit.,
B as in Borrow (v. t.) To receive; to take; to derive.,
B as in Borrow (n.) Something deposited as security; a pledge; a surety; a hostage.,
B as in Borrow (n.) The act of borrowing.,
B as in Borrower (n.) One who borrows.,
B as in Borsholder (a.) The head or chief of a tithing, or borough (see 2d Borough); the headborough; a parish constable.,
B as in Bort (n.) Imperfectly crystallized or coarse diamonds, or fragments made in cutting good diamonds which are reduced to powder and used in lapidary work.,
B as in Boruret (n.) A boride.,
B as in Borwe (n.) Pledge; borrow.,
B as in Bos (n.) A genus of ruminant quadrupeds, including the wild and domestic cattle, distinguished by a stout body, hollow horns, and a large fold of skin hanging from the neck.,
B as in Bosa (n.) A drink, used in the East. See Boza.,
B as in Boscage (n.) A growth of trees or shrubs; underwood; a thicket; thick foliage; a wooded landscape.,
B as in Boscage (n.) Food or sustenance for cattle, obtained from bushes and trees; also, a tax on wood.,
B as in Bosh (n.) Figure; outline; show.,
B as in Bosh (n.) Empty talk; contemptible nonsense; trash; humbug.,
B as in Boshes (pl. ) of Bosh,
B as in Bosh (n.) One of the sloping sides of the lower part of a blast furnace; also, one of the hollow iron or brick sides of the bed of a puddling or boiling furnace.,
B as in Bosh (n.) The lower part of a blast furnace, which slopes inward, or the widest space at the top of this part.,
B as in Bosh (n.) In forging and smelting, a trough in which tools and ingots are cooled.,
B as in Boshbok (n.) A kind of antelope. See Bush buck.,
B as in Boshvark (n.) The bush hog. See under Bush, a thicket.,
B as in Bosjesman (n.) See Bushman.,
B as in Bosk (n.) A thicket; a small wood.,
B as in Boskage (n.) Same as Boscage.,
B as in Bosket (n.) Alt. of Bosquet,
B as in Bosquet (n.) A grove; a thicket; shrubbery; an inclosure formed by branches of trees, regularly or irregularly disposed.,
B as in Boskiness (n.) Boscage; also, the state or quality of being bosky.,
B as in Bosky (a.) Woody or bushy; covered with boscage or thickets.,
B as in Bosky (a.) Caused by boscage.,
B as in Bosom (n.) The breast of a human being; the part, between the arms, to which anything is pressed when embraced by them.,
B as in Bosom (n.) The breast, considered as the seat of the passions, affections, and operations of the mind; consciousness; secret thoughts.,
B as in Bosom (n.) Embrace; loving or affectionate inclosure; fold.,
B as in Bosom (n.) Any thing or place resembling the breast; a supporting surface; an inner recess; the interior; as, the bosom of the earth.,
B as in Bosom (n.) The part of the dress worn upon the breast; an article, or a portion of an article, of dress to be worn upon the breast; as, the bosom of a shirt; a linen bosom.,
B as in Bosom (n.) Inclination; desire.,
B as in Bosom (n.) A depression round the eye of a millstone.,
B as in Bosom (a.) Of or pertaining to the bosom.,
B as in Bosom (a.) Intimate; confidential; familiar; trusted; cherished; beloved; as, a bosom friend.,
B as in Bosomed (imp. & p. p.) of Bosom,
B as in Bosoming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bosom,
B as in Bosom (v. t.) To inclose or carry in the bosom; to keep with care; to take to heart; to cherish.,
B as in Bosom (v. t.) To conceal; to hide from view; to embosom.,
B as in Bosomed (a.) Having, or resembling, bosom; kept in the bosom; hidden.,
B as in Bosomy (a.) Characterized by recesses or sheltered hollows.,
B as in Boson (n.) See Boatswain.,
B as in Bosporian (a.) Of or pertaining to the Thracian or the Cimmerian Bosporus.,
B as in Bosporus (n.) A strait or narrow sea between two seas, or a lake and a seas; as, the Bosporus (formerly the Thracian Bosporus) or Strait of Constantinople, between the Black Sea and Sea of Marmora; the Cimmerian Bosporus, between the Black Sea and Sea of Azof.,
B as in Bosquet (n.) See Bosket.,
B as in Bosses (pl. ) of Boss,
B as in Boss (n.) Any protuberant part; a round, swelling part or body; a knoblike process; as, a boss of wood.,
B as in Boss (n.) A protuberant ornament on any work, either of different material from that of the work or of the same, as upon a buckler or bridle; a stud; a knob; the central projection of a shield. See Umbilicus.,
B as in Boss (n.) A projecting ornament placed at the intersection of the ribs of ceilings, whether vaulted or flat, and in other situations.,
B as in Boss (n.) A wooden vessel for the mortar used in tiling or masonry, hung by a hook from the laths, or from the rounds of a ladder.,
B as in Boss (n.) The enlarged part of a shaft, on which a wheel is keyed, or at the end, where it is coupled to another.,
B as in Boss (n.) A swage or die used for shaping metals.,
B as in Boss (n.) A head or reservoir of water.,
B as in Bossed (imp. & p. p.) of Boss,
B as in Bossing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Boss,
B as in Boss (v. t.) To ornament with bosses; to stud.,
B as in Boss (n.) A master workman or superintendent; a director or manager; a political dictator.,
B as in Bossage (n.) A stone in a building, left rough and projecting, to be afterward carved into shape.,
B as in Bossage (n.) Rustic work, consisting of stones which seem to advance beyond the level of the building, by reason of indentures or channels left in the joinings.,
B as in Bossed (a.) Embossed; also, bossy.,
B as in Bosset (n.) A rudimental antler of a young male of the red deer.,
B as in Bossism (n.) The rule or practices of bosses, esp. political bosses.,
B as in Bossy (a.) Ornamented with bosses; studded.,
B as in Bossy (n.) A cow or calf; -- familiarly so called.,
B as in Boston (n.) A game at cards, played by four persons, with two packs of fifty-two cards each; -- said to be so called from Boston, Massachusetts, and to have been invented by officers of the French army in America during the Revolutionary war.,
B as in Boswellian (a.) Relating to, or characteristic of, Boswell, the biographer of Dr. Johnson.,
B as in Boswellism (n.) The style of Boswell.,
B as in Bot (n.) See Bots.,
B as in Botanic (a.) Alt. of Botanical,
B as in Botanical (a.) Of or pertaining to botany; relating to the study of plants; as, a botanical system, arrangement, textbook, expedition.,
B as in Botanist (n.) One skilled in botany; one versed in the knowledge of plants.,
B as in Botanized (imp. & p. p.) of Botanize,
B as in Botanizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Botanize,
B as in Botanize (v. i.) To seek after plants for botanical investigation; to study plants.,
B as in Botanize (v. t.) To explore for botanical purposes.,
B as in Botanizer (n.) One who botanizes.,
B as in Botanologer (n.) A botanist.,
B as in Botanology (n.) The science of botany.,
B as in Botanomancy (n.) An ancient species of divination by means of plants, esp. sage and fig leaves.,
B as in Botanies (pl. ) of Botany,
B as in Botany (a. & n.) The science which treats of the structure of plants, the functions of their parts, their places of growth, their classification, and the terms which are employed in their description and denomination. See Plant.,
B as in Botany (a. & n.) A book which treats of the science of botany.,
B as in Botany Bay () A harbor on the east coast of Australia, and an English convict settlement there; -- so called from the number of new plants found on its shore at its discovery by Cook in 1770.,
B as in Botargo (n.) A sort of cake or sausage, made of the salted roes of the mullet, much used on the coast of the Mediterranean as an incentive to drink.,
B as in Botches (pl. ) of Botch,
B as in Botch (n.) A swelling on the skin; a large ulcerous affection; a boil; an eruptive disease.,
B as in Botch (n.) A patch put on, or a part of a garment patched or mended in a clumsy manner.,
B as in Botch (n.) Work done in a bungling manner; a clumsy performance; a piece of work, or a place in work, marred in the doing, or not properly finished; a bungle.,
B as in Botched (imp. & p. p.) of Botch,
B as in Botching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Botch,
B as in Botch (n.) To mark with, or as with, botches.,
B as in Botch (n.) To repair; to mend; esp. to patch in a clumsy or imperfect manner, as a garment; -- sometimes with up.,
B as in Botch (n.) To put together unsuitably or unskillfully; to express or perform in a bungling manner; to spoil or mar, as by unskillful work.,
B as in Botchedly (adv.) In a clumsy manner.,
B as in Botcher (n.) One who mends or patches, esp. a tailor or cobbler.,
B as in Botcher (n.) A clumsy or careless workman; a bungler.,
B as in Botcher (n.) A young salmon; a grilse.,
B as in Botcherly (a.) Bungling; awkward.,
B as in Botchery (n.) A botching, or that which is done by botching; clumsy or careless workmanship.,
B as in Botchy (a.) Marked with botches; full of botches; poorly done.,
B as in Bote (n.) Compensation; amends; satisfaction; expiation; as, man bote, a compensation or a man slain.,
B as in Bote (n.) Payment of any kind.,
B as in Bote (n.) A privilege or allowance of necessaries.,
B as in Boteless (a.) Unavailing; in vain. See Bootless.,
B as in Botfly (n.) A dipterous insect of the family (Estridae, of many different species, some of which are particularly troublesome to domestic animals, as the horse, ox, and sheep, on which they deposit their eggs. A common species is one of the botflies of the horse (Gastrophilus equi), the larvae of which (bots) are taken into the stomach of the animal, where they live several months and pass through their larval states. In tropical America one species sometimes lives under the human skin, and another in the stomach. See Gadfly.,
B as in Both (a. or pron.) The one and the other; the two; the pair, without exception of either.,
B as in Both (conj.) As well; not only; equally.,
B as in Bothered (imp. & p. p.) of Bother,
B as in Bothering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bother,
B as in Bother (v. t.) To annoy; to trouble; to worry; to perplex. See Pother.,
B as in Bother (v. i.) To feel care or anxiety; to make or take trouble; to be troublesome.,
B as in Bother (n.) One who, or that which, bothers; state of perplexity or annoyance; embarrassment; worry; disturbance; petty trouble; as, to be in a bother.,
B as in Botheration (n.) The act of bothering, or state of being bothered; cause of trouble; perplexity; annoyance; vexation.,
B as in Botherer (n.) One who bothers.,
B as in Bothersome (a.) Vexatious; causing bother; causing trouble or perplexity; troublesome.,
B as in Both-hands (n.) A factotum.,
B as in Bothie (n.) Same as Bothy.,
B as in Bothnian (a.) Alt. of Bothnic,
B as in Bothnic (a.) Of or pertaining to Bothnia, a country of northern Europe, or to a gulf of the same name which forms the northern part of the Baltic sea.,
B as in Bothrenchyma (n.) Dotted or pitted ducts or vessels forming the pores seen in many kinds of wood.,
B as in -ies (pl. ) of Boothy,
B as in Bothy (n.) Alt. of Boothy,
B as in Boothy (n.) A wooden hut or humble cot, esp. a rude hut or barrack for unmarried farm servants; a shepherd's or hunter's hut; a booth.,
B as in Botocudos (n. pl.) A Brazilian tribe of Indians, noted for their use of poisons; -- also called Aymbores.,
B as in Bo tree () The peepul tree; esp., the very ancient tree standing at Anurajahpoora in Ceylon, grown from a slip of the tree under which Gautama is said to have received the heavenly light and so to have become Buddha.,
B as in Botryogen (n.) A hydrous sulphate of iron of a deep red color. It often occurs in botryoidal form.,
B as in Botryoid (a.) Alt. of Botryoidal,
B as in Botryoidal (a.) Having the form of a bunch of grapes; like a cluster of grapes, as a mineral presenting an aggregation of small spherical or spheroidal prominences.,
B as in Botryolite (n.) A variety of datolite, usually having a botryoidal structure.,
B as in Botryose (a.) Having the form of a cluster of grapes.,
B as in Botryose (a.) Of the racemose or acropetal type of inflorescence.,
B as in Bots (n. pl.) The larvae of several species of botfly, especially those larvae which infest the stomach, throat, or intestines of the horse, and are supposed to be the cause of various ailments.,
B as in Bottine (n.) A small boot; a lady's boot.,
B as in Bottine (n.) An appliance resembling a small boot furnished with straps, buckles, etc., used to correct or prevent distortions in the lower extremities of children.,
B as in Bottle (n.) A hollow vessel, usually of glass or earthenware (but formerly of leather), with a narrow neck or mouth, for holding liquids.,
B as in Bottle (n.) The contents of a bottle; as much as a bottle contains; as, to drink a bottle of wine.,
B as in Bottle (n.) Fig.: Intoxicating liquor; as, to drown one's reason in the bottle.,
B as in Bottled (imp. & p. p.) of Bottle,
B as in Bottling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bottle,
B as in Bottle (v. t.) To put into bottles; to inclose in, or as in, a bottle or bottles; to keep or restrain as in a bottle; as, to bottle wine or porter; to bottle up one's wrath.,
B as in Bottle (n.) A bundle, esp. of hay.,
B as in Bottled (a.) Put into bottles; inclosed in bottles; pent up in, or as in, a bottle.,
B as in Bottled (a.) Having the shape of a bottle; protuberant.,
B as in Bottle green () A dark shade of green, like that of bottle glass.,
B as in Bottlehead (n.) A cetacean allied to the grampus; -- called also bottle-nosed whale.,
B as in Bottleholder (n.) One who attends a pugilist in a prize fight; -- so called from the bottle of water of which he has charge.,
B as in Bottleholder (n.) One who assists or supports another in a contest; an abettor; a backer.,
B as in Bottle-nose (n.) A cetacean of the Dolphin family, of several species, as Delphinus Tursio and Lagenorhyncus leucopleurus, of Europe.,
B as in Bottle-nose (n.) The puffin.,
B as in Bottle-nosed (a.) Having the nose bottle-shaped, or large at the end.,
B as in Bottler (n.) One who bottles wine, beer, soda water, etc.,
B as in Bottlescrew (n.) A corkscrew.,
B as in Bottling (n.) The act or the process of putting anything into bottles (as beer, mineral water, etc.) and corking the bottles.,
B as in Bottom (n.) The lowest part of anything; the foot; as, the bottom of a tree or well; the bottom of a hill, a lane, or a page.,
B as in Bottom (n.) The part of anything which is beneath the contents and supports them, as the part of a chair on which a person sits, the circular base or lower head of a cask or tub, or the plank floor of a ship's hold; the under surface.,
B as in Bottom (n.) That upon which anything rests or is founded, in a literal or a figurative sense; foundation; groundwork.,
B as in Bottom (n.) The bed of a body of water, as of a river, lake, sea.,
B as in Bottom (n.) The fundament; the buttocks.,
B as in Bottom (n.) An abyss.,
B as in Bottom (n.) Low land formed by alluvial deposits along a river; low-lying ground; a dale; a valley.,
B as in Bottom (n.) The part of a ship which is ordinarily under water; hence, the vessel itself; a ship.,
B as in Bottom (n.) Power of endurance; as, a horse of a good bottom.,
B as in Bottom (n.) Dregs or grounds; lees; sediment.,
B as in Bottom (a.) Of or pertaining to the bottom; fundamental; lowest; under; as, bottom rock; the bottom board of a wagon box; bottom prices.,
B as in Bottomed (imp. & p. p.) of Bottom,
B as in Bottoming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bottom,
B as in Bottom (v. t.) To found or build upon; to fix upon as a support; -- followed by on or upon.,
B as in Bottom (v. t.) To furnish with a bottom; as, to bottom a chair.,
B as in Bottom (v. t.) To reach or get to the bottom of.,
B as in Bottom (v. i.) To rest, as upon an ultimate support; to be based or grounded; -- usually with on or upon.,
B as in Bottom (v. i.) To reach or impinge against the bottom, so as to impede free action, as when the point of a cog strikes the bottom of a space between two other cogs, or a piston the end of a cylinder.,
B as in Bottom (n.) A ball or skein of thread; a cocoon.,
B as in Bottom (v. t.) To wind round something, as in making a ball of thread.,
B as in Bottomed (a.) Having at the bottom, or as a bottom; resting upon a bottom; grounded; -- mostly, in composition; as, sharp-bottomed; well-bottomed.,
B as in Bottomless (a.) Without a bottom; hence, fathomless; baseless; as, a bottomless abyss.,
B as in Bottomry (n.) A contract in the nature of a mortgage, by which the owner of a ship, or the master as his agent, hypothecates and binds the ship (and sometimes the accruing freight) as security for the repayment of money advanced or lent for the use of the ship, if she terminates her voyage successfully. If the ship is lost by perils of the sea, the lender loses the money; but if the ship arrives safe, he is to receive the money lent, with the interest or premium stipulated, although it may, and usually does, exceed the legal rate of interest. See Hypothecation.,
B as in Bottony (a.) Alt. of Bottone,
B as in Bottone (a.) Having a bud or button, or a kind of trefoil, at the end; furnished with knobs or buttons.,
B as in Botts (n. pl.) See Bots.,
B as in Botuliform (a.) Having the shape of a sausage.,
B as in Bouche (n.) Same as Bush, a lining.,
B as in Bouche (v. t.) Same as Bush, to line.,
B as in Bouche (n.) Alt. of Bouch,
B as in Bouch (n.) A mouth.,
B as in Bouch (n.) An allowance of meat and drink for the tables of inferior officers or servants in a nobleman's palace or at court.,
B as in Bouchees (n. pl.) Small patties.,
B as in Boud (n.) A weevil; a worm that breeds in malt, biscuit, etc.,
B as in Boudoir (n.) A small room, esp. if pleasant, or elegantly furnished, to which a lady may retire to be alone, or to receive intimate friends; a lady's (or sometimes a gentleman's) private room.,
B as in Bouffe (n.) Comic opera. See Opera Bouffe.,
B as in Bougainvillaea (n.) A genus of plants of the order Nyctoginaceae, from tropical South America, having the flowers surrounded by large bracts.,
B as in Bouged (imp. & p. p.) of Bouge,
B as in Bouge (v. i.) To swell out.,
B as in Bouge (v. i.) To bilge.,
B as in Bouge (v. t.) To stave in; to bilge.,
B as in Bouge (n.) Bouche (see Bouche, 2); food and drink; provisions.,
B as in Bouget (n.) A charge representing a leather vessel for carrying water; -- also called water bouget.,
B as in Bough (n.) An arm or branch of a tree, esp. a large arm or main branch.,
B as in Bough (n.) A gallows.,
B as in Bought (n.) A flexure; a bend; a twist; a turn; a coil, as in a rope; as the boughts of a serpent.,
B as in Bought (n.) The part of a sling that contains the stone.,
B as in Bought () imp. & p. p. of Buy.,
B as in Bought (p. a.) Purchased; bribed.,
B as in Boughten (a.) Purchased; not obtained or produced at home.,
B as in Boughty (a.) Bending.,
B as in Bougie (n.) A long, flexible instrument, that is,
B as in Bougie (n.) A long slender rod consisting of gelatin or some other substance that melts at the temperature of the body. It is impregnated with medicine, and designed for introduction into urethra, etc.,
B as in Bouilli (n.) Boiled or stewed meat; beef boiled with vegetables in water from which its gravy is to be made; beef from which bouillon or soup has been made.,
B as in Bouillon (n.) A nutritious liquid food made by boiling beef, or other meat, in water; a clear soup or broth.,
B as in Bouillon (n.) An excrescence on a horse's frush or frog.,
B as in Bouk (n.) The body.,
B as in Bouk (n.) Bulk; volume.,
B as in Boul (n.) A curved handle.,
B as in Boulangerite (n.) A mineral of a bluish gray color and metallic luster, usually in plumose masses, also compact. It is a sulphide of antimony and lead.,
B as in Boulder (n.) Same as Bowlder.,
B as in Bouldery (a.) Characterized by bowlders.,
B as in Boule (n.) Alt. of Boulework,
B as in Boulework (n.) Same as Buhl, Buhlwork.,
B as in Boulevard (n.) Originally, a bulwark or rampart of fortification or fortified town.,
B as in Boulevard (n.) A public walk or street occupying the site of demolished fortifications. Hence: A broad avenue in or around a city.,
B as in Bouleversement (n.) Complete overthrow; disorder; a turning upside down.,
B as in Buolt (n.) Corrupted form Bolt.,
B as in Boultel (n.) Alt. of Boultin,
B as in Boultin (n.) A molding, the convexity of which is one fourth of a circle, being a member just below the abacus in the Tuscan and Roman Doric capital; a torus; an ovolo.,
B as in Boultin (n.) One of the shafts of a clustered column.,
B as in Boulter (n.) A long, stout fishing line to which many hooks are attached.,
B as in Boun (a.) Ready; prepared; destined; tending.,
B as in Boun (v. t.) To make or get ready.,
B as in Bounced (imp. & p. p.) of Bounce,
B as in Bouncing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bounce,
B as in Bounce (v. i.) To strike or thump, so as to rebound, or to make a sudden noise; a knock loudly.,
B as in Bounce (v. i.) To leap or spring suddenly or unceremoniously; to bound; as, she bounced into the room.,
B as in Bounce (v. i.) To boast; to talk big; to bluster.,
B as in Bounce (v. t.) To drive against anything suddenly and violently; to bump; to thump.,
B as in Bounce (v. t.) To cause to bound or rebound; sometimes, to toss.,
B as in Bounce (v. t.) To eject violently, as from a room; to discharge unceremoniously, as from employment.,
B as in Bounce (v. t.) To bully; to scold.,
B as in Bounce (n.) A sudden leap or bound; a rebound.,
B as in Bounce (n.) A heavy, sudden, and often noisy, blow or thump.,
B as in Bounce (n.) An explosion, or the noise of one.,
B as in Bounce (n.) Bluster; brag; untruthful boasting; audacious exaggeration; an impudent lie; a bouncer.,
B as in Bounce (n.) A dogfish of Europe (Scyllium catulus).,
B as in Bounce (adv.) With a sudden leap; suddenly.,
B as in Bouncer (n.) One who bounces; a large, heavy person who makes much noise in moving.,
B as in Bouncer (n.) A boaster; a bully.,
B as in Bouncer (n.) A bold lie; also, a liar.,
B as in Bouncer (n.) Something big; a good stout example of the kind.,
B as in Bouncing (a.) Stout; plump and healthy; lusty; buxom.,
B as in Bouncing (a.) Excessive; big.,
B as in Bouncingly (adv.) With a bounce.,
B as in Bound (n.) The external or limiting line, either real or imaginary, of any object or space; that which limits or restrains, or within which something is limited or restrained; limit; confine; extent; boundary.,
B as in Bounded (imp. & p. p.) of Bound,
B as in Bounding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bound,
B as in Bound (v. t.) To limit; to terminate; to fix the furthest point of extension of; -- said of natural or of moral objects; to lie along, or form, a boundary of; to inclose; to circumscribe; to restrain; to confine.,
B as in Bound (v. t.) To name the boundaries of; as, to bound France.,
B as in Bound (v. i.) To move with a sudden spring or leap, or with a succession of springs or leaps; as the beast bounded from his den; the herd bounded across the plain.,
B as in Bound (v. i.) To rebound, as an elastic ball.,
B as in Bound (v. t.) To make to bound or leap; as, to bound a horse.,
B as in Bound (v. t.) To cause to rebound; to throw so that it will rebound; as, to bound a ball on the floor.,
B as in Bound (n.) A leap; an elastic spring; a jump.,
B as in Bound (n.) Rebound; as, the bound of a ball.,
B as in Bound (n.) Spring from one foot to the other.,
B as in Bound () imp. & p. p. of Bind.,
B as in Bound (p. p. & a.) Restrained by a hand, rope, chain, fetters, or the like.,
B as in Bound (p. p. & a.) Inclosed in a binding or cover; as, a bound volume.,
B as in Bound (p. p. & a.) Under legal or moral restraint or obligation.,
B as in Bound (p. p. & a.) Constrained or compelled; destined; certain; -- followed by the infinitive; as, he is bound to succeed; he is bound to fail.,
B as in Bound (p. p. & a.) Resolved; as, I am bound to do it.,
B as in Bound (p. p. & a.) Constipated; costive.,
B as in Bound (v.) Ready or intending to go; on the way toward; going; -- with to or for, or with an adverb of motion; as, a ship is bound to Cadiz, or for Cadiz.,
B as in Boundaries (pl. ) of Boundary,
B as in Boundary (n.) That which indicates or fixes a limit or extent, or marks a bound, as of a territory; a bounding or separating line; a real or imaginary limit.,
B as in Bounden (p. p & a.) Bound; fastened by bonds.,
B as in Bounden (p. p & a.) Under obligation; bound by some favor rendered; obliged; beholden.,
B as in Bounden (p. p & a.) Made obligatory; imposed as a duty; binding.,
B as in Bounder (n.) One who, or that which, limits; a boundary.,
B as in Bounding (a.) Moving with a bound or bounds.,
B as in Boundless (a.) Without bounds or confines; illimitable; vast; unlimited.,
B as in Bounteous (a.) Liberal in charity; disposed to give freely; generously liberal; munificent; beneficent; free in bestowing gifts; as, bounteous production.,
B as in Bountiful (a.) Free in giving; liberal in bestowing gifts and favors.,
B as in Bountiful (a.) Plentiful; abundant; as, a bountiful supply of food.,
B as in Bountihead (n.) Alt. of Bountyhood,
B as in Bountyhood (n.) Goodness; generosity.,
B as in Bounties (pl. ) of Bounty,
B as in Bounty (n.) Goodness, kindness; virtue; worth.,
B as in Bounty (n.) Liberality in bestowing gifts or favors; gracious or liberal giving; generosity; munificence.,
B as in Bounty (n.) That which is given generously or liberally.,
B as in Bounty (n.) A premium offered or given to induce men to enlist into the public service; or to encourage any branch of industry, as husbandry or manufactures.,
B as in Bouquet (n.) A nosegay; a bunch of flowers.,
B as in Bouquet (n.) A perfume; an aroma; as, the bouquet of wine.,
B as in Bouquetin (n.) The ibex.,
B as in Bour (n.) A chamber or a cottage.,
B as in Bourbon (n.) A member of a family which has occupied several European thrones, and whose descendants still claim the throne of France.,
B as in Bourbon (n.) A politician who is behind the age; a ruler or politician who neither forgets nor learns anything; an obstinate conservative.,
B as in Bourbonism (n.) The principles of those adhering to the house of Bourbon; obstinate conservatism.,
B as in Bourbonist (n.) One who adheres to the house of Bourbon; a legitimist.,
B as in Bourbon whisky () See under Whisky.,
B as in Bourd (n.) A jest.,
B as in Bourd (v. i.) To jest.,
B as in Bourder (n.) A jester.,
B as in Bourdon (n.) A pilgrim's staff.,
B as in Bourdon (n.) A drone bass, as in a bagpipe, or a hurdy-gurdy. See Burden (of a song.),
B as in Bourdon (n.) A kind of organ stop.,
B as in Bourgeois (n.) A size of type between long primer and brevier. See Type.,
B as in Bourgeois (n.) A man of middle rank in society; one of the shopkeeping class.,
B as in Bourgeois (a.) Characteristic of the middle class, as in France.,
B as in Bourgeoisie (n.) The French middle class, particularly such as are concerned in, or dependent on, trade.,
B as in Bourgeon (v. i.) To sprout; to put forth buds; to shoot forth, as a branch.,
B as in Bouri (n.) A mullet (Mugil capito) found in the rivers of Southern Europe and in Africa.,
B as in Bourn (v.) Alt. of Bourne,
B as in Bourne (v.) A stream or rivulet; a burn.,
B as in Bourn (n.) Alt. of Bourne,
B as in Bourne (n.) A bound; a boundary; a limit. Hence: Point aimed at; goal.,
B as in Bournless (a.) Without a bourn or limit.,
B as in Bournonite (n.) A mineral of a steel-gray to black color and metallic luster, occurring crystallized, often in twin crystals shaped like cogwheels (wheel ore), also massive. It is a sulphide of antimony, lead, and copper.,
B as in Bournous (n.) See Burnoose.,
B as in Bourree (n.) An old French dance tune in common time.,
B as in Bourse (n.) An exchange, or place where merchants, bankers, etc., meet for business at certain hours; esp., the Stock Exchange of Paris.,
B as in Bouse (v. i.) To drink immoderately; to carouse; to booze. See Booze.,
B as in Bouse (n.) Drink, esp. alcoholic drink; also, a carouse; a booze.,
B as in Bouser (n.) A toper; a boozer.,
B as in Boustrophedon (n.) An ancient mode of writing, in alternate directions, one line from left to right, and the next from right to left (as fields are plowed), as in early Greek and Hittite.,
B as in Boustrophedonic (a.) Relating to the boustrophedon made of writing.,
B as in Boustorphic (a.) Boustrophedonic.,
B as in Bousy (a.) Drunken; sotted; boozy.,
B as in Bout (n.) As much of an action as is performed at one time; a going and returning, as of workmen in reaping, mowing, etc.; a turn; a round.,
B as in Bout (n.) A conflict; contest; attempt; trial; a set-to at anything; as, a fencing bout; a drinking bout.,
B as in Boutade (n.) An outbreak; a caprice; a whim.,
B as in Boutefeu (n.) An incendiary; an inciter of quarrels.,
B as in Boutonniere (n.) A bouquet worn in a buttonhole.,
B as in Bouts-rimes (n. pl.) Words that rhyme, proposed as the ends of verses, to be filled out by the ingenuity of the person to whom they are offered.,
B as in Bovate (n.) An oxgang, or as much land as an ox can plow in a year; an ancient measure of land, of indefinite quantity, but usually estimated at fifteen acres.,
B as in Bovey coal () A kind of mineral coal, or brown lignite, burning with a weak flame, and generally a disagreeable odor; -- found at Bovey Tracey, Devonshire, England. It is of geological age of the oolite, and not of the true coal era.,
B as in Bovid (a.) Relating to that tribe of ruminant mammals of which the genus Bos is the type.,
B as in Boviform (a.) Resembling an ox in form; ox-shaped.,
B as in Bovine (a.) Of or pertaining to the genus Bos; relating to, or resembling, the ox or cow; oxlike; as, the bovine genus; a bovine antelope.,
B as in Bovine (a.) Having qualities characteristic of oxen or cows; sluggish and patient; dull; as, a bovine temperament.,
B as in Bowed (imp. & p. p.) of Bow,
B as in Bowing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bow,
B as in Bow (v. t.) To cause to deviate from straightness; to bend; to inflect; to make crooked or curved.,
B as in Bow (v. t.) To exercise powerful or controlling influence over; to bend, figuratively; to turn; to incline.,
B as in Bow (v. t.) To bend or incline, as the head or body, in token of respect, gratitude, assent, homage, or condescension.,
B as in Bow (v. t.) To cause to bend down; to prostrate; to depress,;/ to crush; to subdue.,
B as in Bow (v. t.) To express by bowing; as, to bow one's thanks.,
B as in Bow (v. i.) To bend; to curve.,
B as in Bow (v. i.) To stop.,
B as in Bow (v. i.) To bend the head, knee, or body, in token of reverence or submission; -- often with down.,
B as in Bow (v. i.) To incline the head in token of salutation, civility, or assent; to make bow.,
B as in Bow (n.) An inclination of the head, or a bending of the body, in token of reverence, respect, civility, or submission; an obeisance; as, a bow of deep humility.,
B as in Bow (v. t.) Anything bent, or in the form of a curve, as the rainbow.,
B as in Bow (v. t.) A weapon made of a strip of wood, or other elastic material, with a cord connecting the two ends, by means of which an arrow is propelled.,
B as in Bow (v. t.) An ornamental knot, with projecting loops, formed by doubling a ribbon or string.,
B as in Bow (v. t.) The U-shaped piece which embraces the neck of an ox and fastens it to the yoke.,
B as in Bow (v. t.) An appliance consisting of an elastic rod, with a number of horse hairs stretched from end to end of it, used in playing on a stringed instrument.,
B as in Bow (v. t.) An arcograph.,
B as in Bow (v. t.) Any instrument consisting of an elastic rod, with ends connected by a string, employed for giving reciprocating motion to a drill, or for preparing and arranging the hair, fur, etc., used by hatters.,
B as in Bow (v. t.) A rude sort of quadrant formerly used for taking the sun's altitude at sea.,
B as in Bow (sing. or pl.) Two pieces of wood which form the arched forward part of a saddletree.,
B as in Bowed (imp. & p. p.) of Bow,
B as in Bowing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bow,
B as in Bow (v. i.) To play (music) with a bow.,
B as in Bow (v. i. ) To manage the bow.,
B as in Bow (n.) The bending or rounded part of a ship forward; the stream or prow.,
B as in Bow (n.) One who rows in the forward part of a boat; the bow oar.,
B as in Bowable (a.) Capable of being bowed or bent; flexible; easily influenced; yielding.,
B as in Bowbell (n.) One born within hearing distance of Bow-bells; a cockney.,
B as in Bow-bells (n. pl.) The bells of Bow Church in London; cockneydom.,
B as in Bowbent (a.) Bent, like a bow.,
B as in Bow-compasses (pl. ) of Bow-compass,
B as in Bow-compass (n.) An arcograph.,
B as in Bow-compass (n.) A small pair of compasses, one leg of which carries a pencil, or a pen, for drawing circles. Its legs are often connected by a bow-shaped spring, instead of by a joint.,
B as in Bow-compass (n.) A pair of compasses, with a bow or arched plate riveted to one of the legs, and passing through the other.,
B as in Bowel (n.) One of the intestines of an animal; an entrail, especially of man; a gut; -- generally used in the plural.,
B as in Bowel (n.) Hence, figuratively: The interior part of anything; as, the bowels of the earth.,
B as in Bowel (n.) The seat of pity or kindness. Hence: Tenderness; compassion.,
B as in Bowel (n.) Offspring.,
B as in Boweled (imp. & p. p.) of Bowel,
B as in Bowelled () of Bowel,
B as in Boweling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bowel,
B as in Bowelling () of Bowel,
B as in Bowel (v. t.) To take out the bowels of; to eviscerate; to disembowel.,
B as in Boweled (a.) Having bowels; hollow.,
B as in Bowelless (a.) Without pity.,
B as in Bowenite (n.) A hard, compact variety of serpentine found in Rhode Island. It is of a light green color and resembles jade.,
B as in Bower (v. & n.) One who bows or bends.,
B as in Bower (v. & n.) An anchor carried at the bow of a ship.,
B as in Bower (v. & n.) A muscle that bends a limb, esp. the arm.,
B as in Bower (n.) One of the two highest cards in the pack commonly used in the game of euchre.,
B as in Bower (n.) Anciently, a chamber; a lodging room; esp., a lady's private apartment.,
B as in Bower (n.) A rustic cottage or abode; poetically, an attractive abode or retreat.,
B as in Bower (n.) A shelter or covered place in a garden, made with boughs of trees or vines, etc., twined together; an arbor; a shady recess.,
B as in Bower (v. t.) To embower; to inclose.,
B as in Bower (v. i.) To lodge.,
B as in Bower (n.) A young hawk, when it begins to leave the nest.,
B as in Bower bird () An Australian bird (Ptilonorhynchus violaceus / holosericeus), allied to the starling, which constructs singular bowers or playhouses of twigs and decorates them with bright-colored objects; the satin bird.,
B as in Bowery (a.) Shading, like a bower; full of bowers.,
B as in Boweries (pl. ) of Bowery,
B as in Bowery (n.) A farm or plantation with its buildings.,
B as in Bowery (a.) Characteristic of the street called the Bowery, in New York city; swaggering; flashy.,
B as in Bowess (n.) Same as Bower.,
B as in Bowfin (n.) A voracious ganoid fish (Amia calva) found in the fresh waters of the United States; the mudfish; -- called also Johnny Grindle, and dogfish.,
B as in Bowge (v. i.) To swell out. See Bouge.,
B as in Bowge (v. t.) To cause to leak.,
B as in Bowgrace (n.) A frame or fender of rope or junk, laid out at the sides or bows of a vessel to secure it from injury by floating ice.,
B as in Bow hand () The hand that holds the bow, i. e., the left hand.,
B as in Bow hand () The hand that draws the bow, i. e., the right hand.,
B as in Bowhead (n.) The great Arctic or Greenland whale. (Balaena mysticetus). See Baleen, and Whale.,
B as in Bowie knife () A knife with a strong blade from ten to fifteen inches long, and double-edged near the point; -- used as a hunting knife, and formerly as a weapon in the southwestern part of the United States. It was named from its inventor, Colonel James Bowie. Also, by extension, any large sheath knife.,
B as in Bowing (n.) The act or art of managing the bow in playing on stringed instruments.,
B as in Bowing (n.) In hatmaking, the act or process of separating and distributing the fur or hair by means of a bow, to prepare it for felting.,
B as in Bowingly (adv.) In a bending manner.,
B as in Bowknot (n.) A knot in which a portion of the string is drawn through in the form of a loop or bow, so as to be readily untied.,
B as in Bowl (n.) A concave vessel of various forms (often approximately hemispherical), to hold liquids, etc.,
B as in Bowl (n.) Specifically, a drinking vessel for wine or other spirituous liquors; hence, convivial drinking.,
B as in Bowl (n.) The contents of a full bowl; what a bowl will hold.,
B as in Bowl (n.) The hollow part of a thing; as, the bowl of a spoon.,
B as in Bowl (n.) A ball of wood or other material used for rolling on a level surface in play; a ball of hard wood having one side heavier than the other, so as to give it a bias when rolled.,
B as in Bowl (n.) An ancient game, popular in Great Britain, played with biased balls on a level plat of greensward.,
B as in Bowl (n.) The game of tenpins or bowling.,
B as in Bowled (imp. & p. p.) of Bowl,
B as in Bowling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bowl,
B as in Bowl (v. t.) To roll, as a bowl or cricket ball.,
B as in Bowl (v. t.) To roll or carry smoothly on, or as on, wheels; as, we were bowled rapidly along the road.,
B as in Bowl (v. t.) To pelt or strike with anything rolled.,
B as in Bowl (v. i.) To play with bowls.,
B as in Bowl (v. i.) To roll a ball on a plane, as at cricket, bowls, etc.,
B as in Bowl (v. i.) To move rapidly, smoothly, and like a ball; as, the carriage bowled along.,
B as in Bowlder (n.) Alt. of Boulder,
B as in Boulder (n.) A large stone, worn smooth or rounded by the action of water; a large pebble.,
B as in Boulder (n.) A mass of any rock, whether rounded or not, that has been transported by natural agencies from its native bed. See Drift.,
B as in Bowldery (a.) Characterized by bowlders.,
B as in Bowleg (n.) A crooked leg.,
B as in Bowl-legged (a.) Having crooked legs, esp. with the knees bent outward.,
B as in Bowler (n.) One who plays at bowls, or who rolls the ball in cricket or any other game.,
B as in Bowless (a.) Destitute of a bow.,
B as in Bowline (n.) A rope fastened near the middle of the leech or perpendicular edge of the square sails, by subordinate ropes, called bridles, and used to keep the weather edge of the sail tight forward, when the ship is closehauled.,
B as in Bowling (n.) The act of playing at or rolling bowls, or of rolling the ball at cricket; the game of bowls or of tenpins.,
B as in Bowls (n. pl.) See Bowl, a ball, a game.,
B as in Bowmen (pl. ) of Bowman,
B as in Bowman (n.) A man who uses a bow; an archer.,
B as in Bowman (n.) The man who rows the foremost oar in a boat; the bow oar.,
B as in Bowne (v. t.) To make ready; to prepare; to dress.,
B as in Bow net () A trap for lobsters, being a wickerwork cylinder with a funnel-shaped entrance at one end.,
B as in Bow net () A net for catching birds.,
B as in Bow oar () The oar used by the bowman.,
B as in Bow oar () One who rows at the bow of a boat.,
B as in Bow-pen (n.) Bow-compasses carrying a drawing pen. See Bow-compass.,
B as in Bow-pencil (n.) Bow-compasses, one leg of which carries a pencil.,
B as in Bow-saw (n.) A saw with a thin or narrow blade set in a strong frame.,
B as in Bowse (v. i.) To carouse; to bouse; to booze.,
B as in Bowse (v. i.) To pull or haul; as, to bowse upon a tack; to bowse away, i. e., to pull all together.,
B as in Bowse (n.) A carouse; a drinking bout; a booze.,
B as in Bowshot (n.) The distance traversed by an arrow shot from a bow.,
B as in Bowsprit (n.) A large boom or spar, which projects over the stem of a ship or other vessel, to carry sail forward.,
B as in Bowssen (v. t.) To drench; to soak; especially, to immerse (in water believed to have curative properties).,
B as in Bowstring (n.) The string of a bow.,
B as in Bowstring (n.) A string used by the Turks for strangling offenders.,
B as in Bowstringed (imp. & p. p.) of Bowstring,
B as in Bowstrung () of Bowstring,
B as in Bowstringing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bowstring,
B as in Bowstring (v. t.) To strangle with a bowstring.,
B as in Bowstringed (p.a.) Furnished with bowstring.,
B as in Bowstringed (p.a.) Put to death with a bowstring; strangled.,
B as in Bowtel (n.) See Boultel.,
B as in Bowwow (n.) An onomatopoetic name for a dog or its bark.,
B as in Bowwow (a.) Onomatopoetic; as, the bowwow theory of language; a bowwow word.,
B as in Bowyer (n.) An archer; one who uses bow.,
B as in Bowyer (n.) One who makes or sells bows.,
B as in Box (n.) A tree or shrub, flourishing in different parts of the world. The common box (Buxus sempervirens) has two varieties, one of which, the dwarf box (B. suffruticosa), is much used for borders in gardens. The wood of the tree varieties, being very hard and smooth, is extensively used in the arts, as by turners, engravers, mathematical instrument makers, etc.,
B as in Boxes (pl. ) of Box,
B as in Box (n.) A receptacle or case of any firm material and of various shapes.,
B as in Box (n.) The quantity that a box contain.,
B as in Box (n.) A space with a few seats partitioned off in a theater, or other place of public amusement.,
B as in Box (n.) A chest or any receptacle for the deposit of money; as, a poor box; a contribution box.,
B as in Box (n.) A small country house.,
B as in Box (n.) A boxlike shed for shelter; as, a sentry box.,
B as in Box (n.) An axle box, journal box, journal bearing, or bushing.,
B as in Box (n.) A chamber or section of tube in which a valve works; the bucket of a lifting pump.,
B as in Box (n.) The driver's seat on a carriage or coach.,
B as in Box (n.) A present in a box; a present; esp. a Christmas box or gift.,
B as in Box (n.) The square in which the pitcher stands.,
B as in Box (n.) A Mediterranean food fish; the bogue.,
B as in Boxed (imp. & p. p.) of Box,
B as in Boxing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Box,
B as in Box (v. t.) To inclose in a box.,
B as in Box (v. t.) To furnish with boxes, as a wheel.,
B as in Box (v. t.) To inclose with boarding, lathing, etc., so as to bring to a required form.,
B as in Box (n.) A blow on the head or ear with the hand.,
B as in Box (v. i.) To fight with the fist; to combat with, or as with, the hand or fist; to spar.,
B as in Box (v. t.) To strike with the hand or fist, especially to strike on the ear, or on the side of the head.,
B as in Box (v. t.) To boxhaul.,
B as in Boxberry (n.) The wintergreen. (Gaultheria procumbens).,
B as in Boxen (a.) Made of boxwood; pertaining to, or resembling, the box (Buxus).,
B as in Boxer (n.) One who packs boxes.,
B as in Boxer (n.) One who boxes; a pugilist.,
B as in Boxfish (n.) The trunkfish.,
B as in Boxhauled (imp. & p. p.) of Boxhaul,
B as in Boxhaul (v. t.) To put (a vessel) on the other tack by veering her short round on her heel; -- so called from the circumstance of bracing the head yards abox (i. e., sharp aback, on the wind).,
B as in Boxhauling (n.) A method of going from one tack to another. See Boxhaul.,
B as in Boxing (n.) The act of inclosing (anything) in a box, as for storage or transportation.,
B as in Boxing (n.) Material used in making boxes or casings.,
B as in Boxing (n.) Any boxlike inclosure or recess; a casing.,
B as in Boxing (n.) The external case of thin material used to bring any member to a required form.,
B as in Boxing (n.) The act of fighting with the fist; a combat with the fist; sparring.,
B as in Box-iron (n.) A hollow smoothing iron containing a heater within.,
B as in Boxkeeper (n.) An attendant at a theater who has charge of the boxes.,
B as in Boxthorn (n.) A plant of the genus Lycium, esp. Lycium barbarum.,
B as in Boxwood (n.) The wood of the box (Buxus).,
B as in Boy (n.) A male child, from birth to the age of puberty; a lad; hence, a son.,
B as in Boy (v. t.) To act as a boy; -- in allusion to the former practice of boys acting women's parts on the stage.,
B as in Boyar (n.) Alt. of Boyard,
B as in Boyard (n.) A member of a Russian aristocratic order abolished by Peter the Great. Also, one of a privileged class in Roumania.,
B as in Boyaux (pl. ) of Boyau,
B as in Boyaus (pl. ) of Boyau,
B as in Boyau (n.) A winding or zigzag trench forming a path or communication from one siegework to another, to a magazine, etc.,
B as in Boycotted (imp. & p. p.) of Boycott,
B as in Boycotting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Boycott,
B as in Boycott (v. t.) To combine against (a landlord, tradesman, employer, or other person), to withhold social or business relations from him, and to deter others from holding such relations; to subject to a boycott.,
B as in Boycott (n.) The process, fact, or pressure of boycotting; a combining to withhold or prevent dealing or social intercourse with a tradesman, employer, etc.; social and business interdiction for the purpose of coercion.,
B as in Boycotter (n.) A participant in boycotting.,
B as in Boycottism (n.) Methods of boycotters.,
B as in Boydekin (n.) A dagger; a bodkin.,
B as in Boyer (n.) A Flemish sloop with a castle at each end.,
B as in Boyhood (n.) The state of being a boy; the time during which one is a boy.,
B as in Boyish (a.) Resembling a boy in a manners or opinions; belonging to a boy; childish; trifling; puerile.,
B as in Boyishly (adv.) In a boyish manner; like a boy.,
B as in Boyishness (n.) The manners or behavior of a boy.,
B as in Boyism (n.) Boyhood.,
B as in Boyism (n.) The nature of a boy; childishness.,
B as in Boyle's law () See under Law.,
B as in Boza (n.) An acidulated fermented drink of the Arabs and Egyptians, made from millet seed and various astringent substances; also, an intoxicating beverage made from hemp seed, darnel meal, and water.,
B as in Brabantine (a.) Pertaining to Brabant, an ancient province of the Netherlands.,
B as in Brabble (v. i.) To clamor; to contest noisily.,
B as in Brabble (n.) A broil; a noisy contest; a wrangle.,
B as in Brabblement (n.) A brabble.,
B as in Brabbler (n.) A clamorous, quarrelsome, noisy fellow; a wrangler.,
B as in Braccate (a.) Furnished with feathers which conceal the feet.,
B as in Brace (n.) That which holds anything tightly or supports it firmly; a bandage or a prop.,
B as in Brace (n.) A cord, ligament, or rod, for producing or maintaining tension, as a cord on the side of a drum.,
B as in Brace (n.) The state of being braced or tight; tension.,
B as in Brace (n.) A piece of material used to transmit, or change the direction of, weight or pressure; any one of the pieces, in a frame or truss, which divide the structure into triangular parts. It may act as a tie, or as a strut, and serves to prevent distortion of the structure, and transverse strains in its members. A boiler brace is a diagonal stay, connecting the head with the shell.,
B as in Brace (n.) A vertical curved line connecting two or more words or lines, which are to be taken together; thus, boll, bowl; or, in music, used to connect staves.,
B as in Brace (n.) A rope reeved through a block at the end of a yard, by which the yard is moved horizontally; also, a rudder gudgeon.,
B as in Brace (n.) A curved instrument or handle of iron or wood, for holding and turning bits, etc.; a bitstock.,
B as in Brace (n.) A pair; a couple; as, a brace of ducks; now rarely applied to persons, except familiarly or with some contempt.,
B as in Brace (n.) Straps or bands to sustain trousers; suspenders.,
B as in Brace (n.) Harness; warlike preparation.,
B as in Brace (n.) Armor for the arm; vantbrace.,
B as in Brace (n.) The mouth of a shaft.,
B as in Braced (imp. & p. p.) of Brace,
B as in Bracing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Brace,
B as in Brace (v. t.) To furnish with braces; to support; to prop; as, to brace a beam in a building.,
B as in Brace (v. t.) To draw tight; to tighten; to put in a state of tension; to strain; to strengthen; as, to brace the nerves.,
B as in Brace (v. t.) To bind or tie closely; to fasten tightly.,
B as in Brace (v. t.) To place in a position for resisting pressure; to hold firmly; as, he braced himself against the crowd.,
B as in Brace (v. t.) To move around by means of braces; as, to brace the yards.,
B as in Brace (v. i.) To get tone or vigor; to rouse one's energies; -- with up.,
B as in Bracelet (n.) An ornamental band or ring, for the wrist or the arm; in modern times, an ornament encircling the wrist, worn by women or girls.,
B as in Bracelet (n.) A piece of defensive armor for the arm.,
B as in Bracer (n.) That which braces, binds, or makes firm; a band or bandage.,
B as in Bracer (n.) A covering to protect the arm of the bowman from the vibration of the string; also, a brassart.,
B as in Bracer (n.) A medicine, as an astringent or a tonic, which gives tension or tone to any part of the body.,
B as in Brach (n.) A bitch of the hound kind.,
B as in Brachelytra (n. pl.) A group of beetles having short elytra, as the rove beetles.,
B as in Brachia (n. pl.) See Brachium.,
B as in Brachial (a.) Pertaining or belonging to the arm; as, the brachial artery; the brachial nerve.,
B as in Brachial (a.) Of the nature of an arm; resembling an arm.,
B as in Brachiata (n. pl.) A division of the Crinoidea, including those furnished with long jointed arms. See Crinoidea.,
B as in Brachiate (a.) Having branches in pairs, decussated, all nearly horizontal, and each pair at right angles with the next, as in the maple and lilac.,
B as in Brachioganoid (n.) One of the Brachioganoidei.,
B as in Brachioganoidei (n. pl.) An order of ganoid fishes of which the bichir of Africa is a living example. See Crossopterygii.,
B as in Brachiolaria (n. pl.) A peculiar early larval stage of certain starfishes, having a bilateral structure, and swimming by means of bands of vibrating cilia.,
B as in Brachiopod (n.) One of the Brachiopoda, or its shell.,
B as in Brachiopoda (n.) A class of Molluscoidea having a symmetrical bivalve shell, often attached by a fleshy peduncle.,
B as in Bracchia (pl. ) of Brachium,
B as in Brachium (n.) The upper arm; the segment of the fore limb between the shoulder and the elbow.,
B as in Brachman (n.) See Brahman.,
B as in Brachycatalectic (n.) A verse wanting two syllables at its termination.,
B as in Brachycephalic (a.) Alt. of Brachycephalous,
B as in Brachycephalous (a.) Having the skull short in proportion to its breadth; shortheaded; -- in distinction from dolichocephalic.,
B as in Brachycephaly (n.) Alt. of Brachycephalism,
B as in Brachycephalism (n.) The state or condition of being brachycephalic; shortness of head.,
B as in Brachyceral (a.) Having short antennae, as certain insects.,
B as in Brachydiagonal (a.) Pertaining to the shorter diagonal, as of a rhombic prism.,
B as in Brachydiagonal (n.) The shorter of the diagonals in a rhombic prism.,
B as in Brachydome (n.) A dome parallel to the shorter lateral axis. See Dome.,
B as in Brachygrapher (n.) A writer in short hand; a stenographer.,
B as in Brachygraphy (n.) Stenography.,
B as in Brachylogy (n.) Conciseness of expression; brevity.,
B as in Brachypinacoid (n.) A plane of an orthorhombic crystal which is parallel both to the vertical axis and to the shorter lateral (brachydiagonal) axis.,
B as in Brachyptera (n. pl.) A group of Coleoptera having short wings; the rove beetles.,
B as in Brachypteres (n.pl.) A group of birds, including auks, divers, and penguins.,
B as in Brachypterous (a.) Having short wings.,
B as in Brachystochrone (n.) A curve, in which a body, starting from a given point, and descending solely by the force of gravity, will reach another given point in a shorter time than it could by any other path. This curve of quickest descent, as it is sometimes called, is, in a vacuum, the same as the cycloid.,
B as in Brachytypous (a.) Of a short form.,
B as in Brachyura (n. pl.) A group of decapod Crustacea, including the common crabs, characterized by a small and short abdomen, which is bent up beneath the large cephalo-thorax. [Also spelt Brachyoura.] See Crab, and Illustration in Appendix.,
B as in Brachyural (a.) Alt. of Brachyurous,
B as in Brachyurous (a.) Of or pertaining to the Brachyura.,
B as in Brachyuran (n.) One of the Brachyura.,
B as in Bracing (a.) Imparting strength or tone; strengthening; invigorating; as, a bracing north wind.,
B as in Bracing (n.) The act of strengthening, supporting, or propping, with a brace or braces; the state of being braced.,
B as in Bracing (n.) Any system of braces; braces, collectively; as, the bracing of a truss.,
B as in Brack (n.) An opening caused by the parting of any solid body; a crack or breach; a flaw.,
B as in Brack (n.) Salt or brackish water.,
B as in Bracken (n.) A brake or fern.,
B as in Bracket (n.) An architectural member, plain or ornamental, projecting from a wall or pier, to support weight falling outside of the same; also, a decorative feature seeming to discharge such an office.,
B as in Bracket (n.) A piece or combination of pieces, usually triangular in general shape, projecting from, or fastened to, a wall, or other surface, to support heavy bodies or to strengthen angles.,
B as in Bracket (n.) A shot, crooked timber, resembling a knee, used as a support.,
B as in Bracket (n.) The cheek or side of an ordnance carriage.,
B as in Bracket (n.) One of two characters [], used to inclose a reference, explanation, or note, or a part to be excluded from a sentence, to indicate an interpolation, to rectify a mistake, or to supply an omission, and for certain other purposes; -- called also crotchet.,
B as in Bracket (n.) A gas fixture or lamp holder projecting from the face of a wall, column, or the like.,
B as in Bracketed (imp. & p. p.) of Bracket,
B as in Bracketing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bracket,
B as in Bracket (v. t.) To place within brackets; to connect by brackets; to furnish with brackets.,
B as in Bracketing (n.) A series or group of brackets; brackets, collectively.,
B as in Brackish (a.) Saltish, or salt in a moderate degree, as water in saline soil.,
B as in Brackishness (n.) The quality or state of being brackish, or somewhat salt.,
B as in Bracky (a.) Brackish.,
B as in Bract (n.) A leaf, usually smaller than the true leaves of a plant, from the axil of which a flower stalk arises.,
B as in Bract (n.) Any modified leaf, or scale, on a flower stalk or at the base of a flower.,
B as in Bractea (n.) A bract.,
B as in Bracteal (a.) Having the nature or appearance of a bract.,
B as in Bracteate (a.) Having a bract or bracts.,
B as in Bracted (a.) Furnished with bracts.,
B as in Bracteolate (a.) Furnished with bracteoles or bractlets.,
B as in Bracteole (n.) Same as Bractlet.,
B as in Bractless (a.) Destitute of bracts.,
B as in Bractlet (n.) A bract on the stalk of a single flower, which is itself on a main stalk that support several flowers.,
B as in Brad (n.) A thin nail, usually small, with a slight projection at the top on one side instead of a head; also, a small wire nail, with a flat circular head; sometimes, a small, tapering, square-bodied finishing nail, with a countersunk head.,
B as in Brad awl () A straight awl with chisel edge, used to make holes for brads, etc.,
B as in Bradoon (n.) Same as Bridoon.,
B as in Brae (n.) A hillside; a slope; a bank; a hill.,
B as in Bragged (imp. & p. p.) of Brag,
B as in Bragging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Brag,
B as in Brag (v. i.) To talk about one's self, or things pertaining to one's self, in a manner intended to excite admiration, envy, or wonder; to talk boastfully; to boast; -- often followed by of; as, to brag of one's exploits, courage, or money, or of the great things one intends to do.,
B as in Brag (v. t.) To boast of.,
B as in Brag (n.) A boast or boasting; bragging; ostentatious pretense or self glorification.,
B as in Brag (n.) The thing which is boasted of.,
B as in Brag (n.) A game at cards similar to bluff.,
B as in Brag (v. i.) Brisk; full of spirits; boasting; pretentious; conceited.,
B as in Brag (adv.) Proudly; boastfully.,
B as in Braggadocio (n.) A braggart; a boaster; a swaggerer.,
B as in Braggadocio (n.) Empty boasting; mere brag; pretension.,
B as in Braggardism (n.) Boastfulness; act of bragging.,
B as in Braggart (v. i.) A boaster.,
B as in Braggart (a.) Boastful.,
B as in Bragger (n.) One who brags; a boaster.,
B as in Bragget (n.) A liquor made of ale and honey fermented, with spices, etc.,
B as in Braggingly (adv.) Boastingly.,
B as in Bragless (a.) Without bragging.,
B as in Bragly (adv.) In a manner to be bragged of; finely; proudly.,
B as in Brahma (n.) The One First Cause; also, one of the triad of Hindoo gods. The triad consists of Brahma, the Creator, Vishnu, the Preserver, and Siva, the Destroyer.,
B as in Brahma (n.) A valuable variety of large, domestic fowl, peculiar in having the comb divided lengthwise into three parts, and the legs well feathered. There are two breeds, the dark or penciled, and the light; -- called also Brahmapootra.,
B as in Brahmans (pl. ) of Brahmin,
B as in Brahmins (pl. ) of Brahmin,
B as in Brahman (n.) Alt. of Brahmin,
B as in Brahmin (n.) A person of the highest or sacerdotal caste among the Hindoos.,
B as in Brahmaness (n.) A Brahmani.,
B as in Brahmani (n.) Any Brahman woman.,
B as in Brahmanic (a.) Alt. of ical,
B as in -ical (a.) Alt. of ical,
B as in Brahminic (a.) Alt. of ical,
B as in ical (a.) Of or pertaining to the Brahmans or to their doctrines and worship.,
B as in Brahmanism (n.) Alt. of Brahminism,
B as in Brahminism (n.) The religion or system of doctrines of the Brahmans; the religion of Brahma.,
B as in Brahmanist (n.) Alt. of Brahminist,
B as in Brahminist (n.) An adherent of the religion of the Brahmans.,
B as in Brahmoism (n.) The religious system of Brahmo-somaj.,
B as in Brahmo-somaj (n.) A modern reforming theistic sect among the Hindoos.,
B as in Braided (imp. &. p. p.) of Braid,
B as in Braiding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Braid,
B as in Braid (v. t.) To weave, interlace, or entwine together, as three or more strands or threads; to form into a braid; to plait.,
B as in Braid (v. t.) To mingle, or to bring to a uniformly soft consistence, by beating, rubbing, or straining, as in some culinary operations.,
B as in Braid (v. t.) To reproach. [Obs.] See Upbraid.,
B as in Braid (n.) A plait, band, or narrow fabric formed by intertwining or weaving together different strands.,
B as in Braid (n.) A narrow fabric, as of wool, silk, or linen, used for binding, trimming, or ornamenting dresses, etc.,
B as in Braid (n.) A quick motion; a start.,
B as in Braid (n.) A fancy; freak; caprice.,
B as in Braid (v. i.) To start; to awake.,
B as in Braid (v. t.) Deceitful.,
B as in Braiding (n.) The act of making or using braids.,
B as in Braiding (n.) Braids, collectively; trimming.,
B as in Brail (n.) A thong of soft leather to bind up a hawk's wing.,
B as in Brail (n.) Ropes passing through pulleys, and used to haul in or up the leeches, bottoms, or corners of sails, preparatory to furling.,
B as in Brail (n.) A stock at each end of a seine to keep it stretched.,
B as in Brail (v. t.) To haul up by the brails; -- used with up; as, to brail up a sail.,
B as in Brain (n.) The whitish mass of soft matter (the center of the nervous system, and the seat of consciousness and volition) which is inclosed in the cartilaginous or bony cranium of vertebrate animals. It is simply the anterior termination of the spinal cord, and is developed from three embryonic vesicles, whose cavities are connected with the central canal of the cord; the cavities of the vesicles become the central cavities, or ventricles, and the walls thicken unequally and become the three segments, the fore-, mid-, and hind-brain.,
B as in Brain (n.) The anterior or cephalic ganglion in insects and other invertebrates.,
B as in Brain (n.) The organ or seat of intellect; hence, the understanding.,
B as in Brain (n.) The affections; fancy; imagination.,
B as in Brained (imp. & p. p.) of Brain,
B as in Braining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Brain,
B as in Brain (v. t.) To dash out the brains of; to kill by beating out the brains. Hence, Fig.: To destroy; to put an end to; to defeat.,
B as in Brain (v. t.) To conceive; to understand.,
B as in Brained (p.a.) Supplied with brains.,
B as in Brainish (a.) Hot-headed; furious.,
B as in Brainless (a.) Without understanding; silly; thoughtless; witless.,
B as in Brainpan (n.) The bones which inclose the brain; the skull; the cranium.,
B as in Brainsick (a.) Disordered in the understanding; giddy; thoughtless.,
B as in Brainsickly (adv.) In a brainsick manner.,
B as in Brainy (a.) Having an active or vigorous mind.,
B as in Braise (n.) Alt. of Braize,
B as in Braize (n.) A European marine fish (Pagrus vulgaris) allied to the American scup; the becker. The name is sometimes applied to the related species.,
B as in Braise (n.) Alt. of Braize,
B as in Braize (n.) Charcoal powder; breeze.,
B as in Braize (n.) Braised meat.,
B as in Braise (v. t.) To stew or broil in a covered kettle or pan.,
B as in Braiser (n.) A kettle or pan for braising.,
B as in Brait (n.) A rough diamond.,
B as in Braize (n.) See Braise.,
B as in Brake () imp. of Break.,
B as in Brake (n.) A fern of the genus Pteris, esp. the P. aquilina, common in almost all countries. It has solitary stems dividing into three principal branches. Less properly: Any fern.,
B as in Brake (n.) A thicket; a place overgrown with shrubs and brambles, with undergrowth and ferns, or with canes.,
B as in Brake (v. t.) An instrument or machine to break or bruise the woody part of flax or hemp so that it may be separated from the fiber.,
B as in Brake (v. t.) An extended handle by means of which a number of men can unite in working a pump, as in a fire engine.,
B as in Brake (v. t.) A baker's kneading though.,
B as in Brake (v. t.) A sharp bit or snaffle.,
B as in Brake (v. t.) A frame for confining a refractory horse while the smith is shoeing him; also, an inclosure to restrain cattle, horses, etc.,
B as in Brake (v. t.) That part of a carriage, as of a movable battery, or engine, which enables it to turn.,
B as in Brake (v. t.) An ancient engine of war analogous to the crossbow and ballista.,
B as in Brake (v. t.) A large, heavy harrow for breaking clods after plowing; a drag.,
B as in Brake (v. t.) A piece of mechanism for retarding or stopping motion by friction, as of a carriage or railway car, by the pressure of rubbers against the wheels, or of clogs or ratchets against the track or roadway, or of a pivoted lever against a wheel or drum in a machine.,
B as in Brake (v. t.) An apparatus for testing the power of a steam engine, or other motor, by weighing the amount of friction that the motor will overcome; a friction brake.,
B as in Brake (v. t.) A cart or carriage without a body, used in breaking in horses.,
B as in Brake (v. t.) An ancient instrument of torture.,
B as in Brakemen (pl. ) of Brakeman,
B as in Brakeman (n.) A man in charge of a brake or brakes.,
B as in Brakeman (n.) The man in charge of the winding (or hoisting) engine for a mine.,
B as in Braky (a.) Full of brakes; abounding with brambles, shrubs, or ferns; rough; thorny.,
B as in Brama (n.) See Brahma.,
B as in Bramah press () A hydrostatic press of immense power, invented by Joseph Bramah of London. See under Hydrostatic.,
B as in Bramble (n.) Any plant of the genus Rubus, including the raspberry and blackberry. Hence: Any rough, prickly shrub.,
B as in Bramble (n.) The brambling or bramble finch.,
B as in Bramble bush () The bramble, or a collection of brambles growing together.,
B as in Brambled (a.) Overgrown with brambles.,
B as in Bramble net () A net to catch birds.,
B as in Brambling (n.) The European mountain finch (Fringilla montifringilla); -- called also bramble finch and bramble.,
B as in Brambly (a.) Pertaining to, resembling, or full of, brambles.,
B as in Brame (n.) Sharp passion; vexation.,
B as in Bramin () Alt. of Braminic,
B as in Braminic () See Brahman, Brachmanic, etc.,
B as in Bran (n.) The broken coat of the seed of wheat, rye, or other cereal grain, separated from the flour or meal by sifting or bolting; the coarse, chaffy part of ground grain.,
B as in Bran (n.) The European carrion crow.,
B as in Brancard (n.) A litter on which a person may be carried.,
B as in Branches (pl. ) of Branch,
B as in Branch (n.) A shoot or secondary stem growing from the main stem, or from a principal limb or bough of a tree or other plant.,
B as in Branch (n.) Any division extending like a branch; any arm or part connected with the main body of thing; ramification; as, the branch of an antler; the branch of a chandelier; a branch of a river; a branch of a railway.,
B as in Branch (n.) Any member or part of a body or system; a distinct article; a section or subdivision; a department.,
B as in Branch (n.) One of the portions of a curve that extends outwards to an indefinitely great distance; as, the branches of an hyperbola.,
B as in Branch (n.) A line of family descent, in distinction from some other line or lines from the same stock; any descendant in such a line; as, the English branch of a family.,
B as in Branch (n.) A warrant or commission given to a pilot, authorizing him to pilot vessels in certain waters.,
B as in Branch (a.) Diverging from, or tributary to, a main stock, line, way, theme, etc.; as, a branch vein; a branch road or line; a branch topic; a branch store.,
B as in Branched (imp. & p. p.) of Branch,
B as in Branching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Branch,
B as in Branch (v. i.) To shoot or spread in branches; to separate into branches; to ramify.,
B as in Branch (v. i.) To divide into separate parts or subdivision.,
B as in Branch (v. t.) To divide as into branches; to make subordinate division in.,
B as in Branch (v. t.) To adorn with needlework representing branches, flowers, or twigs.,
B as in Brancher (n.) That which shoots forth branches; one who shows growth in various directions.,
B as in Brancher (n.) A young hawk when it begins to leave the nest and take to the branches.,
B as in Branchery (n.) A system of branches.,
B as in Branchiae (pl. ) of Branchia,
B as in Branchia (n.) A gill; a respiratory organ for breathing the air contained in water, such as many aquatic and semiaquatic animals have.,
B as in Branchial (a.) Of or pertaining to branchiae or gills.,
B as in Branchiate (a.) Furnished with branchiae; as, branchiate segments.,
B as in Branchiferous (a.) Having gills; branchiate; as, branchiferous gastropods.,
B as in Branchiness (n.) Fullness of branches.,
B as in Branching (a.) Furnished with branches; shooting our branches; extending in a branch or branches.,
B as in Branching (n.) The act or state of separation into branches; division into branches; a division or branch.,
B as in Branchiogastropoda (n. pl.) Those Gastropoda that breathe by branchiae, including the Prosobranchiata and Opisthobranchiata.,
B as in Branchiomerism (n.) The state of being made up of branchiate segments.,
B as in Branchiopod (n.) One of the Branchiopoda.,
B as in Branchiopoda (n. pl.) An order of Entomostraca; -- so named from the feet of branchiopods having been supposed to perform the function of gills. It includes the fresh-water genera Branchipus, Apus, and Limnadia, and the genus Artemia found in salt lakes. It is also called Phyllopoda. See Phyllopoda, Cladocera. It is sometimes used in a broader sense.,
B as in Branchiostegal (a.) Pertaining to the membrane covering the gills of fishes.,
B as in Branchiostegal (n.) A branchiostegal ray. See Illustration of Branchial arches in Appendix.,
B as in Branchiostege () The branchiostegal membrane. See Illustration in Appendix.,
B as in Branchiostegous (a.) Branchiostegal.,
B as in Branchiostoma (n.) The lancelet. See Amphioxus.,
B as in Branchiura (n. pl.) A group of Entomostraca, with suctorial mouths, including species parasitic on fishes, as the carp lice (Argulus).,
B as in Branchless (a.) Destitute of branches or shoots; without any valuable product; barren; naked.,
B as in Branchlet (n.) A little branch; a twig.,
B as in Branch pilot () A pilot who has a branch or commission, as from Trinity House, England, for special navigation.,
B as in Branchy (a.) Full of branches; having wide-spreading branches; consisting of branches.,
B as in Brand (v. t.) A burning piece of wood; or a stick or piece of wood partly burnt, whether burning or after the fire is extinct.,
B as in Brand (v. t.) A sword, so called from its glittering or flashing brightness.,
B as in Brand (v. t.) A mark made by burning with a hot iron, as upon a cask, to designate the quality, manufacturer, etc., of the contents, or upon an animal, to designate ownership; -- also, a mark for a similar purpose made in any other way, as with a stencil. Hence, figurately: Quality; kind; grade; as, a good brand of flour.,
B as in Brand (v. t.) A mark put upon criminals with a hot iron. Hence: Any mark of infamy or vice; a stigma.,
B as in Brand (v. t.) An instrument to brand with; a branding iron.,
B as in Brand (v. t.) Any minute fungus which produces a burnt appearance in plants. The brands are of many species and several genera of the order Pucciniaei.,
B as in Branded (imp. & p. p.) of Brand,
B as in Branding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Brand,
B as in Brand (v. t.) To burn a distinctive mark into or upon with a hot iron, to indicate quality, ownership, etc., or to mark as infamous (as a convict).,
B as in Brand (v. t.) To put an actual distinctive mark upon in any other way, as with a stencil, to show quality of contents, name of manufacture, etc.,
B as in Brand (v. t.) Fig.: To fix a mark of infamy, or a stigma, upon.,
B as in Brand (v. t.) To mark or impress indelibly, as with a hot iron.,
B as in Brander (n.) One who, or that which, brands; a branding iron.,
B as in Brander (n.) A gridiron.,
B as in Brand goose () A species of wild goose (Branta bernicla) usually called in America brant. See Brant.,
B as in Brandied (a.) Mingled with brandy; made stronger by the addition of brandy; flavored or treated with brandy; as, brandied peaches.,
B as in Branding iron () An iron to brand with.,
B as in Brand iron () A branding iron.,
B as in Brand iron () A trivet to set a pot on.,
B as in Brand iron () The horizontal bar of an andiron.,
B as in Brandished (imp. & p. p.) of Brandish,
B as in Brandishing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Brandish,
B as in Brandish (n.) To move or wave, as a weapon; to raise and move in various directions; to shake or flourish.,
B as in Brandish (n.) To play with; to flourish; as, to brandish syllogisms.,
B as in Brandish (n.) A flourish, as with a weapon, whip, etc.,
B as in Brandisher (n.) One who brandishes.,
B as in Brandle (v. t. & i.) To shake; to totter.,
B as in Brandling (n.) Alt. of Brandlin,
B as in Brandlin (n.) Same as Branlin, fish and worm.,
B as in Brand-new (a.) Quite new; bright as if fresh from the forge.,
B as in Brand spore () One of several spores growing in a series or chain, and produced by one of the fungi called brand.,
B as in Brandies (pl. ) of Brandy,
B as in Brandy (n.) A strong alcoholic liquor distilled from wine. The name is also given to spirit distilled from other liquors, and in the United States to that distilled from cider and peaches. In northern Europe, it is also applied to a spirit obtained from grain.,
B as in Brandywine (n.) Brandy.,
B as in Brangle (n.) A wrangle; a squabble; a noisy contest or dispute.,
B as in Brangled (imp. & p. p.) of Brangle,
B as in Brangling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Brangle,
B as in Brangle (v. i.) To wrangle; to dispute contentiously; to squabble.,
B as in Branglement (n.) Wrangle; brangle.,
B as in Brangler (n.) A quarrelsome person.,
B as in Brangling (n.) A quarrel.,
B as in Brank (n.) Buckwheat.,
B as in Brank (n.) Alt. of Branks,
B as in Branks (n.) A sort of bridle with wooden side pieces.,
B as in Branks (n.) A scolding bridle, an instrument formerly used for correcting scolding women. It was an iron frame surrounding the head and having a triangular piece entering the mouth of the scold.,
B as in Brank (v. i.) To hold up and toss the head; -- applied to horses as spurning the bit.,
B as in Brank (v. i.) To prance; to caper.,
B as in Brankursine (n.) Bear's-breech, or Acanthus.,
B as in Branlin (n.) A young salmon or parr, in the stage in which it has transverse black bands, as if burned by a gridiron.,
B as in Branlin (n.) A small red worm or larva, used as bait for small fresh-water fish; -- so called from its red color.,
B as in Bran-new (a.) See Brand-new.,
B as in Branny (a.) Having the appearance of bran; consisting of or containing bran.,
B as in Bransle (n.) A brawl or dance.,
B as in Brant (n.) A species of wild goose (Branta bernicla) -- called also brent and brand goose. The name is also applied to other related species.,
B as in Brant (a.) Steep.,
B as in Brantail (n.) The European redstart; -- so called from the red color of its tail.,
B as in Brant-fox (n.) A kind of fox found in Sweden (Vulpes alopex), smaller than the common fox (V. vulgaris), but probably a variety of it.,
B as in Branular (a.) Relating to the brain; cerebral.,
B as in Brasen (a.) Same as Brazen.,
B as in Brash (a.) Hasty in temper; impetuous.,
B as in Brash (a.) Brittle, as wood or vegetables.,
B as in Brash (n.) A rash or eruption; a sudden or transient fit of sickness.,
B as in Brash (n.) Refuse boughs of trees; also, the clippings of hedges.,
B as in Brash (n.) Broken and angular fragments of rocks underlying alluvial deposits.,
B as in Brash (n.) Broken fragments of ice.,
B as in Brasier (n.) Alt. of Brazier,
B as in Brazier (n.) An artificer who works in brass.,
B as in Brasier (n.) Alt. of Brazier,
B as in Brazier (n.) A pan for holding burning coals.,
B as in Brasses (pl. ) of Brass,
B as in Brass (n.) An alloy (usually yellow) of copper and zinc, in variable proportion, but often containing two parts of copper to one part of zinc. It sometimes contains tin, and rarely other metals.,
B as in Brass (n.) A journal bearing, so called because frequently made of brass. A brass is often lined with a softer metal, when the latter is generally called a white metal lining. See Axle box, Journal Box, and Bearing.,
B as in Brass (n.) Coin made of copper, brass, or bronze.,
B as in Brass (n.) Impudence; a brazen face.,
B as in Brass (n.) Utensils, ornaments, or other articles of brass.,
B as in Brass (n.) A brass plate engraved with a figure or device. Specifically, one used as a memorial to the dead, and generally having the portrait, coat of arms, etc.,
B as in Brass (n.) Lumps of pyrites or sulphuret of iron, the color of which is near to that of brass.,
B as in Brassage (n.) A sum formerly levied to pay the expense of coinage; -- now called seigniorage.,
B as in Brassart (n.) Armor for the arm; -- generally used for the whole arm from the shoulder to the wrist, and consisting, in the 15th and 16th centuries, of many parts.,
B as in Brasse (n.) A spotted European fish of the genus Lucioperca, resembling a perch.,
B as in Brassets (n.) See Brassart.,
B as in Brassica (n.) A genus of plants embracing several species and varieties differing much in appearance and qualities: such as the common cabbage (B. oleracea), broccoli, cauliflowers, etc.; the wild turnip (B. campestris); the common turnip (B. rapa); the rape or coleseed (B. napus), etc.,
B as in Brassicaceous (a.) Related to, or resembling, the cabbage, or plants of the Cabbage family.,
B as in Brassiness (n.) The state, condition, or quality of being brassy.,
B as in Brass-visaged (a.) Impudent; bold.,
B as in Brassy (a.) Of or pertaining to brass; having the nature, appearance, or hardness, of brass.,
B as in Brassy (a.) Impudent; impudently bold.,
B as in Brast (v. t. & i.) To burst.,
B as in Brat (n.) A coarse garment or cloak; also, coarse clothing, in general.,
B as in Brat (n.) A coarse kind of apron for keeping the clothes clean; a bib.,
B as in Brat (n.) A child; an offspring; -- formerly used in a good sense, but now usually in a contemptuous sense.,
B as in Brat (n.) The young of an animal.,
B as in Brat (n.) A thin bed of coal mixed with pyrites or carbonate of lime.,
B as in Bratsche (n.) The tenor viola, or viola.,
B as in Brattice (n.) A wall of separation in a shaft or gallery used for ventilation.,
B as in Brattice (n.) Planking to support a roof or wall.,
B as in Brattishing (n.) See Brattice, n.,
B as in Brattishing (n.) Carved openwork, as of a shrine, battlement, or parapet.,
B as in Braunite (n.) A native oxide of manganese, of dark brownish black color. It was named from a Mr. Braun of Gotha.,
B as in Bravade (n.) Bravado.,
B as in Bravadoes (pl. ) of Bravado,
B as in Bravado (n.) Boastful and threatening behavior; a boastful menace.,
B as in Brave (superl.) Bold; courageous; daring; intrepid; -- opposed to cowardly; as, a brave man; a brave act.,
B as in Brave (superl.) Having any sort of superiority or excellence; -- especially such as in conspicuous.,
B as in Brave (superl.) Making a fine show or display.,
B as in Brave (n.) A brave person; one who is daring.,
B as in Brave (n.) Specifically, an Indian warrior.,
B as in Brave (n.) A man daring beyond discretion; a bully.,
B as in Brave (n.) A challenge; a defiance; bravado.,
B as in Braved (imp. & p. p.) of Brave,
B as in Braving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Brave,
B as in Brave (v. t.) To encounter with courage and fortitude; to set at defiance; to defy; to dare.,
B as in Brave (v. t.) To adorn; to make fine or showy.,
B as in Bravely (adv.) In a brave manner; courageously; gallantly; valiantly; splendidly; nobly.,
B as in Bravely (adv.) Finely; gaudily; gayly; showily.,
B as in Bravely (adv.) Well; thrivingly; prosperously.,
B as in Braveness (n.) The quality of state or being brave.,
B as in Bravery (n.) The quality of being brave; fearless; intrepidity.,
B as in Bravery (n.) The act of braving; defiance; bravado.,
B as in Bravery (n.) Splendor; magnificence; showy appearance; ostentation; fine dress.,
B as in Bravery (n.) A showy person; a fine gentleman; a beau.,
B as in Braving (n.) A bravado; a boast.,
B as in Bravingly (adv.) In a defiant manner.,
B as in Bravoes (pl. ) of Bravo,
B as in Bravo (a.) A daring villain; a bandit; one who sets law at defiance; a professional assassin or murderer.,
B as in Bravo (interj.) Well done! excellent! an exclamation expressive of applause.,
B as in Bravura (n.) A florid, brilliant style of music, written for effect, to show the range and flexibility of a singer's voice, or the technical force and skill of a performer; virtuoso music.,
B as in Brawled (imp. & p. p.) of Brawl,
B as in Brawling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Brawl,
B as in Brawl (v. i.) To quarrel noisily and outrageously.,
B as in Brawl (v. i.) To complain loudly; to scold.,
B as in Brawl (v. i.) To make a loud confused noise, as the water of a rapid stream running over stones.,
B as in Brawl (n.) A noisy quarrel; loud, angry contention; a wrangle; a tumult; as, a drunken brawl.,
B as in Brawler (n.) One that brawls; wrangler.,
B as in Brawling (a.) Quarreling; quarrelsome; noisy.,
B as in Brawling (a.) Making a loud confused noise. See Brawl, v. i., 3.,
B as in Brawlingly (adv.) In a brawling manner.,
B as in Brawn (n.) A muscle; flesh.,
B as in Brawn (n.) Full, strong muscles, esp. of the arm or leg, muscular strength; a protuberant muscular part of the body; sometimes, the arm.,
B as in Brawn (n.) The flesh of a boar; also, the salted and prepared flesh of a boar.,
B as in Brawn (n.) A boar.,
B as in Brawned (a.) Brawny; strong; muscular.,
B as in Brawner (n.) A boor killed for the table.,
B as in Brawniness (n.) The quality or state of being brawny.,
B as in Brawny (a.) Having large, strong muscles; muscular; fleshy; strong.,
B as in Braxy (n.) A disease of sheep. The term is variously applied in different localities.,
B as in Braxy (n.) A diseased sheep, or its mutton.,
B as in Brayed (imp. & p. p.) of Bray,
B as in Braying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bray,
B as in Bray (v. t.) To pound, beat, rub, or grind small or fine.,
B as in Bray (v. i.) To utter a loud, harsh cry, as an ass.,
B as in Bray (v. i.) To make a harsh, grating, or discordant noise.,
B as in Bray (v. t.) To make or utter with a loud, discordant, or harsh and grating sound.,
B as in Bray (n.) The harsh cry of an ass; also, any harsh, grating, or discordant sound.,
B as in Bray (n.) A bank; the slope of a hill; a hill. See Brae, which is now the usual spelling.,
B as in Brayer (n.) An implement for braying and spreading ink in hand printing.,
B as in Brayer (n.) One that brays like an ass.,
B as in Braying (a.) Making a harsh noise; blaring.,
B as in Brazed (imp. & p. p.) of Braze,
B as in Brazing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Braze,
B as in Braze (v. i.) To solder with hard solder, esp. with an alloy of copper and zinc; as, to braze the seams of a copper pipe.,
B as in Braze (v. i.) To harden.,
B as in Braze (v. t.) To cover or ornament with brass.,
B as in Brazen (a.) Pertaining to, made of, or resembling, brass.,
B as in Brazen (a.) Sounding harsh and loud, like resounding brass.,
B as in Brazen (a.) Impudent; immodest; shameless; having a front like brass; as, a brazen countenance.,
B as in Brazened (imp. & p. p.) of Brazen,
B as in Brazening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Brazen,
B as in Brazen (v. t.) To carry through impudently or shamelessly; as, to brazen the matter through.,
B as in Brazen-browed (a.) Shamelessly impudent.,
B as in Brazenface (n.) An impudent or shameless person.,
B as in Brazenfaced (a.) Impudent; shameless.,
B as in Brazenly (adv.) In a bold, impudent manner.,
B as in Brazenness (n.) The quality or state of being brazen.,
B as in Brazier (n.) Same as Brasier.,
B as in Braziletto (n.) See Brazil wood.,
B as in Brazilian (a.) Of or pertaining to Brazil.,
B as in Brazilian (n.) A native or an inhabitant of Brazil.,
B as in Brazilin (n.) A substance contained in both Brazil wood and Sapan wood, from which it is extracted as a yellow crystalline substance which is white when pure. It is colored intensely red by alkalies.,
B as in Brazil nut () An oily, three-sided nut, the seed of the Bertholletia excelsa; the cream nut.,
B as in Brazil wood () The wood of the oriental Caesalpinia Sapan; -- so called before the discovery of America.,
B as in Brazil wood () A very heavy wood of a reddish color, imported from Brazil and other tropical countries, for cabinet-work, and for dyeing. The best is the heartwood of Caesalpinia echinata, a leguminous tree; but other trees also yield it. An inferior sort comes from Jamaica, the timber of C. Braziliensis and C. crista. This is often distinguished as Braziletto , but the better kind is also frequently so named.,
B as in Breach (n.) The act of breaking, in a figurative sense.,
B as in Breach (n.) Specifically: A breaking or infraction of a law, or of any obligation or tie; violation; non-fulfillment; as, a breach of contract; a breach of promise.,
B as in Breach (n.) A gap or opening made made by breaking or battering, as in a wall or fortification; the space between the parts of a solid body rent by violence; a break; a rupture.,
B as in Breach (n.) A breaking of waters, as over a vessel; the waters themselves; surge; surf.,
B as in Breach (n.) A breaking up of amicable relations; rupture.,
B as in Breach (n.) A bruise; a wound.,
B as in Breach (n.) A hernia; a rupture.,
B as in Breach (n.) A breaking out upon; an assault.,
B as in Breached (imp. & p. p.) of Breach,
B as in Breaching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Breach,
B as in Breach (v. t.) To make a breach or opening in; as, to breach the walls of a city.,
B as in Breach (v. i.) To break the water, as by leaping out; -- said of a whale.,
B as in Breachy (a.) Apt to break fences or to break out of pasture; unruly; as, breachy cattle.,
B as in Bread (a.) To spread.,
B as in Bread (n.) An article of food made from flour or meal by moistening, kneading, and baking.,
B as in Bread (n.) Food; sustenance; support of life, in general.,
B as in Bread (v. t.) To cover with bread crumbs, preparatory to cooking; as, breaded cutlets.,
B as in Breadbasket (n.) The stomach.,
B as in Breadcorn () Corn of grain of which bread is made, as wheat, rye, etc.,
B as in Breaded (a.) Braided,
B as in Breaden (a.) Made of bread.,
B as in Breadfruit (n.) The fruit of a tree (Artocarpus incisa) found in the islands of the Pacific, esp. the South Sea islands. It is of a roundish form, from four to six or seven inches in diameter, and, when baked, somewhat resembles bread, and is eaten as food, whence the name.,
B as in Breadfruit (n.) The tree itself, which is one of considerable size, with large, lobed leaves. Cloth is made from the bark, and the timber is used for many purposes. Called also breadfruit tree and bread tree.,
B as in Breadless (a.) Without bread; destitute of food.,
B as in Breadroot (n.) The root of a leguminous plant (Psoralea esculenta), found near the Rocky Mountains. It is usually oval in form, and abounds in farinaceous matter, affording sweet and palatable food.,
B as in Breadstuff (n.) Grain, flour, or meal of which bread is made.,
B as in Breadth (a.) Distance from side to side of any surface or thing; measure across, or at right angles to the length; width.,
B as in Breadthless (a.) Without breadth.,
B as in Breadthways (ads.) Breadthwise.,
B as in Breadthwise (ads.) In the direction of the breadth.,
B as in Breadthwinner (n.) The member of a family whose labor supplies the food of the family; one who works for his living.,
B as in broke (imp.) of Break,
B as in Brake () of Break,
B as in Broken (p. p.) of Break,
B as in Broke () of Break,
B as in Breaking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Break,
B as in Break (v. t.) To strain apart; to sever by fracture; to divide with violence; as, to break a rope or chain; to break a seal; to break an axle; to break rocks or coal; to break a lock.,
B as in Break (v. t.) To lay open as by breaking; to divide; as, to break a package of goods.,
B as in Break (v. t.) To lay open, as a purpose; to disclose, divulge, or communicate.,
B as in Break (v. t.) To infringe or violate, as an obligation, law, or promise.,
B as in Break (v. t.) To interrupt; to destroy the continuity of; to dissolve or terminate; as, to break silence; to break one's sleep; to break one's journey.,
B as in Break (v. t.) To destroy the completeness of; to remove a part from; as, to break a set.,
B as in Break (v. t.) To destroy the arrangement of; to throw into disorder; to pierce; as, the cavalry were not able to break the British squares.,
B as in Break (v. t.) To shatter to pieces; to reduce to fragments.,
B as in Break (v. t.) To exchange for other money or currency of smaller denomination; as, to break a five dollar bill.,
B as in Break (v. t.) To destroy the strength, firmness, or consistency of; as, to break flax.,
B as in Break (v. t.) To weaken or impair, as health, spirit, or mind.,
B as in Break (v. t.) To diminish the force of; to lessen the shock of, as a fall or blow.,
B as in Break (v. t.) To impart, as news or information; to broach; -- with to, and often with a modified word implying some reserve; as, to break the news gently to the widow; to break a purpose cautiously to a friend.,
B as in Break (v. t.) To tame; to reduce to subjection; to make tractable; to discipline; as, to break a horse to the harness or saddle.,
B as in Break (v. t.) To destroy the financial credit of; to make bankrupt; to ruin.,
B as in Break (v. t.) To destroy the official character and standing of; to cashier; to dismiss.,
B as in Break (v. i.) To come apart or divide into two or more pieces, usually with suddenness and violence; to part; to burst asunder.,
B as in Break (v. i.) To open spontaneously, or by pressure from within, as a bubble, a tumor, a seed vessel, a bag.,
B as in Break (v. i.) To burst forth; to make its way; to come to view; to appear; to dawn.,
B as in Break (v. i.) To burst forth violently, as a storm.,
B as in Break (v. i.) To open up; to be scattered; to be dissipated; as, the clouds are breaking.,
B as in Break (v. i.) To become weakened in constitution or faculties; to lose health or strength.,
B as in Break (v. i.) To be crushed, or overwhelmed with sorrow or grief; as, my heart is breaking.,
B as in Break (v. i.) To fall in business; to become bankrupt.,
B as in Break (v. i.) To make an abrupt or sudden change; to change the gait; as, to break into a run or gallop.,
B as in Break (v. i.) To fail in musical quality; as, a singer's voice breaks when it is strained beyond its compass and a tone or note is not completed, but degenerates into an unmusical sound instead. Also, to change in tone, as a boy's voice at puberty.,
B as in Break (v. i.) To fall out; to terminate friendship.,
B as in Break (v. t.) An opening made by fracture or disruption.,
B as in Break (v. t.) An interruption of continuity; change of direction; as, a break in a wall; a break in the deck of a ship.,
B as in Break (v. t.) A projection or recess from the face of a building.,
B as in Break (v. t.) An opening or displacement in the circuit, interrupting the electrical current.,
B as in Break (v. t.) An interruption; a pause; as, a break in friendship; a break in the conversation.,
B as in Break (v. t.) An interruption in continuity in writing or printing, as where there is an omission, an unfilled line, etc.,
B as in Break (v. t.) The first appearing, as of light in the morning; the dawn; as, the break of day; the break of dawn.,
B as in Break (v. t.) A large four-wheeled carriage, having a straight body and calash top, with the driver's seat in front and the footman's behind.,
B as in Break (v. t.) A device for checking motion, or for measuring friction. See Brake, n. 9 & 10.,
B as in Break (n.) See Commutator.,
B as in Breakable (a.) Capable of being broken.,
B as in Breakage (n.) The act of breaking; a break; a breaking; also, articles broken.,
B as in Breakage (n.) An allowance or compensation for things broken accidentally, as in transportation or use.,
B as in Breakbone fever () See Dengue.,
B as in Break-circuit (n.) A key or other device for breaking an electrical circuit.,
B as in Breakdown (n.) The act or result of breaking down, as of a carriage; downfall.,
B as in Breakdown (n.) A noisy, rapid, shuffling dance engaged in competitively by a number of persons or pairs in succession, as among the colored people of the Southern United States, and so called, perhaps, because the exercise is continued until most of those who take part in it break down.,
B as in Breakdown (n.) Any rude, noisy dance performed by shuffling the feet, usually by one person at a time.,
B as in Breaker (n.) One who, or that which, breaks.,
B as in Breaker (n.) Specifically: A machine for breaking rocks, or for breaking coal at the mines; also, the building in which such a machine is placed.,
B as in Breaker (n.) A small water cask.,
B as in Breaker (n.) A wave breaking into foam against the shore, or against a sand bank, or a rock or reef near the surface.,
B as in Breakfast (n.) The first meal in the day, or that which is eaten at the first meal.,
B as in Breakfast (n.) A meal after fasting, or food in general.,
B as in breakfasted (imp. & p. p.) of Breakfast,
B as in Breakfasting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Breakfast,
B as in Breakfast (v. i.) To break one's fast in the morning; too eat the first meal in the day.,
B as in Breakfast (v. t.) To furnish with breakfast.,
B as in Breakman (n.) See Brakeman.,
B as in Breakneck (n.) A fall that breaks the neck.,
B as in Breakneck (n.) A steep place endangering the neck.,
B as in Breakneck (a.) Producing danger of a broken neck; as, breakneck speed.,
B as in Break-up (n.) Disruption; a separation and dispersion of the parts or members; as, a break-up of an assembly or dinner party; a break-up of the government.,
B as in Breakwater (n.) Any structure or contrivance, as a mole, or a wall at the mouth of a harbor, to break the force of waves, and afford protection from their violence.,
B as in Bream (n.) A European fresh-water cyprinoid fish of the genus Abramis, little valued as food. Several species are known.,
B as in Bream (n.) An American fresh-water fish, of various species of Pomotis and allied genera, which are also called sunfishes and pondfishes. See Pondfish.,
B as in Bream (n.) A marine sparoid fish of the genus Pagellus, and allied genera. See Sea Bream.,
B as in Breamed (imp. & p. p.) of Bream,
B as in Breaming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bream,
B as in Bream (v. t.) To clean, as a ship's bottom of adherent shells, seaweed, etc., by the application of fire and scraping.,
B as in Breast (n.) The fore part of the body, between the neck and the belly; the chest; as, the breast of a man or of a horse.,
B as in Breast (n.) Either one of the protuberant glands, situated on the front of the chest or thorax in the female of man and of some other mammalia, in which milk is secreted for the nourishment of the young; a mamma; a teat.,
B as in Breast (n.) Anything resembling the human breast, or bosom; the front or forward part of anything; as, a chimney breast; a plow breast; the breast of a hill.,
B as in Breast (n.) The face of a coal working.,
B as in Breast (n.) The front of a furnace.,
B as in Breast (n.) The seat of consciousness; the repository of thought and self-consciousness, or of secrets; the seat of the affections and passions; the heart.,
B as in Breast (n.) The power of singing; a musical voice; -- so called, probably, from the connection of the voice with the lungs, which lie within the breast.,
B as in Breasted (imp. & p. p.) of Breast,
B as in Breasting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Breast,
B as in Breast (v. t.) To meet, with the breast; to struggle with or oppose manfully; as, to breast the storm or waves.,
B as in Breastband (n.) A band for the breast. Specifically: (Naut.) A band of canvas, or a rope, fastened at both ends to the rigging, to support the man who heaves the lead in sounding.,
B as in Breastbeam (n.) The front transverse beam of a locomotive.,
B as in Breastbone (n.) The bone of the breast; the sternum.,
B as in Breast-deep (a.) Deep as from the breast to the feet; as high as the breast.,
B as in Breasted (a.) Having a breast; -- used in composition with qualifying words, in either a literal or a metaphorical sense; as, a single-breasted coat.,
B as in Breastfast (n.) A large rope to fasten the midship part of a ship to a wharf, or to another vessel.,
B as in Breastheight (n.) The interior slope of a fortification, against which the garrison lean in firing.,
B as in Breast-high (a.) High as the breast.,
B as in Breasthook (n.) A thick piece of timber in the form of a knee, placed across the stem of a ship to strengthen the fore part and unite the bows on each side.,
B as in Breasting (n.) The curved channel in which a breast wheel turns. It is closely adapted to the curve of the wheel through about a quarter of its circumference, and prevents the escape of the water until it has spent its force upon the wheel. See Breast wheel.,
B as in Breastknot (n.) A knot of ribbons worn on the breast.,
B as in Breastpin (n.) A pin worn on the breast for a fastening, or for ornament; a brooch.,
B as in Breastplate (n.) A plate of metal covering the breast as defensive armor.,
B as in Breastplate (n.) A piece against which the workman presses his breast in operating a breast drill, or other similar tool.,
B as in Breastplate (n.) A strap that runs across a horse's breast.,
B as in Breastplate (n.) A part of the vestment of the high priest, worn upon the front of the ephod. It was a double piece of richly embroidered stuff, a span square, set with twelve precious stones, on which were engraved the names of the twelve tribes of Israel. See Ephod.,
B as in Breastplow (n.) Alt. of Breastplough,
B as in Breastplough (n.) A kind of plow, driven by the breast of the workman; -- used to cut or pare turf.,
B as in Breastrail (n.) The upper rail of any parapet of ordinary height, as of a balcony; the railing of a quarter-deck, etc.,
B as in Breastrope (n.) See Breastband.,
B as in Breastsummer (n.) A summer or girder extending across a building flush with, and supporting, the upper part of a front or external wall; a long lintel; a girder; -- used principally above shop windows.,
B as in Breastwheel (n.) A water wheel, on which the stream of water strikes neither so high as in the overshot wheel, nor so low as in the undershot, but generally at about half the height of the wheel, being kept in contact with it by the breasting. The water acts on the float boards partly by impulse, partly by its weight.,
B as in Breastwork (n.) A defensive work of moderate height, hastily thrown up, of earth or other material.,
B as in Breastwork (n.) A railing on the quarter-deck and forecastle.,
B as in Breath (n.) The air inhaled and exhaled in respiration; air which, in the process of respiration, has parted with oxygen and has received carbonic acid, aqueous vapor, warmth, etc.,
B as in Breath (n.) The act of breathing naturally or freely; the power or capacity to breathe freely; as, I am out of breath.,
B as in Breath (n.) The power of respiration, and hence, life.,
B as in Breath (n.) Time to breathe; respite; pause.,
B as in Breath (n.) A single respiration, or the time of making it; a single act; an instant.,
B as in Breath (n.) Fig.: That which gives or strengthens life.,
B as in Breath (n.) A single word; the slightest effort; a trifle.,
B as in Breath (n.) A very slight breeze; air in gentle motion.,
B as in Breath (n.) Fragrance; exhalation; odor; perfume.,
B as in Breath (n.) Gentle exercise, causing a quicker respiration.,
B as in Breathable (a.) Such as can be breathed.,
B as in Breathableness (n.) State of being breathable.,
B as in Breathed (imp. & p. p.) of Breathe,
B as in Breathing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Breathe,
B as in Breathe (v. i.) To respire; to inhale and exhale air; hence;, to live.,
B as in Breathe (v. i.) To take breath; to rest from action.,
B as in Breathe (v. i.) To pass like breath; noiselessly or gently; to exhale; to emanate; to blow gently.,
B as in Breathe (v. t.) To inhale and exhale in the process of respiration; to respire.,
B as in Breathe (v. t.) To inject by breathing; to infuse; -- with into.,
B as in Breathe (v. t.) To emit or utter by the breath; to utter softly; to whisper; as, to breathe a vow.,
B as in Breathe (v. t.) To exhale; to emit, as breath; as, the flowers breathe odors or perfumes.,
B as in Breathe (v. t.) To express; to manifest; to give forth.,
B as in Breathe (v. t.) To act upon by the breath; to cause to sound by breathing.,
B as in Breathe (v. t.) To promote free respiration in; to exercise.,
B as in Breathe (v. t.) To suffer to take breath, or recover the natural breathing; to rest; as, to breathe a horse.,
B as in Breathe (v. t.) To put out of breath; to exhaust.,
B as in Breathe (v. t.) To utter without vocality, as the nonvocal consonants.,
B as in Breather (n.) One who breathes. Hence: (a) One who lives.(b) One who utters. (c) One who animates or inspires.,
B as in Breather (n.) That which puts one out of breath, as violent exercise.,
B as in Breathful (a.) Full of breath; full of odor; fragrant.,
B as in Breathing (n.) Respiration; the act of inhaling and exhaling air.,
B as in Breathing (n.) Air in gentle motion.,
B as in Breathing (n.) Any gentle influence or operation; inspiration; as, the breathings of the Spirit.,
B as in Breathing (n.) Aspiration; secret prayer.,
B as in Breathing (n.) Exercising; promotion of respiration.,
B as in Breathing (n.) Utterance; communication or publicity by words.,
B as in Breathing (n.) Breathing place; vent.,
B as in Breathing (n.) Stop; pause; delay.,
B as in Breathing (n.) Also, in a wider sense, the sound caused by the friction of the outgoing breath in the throat, mouth, etc., when the glottis is wide open; aspiration; the sound expressed by the letter h.,
B as in Breathing (n.) A mark to indicate aspiration or its absence. See Rough breathing, Smooth breathing, below.,
B as in Breathless (a.) Spent with labor or violent action; out of breath.,
B as in Breathless (a.) Not breathing; holding the breath, on account of fear, expectation, or intense interest; attended with a holding of the breath; as, breathless attention.,
B as in Breathless (a.) Dead; as, a breathless body.,
B as in Breathlessly (adv.) In a breathless manner.,
B as in Breathlessness (n.) The state of being breathless or out of breath.,
B as in Breccia (n.) A rock composed of angular fragments either of the same mineral or of different minerals, etc., united by a cement, and commonly presenting a variety of colors.,
B as in Brecciated (a.) Consisting of angular fragments cemented together; resembling breccia in appearance.,
B as in Bred () imp. & p. p. of Breed.,
B as in Brede (n.) Alt. of Breede,
B as in Breede (n.) Breadth.,
B as in Brede (n.) A braid.,
B as in Breech (n.) The lower part of the body behind; the buttocks.,
B as in Breech (n.) Breeches.,
B as in Breech (n.) The hinder part of anything; esp., the part of a cannon, or other firearm, behind the chamber.,
B as in Breech (n.) The external angle of knee timber, the inside of which is called the throat.,
B as in Breeched (imp. & p. p.) of Breech,
B as in Breeching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Breech,
B as in Breech (v. t.) To put into, or clothe with, breeches.,
B as in Breech (v. t.) To cover as with breeches.,
B as in Breech (v. t.) To fit or furnish with a breech; as, to breech a gun.,
B as in Breech (v. t.) To whip on the breech.,
B as in Breech (v. t.) To fasten with breeching.,
B as in Breechblock (n.) The movable piece which closes the breech of a breech-loading firearm, and resists the backward force of the discharge. It is withdrawn for the insertion of a cartridge, and closed again before the gun is fired.,
B as in Breechcloth (n.) A cloth worn around the breech.,
B as in Breeches (n. pl.) A garment worn by men, covering the hips and thighs; smallclothes.,
B as in Breeches (n. pl.) Trousers; pantaloons.,
B as in Breeching (n.) A whipping on the breech, or the act of whipping on the breech.,
B as in Breeching (n.) That part of a harness which passes round the breech of a horse, enabling him to hold back a vehicle.,
B as in Breeching (n.) A strong rope rove through the cascabel of a cannon and secured to ringbolts in the ship's side, to limit the recoil of the gun when it is discharged.,
B as in Breeching (n.) The sheet iron casing at the end of boilers to convey the smoke from the flues to the smokestack.,
B as in Breechloader (n.) A firearm which receives its load at the breech.,
B as in Breech-loading (a.) Receiving the charge at the breech instead of at the muzzle.,
B as in Breech pin () Alt. of Breech screw,
B as in Breech screw () A strong iron or steel plug screwed into the breech of a musket or other firearm, to close the bottom of the bore.,
B as in Breech sight () A device attached to the breech of a firearm, to guide the eye, in conjunction with the front sight, in taking aim.,
B as in Bred (imp. & p. p.) of Breed,
B as in Breeding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Breed,
B as in Breed (v. t.) To produce as offspring; to bring forth; to bear; to procreate; to generate; to beget; to hatch.,
B as in Breed (v. t.) To take care of in infancy, and through the age of youth; to bring up; to nurse and foster.,
B as in Breed (v. t.) To educate; to instruct; to form by education; to train; -- sometimes followed by up.,
B as in Breed (v. t.) To engender; to cause; to occasion; to originate; to produce; as, to breed a storm; to breed disease.,
B as in Breed (v. t.) To give birth to; to be the native place of; as, a pond breeds fish; a northern country breeds stout men.,
B as in Breed (v. t.) To raise, as any kind of stock.,
B as in Breed (v. t.) To produce or obtain by any natural process.,
B as in Breed (v. i.) To bear and nourish young; to reproduce or multiply itself; to be pregnant.,
B as in Breed (v. i.) To be formed in the parent or dam; to be generated, or to grow, as young before birth.,
B as in Breed (v. i.) To have birth; to be produced or multiplied.,
B as in Breed (v. i.) To raise a breed; to get progeny.,
B as in Breed (n.) A race or variety of men or other animals (or of plants), perpetuating its special or distinctive characteristics by inheritance.,
B as in Breed (n.) Class; sort; kind; -- of men, things, or qualities.,
B as in Breed (n.) A number produced at once; a brood.,
B as in Breedbate (n.) One who breeds or originates quarrels.,
B as in Breeder (n.) One who, or that which, breeds, produces, brings up, etc.,
B as in Breeder (n.) A cause.,
B as in Breeding (n.) The act or process of generating or bearing.,
B as in Breeding (n.) The raising or improving of any kind of domestic animals; as, farmers should pay attention to breeding.,
B as in Breeding (n.) Nurture; education; formation of manners.,
B as in Breeding (n.) Deportment or behavior in the external offices and decorums of social life; manners; knowledge of, or training in, the ceremonies, or polite observances of society.,
B as in Breeding (n.) Descent; pedigree; extraction.,
B as in Breeze (n.) Alt. of Breeze fly,
B as in Breeze fly (n.) A fly of various species, of the family Tabanidae, noted for buzzing about animals, and tormenting them by sucking their blood; -- called also horsefly, and gadfly. They are among the largest of two-winged or dipterous insects. The name is also given to different species of botflies.,
B as in Breeze (n.) A light, gentle wind; a fresh, soft-blowing wind.,
B as in Breeze (n.) An excited or ruffed state of feeling; a flurry of excitement; a disturbance; a quarrel; as, the discovery produced a breeze.,
B as in Breeze (n.) Refuse left in the process of making coke or burning charcoal.,
B as in Breeze (n.) Refuse coal, coal ashes, and cinders, used in the burning of bricks.,
B as in Breeze (v. i.) To blow gently.,
B as in Breezeless (a.) Motionless; destitute of breezes.,
B as in Breeziness (n.) State of being breezy.,
B as in Breezy (a.) Characterized by, or having, breezes; airy.,
B as in Breezy (a.) Fresh; brisk; full of life.,
B as in Bregma (n.) The point of junction of the coronal and sagittal sutures of the skull.,
B as in Bregmatic (a.) Pertaining to the bregma.,
B as in Brehon (n.) An ancient Irish or Scotch judge.,
B as in Breme (a.) Fierce; sharp; severe; cruel.,
B as in Breme (a.) Famous; renowned; well known.,
B as in Brent (imp. & p. p.) of Brenne,
B as in Brenning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Brenne,
B as in Bren (v. t. & i.) Alt. of Brenne,
B as in Brenne (v. t. & i.) To burn.,
B as in Bren (n.) Bran.,
B as in Brennage (n.) A tribute which tenants paid to their lord, in lieu of bran, which they were obliged to furnish for his hounds.,
B as in Brenningly (adv.) Burningly; ardently.,
B as in Brent (a.) Alt. of Brant,
B as in Brant (a.) Steep; high.,
B as in Brant (a.) Smooth; unwrinkled.,
B as in Brent (imp. & p. p.) Burnt.,
B as in Brent (n.) A brant. See Brant.,
B as in Brequet chain () A watch-guard.,
B as in Brere (n.) A brier.,
B as in Brest (3d sing.pr.) for Bursteth.,
B as in Brest (n.) Alt. of Breast,
B as in Breast (n.) A torus.,
B as in Brast (imp.) of Breste,
B as in Brusten (p. p.) of Breste,
B as in Borsten () of Breste,
B as in Bursten () of Breste,
B as in Breste (v. t. & i.) To burst.,
B as in Brestsummer (n.) See Breastsummer.,
B as in Bret (n.) See Birt.,
B as in Bretful (a.) Brimful.,
B as in Brethren (n.) pl. of Brother.,
B as in Breton (a.) Of or relating to Brittany, or Bretagne, in France.,
B as in Breton (n.) A native or inhabitant of Brittany, or Bretagne, in France; also, the ancient language of Brittany; Armorican.,
B as in Brett (n.) Same as Britzska.,
B as in Brettices (pl. ) of Brettice,
B as in Brettice (n.) The wooden boarding used in supporting the roofs and walls of coal mines. See Brattice.,
B as in Bretwalda (n.) The official title applied to that one of the Anglo-Saxon chieftains who was chosen by the other chiefs to lead them in their warfare against the British tribes.,
B as in Bretzel (n.) See Pretzel.,
B as in Breve (n.) A note or character of time, equivalent to two semibreves or four minims. When dotted, it is equal to three semibreves. It was formerly of a square figure (as thus: / ), but is now made oval, with a line perpendicular to the staff on each of its sides; -- formerly much used for choir service.,
B as in Breve (n.) Any writ or precept under seal, issued out of any court.,
B as in Breve (n.) A curved mark [/] used commonly to indicate the short quantity of a vowel.,
B as in Breve (n.) The great ant thrush of Sumatra (Pitta gigas), which has a very short tail.,
B as in Brevet (n.) A warrant from the government, granting a privilege, title, or dignity. [French usage].,
B as in Brevet (n.) A commission giving an officer higher rank than that for which he receives pay; an honorary promotion of an officer.,
B as in Brevetted (imp. & p. p.) of Brevet,
B as in Brevetting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Brevet,
B as in Brevet (v. t.) To confer rank upon by brevet.,
B as in Brevet (a.) Taking or conferring rank by brevet; as, a brevet colonel; a brevet commission.,
B as in Brevetcies (pl. ) of Brevetcy,
B as in Brevetcy (n.) The rank or condition of a brevet officer.,
B as in Breviaries (pl. ) of Breviary,
B as in Breviary (n.) An abridgment; a compend; an epitome; a brief account or summary.,
B as in Breviary (n.) A book containing the daily public or canonical prayers of the Roman Catholic or of the Greek Church for the seven canonical hours, namely, matins and lauds, the first, third, sixth, and ninth hours, vespers, and compline; -- distinguished from the missal.,
B as in Breviate (n.) A short compend; a summary; a brief statement.,
B as in Breviate (n.) A lawyer's brief.,
B as in Breviate (v. t.) To abbreviate.,
B as in Breviature (n.) An abbreviature; an abbreviation.,
B as in Brevier (n.) A size of type between bourgeois and minion.,
B as in Breviloquence (n.) A brief and pertinent mode of speaking.,
B as in Breviped (a.) Having short legs.,
B as in Breviped (n.) A breviped bird.,
B as in Brevipen (n.) A brevipennate bird.,
B as in Brevipennate (a.) Short-winged; -- applied to birds which can not fly, owing to their short wings, as the ostrich, cassowary, and emu.,
B as in Brevirostral (a.) Alt. of Brevirostrate,
B as in Brevirostrate (a.) Short-billed; having a short beak.,
B as in Brevities (pl. ) of Brevity,
B as in Brevity (n.) Shortness of duration; briefness of time; as, the brevity of human life.,
B as in Brevity (n.) Contraction into few words; conciseness.,
B as in Brewed (imp. & p. p.) of Brew,
B as in Brewing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Brew,
B as in Brew (v. t.) To boil or seethe; to cook.,
B as in Brew (v. t.) To prepare, as beer or other liquor, from malt and hops, or from other materials, by steeping, boiling, and fermentation.,
B as in Brew (v. t.) To prepare by steeping and mingling; to concoct.,
B as in Brew (v. t.) To foment or prepare, as by brewing; to contrive; to plot; to concoct; to hatch; as, to brew mischief.,
B as in Brew (v. i.) To attend to the business, or go through the processes, of brewing or making beer.,
B as in Brew (v. i.) To be in a state of preparation; to be mixing, forming, or gathering; as, a storm brews in the west.,
B as in Brew (n.) The mixture formed by brewing; that which is brewed.,
B as in Brewage (n.) Malt liquor; drink brewed.,
B as in Brewer (n.) One who brews; one whose occupation is to prepare malt liquors.,
B as in Brewery (n.) A brewhouse; the building and apparatus where brewing is carried on.,
B as in Brewhouse (n.) A house or building appropriated to brewing; a brewery.,
B as in Brewing (n.) The act or process of preparing liquors which are brewed, as beer and ale.,
B as in Brewing (n.) The quantity brewed at once.,
B as in Brewing (n.) A mixing together.,
B as in Brewing (n.) A gathering or forming of a storm or squall, indicated by thick, dark clouds.,
B as in Brewis (n.) Broth or pottage.,
B as in Brewis (n.) Bread soaked in broth, drippings of roast meat, milk, or water and butter.,
B as in Brewsterite (n.) A rare zeolitic mineral occurring in white monoclinic crystals with pearly luster. It is a hydrous silicate of aluminia, baryta, and strontia.,
B as in Brezilin (n.) See Brazilin.,
B as in Briar (n.) Same as Brier.,
B as in Briarean (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, Briareus, a giant fabled to have a hundred hands; hence, hundred-handed or many-handed.,
B as in Bribable (a.) Capable of being bribed.,
B as in Bribe (n.) A gift begged; a present.,
B as in Bribe (n.) A price, reward, gift, or favor bestowed or promised with a view to prevent the judgment or corrupt the conduct of a judge, witness, voter, or other person in a position of trust.,
B as in Bribe (n.) That which seduces; seduction; allurement.,
B as in Bribed (imp. & p. p.) of Bribe,
B as in Bribing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bribe,
B as in Bribe (v. t.) To rob or steal.,
B as in Bribe (v. t.) To give or promise a reward or consideration to (a judge, juror, legislator, voter, or other person in a position of trust) with a view to prevent the judgment or corrupt the conduct; to induce or influence by a bribe; to give a bribe to.,
B as in Bribe (v. t.) To gain by a bribe; of induce as by a bribe.,
B as in Bribe (v. i.) To commit robbery or theft.,
B as in Bribe (v. i.) To give a bribe to a person; to pervert the judgment or corrupt the action of a person in a position of trust, by some gift or promise.,
B as in Bribeless (a.) Incapable of being bribed; free from bribes.,
B as in Briber (n.) A thief.,
B as in Briber (n.) One who bribes, or pays for corrupt practices.,
B as in Briber (n.) That which bribes; a bribe.,
B as in Briberies (pl. ) of Bribery,
B as in Bribery (n.) Robbery; extortion.,
B as in Bribery (n.) The act or practice of giving or taking bribes; the act of influencing the official or political action of another by corrupt inducements.,
B as in Bric-a brac (n.) Miscellaneous curiosities and works of decorative art, considered collectively.,
B as in Brick (n.) A block or clay tempered with water, sand, etc., molded into a regular form, usually rectangular, and sun-dried, or burnt in a kiln, or in a heap or stack called a clamp.,
B as in Brick (n.) Bricks, collectively, as designating that kind of material; as, a load of brick; a thousand of brick.,
B as in Brick (n.) Any oblong rectangular mass; as, a brick of maple sugar; a penny brick (of bread).,
B as in Brick (n.) A good fellow; a merry person; as, you 're a brick.,
B as in Bricked (imp. & p. p.) of Brick,
B as in Bricking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Brick,
B as in Brick (v. t.) To lay or pave with bricks; to surround, line, or construct with bricks.,
B as in Brick (v. t.) To imitate or counterfeit a brick wall on, as by smearing plaster with red ocher, making the joints with an edge tool, and pointing them.,
B as in Brickbat (n.) A piece or fragment of a brick. See Bat, 4.,
B as in Brickkiln (n.) A kiln, or furnace, in which bricks are baked or burnt; or a pile of green bricks, laid loose, with arches underneath to receive the wood or fuel for burning them.,
B as in Bricklayer (n.) One whose occupation is to build with bricks.,
B as in Bricklaying (n.) The art of building with bricks, or of uniting them by cement or mortar into various forms; the act or occupation of laying bricks.,
B as in Brickle (a.) Brittle; easily broken.,
B as in Brickleness (n.) Brittleness.,
B as in Brickmaker (n.) One whose occupation is to make bricks.,
B as in Brickwork (n.) Anything made of bricks.,
B as in Brickwork (n.) The act of building with or laying bricks.,
B as in Bricky (a.) Full of bricks; formed of bricks; resembling bricks or brick dust.,
B as in Brickyard (n.) A place where bricks are made, especially an inclosed place.,
B as in Bricole (n.) A kind of traces with hooks and rings, with which men drag and maneuver guns where horses can not be used.,
B as in Brid (n.) A bird.,
B as in Bridal (n.) Of or pertaining to a bride, or to wedding; nuptial; as, bridal ornaments; a bridal outfit; a bridal chamber.,
B as in Bridal (n.) A nuptial festival or ceremony; a marriage.,
B as in Bridalty (n.) Celebration of the nuptial feast.,
B as in Bride (n.) A woman newly married, or about to be married.,
B as in Bride (n.) Fig.: An object ardently loved.,
B as in Bride (v. t.) To make a bride of.,
B as in Bride-ale (n.) A rustic wedding feast; a bridal. See Ale.,
B as in Bridebed (n.) The marriage bed.,
B as in Bridecake (n.) Rich or highly ornamented cake, to be distributed to the guests at a wedding, or sent to friends after the wedding.,
B as in Bridechamber (n.) The nuptial apartment.,
B as in Bridegroom (n.) A man newly married, or just about to be married.,
B as in Brideknot (n.) A knot of ribbons worn by a guest at a wedding; a wedding favor.,
B as in Bridemaid (n.) Alt. of Brideman,
B as in Brideman (n.) See Bridesmaid, Bridesman.,
B as in Bridesmaid (n.) A female friend who attends on a bride at her wedding.,
B as in Bridesmen (pl. ) of Bridesman,
B as in Bridesman (n.) A male friend who attends upon a bridegroom and bride at their marriage; the "best man.",
B as in Bridestake (n.) A stake or post set in the ground, for guests at a wedding to dance round.,
B as in Bridewell (n.) A house of correction for the confinement of disorderly persons; -- so called from a hospital built in 1553 near St. Bride's (or Bridget's) well, in London, which was subsequently a penal workhouse.,
B as in Bridge (n.) A structure, usually of wood, stone, brick, or iron, erected over a river or other water course, or over a chasm, railroad, etc., to make a passageway from one bank to the other.,
B as in Bridge (n.) Anything supported at the ends, which serves to keep some other thing from resting upon the object spanned, as in engraving, watchmaking, etc., or which forms a platform or staging over which something passes or is conveyed.,
B as in Bridge (n.) The small arch or bar at right angles to the strings of a violin, guitar, etc., serving of raise them and transmit their vibrations to the body of the instrument.,
B as in Bridge (n.) A device to measure the resistance of a wire or other conductor forming part of an electric circuit.,
B as in Bridge (n.) A low wall or vertical partition in the fire chamber of a furnace, for deflecting flame, etc.; -- usually called a bridge wall.,
B as in Bridged (imp. & p. p.) of Bridge,
B as in Bridging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bridge,
B as in Bridge (v. t.) To build a bridge or bridges on or over; as, to bridge a river.,
B as in Bridge (v. t.) To open or make a passage, as by a bridge.,
B as in Bridge (v. t.) To find a way of getting over, as a difficulty; -- generally with over.,
B as in Bridgeboard (n.) A notched board to which the treads and risers of the steps of wooden stairs are fastened.,
B as in Bridgeboard (n.) A board or plank used as a bridge.,
B as in Bridgehead (n.) A fortification commanding the extremity of a bridge nearest the enemy, to insure the preservation and usefulness of the bridge, and prevent the enemy from crossing; a tete-de-pont.,
B as in Bridgeless (a.) Having no bridge; not bridged.,
B as in Bridgepot (n.) The adjustable socket, or step, of a millstone spindle.,
B as in Bridgetree (n.) The beam which supports the spindle socket of the runner in a grinding mill.,
B as in Bridge-ward (n.) A bridge keeper; a warden or a guard for a bridge.,
B as in Bridge-ward (n.) The principal ward of a key.,
B as in Bridgeing (n.) The system of bracing used between floor or other timbers to distribute the weight.,
B as in Bridgey (a.) Full of bridges.,
B as in Bridle (n.) The head gear with which a horse is governed and restrained, consisting of a headstall, a bit, and reins, with other appendages.,
B as in Bridle (n.) A restraint; a curb; a check.,
B as in Bridle (n.) The piece in the interior of a gun lock, which holds in place the tumbler, sear, etc.,
B as in Bridle (n.) A span of rope, line, or chain made fast as both ends, so that another rope, line, or chain may be attached to its middle.,
B as in Bridle (n.) A mooring hawser.,
B as in Bridled (imp. & p. p.) of Bridle,
B as in Bridling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bridle,
B as in Bridle (v. t.) To put a bridle upon; to equip with a bridle; as, to bridle a horse.,
B as in Bridle (v. t.) To restrain, guide, or govern, with, or as with, a bridle; to check, curb, or control; as, to bridle the passions; to bridle a muse.,
B as in Bridle (v. i.) To hold up the head, and draw in the chin, as an expression of pride, scorn, or resentment; to assume a lofty manner; -- usually with up.,
B as in Bridle iron () A strong flat bar of iron, so bent as to support, as in a stirrup, one end of a floor timber, etc., where no sufficient bearing can be had; -- called also stirrup and hanger.,
B as in Bridler (n.) One who bridles; one who restrains and governs, as with a bridle.,
B as in Bridoon (n.) The snaffle and rein of a military bridle, which acts independently of the bit, at the pleasure of the rider. It is used in connection with a curb bit, which has its own rein.,
B as in Brief (a.) Short in duration.,
B as in Brief (a.) Concise; terse; succinct.,
B as in Brief (a.) Rife; common; prevalent.,
B as in Brief (adv.) Briefly.,
B as in Brief (adv.) Soon; quickly.,
B as in Brief (a.) A short concise writing or letter; a statement in few words.,
B as in Brief (a.) An epitome.,
B as in Brief (a.) An abridgment or concise statement of a client's case, made out for the instruction of counsel in a trial at law. This word is applied also to a statement of the heads or points of a law argument.,
B as in Brief (a.) A writ; a breve. See Breve, n., 2.,
B as in Brief (n.) A writ issuing from the chancery, directed to any judge ordinary, commanding and authorizing that judge to call a jury to inquire into the case, and upon their verdict to pronounce sentence.,
B as in Brief (n.) A letter patent, from proper authority, authorizing a collection or charitable contribution of money in churches, for any public or private purpose.,
B as in Brief (v. t.) To make an abstract or abridgment of; to shorten; as, to brief pleadings.,
B as in Briefless (a.) Having no brief; without clients; as, a briefless barrister.,
B as in Briefly (adv.) Concisely; in few words.,
B as in Briefman (n.) One who makes a brief.,
B as in Briefman (n.) A copier of a manuscript.,
B as in Briefness (n.) The quality of being brief; brevity; conciseness in discourse or writing.,
B as in Brier (n.) Alt. of Briar,
B as in Briar (n.) A plant with a slender woody stem bearing stout prickles; especially, species of Rosa, Rubus, and Smilax.,
B as in Briar (n.) Fig.: Anything sharp or unpleasant to the feelings.,
B as in Briered (a.) Set with briers.,
B as in Briery (a.) Full of briers; thorny.,
B as in Briery (n.) A place where briers grow.,
B as in Brig (n.) A bridge.,
B as in Brig (n.) A two-masted, square-rigged vessel.,
B as in Brigade (n.) A body of troops, whether cavalry, artillery, infantry, or mixed, consisting of two or more regiments, under the command of a brigadier general.,
B as in Brigade (n.) Any body of persons organized for acting or marching together under authority; as, a fire brigade.,
B as in Brigaded (imp. & p. p.) of Brigade,
B as in Brigading (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Brigade,
B as in Brigade (v. t.) To form into a brigade, or into brigades.,
B as in Brigadier general () An officer in rank next above a colonel, and below a major general. He commands a brigade, and is sometimes called, by a shortening of his title, simple a brigadier.,
B as in Brigand (n.) A light-armed, irregular foot soldier.,
B as in Brigand (n.) A lawless fellow who lives by plunder; one of a band of robbers; especially, one of a gang living in mountain retreats; a highwayman; a freebooter.,
B as in Brigandage (n.) Life and practice of brigands; highway robbery; plunder.,
B as in Brigandine (n.) A coast of armor for the body, consisting of scales or plates, sometimes overlapping each other, generally of metal, and sewed to linen or other material. It was worn in the Middle Ages.,
B as in Brigandish (a.) Like a brigand or freebooter; robberlike.,
B as in Brigandism (n.) Brigandage.,
B as in Brigantine (n.) A practical vessel.,
B as in Brigantine (n.) A two-masted, square-rigged vessel, differing from a brig in that she does not carry a square mainsail.,
B as in Brigantine (n.) See Brigandine.,
B as in Brigge (n.) A bridge.,
B as in Bright (v. i.) See Brite, v. i.,
B as in Bright (a.) Radiating or reflecting light; shedding or having much light; shining; luminous; not dark.,
B as in Bright (a.) Transmitting light; clear; transparent.,
B as in Bright (a.) Having qualities that render conspicuous or attractive, or that affect the mind as light does the eye; resplendent with charms; as, bright beauty.,
B as in Bright (a.) Having a clear, quick intellect; intelligent.,
B as in Bright (a.) Sparkling with wit; lively; vivacious; shedding cheerfulness and joy around; cheerful; cheery.,
B as in Bright (a.) Illustrious; glorious.,
B as in Bright (a.) Manifest to the mind, as light is to the eyes; clear; evident; plain.,
B as in Bright (a.) Of brilliant color; of lively hue or appearance.,
B as in Bright (n.) Splendor; brightness.,
B as in Bright (adv.) Brightly.,
B as in Brightened (imp. & p. p.) of Brighten,
B as in Brightening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Brighten,
B as in Brighten (a.) To make bright or brighter; to make to shine; to increase the luster of; to give a brighter hue to.,
B as in Brighten (a.) To make illustrious, or more distinguished; to add luster or splendor to.,
B as in Brighten (a.) To improve or relieve by dispelling gloom or removing that which obscures and darkens; to shed light upon; to make cheerful; as, to brighten one's prospects.,
B as in Brighten (a.) To make acute or witty; to enliven.,
B as in Brighten (v. i.) To grow bright, or more bright; to become less dark or gloomy; to clear up; to become bright or cheerful.,
B as in Bright-harnessed (a.) Having glittering armor.,
B as in Brightly (adv.) Brilliantly; splendidly; with luster; as, brightly shining armor.,
B as in Brightly (adv.) With lively intelligence; intelligently.,
B as in Brightness (n.) The quality or state of being bright; splendor; luster; brilliancy; clearness.,
B as in Brightness (n.) Acuteness (of the faculties); sharpness 9wit.,
B as in Bright's disease () An affection of the kidneys, usually inflammatory in character, and distinguished by the occurrence of albumin and renal casts in the urine. Several varieties of Bright's disease are now recognized, differing in the part of the kidney involved, and in the intensity and course of the morbid process.,
B as in Brightsome (a.) Bright; clear; luminous; brilliant.,
B as in Brigose (n.) Contentious; quarrelsome.,
B as in Brigue (n.) A cabal, intrigue, faction, contention, strife, or quarrel.,
B as in Brigue (n.) To contend for; to canvass; to solicit.,
B as in Brike (n.) A breach; ruin; downfall; peril.,
B as in Brill (n.) A fish allied to the turbot (Rhombus levis), much esteemed in England for food; -- called also bret, pearl, prill. See Bret.,
B as in Brillante (a.) In a gay, showy, and sparkling style.,
B as in Brillance (n.) Brilliancy.,
B as in Brillancy (n.) The quality of being brilliant; splendor; glitter; great brightness, whether in a literal or figurative sense.,
B as in Brilliant (p. pr.) Sparkling with luster; glittering; very bright; as, a brilliant star.,
B as in Brilliant (p. pr.) Distinguished by qualities which excite admiration; splendid; shining; as, brilliant talents.,
B as in Brilliant (a.) A diamond or other gem of the finest cut, formed into faces and facets, so as to reflect and refract the light, by which it is rendered more brilliant. It has at the middle, or top, a principal face, called the table, which is surrounded by a number of sloping facets forming a bizet; below, it has a small face or collet, parallel to the table, connected with the girdle by a pavilion of elongated facets. It is thus distinguished from the rose diamond, which is entirely covered with facets on the surface, and is flat below.,
B as in Brilliant (a.) The smallest size of type used in England printing.,
B as in Brilliant (a.) A kind of cotton goods, figured on the weaving.,
B as in Brilliantly (adv.) In a brilliant manner.,
B as in Brilliantness (n.) Brilliancy; splendor; glitter.,
B as in Brills (n. pl.) The hair on the eyelids of a horse.,
B as in Brim (n.) The rim, border, or upper edge of a cup, dish, or any hollow vessel used for holding anything.,
B as in Brim (n.) The edge or margin, as of a fountain, or of the water contained in it; the brink; border.,
B as in Brim (n.) The rim of a hat.,
B as in Brimmed (imp. & p. p.) of Brim,
B as in Brimming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Brim,
B as in Brim (v. i.) To be full to the brim.,
B as in Brim (v. t.) To fill to the brim, upper edge, or top.,
B as in Brim (a.) Fierce; sharp; cold. See Breme.,
B as in Brimful (a.) Full to the brim; completely full; ready to overflow.,
B as in Brimless (a.) Having no brim; as, brimless caps.,
B as in Brimmed (a.) Having a brim; -- usually in composition.,
B as in Brimmed (a.) Full to, or level with, the brim.,
B as in Brimmer (n.) A brimful bowl; a bumper.,
B as in Brimming (a.) Full to the brim; overflowing.,
B as in Brimstone (v. t.) Sulphur; See Sulphur.,
B as in Brimstone (a.) Made of, or pertaining to, brimstone; as, brimstone matches.,
B as in Brimstony (a.) Containing or resembling brimstone; sulphurous.,
B as in Brin (n.) One of the radiating sticks of a fan. The outermost are larger and longer, and are called panaches.,
B as in Brinded (a.) Of a gray or tawny color with streaks of darker hue; streaked; brindled.,
B as in Brindle (n.) The state of being brindled.,
B as in Brindle (n.) A brindled color; also, that which is brindled.,
B as in Brindle (a.) Brindled.,
B as in Brindled (a.) Having dark streaks or spots on a gray or tawny ground; brinded.,
B as in Brine (n.) Water saturated or strongly impregnated with salt; pickle; hence, any strong saline solution; also, the saline residue or strong mother liquor resulting from the evaporation of natural or artificial waters.,
B as in Brine (n.) The ocean; the water of an ocean, sea, or salt lake.,
B as in Brine (n.) Tears; -- so called from their saltness.,
B as in Brine (v. t.) To steep or saturate in brine.,
B as in Brine (v. t.) To sprinkle with salt or brine; as, to brine hay.,
B as in Brought (imp. & p. p.) of Bring,
B as in Bringing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bring,
B as in Bring (v. t.) To convey to the place where the speaker is or is to be; to bear from a more distant to a nearer place; to fetch.,
B as in Bring (v. t.) To cause the accession or obtaining of; to procure; to make to come; to produce; to draw to.,
B as in Bring (v. t.) To convey; to move; to carry or conduct.,
B as in Bring (v. t.) To persuade; to induce; to draw; to lead; to guide.,
B as in Bring (v. t.) To produce in exchange; to sell for; to fetch; as, what does coal bring per ton?,
B as in Bringer (n.) One who brings.,
B as in Brininess (n.) The state or quality of being briny; saltness; brinishness.,
B as in Brinish (a.) Like brine; somewhat salt; saltish.,
B as in Brinishness (n.) State or quality of being brinish.,
B as in Brinjaree (n.) A rough-haired East Indian variety of the greyhound.,
B as in Brink (n.) The edge, margin, or border of a steep place, as of a precipice; a bank or edge, as of a river or pit; a verge; a border; as, the brink of a chasm. Also Fig.,
B as in Briny (a.) Of or pertaining to brine, or to the sea; partaking of the nature of brine; salt; as, a briny taste; the briny flood.,
B as in Briony (n.) See Bryony.,
B as in Brisk (a.) Full of liveliness and activity; characterized by quickness of motion or action; lively; spirited; quick.,
B as in Brisk (a.) Full of spirit of life; effervesc/ng, as liquors; sparkling; as, brick cider.,
B as in Bricked (imp. & p. p.) of Brisk,
B as in Bricking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Brisk,
B as in Brisk (v. t. & i.) To make or become lively; to enliven; to animate; to take, or cause to take, an erect or bold attitude; -- usually with up.,
B as in Brisket (n.) That part of the breast of an animal which extends from the fore legs back beneath the ribs; also applied to the fore part of a horse, from the shoulders to the bottom of the chest.,
B as in Briskly (adv.) In a brisk manner; nimbly.,
B as in Briskness (n.) Liveliness; vigor in action; quickness; gayety; vivacity; effervescence.,
B as in Bristle (n.) A short, stiff, coarse hair, as on the back of swine.,
B as in Bristle (n.) A stiff, sharp, roundish hair.,
B as in Bristled (imp. & p. p.) of Bristle,
B as in Bristling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bristle,
B as in Bristle (v. t.) To erect the bristles of; to cause to stand up, as the bristles of an angry hog; -- sometimes with up.,
B as in Bristle (v. t.) To fix a bristle to; as, to bristle a thread.,
B as in Bristle (v. i.) To rise or stand erect, like bristles.,
B as in Bristle (v. i.) To appear as if covered with bristles; to have standing, thick and erect, like bristles.,
B as in Bristle (v. i.) To show defiance or indignation.,
B as in Bristle-pointed (a.) Terminating in a very fine, sharp point, as some leaves.,
B as in Bristle-shaped (a.) Resembling a bristle in form; as, a bristle-shaped leaf.,
B as in Bristletail (n.) An insect of the genera Lepisma, Campodea, etc., belonging to the Thysanura.,
B as in Bristliness (n.) The quality or state of having bristles.,
B as in Bristly (a.) Thick set with bristles, or with hairs resembling bristles; rough.,
B as in Bristol (n.) A seaport city in the west of England.,
B as in Brisure (n.) Any part of a rampart or parapet which deviates from the general direction.,
B as in Brisure (n.) A mark of cadency or difference.,
B as in Brit (n.) Alt. of Britt,
B as in Britt (n.) The young of the common herring; also, a small species of herring; the sprat.,
B as in Britt (n.) The minute marine animals (chiefly Entomostraca) upon which the right whales feed.,
B as in Britannia (n.) A white-metal alloy of tin, antimony, bismuth, copper, etc. It somewhat resembles silver, and is used for table ware. Called also Britannia metal.,
B as in Britannic (a.) Of or pertaining to Great Britain; British; as, her Britannic Majesty.,
B as in Brite (v. t.) Alt. of Bright,
B as in Bright (v. t.) To be or become overripe, as wheat, barley, or hops.,
B as in Briticism (n.) A word, phrase, or idiom peculiar to Great Britain; any manner of using a word or words that is peculiar to Great Britain.,
B as in British (a.) Of or pertaining to Great Britain or to its inhabitants; -- sometimes restricted to the original inhabitants.,
B as in British (n. pl.) People of Great Britain.,
B as in Britisher (n.) An Englishman; a subject or inhabitant of Great Britain, esp. one in the British military or naval service.,
B as in Briton (a.) British.,
B as in Briton (n.) A native of Great Britain.,
B as in Brittle (a.) Easily broken; apt to break; fragile; not tough or tenacious.,
B as in Brittlely (adv.) In a brittle manner.,
B as in Brittleness (n.) Aptness to break; fragility.,
B as in Brittle star () Any species of ophiuran starfishes. See Ophiuroidea.,
B as in Britzska (n.) A long carriage, with a calash top, so constructed as to give space for reclining at night, when used on a journey.,
B as in Brize (n.) The breeze fly. See Breeze.,
B as in Broach (n.) A spit.,
B as in Broach (n.) An awl; a bodkin; also, a wooden rod or pin, sharpened at each end, used by thatchers.,
B as in Broach (n.) A tool of steel, generally tapering, and of a polygonal form, with from four to eight cutting edges, for smoothing or enlarging holes in metal; sometimes made smooth or without edges, as for burnishing pivot holes in watches; a reamer. The broach for gun barrels is commonly square and without taper.,
B as in Broach (n.) A straight tool with file teeth, made of steel, to be pressed through irregular holes in metal that cannot be dressed by revolving tools; a drift.,
B as in Broach (n.) A broad chisel for stonecutting.,
B as in Broach (n.) A spire rising from a tower.,
B as in Broach (n.) A clasp for fastening a garment. See Brooch.,
B as in Broach (n.) A spitlike start, on the head of a young stag.,
B as in Broach (n.) The stick from which candle wicks are suspended for dipping.,
B as in Broach (n.) The pin in a lock which enters the barrel of the key.,
B as in Broached (imp. & p. p.) of Broach,
B as in Broaching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Broach,
B as in Broach (n.) To spit; to pierce as with a spit.,
B as in Broach (n.) To tap; to pierce, as a cask, in order to draw the liquor. Hence: To let out; to shed, as blood.,
B as in Broach (n.) To open for the first time, as stores.,
B as in Broach (n.) To make public; to utter; to publish first; to put forth; to introduce as a topic of conversation.,
B as in Broach (n.) To cause to begin or break out.,
B as in Broach (n.) To shape roughly, as a block of stone, by chiseling with a coarse tool.,
B as in Broach (n.) To enlarge or dress (a hole), by using a broach.,
B as in Broacher (n.) A spit; a broach.,
B as in Broacher (n.) One who broaches, opens, or utters; a first publisher or promoter.,
B as in Broad (superl.) Wide; extend in breadth, or from side to side; -- opposed to narrow; as, a broad street, a broad table; an inch broad.,
B as in Broad (superl.) Extending far and wide; extensive; vast; as, the broad expanse of ocean.,
B as in Broad (superl.) Extended, in the sense of diffused; open; clear; full.,
B as in Broad (superl.) Fig.: Having a large measure of any thing or quality; not limited; not restrained; -- applied to any subject, and retaining the literal idea more or less clearly, the precise meaning depending largely on the substantive.,
B as in Broad (superl.) Comprehensive; liberal; enlarged.,
B as in Broad (superl.) Plain; evident; as, a broad hint.,
B as in Broad (superl.) Free; unrestrained; unconfined.,
B as in Broad (superl.) Characterized by breadth. See Breadth.,
B as in Broad (superl.) Cross; coarse; indelicate; as, a broad compliment; a broad joke; broad humor.,
B as in Broad (superl.) Strongly marked; as, a broad Scotch accent.,
B as in Broad (n.) The broad part of anything; as, the broad of an oar.,
B as in Broad (n.) The spread of a river into a sheet of water; a flooded fen.,
B as in Broad (n.) A lathe tool for turning down the insides and bottoms of cylinders.,
B as in Broadax Broadaxe (n.) An ancient military weapon; a battle-ax.,
B as in Broadax Broadaxe (n.) An ax with a broad edge, for hewing timber.,
B as in Broadbill (n.) A wild duck (Aythya, / Fuligula, marila), which appears in large numbers on the eastern coast of the United States, in autumn; -- called also bluebill, blackhead, raft duck, and scaup duck. See Scaup duck.,
B as in Broadbill (n.) The shoveler. See Shoveler.,
B as in Broadbrim (n.) A hat with a very broad brim, like those worn by men of the society of Friends.,
B as in Broadbrim (n.) A member of the society of Friends; a Quaker.,
B as in Broad-brimmed (a.) Having a broad brim.,
B as in Broadcast (n.) A casting or throwing seed in all directions, as from the hand in sowing.,
B as in Broadcast (a.) Cast or dispersed in all directions, as seed from the hand in sowing; widely diffused.,
B as in Broadcast (a.) Scattering in all directions (as a method of sowing); -- opposed to planting in hills, or rows.,
B as in Broadcast (adv.) So as to scatter or be scattered in all directions; so as to spread widely, as seed from the hand in sowing, or news from the press.,
B as in Broad Church () A portion of the Church of England, consisting of persons who claim to hold a position, in respect to doctrine and fellowship, intermediate between the High Church party and the Low Church, or evangelical, party. The term has been applied to other bodies of men holding liberal or comprehensive views of Christian doctrine and fellowship.,
B as in Broadcloth (n.) A fine smooth-faced woolen cloth for men's garments, usually of double width (i.e., a yard and a half); -- so called in distinction from woolens three quarters of a yard wide.,
B as in Broadened (imp. & p. p.) of Broaden,
B as in Broadening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Broaden,
B as in Broaden (a.) To grow broad; to become broader or wider.,
B as in Broaden (v. t.) To make broad or broader; to render more broad or comprehensive.,
B as in Broad gauge () A wider distance between the rails than the "standard" gauge of four feet eight inches and a half. See Gauge.,
B as in Broad-horned (a.) Having horns spreading widely.,
B as in Broadish (a.) Rather broad; moderately broad.,
B as in Broadleaf (n.) A tree (Terminalia latifolia) of Jamaica, the wood of which is used for boards, scantling, shingles, etc; -- sometimes called the almond tree, from the shape of its fruit.,
B as in Broad-leaved (a.) Alt. of Broad-leafed,
B as in Broad-leafed (a.) Having broad, or relatively broad, leaves.,
B as in Broadly (adv.) In a broad manner.,
B as in Broadmouth (n.) One of the Eurylaimidae, a family of East Indian passerine birds.,
B as in Broadness (n.) The condition or quality of being broad; breadth; coarseness; grossness.,
B as in Broadpiece (n.) An old English gold coin, broader than a guinea, as a Carolus or Jacobus.,
B as in Broad seal () The great seal of England; the public seal of a country or state.,
B as in Broadseal (v. t.) To stamp with the broad seal; to make sure; to guarantee or warrant.,
B as in Broadside (n.) The side of a ship above the water line, from the bow to the quarter.,
B as in Broadside (n.) A discharge of or from all the guns on one side of a ship, at the same time.,
B as in Broadside (n.) A volley of abuse or denunciation.,
B as in Broadside (n.) A sheet of paper containing one large page, or printed on one side only; -- called also broadsheet.,
B as in Broadspread (a.) Widespread.,
B as in Broadspreading (a.) Spreading widely.,
B as in Broadsword (n.) A sword with a broad blade and a cutting edge; a claymore.,
B as in Broadwise (adv.) Breadthwise.,
B as in Brob (n.) A peculiar brad-shaped spike, to be driven alongside the end of an abutting timber to prevent its slipping.,
B as in Brobdingnagian (a.) Colossal; of extraordinary height; gigantic.,
B as in Brobdingnagian (n.) A giant.,
B as in Brocade (n.) Silk stuff, woven with gold and silver threads, or ornamented with raised flowers, foliage, etc.; -- also applied to other stuffs thus wrought and enriched.,
B as in Brocaded (a.) Woven or worked, as brocade, with gold and silver, or with raised flowers, etc.,
B as in Brocaded (a.) Dressed in brocade.,
B as in Brocage (n.) See Brokkerage.,
B as in Brocard (n.) An elementary principle or maximum; a short, proverbial rule, in law, ethics, or metaphysics.,
B as in Brocatel (n.) A kind of coarse brocade, or figured fabric, used chiefly for tapestry, linings for carriages, etc.,
B as in Brocatel (n.) A marble, clouded and veined with white, gray, yellow, and red, in which the yellow usually prevails. It is also called Siena marble, from its locality.,
B as in Brocatello (n.) Same as Brocatel.,
B as in Broccoli (n.) A plant of the Cabbage species (Brassica oleracea) of many varieties, resembling the cauliflower. The "curd," or flowering head, is the part used for food.,
B as in Brochantite (n.) A basic sulphate of copper, occurring in emerald-green crystals.,
B as in Broche (a.) Woven with a figure; as, broche goods.,
B as in Broche (n.) See Broach, n.,
B as in Brochure (v. t.) A printed and stitched book containing only a few leaves; a pamphlet.,
B as in Brock (n.) A badger.,
B as in Brock (n.) A brocket.,
B as in Brocket (n.) A male red deer two years old; -- sometimes called brock.,
B as in Brocket (n.) A small South American deer, of several species (Coassus superciliaris, C. rufus, and C. auritus).,
B as in Brockish (a.) Beastly; brutal.,
B as in Brodekin (n.) A buskin or half-boot.,
B as in Brog (n.) A pointed instrument, as a joiner's awl, a brad awl, a needle, or a small sharp stick.,
B as in Brog (v. t.) To prod with a pointed instrument, as a lance; also, to broggle.,
B as in Brogan (n.) A stout, coarse shoe; a brogue.,
B as in Broggle (n.) To sniggle, or fish with a brog.,
B as in Brogue (n.) A stout, coarse shoe; a brogan.,
B as in Brogue (v. t.) A dialectic pronunciation; esp. the Irish manner of pronouncing English.,
B as in Brogues (n. pl.) Breeches.,
B as in Broid (v. t.) To braid.,
B as in Broidered (imp. & p. p.) of Broider,
B as in Broider (v. t.) To embroider.,
B as in Broiderer (n.) One who embroiders.,
B as in Broidery (n.) Embroidery.,
B as in Broil (n.) A tumult; a noisy quarrel; a disturbance; a brawl; contention; discord, either between individuals or in the state.,
B as in Broiled (imp. & p. p.) of Broil,
B as in Broiling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Broil,
B as in Broil (v. t.) To cook by direct exposure to heat over a fire, esp. upon a gridiron over coals.,
B as in Broil (v. t.) To subject to great (commonly direct) heat.,
B as in Broil (v. i.) To be subjected to the action of heat, as meat over the fire; to be greatly heated, or to be made uncomfortable with heat.,
B as in Broiler (n.) One who excites broils; one who engages in or promotes noisy quarrels.,
B as in Broiler (n.) One who broils, or cooks by broiling.,
B as in Broiler (n.) A gridiron or other utensil used in broiling.,
B as in Broiler (n.) A chicken or other bird fit for broiling.,
B as in Broiling (a.) Excessively hot; as, a broiling sun.,
B as in Broiling (n.) The act of causing anything to broil.,
B as in Brokage (n.) See Brokerage.,
B as in Broke (v. i.) To transact business for another.,
B as in Broke (v. i.) To act as procurer in love matters; to pimp.,
B as in Broke () imp. & p. p. of Break.,
B as in Broken (v. t.) Separated into parts or pieces by violence; divided into fragments; as, a broken chain or rope; a broken dish.,
B as in Broken (v. t.) Disconnected; not continuous; also, rough; uneven; as, a broken surface.,
B as in Broken (v. t.) Fractured; cracked; disunited; sundered; strained; apart; as, a broken reed; broken friendship.,
B as in Broken (v. t.) Made infirm or weak, by disease, age, or hardships.,
B as in Broken (v. t.) Subdued; humbled; contrite.,
B as in Broken (v. t.) Subjugated; trained for use, as a horse.,
B as in Broken (v. t.) Crushed and ruined as by something that destroys hope; blighted.,
B as in Broken (v. t.) Not carried into effect; not adhered to; violated; as, a broken promise, vow, or contract; a broken law.,
B as in Broken (v. t.) Ruined financially; incapable of redeeming promises made, or of paying debts incurred; as, a broken bank; a broken tradesman.,
B as in Broken (v. t.) Imperfectly spoken, as by a foreigner; as, broken English; imperfectly spoken on account of emotion; as, to say a few broken words at parting.,
B as in Broken-backed (a.) Having a broken back; as, a broken-backed chair.,
B as in Broken-backed (a.) Hogged; so weakened in the frame as to droop at each end; -- said of a ship.,
B as in Broken-bellied (a.) Having a ruptured belly.,
B as in Broken-hearted (a.) Having the spirits depressed or crushed by grief or despair.,
B as in Brokenly (adv.) In a broken, interrupted manner; in a broken state; in broken language.,
B as in Brokenness (n.) The state or quality of being broken; unevenness.,
B as in Brokenness (n.) Contrition; as, brokenness of heart.,
B as in Broken wind () The heaves.,
B as in Broken-winded (a.) Having short breath or disordered respiration, as a horse.,
B as in Broker (v. t.) One who transacts business for another; an agent.,
B as in Broker (v. t.) An agent employed to effect bargains and contracts, as a middleman or negotiator, between other persons, for a compensation commonly called brokerage. He takes no possession, as broker, of the subject matter of the negotiation. He generally contracts in the names of those who employ him, and not in his own.,
B as in Broker (v. t.) A dealer in money, notes, bills of exchange, etc.,
B as in Broker (v. t.) A dealer in secondhand goods.,
B as in Broker (v. t.) A pimp or procurer.,
B as in Brokerage (n.) The business or employment of a broker.,
B as in Brokerage (n.) The fee, reward, or commission, given or changed for transacting business as a broker.,
B as in Brokerly (a.) Mean; servile.,
B as in Brokery (n.) The business of a broker.,
B as in Broking (a.) Of or pertaining to a broker or brokers, or to brokerage.,
B as in Broma (n.) Aliment; food.,
B as in Broma (n.) A light form of prepared cocoa (or cacao), or the drink made from it.,
B as in Bromal (n.) An oily, colorless fluid, CBr3.COH, related to bromoform, as chloral is to chloroform, and obtained by the action of bromine on alcohol.,
B as in Bromate (n.) A salt of bromic acid.,
B as in Bromate (v. t.) To combine or impregnate with bromine; as, bromated camphor.,
B as in Bromatologist (n.) One versed in the science of foods.,
B as in Bromatology (n.) The science of aliments.,
B as in Brome (n.) See Bromine.,
B as in Brome grass () A genus (Bromus) of grasses, one species of which is the chess or cheat.,
B as in Bromeliaceous (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, a family of endogenous and mostly epiphytic or saxicolous plants of which the genera Tillandsia and Billbergia are examples. The pineapple, though terrestrial, is also of this family.,
B as in Bromic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or containing, bromine; -- said of those compounds of bromine in which this element has a valence of five, or the next to its highest; as, bromic acid.,
B as in Bromide (n.) A compound of bromine with a positive radical.,
B as in Brominate (v. t.) See Bromate, v. t.,
B as in Bromine (n.) One of the elements, related in its chemical qualities to chlorine and iodine. Atomic weight 79.8. Symbol Br. It is a deep reddish brown liquid of a very disagreeable odor, emitting a brownish vapor at the ordinary temperature. In combination it is found in minute quantities in sea water, and in many saline springs. It occurs also in the mineral bromyrite.,
B as in Bromism (n.) A diseased condition produced by the excessive use of bromine or one of its compounds. It is characterized by mental dullness and muscular weakness.,
B as in Bromize (v. t.) To prepare or treat with bromine; as, to bromize a silvered plate.,
B as in Bromlife (n.) A carbonate of baryta and lime, intermediate between witherite and strontianite; -- called also alstonite.,
B as in Bromoform (n.) A colorless liquid, CHBr3, having an agreeable odor and sweetish taste. It is produced by the simultaneous action of bromine and caustic potash upon wood spirit, alcohol, or acetone, as also by certain other reactions. In composition it is the same as chloroform, with the substitution of bromine for chlorine. It is somewhat similar to chloroform in its effects.,
B as in Brompicrin (n.) A pungent colorless explosive liquid, CNO2Br3, analogous to and resembling chlorpicrin.,
B as in Bromuret (n.) See Bromide.,
B as in Bromyrite (n.) Silver bromide, a rare mineral; -- called also bromargyrite.,
B as in Bronchi (n. pl.) See Bronchus.,
B as in Bronchia (n. pl.) The bronchial tubes which arise from the branching of the trachea, esp. the subdivision of the bronchi.,
B as in Bronchial (a.) Belonging to the bronchi and their ramifications in the lungs.,
B as in Bronchic (a.) Bronchial.,
B as in Bronchiole (n.) A minute bronchial tube.,
B as in Bronchitic (a.) Of or pertaining to bronchitis; as, bronchitic inflammation.,
B as in Bronchitis (n.) Inflammation, acute or chronic, of the bronchial tubes or any part of them.,
B as in Broncho (n.) A native or a Mexican horse of small size.,
B as in Bronchocele (n.) See Goiter.,
B as in Bronchophony (n.) A modification of the voice sounds, by which they are intensified and heightened in pitch; -- observed in auscultation of the chest in certain cases of intro-thoracic disease.,
B as in Broncho-pneumonia (n.) Inflammation of the bronchi and lungs; catarrhal pneumonia.,
B as in Bronchotome (n.) An instrument for cutting into the bronchial tubes.,
B as in Bronchotomy (n.) An incision into the windpipe or larynx, including the operations of tracheotomy and laryngotomy.,
B as in Bronchi (pl. ) of Bronchus,
B as in Bronchus (n.) One of the subdivisions of the trachea or windpipe; esp. one of the two primary divisions.,
B as in Bronco (n.) Same as Broncho.,
B as in Brond (n.) A sword.,
B as in Brontolite (n.) Alt. of Brontolith,
B as in Brontolith (n.) An aerolite.,
B as in Brontology (n.) A treatise upon thunder.,
B as in Brontosaurus (n.) A genus of American jurassic dinosaurs. A length of sixty feet is believed to have been attained by these reptiles.,
B as in Brontotherium (n.) A genus of large extinct mammals from the miocene strata of western North America. They were allied to the rhinoceros, but the skull bears a pair of powerful horn cores in front of the orbits, and the fore feet were four-toed. See Illustration in Appendix.,
B as in Brontozoum (n.) An extinct animal of large size, known from its three-toed footprints in Mesozoic sandstone.,
B as in Bronze (a.) An alloy of copper and tin, to which small proportions of other metals, especially zinc, are sometimes added. It is hard and sonorous, and is used for statues, bells, cannon, etc., the proportions of the ingredients being varied to suit the particular purposes. The varieties containing the higher proportions of tin are brittle, as in bell metal and speculum metal.,
B as in Bronze (a.) A statue, bust, etc., cast in bronze.,
B as in Bronze (a.) A yellowish or reddish brown, the color of bronze; also, a pigment or powder for imitating bronze.,
B as in Bronze (a.) Boldness; impudence; "brass.",
B as in Bronzed (imp. & p. p.) of Bronze,
B as in Bronzing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bronze,
B as in Bronze (n.) To give an appearance of bronze to, by a coating of bronze powder, or by other means; to make of the color of bronze; as, to bronze plaster casts; to bronze coins or medals.,
B as in Bronze (n.) To make hard or unfeeling; to brazen.,
B as in Bronzewing (n.) An Australian pigeon of the genus Phaps, of several species; -- so called from its bronze plumage.,
B as in Bronzine (n.) A metal so prepared as to have the appearance of bronze.,
B as in Bronzine (a.) Made of bronzine; resembling bronze; bronzelike.,
B as in Bronzing (n.) The act or art of communicating to articles in metal, wood, clay, plaster, etc., the appearance of bronze by means of bronze powders, or imitative painting, or by chemical processes.,
B as in Bronzing (n.) A material for bronzing.,
B as in Bronzist (n.) One who makes, imitates, collects, or deals in, bronzes.,
B as in Bronzite (n.) A variety of enstatite, often having a bronzelike luster. It is a silicate of magnesia and iron, of the pyroxene family.,
B as in Bronzy (a.) Like bronze.,
B as in Brooch (n.) An ornament, in various forms, with a tongue, pin, or loop for attaching it to a garment; now worn at the breast by women; a breastpin. Formerly worn by men on the hat.,
B as in Brooch (n.) A painting all of one color, as a sepia painting, or an India painting.,
B as in Brooch (imp. & p. p.) To adorn as with a brooch.,
B as in Brood (v. t.) The young birds hatched at one time; a hatch; as, a brood of chickens.,
B as in Brood (v. t.) The young from the same dam, whether produced at the same time or not; young children of the same mother, especially if nearly of the same age; offspring; progeny; as, a woman with a brood of children.,
B as in Brood (v. t.) That which is bred or produced; breed; species.,
B as in Brood (v. t.) Heavy waste in tin and copper ores.,
B as in Brood (a.) Sitting or inclined to sit on eggs.,
B as in Brood (a.) Kept for breeding from; as, a brood mare; brood stock; having young; as, a brood sow.,
B as in Brooded (imp. & p. p.) of Brood,
B as in Brooding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Brood,
B as in Brood (v. i.) To sit on and cover eggs, as a fowl, for the purpose of warming them and hatching the young; or to sit over and cover young, as a hen her chickens, in order to warm and protect them; hence, to sit quietly, as if brooding.,
B as in Brood (v. i.) To have the mind dwell continuously or moodily on a subject; to think long and anxiously; to be in a state of gloomy, serious thought; -- usually followed by over or on; as, to brood over misfortunes.,
B as in Brood (v. t.) To sit over, cover, and cherish; as, a hen broods her chickens.,
B as in Brood (v. t.) To cherish with care.,
B as in Brood (v. t.) To think anxiously or moodily upon.,
B as in Broody (a.) Inclined to brood.,
B as in Brook (v. t.) A natural stream of water smaller than a river or creek.,
B as in Brooked (imp. & p. p.) of Brook,
B as in Brooking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Brook,
B as in Brook (v. t.) To use; to enjoy.,
B as in Brook (v. t.) To bear; to endure; to put up with; to tolerate; as, young men can not brook restraint.,
B as in Brook (v. t.) To deserve; to earn.,
B as in Brookite (n.) A mineral consisting of titanic oxide, and hence identical with rutile and octahedrite in composition, but crystallizing in the orthorhombic system.,
B as in Brooklet (n.) A small brook.,
B as in Brooklime (n.) A plant (Veronica Beccabunga), with flowers, usually blue, in axillary racemes. The American species is V. Americana.,
B as in Brook mint () See Water mint.,
B as in Brookside (n.) The bank of a brook.,
B as in Brookweed (n.) A small white-flowered herb (Samolus Valerandi) found usually in wet places; water pimpernel.,
B as in Broom (n.) A plant having twigs suitable for making brooms to sweep with when bound together; esp., the Cytisus scoparius of Western Europe, which is a low shrub with long, straight, green, angular branches, minute leaves, and large yellow flowers.,
B as in Broom (n.) An implement for sweeping floors, etc., commonly made of the panicles or tops of broom corn, bound together or attached to a long wooden handle; -- so called because originally made of the twigs of the broom.,
B as in Broom (v. t.) See Bream.,
B as in Broom corn () A variety of Sorghum vulgare, having a joined stem, like maize, rising to the height of eight or ten feet, and bearing its seeds on a panicle with long branches, of which brooms are made.,
B as in Broom rape () A genus (Orobanche) of parasitic plants of Europe and Asia. They are destitute of chlorophyll, have scales instead of leaves, and spiked flowers, and grow attached to the roots of other plants, as furze, clover, flax, wild carrot, etc. The name is sometimes applied to other plants related to this genus, as Aphyllon uniflorumand A. Ludovicianum.,
B as in Broomstaff (n.) A broomstick.,
B as in Broomstick (n.) A stick used as a handle of a broom.,
B as in Broomy (a.) Of or pertaining to broom; overgrowing with broom; resembling broom or a broom.,
B as in Brose (n.) Pottage made by pouring some boiling liquid on meal (esp. oatmeal), and stirring it. It is called beef brose, water brose, etc., according to the name of the liquid (beef broth, hot water, etc.) used.,
B as in Brotel (a.) Brittle.,
B as in Brotelness (n.) Brittleness.,
B as in Broth (n.) Liquid in which flesh (and sometimes other substances, as barley or rice) has been boiled; thin or simple soup.,
B as in Brothel (n.) A house of lewdness or ill fame; a house frequented by prostitutes; a bawdyhouse.,
B as in Brotheler (n.) One who frequents brothels.,
B as in Brothelry (n.) Lewdness; obscenity; a brothel.,
B as in Brothers (pl. ) of Brother,
B as in Brethren (pl. ) of Brother,
B as in Brothers (pl. ) of Brother,
B as in Brethren (pl. ) of Brother,
B as in Brother (n.) A male person who has the same father and mother with another person, or who has one of them only. In the latter case he is more definitely called a half brother, or brother of the half blood.,
B as in Brother (n.) One related or closely united to another by some common tie or interest, as of rank, profession, membership in a society, toil, suffering, etc.; -- used among judges, clergymen, monks, physicians, lawyers, professors of religion, etc.,
B as in Brother (n.) One who, or that which, resembles another in distinctive qualities or traits of character.,
B as in Brothered (imp. & p. p.) of Brother,
B as in Brother (v. t.) To make a brother of; to call or treat as a brother; to admit to a brotherhood.,
B as in Brother german () A brother by both the father's and mother's side, in contradistinction to a uterine brother, one by the mother only.,
B as in Brotherhood (n.) The state of being brothers or a brother.,
B as in Brotherhood (n.) An association for any purpose, as a society of monks; a fraternity.,
B as in Brotherhood (n.) The whole body of persons engaged in the same business, -- especially those of the same profession; as, the legal or medical brotherhood.,
B as in Brotherhood (n.) Persons, and, poetically, things, of a like kind.,
B as in Brothers-in-law (pl. ) of Brother-in-law,
B as in Brother-in-law (n.) The brother of one's husband or wife; also, the husband of one's sister; sometimes, the husband of one's wife's sister.,
B as in Brotherliness (n.) The state or quality of being brotherly.,
B as in Brotherly (a.) Of or pertaining to brothers; such as is natural for brothers; becoming to brothers; kind; affectionate; as, brotherly love.,
B as in Brotherly (adv.) Like a brother; affectionately; kindly.,
B as in Brouded (p.a.) Braided; broidered.,
B as in Brougham (n.) A light, close carriage, with seats inside for two or four, and the fore wheels so arranged as to turn short.,
B as in Brow (n.) The prominent ridge over the eye, with the hair that covers it, forming an arch above the orbit.,
B as in Brow (n.) The hair that covers the brow (ridge over the eyes); the eyebrow.,
B as in Brow (n.) The forehead; as, a feverish brow.,
B as in Brow (n.) The general air of the countenance.,
B as in Brow (n.) The edge or projecting upper part of a steep place; as, the brow of a precipice; the brow of a hill.,
B as in Brow (v. t.) To bound to limit; to be at, or form, the edge of.,
B as in Browbeat (imp.) of Browbeat,
B as in Browbeaten (p. p.) of Browbeat,
B as in Browbeating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Browbeat,
B as in Browbeat (v. t.) To depress or bear down with haughty, stern looks, or with arrogant speech and dogmatic assertions; to abash or disconcert by impudent or abusive words or looks; to bully; as, to browbeat witnesses.,
B as in Browbeating (n.) The act of bearing down, abashing, or disconcerting, with stern looks, supercilious manners, or confident assertions.,
B as in Browbound (a.) Crowned; having the head encircled as with a diadem.,
B as in Browdyng (n.) Embroidery.,
B as in Browed (a.) Having (such) a brow; -- used in composition; as, dark-browed, stern-browed.,
B as in Browless (a.) Without shame.,
B as in Brown (superl.) Of a dark color, of various shades between black and red or yellow.,
B as in Brown (n.) A dark color inclining to red or yellow, resulting from the mixture of red and black, or of red, black, and yellow; a tawny, dusky hue.,
B as in Browned (imp. & p. p.) of Brown,
B as in Browning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Brown,
B as in Brown (v. t.) To make brown or dusky.,
B as in Brown (v. t.) To make brown by scorching slightly; as, to brown meat or flour.,
B as in Brown (v. t.) To give a bright brown color to, as to gun barrels, by forming a thin coat of oxide on their surface.,
B as in Brown (v. i.) To become brown.,
B as in Brownback (n.) The dowitcher or red-breasted snipe. See Dowitcher.,
B as in Brown bill () A bill or halberd of the 16th and 17th centuries. See 4th Bill.,
B as in Brownian (a.) Pertaining to Dr. Robert Brown, who first demonstrated (about 1827) the commonness of the motion described below.,
B as in Brownie (n.) An imaginary good-natured spirit, who was supposed often to perform important services around the house by night, such as thrashing, churning, sweeping.,
B as in Browning (n.) The act or operation of giving a brown color, as to gun barrels, etc.,
B as in Browning (n.) A smooth coat of brown mortar, usually the second coat, and the preparation for the finishing coat of plaster.,
B as in Brownish (a.) Somewhat brown.,
B as in Brownism (n.) The views or teachings of Robert Brown of the Brownists.,
B as in Brownism (n.) The doctrines of the Brunonian system of medicine. See Brunonian.,
B as in Brownist (n.) A follower of Robert Brown, of England, in the 16th century, who taught that every church is complete and independent in itself when organized, and consists of members meeting in one place, having full power to elect and depose its officers.,
B as in Brownist (n.) One who advocates the Brunonian system of medicine.,
B as in Brownness (n.) The quality or state of being brown.,
B as in Brownstone (n.) A dark variety of sandstone, much used for building purposes.,
B as in Brown thrush () A common American singing bird (Harporhynchus rufus), allied to the mocking bird; -- also called brown thrasher.,
B as in Brownwort (n.) A species of figwort or Scrophularia (S. vernalis), and other species of the same genus, mostly perennials with inconspicuous coarse flowers.,
B as in Browny (a.) Brown or, somewhat brown.,
B as in Browpost (n.) A beam that goes across a building.,
B as in Browse (n.) The tender branches or twigs of trees and shrubs, fit for the food of cattle and other animals; green food.,
B as in Browsed (imp. & p. p.) of Browse,
B as in Browsing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Browse,
B as in Browse (n.) To eat or nibble off, as the tender branches of trees, shrubs, etc.; -- said of cattle, sheep, deer, and some other animals.,
B as in Browse (n.) To feed on, as pasture; to pasture on; to graze.,
B as in Browse (v. i.) To feed on the tender branches or shoots of shrubs or trees, as do cattle, sheep, and deer.,
B as in Browse (v. i.) To pasture; to feed; to nibble.,
B as in Browser (n.) An animal that browses.,
B as in Browsewood (n.) Shrubs and bushes upon which animals browse.,
B as in Browsing (n.) Browse; also, a place abounding with shrubs where animals may browse.,
B as in Browspot (n.) A rounded organ between the eyes of the frog; the interocular gland.,
B as in Bruang (n.) The Malayan sun bear.,
B as in Brucine (n.) A powerful vegetable alkaloid, found, associated with strychnine, in the seeds of different species of Strychnos, especially in the Nux vomica. It is less powerful than strychnine. Called also brucia and brucina.,
B as in Brucite (n.) A white, pearly mineral, occurring thin and foliated, like talc, and also fibrous; a native magnesium hydrate.,
B as in Brucite (n.) The mineral chondrodite.,
B as in Bruckeled (a.) Wet and dirty; begrimed.,
B as in Bruh (n.) The rhesus monkey. See Rhesus.,
B as in Bruin (a.) A bear; -- so called in popular tales and fables.,
B as in Bruised (imp. & p. p.) of Bruise,
B as in Bruising (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bruise,
B as in Bruise (v. t.) To injure, as by a blow or collision, without laceration; to contuse; as, to bruise one's finger with a hammer; to bruise the bark of a tree with a stone; to bruise an apple by letting it fall.,
B as in Bruise (v. t.) To break; as in a mortar; to bray, as minerals, roots, etc.; to crush.,
B as in Bruise (v. i.) To fight with the fists; to box.,
B as in Bruise (n.) An injury to the flesh of animals, or to plants, fruit, etc., with a blunt or heavy instrument, or by collision with some other body; a contusion; as, a bruise on the head; bruises on fruit.,
B as in Bruiser (n.) One who, or that which, bruises.,
B as in Bruiser (n.) A boxer; a pugilist.,
B as in Bruiser (n.) A concave tool used in grinding lenses or the speculums of telescopes.,
B as in Bruisewort (n.) A plant supposed to heal bruises, as the true daisy, the soapwort, and the comfrey.,
B as in Bruit (n.) Report; rumor; fame.,
B as in Bruit (n.) An abnormal sound of several kinds, heard on auscultation.,
B as in Bruited (imp. & p. p.) of Bruit,
B as in Bruiting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bruit,
B as in Bruit (v. t.) To report; to noise abroad.,
B as in Brumaire (n.) The second month of the calendar adopted by the first French republic. It began thirty days after the autumnal equinox. See Vendemiaire.,
B as in Brumal (a.) Of or pertaining to winter.,
B as in Brume (n.) Mist; fog; vapors.,
B as in Brummagem (a.) Counterfeit; gaudy but worthless; sham.,
B as in Brumous (a.) Foggy; misty.,
B as in Brun (n.) Same as Brun, a brook.,
B as in Brunette (a.) A girl or woman with a somewhat brown or dark complexion.,
B as in Brunette (a.) Having a dark tint.,
B as in Brunion (n.) A nectarine.,
B as in Brunonian (a.) Pertaining to, or invented by, Brown; -- a term applied to a system of medicine promulgated in the 18th century by John Brown, of Scotland, the fundamental doctrine of which was, that life is a state of excitation produced by the normal action of external agents upon the body, and that disease consists in excess or deficiency of excitation.,
B as in Brunswick black () See Japan black.,
B as in Brunswick green () An oxychloride of copper, used as a green pigment; also, a carbonate of copper similarly employed.,
B as in Brunt (v. t.) The heat, or utmost violence, of an onset; the strength or greatest fury of any contention; as, the brunt of a battle.,
B as in Brunt (v. t.) The force of a blow; shock; collision.,
B as in Brush (n.) An instrument composed of bristles, or other like material, set in a suitable back or handle, as of wood, bone, or ivory, and used for various purposes, as in removing dust from clothes, laying on colors, etc. Brushes have different shapes and names according to their use; as, clothes brush, paint brush, tooth brush, etc.,
B as in Brush (n.) The bushy tail of a fox.,
B as in Brush (n.) A tuft of hair on the mandibles.,
B as in Brush (n.) Branches of trees lopped off; brushwood.,
B as in Brush (n.) A thicket of shrubs or small trees; the shrubs and small trees in a wood; underbrush.,
B as in Brush (n.) A bundle of flexible wires or thin plates of metal, used to conduct an electrical current to or from the commutator of a dynamo, electric motor, or similar apparatus.,
B as in Brush (n.) The act of brushing; as, to give one's clothes a brush; a rubbing or grazing with a quick motion; a light touch; as, we got a brush from the wheel as it passed.,
B as in Brush (n.) A skirmish; a slight encounter; a shock or collision; as, to have a brush with an enemy.,
B as in Brush (n.) A short contest, or trial, of speed.,
B as in Brushed (imp. & p. p.) of Brush,
B as in Brushing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Brush,
B as in Brush (n.) To apply a brush to, according to its particular use; to rub, smooth, clean, paint, etc., with a brush.,
B as in Brush (n.) To touch in passing, or to pass lightly over, as with a brush.,
B as in Brush (n.) To remove or gather by brushing, or by an act like that of brushing, or by passing lightly over, as wind; -- commonly with off.,
B as in Brush (v. i.) To move nimbly in haste; to move so lightly as scarcely to be perceived; as, to brush by.,
B as in Brusher (n.) One who, or that which, brushes.,
B as in Brushiness (n.) The quality of resembling a brush; brushlike condition; shagginess.,
B as in Brushing (a.) Constructed or used to brush with; as a brushing machine.,
B as in Brushing (a.) Brisk; light; as, a brushing gallop.,
B as in Brushite (n.) A white or gray crystalline mineral consisting of the acid phosphate of calcium.,
B as in Brush turkey () A large, edible, gregarious bird of Australia (Talegalla Lathami) of the family Megapodidae. Also applied to several allied species of New Guinea.,
B as in Brush wheel () A wheel without teeth, used to turn a similar one by the friction of bristles or something brushlike or soft attached to the circumference.,
B as in Brush wheel () A circular revolving brush used by turners, lapidaries, silversmiths, etc., for polishing.,
B as in Brushwood (n.) Brush; a thicket or coppice of small trees and shrubs.,
B as in Brushwood (n.) Small branches of trees cut off.,
B as in Brushy (a.) Resembling a brush; shaggy; rough.,
B as in Brusk (a.) Same as Brusque.,
B as in Brusque (a.) Rough and prompt in manner; blunt; abrupt; bluff; as, a brusque man; a brusque style.,
B as in Brusqueness (n.) Quality of being brusque; roughness joined with promptness; bluntness.,
B as in Brussels (n.) A city of Belgium, giving its name to a kind of carpet, a kind of lace, etc.,
B as in Brustled (imp. & p. p.) of Brustle,
B as in Brustling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Brustle,
B as in Brustle (v. i.) To crackle; to rustle, as a silk garment.,
B as in Brustle (v. i.) To make a show of fierceness or defiance; to bristle.,
B as in Brustle (n.) A bristle.,
B as in Brut (n.) To browse.,
B as in Brut (n.) See Birt.,
B as in Bruta (n.) See Edentata.,
B as in Brutal (a.) Of or pertaining to a brute; as, brutal nature.,
B as in Brutal (a.) Like a brute; savage; cruel; inhuman; brutish; unfeeling; merciless; gross; as, brutal manners.,
B as in Brutalism (n.) Brutish quality; brutality.,
B as in Brutalities (pl. ) of Brutality,
B as in Brutality (n.) The quality of being brutal; inhumanity; savageness; pitilessness.,
B as in Brutality (n.) An inhuman act.,
B as in Brutalization (n.) The act or process of making brutal; state of being brutalized.,
B as in Brutalized (imp. & p. p.) of Brutalize,
B as in Brutalizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Brutalize,
B as in Brutalize (v. t.) To make brutal; beasty; unfeeling; or inhuman.,
B as in Brutalize (v. i.) To become brutal, inhuman, barbarous, or coarse and beasty.,
B as in Brutally (adv.) In a brutal manner; cruelly.,
B as in Brute (a.) Not having sensation; senseless; inanimate; unconscious; without intelligence or volition; as, the brute earth; the brute powers of nature.,
B as in Brute (a.) Not possessing reason, irrational; unthinking; as, a brute beast; the brute creation.,
B as in Brute (a.) Of, pertaining to, or characteristic of, a brute beast. Hence: Brutal; cruel; fierce; ferocious; savage; pitiless; as, brute violence.,
B as in Brute (a.) Having the physical powers predominating over the mental; coarse; unpolished; unintelligent.,
B as in Brute (a.) Rough; uncivilized; unfeeling.,
B as in Brute (n.) An animal destitute of human reason; any animal not human; esp. a quadruped; a beast.,
B as in Brute (n.) A brutal person; a savage in heart or manners; as unfeeling or coarse person.,
B as in Brute (v. t.) To report; to bruit.,
B as in Brutely (adv.) In a rude or violent manner.,
B as in Bruteness (n.) Brutality.,
B as in Bruteness (n.) Insensibility.,
B as in Brutified (imp. & p. p.) of Brutify,
B as in Brutifying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Brutify,
B as in Brutify (v. t.) To make like a brute; to make senseless, stupid, or unfeeling; to brutalize.,
B as in Brutish (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, a brute or brutes; of a cruel, gross, and stupid nature; coarse; unfeeling; unintelligent.,
B as in Brutism (n.) The nature or characteristic qualities or actions of a brute; extreme stupidity, or beastly vulgarity.,
B as in Bruting (n.) Browsing.,
B as in Bryological (a.) Relating to bryology; as, bryological studies.,
B as in Bryologist (n.) One versed in bryology.,
B as in Bryology (n.) That part of botany which relates to mosses.,
B as in Bryonin (n.) A bitter principle obtained from the root of the bryony (Bryonia alba and B. dioica). It is a white, or slightly colored, substance, and is emetic and cathartic.,
B as in Bryony (n.) The common name of several cucurbitaceous plants of the genus Bryonia. The root of B. alba (rough or white bryony) and of B. dioica is a strong, irritating cathartic.,
B as in Bryophyta (n. pl.) See Cryptogamia.,
B as in Bryozoa (n. pl.) A class of Molluscoidea, including minute animals which by budding form compound colonies; -- called also Polyzoa.,
B as in Bryozoan (a.) Of or pertaining to the Bryozoa.,
B as in Bryozoan (n.) One of the Bryozoa.,
B as in Bryozoum (n.) An individual zooid of a bryozoan coralline, of which there may be two or more kinds in a single colony. The zooecia usually have a wreath of tentacles around the mouth, and a well developed stomach and intestinal canal; but these parts are lacking in the other zooids (Avicularia, Ooecia, etc.).,
B as in Buansuah (n.) The wild dog of northern India (Cuon primaevus), supposed by some to be an ancestral species of the domestic dog.,
B as in Buat (n.) A lantern; also, the moon.,
B as in Bub (n.) Strong malt liquor.,
B as in Bub (n.) A young brother; a little boy; -- a familiar term of address of a small boy.,
B as in Bub (v. t.) To throw out in bubbles; to bubble.,
B as in Bubale (n.) A large antelope (Alcelaphus bubalis) of Egypt and the Desert of Sahara, supposed by some to be the fallow deer of the Bible.,
B as in Bubaline (a.) Resembling a buffalo.,
B as in Bubble (n.) A thin film of liquid inflated with air or gas; as, a soap bubble; bubbles on the surface of a river.,
B as in Bubble (n.) A small quantity of air or gas within a liquid body; as, bubbles rising in champagne or aerated waters.,
B as in Bubble (n.) A globule of air, or globular vacuum, in a transparent solid; as, bubbles in window glass, or in a lens.,
B as in Bubble (n.) A small, hollow, floating bead or globe, formerly used for testing the strength of spirits.,
B as in Bubble (n.) The globule of air in the spirit tube of a level.,
B as in Bubble (n.) Anything that wants firmness or solidity; that which is more specious than real; a false show; a cheat or fraud; a delusive scheme; an empty project; a dishonest speculation; as, the South Sea bubble.,
B as in Bubble (n.) A person deceived by an empty project; a gull.,
B as in Bubbled (imp. & p. p.) of Bubble,
B as in Bubbling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bubble,
B as in Bubble (n.) To rise in bubbles, as liquids when boiling or agitated; to contain bubbles.,
B as in Bubble (n.) To run with a gurgling noise, as if forming bubbles; as, a bubbling stream.,
B as in Bubble (n.) To sing with a gurgling or warbling sound.,
B as in Bubbler (v. t.) To cheat; to deceive.,
B as in Bubbler (n.) One who cheats.,
B as in Bubbler (n.) A fish of the Ohio river; -- so called from the noise it makes.,
B as in Bubble shell () A marine univalve shell of the genus Bulla and allied genera, belonging to the Tectibranchiata.,
B as in Bubbling Jock () The male wild turkey, the gobbler; -- so called in allusion to its notes.,
B as in Bubbly (a.) Abounding in bubbles; bubbling.,
B as in Bubby (n.) A woman's breast.,
B as in Bubby (n.) Bub; -- a term of familiar or affectionate address to a small boy.,
B as in Buboes (pl. ) of Bubo,
B as in Bubo (n.) An inflammation, with enlargement, of a lymphatic gland, esp. in the groin, as in syphilis.,
B as in Bubonic (a.) Of or pertaining to a bubo or buboes; characterized by buboes.,
B as in Bubonocele (n.) An inguinal hernia; esp. that incomplete variety in which the hernial pouch descends only as far as the groin, forming a swelling there like a bubo.,
B as in Bubukle (n.) A red pimple.,
B as in Buccal (a.) Of or pertaining to the mouth or cheeks.,
B as in Buccaneer (n.) A robber upon the sea; a pirate; -- a term applied especially to the piratical adventurers who made depredations on the Spaniards in America in the 17th and 18th centuries.,
B as in Buccaneer (v. i.) To act the part of a buccaneer; to live as a piratical adventurer or sea robber.,
B as in Buccaneerish (a.) Like a buccaneer; piratical.,
B as in Buccinal (a.) Shaped or sounding like a trumpet; trumpetlike.,
B as in Buccinator (n.) A muscle of the cheek; -- so called from its use in blowing wind instruments.,
B as in Buccinoid (a.) Resembling the genus Buccinum, or pertaining to the Buccinidae, a family of marine univalve shells. See Whelk, and Prosobranchiata.,
B as in Buccinum (n.) A genus of large univalve mollusks abundant in the arctic seas. It includes the common whelk (B. undatum).,
B as in Bucentaur (n.) A fabulous monster, half ox, half man.,
B as in Bucentaur (n.) The state barge of Venice, used by the doge in the ceremony of espousing the Adriatic.,
B as in Buceros (n.) A genus of large perching birds; the hornbills.,
B as in Bucholzite (n.) Same as Fibrolite.,
B as in Buchu (n.) A South African shrub (Barosma) with small leaves that are dotted with oil glands; also, the leaves themselves, which are used in medicine for diseases of the urinary organs, etc. Several species furnish the leaves.,
B as in Buck (n.) Lye or suds in which cloth is soaked in the operation of bleaching, or in which clothes are washed.,
B as in Buck (n.) The cloth or clothes soaked or washed.,
B as in Bucked (imp. & p. p.) of Buck,
B as in Bucking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Buck,
B as in Buck (v. t.) To soak, steep, or boil, in lye or suds; -- a process in bleaching.,
B as in Buck (v. t.) To wash (clothes) in lye or suds, or, in later usage, by beating them on stones in running water.,
B as in Buck (v. t.) To break up or pulverize, as ores.,
B as in Buck (n.) The male of deer, especially fallow deer and antelopes, or of goats, sheep, hares, and rabbits.,
B as in Buck (n.) A gay, dashing young fellow; a fop; a dandy.,
B as in Buck (n.) A male Indian or negro.,
B as in Buck (v. i.) To copulate, as bucks and does.,
B as in Buck (v. i.) To spring with quick plunging leaps, descending with the fore legs rigid and the head held as low down as possible; -- said of a vicious horse or mule.,
B as in Buck (v. t.) To subject to a mode of punishment which consists in tying the wrists together, passing the arms over the bent knees, and putting a stick across the arms and in the angle formed by the knees.,
B as in Buck (v. t.) To throw by bucking. See Buck, v. i., 2.,
B as in Buck (n.) A frame on which firewood is sawed; a sawhorse; a sawbuck.,
B as in Buck (n.) The beech tree.,
B as in Buck-basket (n.) A basket in which clothes are carried to the wash.,
B as in Buck bean () A plant (Menyanthes trifoliata) which grows in moist and boggy places, having racemes of white or reddish flowers and intensely bitter leaves, sometimes used in medicine; marsh trefoil; -- called also bog bean.,
B as in Buckboard (n.) A four-wheeled vehicle, having a long elastic board or frame resting on the bolsters or axletrees, and a seat or seats placed transversely upon it; -- called also buck wagon.,
B as in Bucker (n.) One who bucks ore.,
B as in Bucker (n.) A broad-headed hammer used in bucking ore.,
B as in Bucker (n.) A horse or mule that bucks.,
B as in Bucket (n.) A vessel for drawing up water from a well, or for catching, holding, or carrying water, sap, or other liquids.,
B as in Bucket (n.) A vessel (as a tub or scoop) for hoisting and conveying coal, ore, grain, etc.,
B as in Bucket (n.) One of the receptacles on the rim of a water wheel into which the water rushes, causing the wheel to revolve; also, a float of a paddle wheel.,
B as in Bucket (n.) The valved piston of a lifting pump.,
B as in Bucket shop () An office or a place where facilities are given for betting small sums on current prices of stocks, petroleum, etc.,
B as in Buckety (n.) Paste used by weavers to dress their webs.,
B as in Buckeye (n.) A name given to several American trees and shrubs of the same genus (Aesculus) as the horse chestnut.,
B as in Buckeye (n.) A cant name for a native in Ohio.,
B as in Buck-eyed (a.) Having bad or speckled eyes.,
B as in Buckhound (n.) A hound for hunting deer.,
B as in Buckie (n.) A large spiral marine shell, esp. the common whelk. See Buccinum.,
B as in Bucking (n.) The act or process of soaking or boiling cloth in an alkaline liquid in the operation of bleaching; also, the liquid used.,
B as in Bucking (n.) A washing.,
B as in Bucking (n.) The process of breaking up or pulverizing ores.,
B as in Buckish (a.) Dandified; foppish.,
B as in Buckle (n.) A device, usually of metal, consisting of a frame with one more movable tongues or catches, used for fastening things together, as parts of dress or harness, by means of a strap passing through the frame and pierced by the tongue.,
B as in Buckle (n.) A distortion bulge, bend, or kink, as in a saw blade or a plate of sheet metal.,
B as in Buckle (n.) A curl of hair, esp. a kind of crisp curl formerly worn; also, the state of being curled.,
B as in Buckle (n.) A contorted expression, as of the face.,
B as in Buckled (imp. & p. p.) of Buckle,
B as in Buckling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Buckle,
B as in Buckle (n.) To fasten or confine with a buckle or buckles; as, to buckle a harness.,
B as in Buckle (n.) To bend; to cause to kink, or to become distorted.,
B as in Buckle (n.) To prepare for action; to apply with vigor and earnestness; -- generally used reflexively.,
B as in Buckle (n.) To join in marriage.,
B as in Buckle (v. i.) To bend permanently; to become distorted; to bow; to curl; to kink.,
B as in Buckle (v. i.) To bend out of a true vertical plane, as a wall.,
B as in Buckle (v. i.) To yield; to give way; to cease opposing.,
B as in Buckle (v. i.) To enter upon some labor or contest; to join in close fight; to struggle; to contend.,
B as in Buckler (n.) A kind of shield, of various shapes and sizes, worn on one of the arms (usually the left) for protecting the front of the body.,
B as in Buckler (n.) One of the large, bony, external plates found on many ganoid fishes.,
B as in Buckler (n.) The anterior segment of the shell of trilobites.,
B as in Buckler (n.) A block of wood or plate of iron made to fit a hawse hole, or the circular opening in a half-port, to prevent water from entering when the vessel pitches.,
B as in Buckler (v. t.) To shield; to defend.,
B as in Buckler-headed (a.) Having a head like a buckler.,
B as in Buckling (a.) Wavy; curling, as hair.,
B as in Buckra (n.) A white man; -- a term used by negroes of the African coast, West Indies, etc.,
B as in Buckra (a.) White; white man's; strong; good; as, buckra yam, a white yam.,
B as in Buckram (n.) A coarse cloth of linen or hemp, stiffened with size or glue, used in garments to keep them in the form intended, and for wrappers to cover merchandise.,
B as in Buckram (n.) A plant. See Ramson.,
B as in Buckram (a.) Made of buckram; as, a buckram suit.,
B as in Buckram (a.) Stiff; precise.,
B as in Buckram (v. t.) To strengthen with buckram; to make stiff.,
B as in Buck's-horn (n.) A plant with leaves branched somewhat like a buck's horn (Plantago Coronopus); also, Lobelia coronopifolia.,
B as in Buckshot (n.) A coarse leaden shot, larger than swan shot, used in hunting deer and large game.,
B as in Buckskin (n.) The skin of a buck.,
B as in Buckskin (n.) A soft strong leather, usually yellowish or grayish in color, made of deerskin.,
B as in Buckskin (n.) A person clothed in buckskin, particularly an American soldier of the Revolutionary war.,
B as in Buckskin (n.) Breeches made of buckskin.,
B as in Buckstall (n.) A toil or net to take deer.,
B as in Buckthorn (n.) A genus (Rhamnus) of shrubs or trees. The shorter branches of some species terminate in long spines or thorns. See Rhamnus.,
B as in Bucktooth (n.) Any tooth that juts out.,
B as in Buckwheat (n.) A plant (Fagopyrum esculentum) of the Polygonum family, the seed of which is used for food.,
B as in Buckwheat (n.) The triangular seed used, when ground, for griddle cakes, etc.,
B as in Bucolic (a.) Of or pertaining to the life and occupation of a shepherd; pastoral; rustic.,
B as in Bucolic (n.) A pastoral poem, representing rural affairs, and the life, manners, and occupation of shepherds; as, the Bucolics of Theocritus and Virgil.,
B as in Bucolical (a.) Bucolic.,
B as in Bucrania (pl. ) of Bucranium,
B as in Bucranium (n.) A sculptured ornament, representing an ox skull adorned with wreaths, etc.,
B as in Bud (n.) A small protuberance on the stem or branches of a plant, containing the rudiments of future leaves, flowers, or stems; an undeveloped branch or flower.,
B as in Bud (n.) A small protuberance on certain low forms of animals and vegetables which develops into a new organism, either free or attached. See Hydra.,
B as in Budded (imp. & p. p.) of Bud,
B as in Budding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bud,
B as in Bud (v. i.) To put forth or produce buds, as a plant; to grow, as a bud does, into a flower or shoot.,
B as in Bud (v. i.) To begin to grow, or to issue from a stock in the manner of a bud, as a horn.,
B as in Bud (v. i.) To be like a bud in respect to youth and freshness, or growth and promise; as, a budding virgin.,
B as in Bud (v. t.) To graft, as a plant with another or into another, by inserting a bud from the one into an opening in the bark of the other, in order to raise, upon the budded stock, fruit different from that which it would naturally bear.,
B as in Buddha (n.) The title of an incarnation of self-abnegation, virtue, and wisdom, or a deified religious teacher of the Buddhists, esp. Gautama Siddartha or Sakya Sinha (or Muni), the founder of Buddhism.,
B as in Buddhism (n.) The religion based upon the doctrine originally taught by the Hindoo sage Gautama Siddartha, surnamed Buddha, "the awakened or enlightened," in the sixth century b. c., and adopted as a religion by the greater part of the inhabitants of Central and Eastern Asia and the Indian Islands. Buddha's teaching is believed to have been atheistic; yet it was characterized by elevated humanity and morality. It presents release from existence (a beatific enfranchisement, Nirvana) as the greatest good. Buddhists believe in transmigration of souls through all phases and forms of life. Their number was estimated in 1881 at 470,000,000.,
B as in Buddhist (n.) One who accepts the teachings of Buddhism.,
B as in Buddhist (a.) Of or pertaining to Buddha, Buddhism, or the Buddhists.,
B as in Buddhistic (a.) Same as Buddhist, a.,
B as in Budding (n.) The act or process of producing buds.,
B as in Budding (n.) A process of asexual reproduction, in which a new organism or cell is formed by a protrusion of a portion of the animal or vegetable organism, the bud thus formed sometimes remaining attached to the parent stalk or cell, at other times becoming free; gemmation. See Hydroidea.,
B as in Budding (n.) The act or process of ingrafting one kind of plant upon another stock by inserting a bud under the bark.,
B as in Buddle (n.) An apparatus, especially an inclined trough or vat, in which stamped ore is concentrated by subjecting it to the action of running water so as to wash out the lighter and less valuable portions.,
B as in Buddle (v. i.) To wash ore in a buddle.,
B as in Bude burner () A burner consisting of two or more concentric Argand burners (the inner rising above the outer) and a central tube by which oxygen gas or common air is supplied.,
B as in Bude light () A light in which high illuminating power is obtained by introducing a jet of oxygen gas or of common air into the center of a flame fed with coal gas or with oil.,
B as in Budged (imp. & p. p.) of Budge,
B as in Budging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Budge,
B as in Budge (v. i.) To move off; to stir; to walk away.,
B as in Budge (v.) Brisk; stirring; jocund.,
B as in Budge (n.) A kind of fur prepared from lambskin dressed with the wool on; -- used formerly as an edging and ornament, esp. of scholastic habits.,
B as in Budge (a.) Lined with budge; hence, scholastic.,
B as in Budge (a.) Austere or stiff, like scholastics.,
B as in Budgeness (n.) Sternness; severity.,
B as in Budger (n.) One who budges.,
B as in budgerow (n.) A large and commodious, but generally cumbrous and sluggish boat, used for journeys on the Ganges.,
B as in Budget (n.) A bag or sack with its contents; hence, a stock or store; an accumulation; as, a budget of inventions.,
B as in Budget (n.) The annual financial statement which the British chancellor of the exchequer makes in the House of Commons. It comprehends a general view of the finances of the country, with the proposed plan of taxation for the ensuing year. The term is sometimes applied to a similar statement in other countries.,
B as in Budgy (n.) Consisting of fur.,
B as in Budlet (n.) A little bud springing from a parent bud.,
B as in Buff (n.) A sort of leather, prepared from the skin of the buffalo, dressed with oil, like chamois; also, the skins of oxen, elks, and other animals, dressed in like manner.,
B as in Buff (n.) The color of buff; a light yellow, shading toward pink, gray, or brown.,
B as in Buff (n.) A military coat, made of buff leather.,
B as in Buff (n.) The grayish viscid substance constituting the buffy coat. See Buffy coat, under Buffy, a.,
B as in Buff (a.) A wheel covered with buff leather, and used in polishing cutlery, spoons, etc.,
B as in Buff (a.) The bare skin; as, to strip to the buff.,
B as in Buff (a.) Made of buff leather.,
B as in Buff (a.) Of the color of buff.,
B as in Buff (v. t.) To polish with a buff. See Buff, n., 5.,
B as in Buff (v. t.) To strike.,
B as in Buff (n.) A buffet; a blow; -- obsolete except in the phrase "Blindman's buff.",
B as in Buff (a.) Firm; sturdy.,
B as in Buffa (n. fem.) The comic actress in an opera.,
B as in Buffa (a.) Comic, farcical.,
B as in Buffaloes (pl. ) of Buffalo,
B as in Buffalo (n.) A species of the genus Bos or Bubalus (B. bubalus), originally from India, but now found in most of the warmer countries of the eastern continent. It is larger and less docile than the common ox, and is fond of marshy places and rivers.,
B as in Buffalo (n.) A very large and savage species of the same genus (B. Caffer) found in South Africa; -- called also Cape buffalo.,
B as in Buffalo (n.) Any species of wild ox.,
B as in Buffalo (n.) The bison of North America.,
B as in Buffalo (n.) A buffalo robe. See Buffalo robe, below.,
B as in Buffalo (n.) The buffalo fish. See Buffalo fish, below.,
B as in Buffel duck () A small duck (Charitonetta albeola); the spirit duck, or butterball. The head of the male is covered with numerous elongated feathers, and thus appears large. Called also bufflehead.,
B as in Buffer (n.) An elastic apparatus or fender, for deadening the jar caused by the collision of bodies; as, a buffer at the end of a railroad car.,
B as in Buffer (n.) A pad or cushion forming the end of a fender, which receives the blow; -- sometimes called buffing apparatus.,
B as in Buffer (n.) One who polishes with a buff.,
B as in Buffer (n.) A wheel for buffing; a buff.,
B as in Buffer (n.) A good-humored, slow-witted fellow; -- usually said of an elderly man.,
B as in Bufferhead (n.) The head of a buffer, which recieves the concussion, in railroad carriages.,
B as in Buffet (n.) A cupboard or set of shelves, either movable or fixed at one side of a room, for the display of plate, china, etc., a sideboard.,
B as in Buffet (n.) A counter for refreshments; a restaurant at a railroad station, or place of public gathering.,
B as in Buffet (v. i.) A blow with the hand; a slap on the face; a cuff.,
B as in Buffet (v. i.) A blow from any source, or that which affects like a blow, as the violence of winds or waves; a stroke; an adverse action; an affliction; a trial; adversity.,
B as in Buffet (v. i.) A small stool; a stool for a buffet or counter.,
B as in Buffeted (imp. & p. p.) of Buffet,
B as in Buffeting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Buffet,
B as in Buffet (v. t.) To strike with the hand or fist; to box; to beat; to cuff; to slap.,
B as in Buffet (v. t.) To affect as with blows; to strike repeatedly; to strive with or contend against; as, to buffet the billows.,
B as in Buffet (v. t.) To deaden the sound of (bells) by muffling the clapper.,
B as in Buffet (v. i.) To exercise or play at boxing; to strike; to smite; to strive; to contend.,
B as in Buffet (v. i.) To make one's way by blows or struggling.,
B as in Buffeter (n.) One who buffets; a boxer.,
B as in Buffeting (n.) A striking with the hand.,
B as in Buffeting (n.) A succession of blows; continued violence, as of winds or waves; afflictions; adversity.,
B as in Buffin (n.) A sort of coarse stuff; as, buffin gowns.,
B as in Buffing apparatus () See Buffer, 1.,
B as in Buffle (n.) The buffalo.,
B as in Buffle (v. i.) To puzzle; to be at a loss.,
B as in Bufflehead (n.) One who has a large head; a heavy, stupid fellow.,
B as in Bufflehead (n.) The buffel duck. See Buffel duck.,
B as in Buffle-headed (a.) Having a large head, like a buffalo; dull; stupid; blundering.,
B as in Buffo (n.masc.) The comic actor in an opera.,
B as in Buffoon (n.) A man who makes a practice of amusing others by low tricks, antic gestures, etc.; a droll; a mimic; a harlequin; a clown; a merry-andrew.,
B as in Buffoon (a.) Characteristic of, or like, a buffoon.,
B as in Buffoon (v. i.) To act the part of a buffoon.,
B as in Buffoon (v. t.) To treat with buffoonery.,
B as in Buffooneries (pl. ) of Buffoonery,
B as in Buffoonery (n.) The arts and practices of a buffoon, as low jests, ridiculous pranks, vulgar tricks and postures.,
B as in Buffoonish (a.) Like a buffoon; consisting in low jests or gestures.,
B as in Buffoonism (n.) The practices of a buffoon; buffoonery.,
B as in Buffoonly (a.) Low; vulgar.,
B as in Buffy (a.) Resembling, or characterized by, buff.,
B as in Bufo (n.) A genus of Amphibia including various species of toads.,
B as in Bufonite (n.) An old name for a fossil consisting of the petrified teeth and palatal bones of fishes belonging to the family of Pycnodonts (thick teeth), whose remains occur in the oolite and chalk formations; toadstone; -- so named from a notion that it was originally formed in the head of a toad.,
B as in Bug (n.) A bugbear; anything which terrifies.,
B as in Bug (n.) A general name applied to various insects belonging to the Hemiptera; as, the squash bug; the chinch bug, etc.,
B as in Bug (n.) An insect of the genus Cimex, especially the bedbug (C. lectularius). See Bedbug.,
B as in Bug (n.) One of various species of Coleoptera; as, the ladybug; potato bug, etc.; loosely, any beetle.,
B as in Bug (n.) One of certain kinds of Crustacea; as, the sow bug; pill bug; bait bug; salve bug, etc.,
B as in Bugaboo (n.) Alt. of Bugbear,
B as in Bugbear (n.) Something frightful, as a specter; anything imaginary that causes needless fright; something used to excite needless fear; also, something really dangerous, used to frighten children, etc.,
B as in Bugbane (n.) A perennial white-flowered herb of the order Ranunculaceae and genus Cimiciguga; bugwort. There are several species.,
B as in Bugbear (n.) Same as Bugaboo.,
B as in Bugbear (a.) Causing needless fright.,
B as in Bugbear (v. t.) To alarm with idle phantoms.,
B as in Bugfish (n.) The menhaden.,
B as in Bugger (n.) One guilty of buggery or unnatural vice; a sodomite.,
B as in Bugger (n.) A wretch; -- sometimes used humorously or in playful disparagement.,
B as in Buggery (n.) Unnatural sexual intercourse; sodomy.,
B as in Bugginess (a.) The state of being infested with bugs.,
B as in Buggy (a.) Infested or abounding with bugs.,
B as in Buggies (pl. ) of Buggy,
B as in Buggy (n.) A light one horse two-wheeled vehicle.,
B as in Buggy (n.) A light, four-wheeled vehicle, usually with one seat, and with or without a calash top.,
B as in Bugle (n.) A sort of wild ox; a buffalo.,
B as in Bugle (n.) A horn used by hunters.,
B as in Bugle (n.) A copper instrument of the horn quality of tone, shorter and more conical that the trumpet, sometimes keyed; formerly much used in military bands, very rarely in the orchestra; now superseded by the cornet; -- called also the Kent bugle.,
B as in Bugle (n.) An elongated glass bead, of various colors, though commonly black.,
B as in Bugle (a.) Jet black.,
B as in Bugle (n.) A plant of the genus Ajuga of the Mint family, a native of the Old World.,
B as in Bugled (a.) Ornamented with bugles.,
B as in Bugle horn () A bugle.,
B as in Bugle horn () A drinking vessel made of horn.,
B as in Bugler (n.) One who plays on a bugle.,
B as in Bugleweed (n.) A plant of the Mint family and genus Lycopus; esp. L. Virginicus, which has mild narcotic and astringent properties, and is sometimes used as a remedy for hemorrhage.,
B as in Buglosses (pl. ) of Bugloss,
B as in Bugloss (n.) A plant of the genus Anchusa, and especially the A. officinalis, sometimes called alkanet; oxtongue.,
B as in Bugwort (n.) Bugbane.,
B as in Buhl (n.) Alt. of Buhlwork,
B as in Buhlwork (n.) Decorative woodwork in which tortoise shell, yellow metal, white metal, etc., are inlaid, forming scrolls, cartouches, etc.,
B as in Buhlbuhl (n.) See Bulbul.,
B as in Buhrstone (n.) A cellular, flinty rock, used for mill stones.,
B as in Built (imp. & p. p.) of Build,
B as in Building (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Build,
B as in Builded (imp. & p. p.) of Build,
B as in Build (v. t.) To erect or construct, as an edifice or fabric of any kind; to form by uniting materials into a regular structure; to fabricate; to make; to raise.,
B as in Build (v. t.) To raise or place on a foundation; to form, establish, or produce by using appropriate means.,
B as in Build (v. t.) To increase and strengthen; to increase the power and stability of; to settle, or establish, and preserve; -- frequently with up; as, to build up one's constitution.,
B as in Build (v. i.) To exercise the art, or practice the business, of building.,
B as in Build (v. i.) To rest or depend, as on a foundation; to ground one's self or one's hopes or opinions upon something deemed reliable; to rely; as, to build on the opinions or advice of others.,
B as in Build (n.) Form or mode of construction; general figure; make; as, the build of a ship.,
B as in Builder (n.) One who builds; one whose occupation is to build, as a carpenter, a shipwright, or a mason.,
B as in Building (n.) The act of constructing, erecting, or establishing.,
B as in Building (n.) The art of constructing edifices, or the practice of civil architecture.,
B as in Building (n.) That which is built; a fabric or edifice constructed, as a house, a church, etc.,
B as in Built (n.) Shape; build; form of structure; as, the built of a ship.,
B as in Built (a.) Formed; shaped; constructed; made; -- often used in composition and preceded by the word denoting the form; as, frigate-built, clipper-built, etc.,
B as in Buke muslin () See Book muslin.,
B as in Bukshish (n.) See Backsheesh.,
B as in Bulau (n.) An East Indian insectivorous mammal (Gymnura Rafflesii), somewhat like a rat in appearance, but allied to the hedgehog.,
B as in Bulb (n.) A spheroidal body growing from a plant either above or below the ground (usually below), which is strictly a bud, consisting of a cluster of partially developed leaves, and producing, as it grows, a stem above, and roots below, as in the onion, tulip, etc. It differs from a corm in not being solid.,
B as in Bulb (n.) A name given to some parts that resemble in shape certain bulbous roots; as, the bulb of the aorta.,
B as in Bulb (n.) An expansion or protuberance on a stem or tube, as the bulb of a thermometer, which may be of any form, as spherical, cylindrical, curved, etc.,
B as in Bulb (v. i.) To take the shape of a bulb; to swell.,
B as in Bulbaceous (n.) Bulbous.,
B as in Bulbar (a.) Of or pertaining to bulb; especially, in medicine, pertaining to the bulb of the spinal cord, or medulla oblongata; as, bulbar paralysis.,
B as in Bulbed (a.) Having a bulb; round-headed.,
B as in Bulbel (n.) A separable bulb formed on some flowering plants.,
B as in Bulbiferous (n.) Producing bulbs.,
B as in Bulblet (n.) A small bulb, either produced on a larger bulb, or on some aerial part of a plant, as in the axils of leaves in the tiger lily, or replacing the flowers in some kinds of onion.,
B as in Bulbose (a.) Bulbous.,
B as in Bulbo-tuber (n.) A corm.,
B as in Bulbous (n.) Having or containing bulbs, or a bulb; growing from bulbs; bulblike in shape or structure.,
B as in Bulbul (n.) The Persian nightingale (Pycnonotus jocosus). The name is also applied to several other Asiatic singing birds, of the family Timaliidae. The green bulbuls belong to the Chloropsis and allied genera.,
B as in Bulbule (n.) A small bulb; a bulblet.,
B as in Bulchin (n.) A little bull.,
B as in Bulge (n.) The bilge or protuberant part of a cask.,
B as in Bulge (n.) A swelling, protuberant part; a bending outward, esp. when caused by pressure; as, a bulge in a wall.,
B as in Bulge (n.) The bilge of a vessel. See Bilge, 2.,
B as in Bulged (imp. & p. p.) of Bulge,
B as in Bulging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bulge,
B as in Bulge (v. i.) To swell or jut out; to bend outward, as a wall when it yields to pressure; to be protuberant; as, the wall bulges.,
B as in Bulge (v. i.) To bilge, as a ship; to founder.,
B as in Bulgy (a.) Bulged; bulging; bending, or tending to bend, outward.,
B as in Bulimia (n.) Alt. of Bulimy,
B as in Bulimy (n.) A disease in which there is a perpetual and insatiable appetite for food; a diseased and voracious appetite.,
B as in Bulimus (n.) A genus of land snails having an elongated spiral shell, often of large size. The species are numerous and abundant in tropical America.,
B as in Bulk (n.) Magnitude of material substance; dimensions; mass; size; as, an ox or ship of great bulk.,
B as in Bulk (n.) The main mass or body; the largest or principal portion; the majority; as, the bulk of a debt.,
B as in Bulk (n.) The cargo of a vessel when stowed.,
B as in Bulk (n.) The body.,
B as in Bulked (imp. & p. p.) of Bulk,
B as in Bulking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bulk,
B as in Bulk (v. i.) To appear or seem to be, as to bulk or extent; to swell.,
B as in Bulk (v.) A projecting part of a building.,
B as in Bulker (n.) A person employed to ascertain the bulk or size of goods, in order to fix the amount of freight or dues payable on them.,
B as in Bulkhead (n.) A partition in a vessel, to separate apartments on the same deck.,
B as in Bulkhead (n.) A structure of wood or stone, to resist the pressure of earth or water; a partition wall or structure, as in a mine; the limiting wall along a water front.,
B as in Bulkiness (n.) Greatness in bulk; size.,
B as in Bulky (a.) Of great bulk or dimensions; of great size; large; thick; massive; as, bulky volumes.,
B as in Bull (n.) The male of any species of cattle (Bovidae); hence, the male of any large quadruped, as the elephant; also, the male of the whale.,
B as in Bull (n.) One who, or that which, resembles a bull in character or action.,
B as in Bull (n.) Taurus, the second of the twelve signs of the zodiac.,
B as in Bull (n.) A constellation of the zodiac between Aries and Gemini. It contains the Pleiades.,
B as in Bull (n.) One who operates in expectation of a rise in the price of stocks, or in order to effect such a rise. See 4th Bear, n., 5.,
B as in Bull (a.) Of or pertaining to a bull; resembling a bull; male; large; fierce.,
B as in Bull (v. i.) To be in heat; to manifest sexual desire as cows do.,
B as in Bull (v. t.) To endeavor to raise the market price of; as, to bull railroad bonds; to bull stocks; to bull Lake Shore; to endeavor to raise prices in; as, to bull the market. See 1st Bull, n., 4.,
B as in Bull (v. i.) A seal. See Bulla.,
B as in Bull (v. i.) A letter, edict, or respect, of the pope, written in Gothic characters on rough parchment, sealed with a bulla, and dated "a die Incarnationis," i. e., "from the day of the Incarnation." See Apostolical brief, under Brief.,
B as in Bull (v. i.) A grotesque blunder in language; an apparent congruity, but real incongruity, of ideas, contained in a form of expression; so called, perhaps, from the apparent incongruity between the dictatorial nature of the pope's bulls and his professions of humility.,
B as in Bullae (pl. ) of Bulla,
B as in Bulla (n.) A bleb; a vesicle, or an elevation of the cuticle, containing a transparent watery fluid.,
B as in Bulla (n.) The ovoid prominence below the opening of the ear in the skulls of many animals; as, the tympanic or auditory bulla.,
B as in Bulla (n.) A leaden seal for a document; esp. the round leaden seal attached to the papal bulls, which has on one side a representation of St. Peter and St. Paul, and on the other the name of the pope who uses it.,
B as in Bulla (n.) A genus of marine shells. See Bubble shell.,
B as in Bullace (n.) A small European plum (Prunus communis, var. insitita). See Plum.,
B as in Bullace (n.) The bully tree.,
B as in Bullantic (a.) Pertaining to, or used in, papal bulls.,
B as in Bullary (n.) A collection of papal bulls.,
B as in Bullaries (pl. ) of Bullary,
B as in Bullary (n.) A place for boiling or preparing salt; a boilery.,
B as in Bullate (a.) Appearing as if blistered; inflated; puckered.,
B as in Bullbeggar (n.) Something used or suggested to produce terror, as in children or persons of weak mind; a bugbear.,
B as in Bull brier () A species of Smilax (S. Pseudo-China) growing from New Jersey to the Gulf of Mexico, which has very large tuberous and farinaceous rootstocks, formerly used by the Indians for a sort of bread, and by the negroes as an ingredient in making beer; -- called also bamboo brier and China brier.,
B as in Bullcomber (n.) A scaraboid beetle; esp. the Typhaeus vulgaris of Europe.,
B as in Bulldog (n.) A variety of dog, of remarkable ferocity, courage, and tenacity of grip; -- so named, probably, from being formerly employed in baiting bulls.,
B as in Bulldog (n.) A refractory material used as a furnace lining, obtained by calcining the cinder or slag from the puddling furnace of a rolling mill.,
B as in Bulldog (a.) Characteristic of, or like, a bulldog; stubborn; as, bulldog courage; bulldog tenacity.,
B as in Bulldozed (imp. & p. p.) of Bulldoze,
B as in Bulldozing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bulldoze,
B as in Bulldoze (v. t.) To intimidate; to restrain or coerce by intimidation or violence; -- used originally of the intimidation of negro voters, in Louisiana.,
B as in Bulldozer (n.) One who bulldozes.,
B as in Bulled (a.) Swollen.,
B as in Bullen-bullen (n.) The lyre bird.,
B as in Bullen-nail (n.) A nail with a round head and short shank, tinned and lacquered.,
B as in Bullet (n.) A small ball.,
B as in Bullet (n.) A missile, usually of lead, and round or elongated in form, to be discharged from a rifle, musket, pistol, or other small firearm.,
B as in Bullet (n.) A cannon ball.,
B as in Bullet (n.) The fetlock of a horse.,
B as in Bullet-proof (a.) Capable of resisting the force of a bullet.,
B as in Bulletin (n.) A brief statement of facts respecting some passing event, as military operations or the health of some distinguished personage, issued by authority for the information of the public.,
B as in Bulletin (n.) Any public notice or announcement, especially of news recently received.,
B as in Bulletin (n.) A periodical publication, especially one containing the proceeding of a society.,
B as in Bullfaced (a.) Having a large face.,
B as in Bullfeast (n.) See Bullfight.,
B as in Bullfight (n.) Alt. of Bullfighting,
B as in Bullfighting (n.) A barbarous sport, of great antiquity, in which men torment, and fight with, a bull or bulls in an arena, for public amusement, -- still popular in Spain.,
B as in Bullfinch (n.) A bird of the genus Pyrrhula and other related genera, especially the P. vulgaris / rubicilla, a bird of Europe allied to the grosbeak, having the breast, cheeks, and neck, red.,
B as in Bullfist (n.) Alt. of Bullfice,
B as in Bullfice (n.) A kind of fungus. See Puffball.,
B as in Bull fly (n.) Alt. of Bullfly,
B as in Bullfly (n.) Any large fly troublesome to cattle, as the gadflies and breeze flies.,
B as in Bullfrog (n.) A very large species of frog (Rana Catesbiana), found in North America; -- so named from its loud bellowing in spring.,
B as in Bullhead (n.) A fresh-water fish of many species, of the genus Uranidea, esp. U. gobio of Europe, and U. Richardsoni of the United States; -- called also miller's thumb.,
B as in Bullhead (n.) In America, several species of Amiurus; -- called also catfish, horned pout, and bullpout.,
B as in Bullhead (n.) A marine fish of the genus Cottus; the sculpin.,
B as in Bullhead (n.) The black-bellied plover (Squatarola helvetica); -- called also beetlehead.,
B as in Bullhead (n.) The golden plover.,
B as in Bullhead (n.) A stupid fellow; a lubber.,
B as in Bullhead (n.) A small black water insect.,
B as in Bullheaded (a.) Having a head like that of a bull. Fig.: Headstrong; obstinate; dogged.,
B as in Bullion (n.) Uncoined gold or silver in the mass.,
B as in Bullion (n.) Base or uncurrent coin.,
B as in Bullion (n.) Showy metallic ornament, as of gold, silver, or copper, on bridles, saddles, etc.,
B as in Bullion (n.) Heavy twisted fringe, made of fine gold or silver wire and used for epaulets; also, any heavy twisted fringe whose cords are prominent.,
B as in Bullionist (n.) An advocate for a metallic currency, or a paper currency always convertible into gold.,
B as in Bullirag (n.) To intimidate by bullying; to rally contemptuously; to badger.,
B as in Bullish (a.) Partaking of the nature of a bull, or a blunder.,
B as in Bullist (n.) A writer or drawer up of papal bulls.,
B as in Bullition (v. i.) The action of boiling; boiling. [Obs.] See Ebullition.,
B as in Bull-necked (a.) Having a short and thick neck like that of a bull.,
B as in Bullock (n.) A young bull, or any male of the ox kind.,
B as in Bullock (n.) An ox, steer, or stag.,
B as in Bullock (v. t.) To bully.,
B as in Bullock's-eye (n.) See Bull's-eye, 3.,
B as in Bullon (n.) A West Indian fish (Scarus Croicensis).,
B as in Bullpout (n.) See Bullhead, 1 (b).,
B as in Bull's-eye (n.) A small circular or oval wooden block without sheaves, having a groove around it and a hole through it, used for connecting rigging.,
B as in Bull's-eye (n.) A small round cloud, with a ruddy center, supposed by sailors to portend a storm.,
B as in Bull's-eye (n.) A small thick disk of glass inserted in a deck, roof, floor, ship's side, etc., to let in light.,
B as in Bull's-eye (n.) A circular or oval opening for air or light.,
B as in Bull's-eye (n.) A lantern, with a thick glass lens on one side for concentrating the light on any object; also, the lens itself.,
B as in Bull's-eye (n.) Aldebaran, a bright star in the eye of Taurus or the Bull.,
B as in Bull's-eye (n.) The center of a target.,
B as in Bull's-eye (n.) A thick knob or protuberance left on glass by the end of the pipe through which it was blown.,
B as in Bull's-eye (n.) A small and thick old-fashioned watch.,
B as in Bull's-nose (n.) An external angle when obtuse or rounded.,
B as in Bull terrier () A breed of dogs obtained by crossing the bulldog and the terrier.,
B as in Bull trout () In England, a large salmon trout of several species, as Salmo trutta and S. Cambricus, which ascend rivers; -- called also sea trout.,
B as in Bull trout () Salvelinus malma of California and Oregon; -- called also Dolly Varden trout and red-spotted trout.,
B as in Bull trout () The huso or salmon of the Danube.,
B as in Bullweed (n.) Knapweed.,
B as in Bullwort (n.) See Bishop's-weed.,
B as in Bullies (pl. ) of Bully,
B as in Bully (n.) A noisy, blustering fellow, more insolent than courageous; one who is threatening and quarrelsome; an insolent, tyrannical fellow.,
B as in Bully (n.) A brisk, dashing fellow.,
B as in Bully (a.) Jovial and blustering; dashing.,
B as in Bully (a.) Fine; excellent; as, a bully horse.,
B as in Bullied (imp. & p. p.) of Bully,
B as in Bullying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bully,
B as in Bully (v. t.) To intimidate with threats and by an overbearing, swaggering demeanor; to act the part of a bully toward.,
B as in Bully (v. i.) To act as a bully.,
B as in Bullyrag (v. t.) Same as Bullirag.,
B as in Bullyrock (n.) A bully.,
B as in Bully tree () The name of several West Indian trees of the order Sapotaceae, as Dipholis nigra and species of Sapota and Mimusops. Most of them yield a substance closely resembling gutta-percha.,
B as in Bulrush (n.) A kind of large rush, growing in wet land or in water.,
B as in Bulse (n.) A purse or bag in which to carry or measure diamonds, etc.,
B as in Bultel (n.) A bolter or bolting cloth; also, bran.,
B as in Bulti (n.) Same as Bolty.,
B as in Bultow (n.) A trawl; a boulter; the mode of fishing with a boulter or spiller.,
B as in Bulwark (n.) A rampart; a fortification; a bastion or outwork.,
B as in Bulwark (n.) That which secures against an enemy, or defends from attack; any means of defense or protection.,
B as in Bulwark (n.) The sides of a ship above the upper deck.,
B as in Bulwarked (imp. & p. p.) of Bulwark,
B as in Bulwarking (n.) of Bulwark,
B as in Bulwark (v. t.) To fortify with, or as with, a rampart or wall; to secure by fortification; to protect.,
B as in Bum (n.) The buttock.,
B as in Bummed (imp. & p. p.) of Bum,
B as in Bumming (n.) of Bum,
B as in Bum (v. i.,) To make murmuring or humming sound.,
B as in Bum (n.) A humming noise.,
B as in Bumbailiff (n.) See Bound bailiff, under Bound, a.,
B as in Bumbard () See Bombard.,
B as in Bumbarge (n.) See Bumboat.,
B as in Bumbast () See Bombast.,
B as in Bumbeloes (pl. ) of Bumbelo,
B as in Bumbelo (n.) A glass used in subliming camphor.,
B as in Bumble (n.) The bittern.,
B as in Bumble (v. i.) To make a hollow or humming noise, like that of a bumblebee; to cry as a bittern.,
B as in Bumblebee (n.) A large bee of the genus Bombus, sometimes called humblebee; -- so named from its sound.,
B as in Bumboat (n.) A clumsy boat, used for conveying provisions, fruit, etc., for sale, to vessels lying in port or off shore.,
B as in Bumkin (n.) A projecting beam or boom; as: (a) One projecting from each bow of a vessel, to haul the fore tack to, called a tack bumpkin. (b) One from each quarter, for the main-brace blocks, and called brace bumpkin. (c) A small outrigger over the stern of a boat, to extend the mizzen.,
B as in Bummalo (n.) A small marine Asiatic fish (Saurus ophidon) used in India as a relish; -- called also Bombay duck.,
B as in Bummer (n.) An idle, worthless fellow, who is without any visible means of support; a dissipated sponger.,
B as in Bummery (n.) See Bottomery.,
B as in Bumped (imp. & p. p.) of Bump,
B as in Bumping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bump,
B as in Bump (v. t.) To strike, as with or against anything large or solid; to thump; as, to bump the head against a wall.,
B as in Bump (v. i.) To come in violent contact with something; to thump.,
B as in Bump (n.) A thump; a heavy blow.,
B as in Bump (n.) A swelling or prominence, resulting from a bump or blow; a protuberance.,
B as in Bump (n.) One of the protuberances on the cranium which are associated with distinct faculties or affections of the mind; as, the bump of "veneration;" the bump of "acquisitiveness.",
B as in Bump (n.) The act of striking the stern of the boat in advance with the prow of the boat following.,
B as in Bump (v. i.) To make a loud, heavy, or hollow noise, as the bittern; to boom.,
B as in Bump (n.) The noise made by the bittern.,
B as in Bumper (n.) A cup or glass filled to the brim, or till the liquor runs over, particularly in drinking a health or toast.,
B as in Bumper (n.) A covered house at a theater, etc., in honor of some favorite performer.,
B as in Bumper (n.) That which bumps or causes a bump.,
B as in Bumper (n.) Anything which resists or deadens a bump or shock; a buffer.,
B as in Bumpkin (n.) An awkward, heavy country fellow; a clown; a country lout.,
B as in Bumptious (a.) Self-conceited; forward; pushing.,
B as in Bumptiousness (n.) Conceitedness.,
B as in Bun (n.) Alt. of Bunn,
B as in Bunn (n.) A slightly sweetened raised cake or bisquit with a glazing of sugar and milk on the top crust.,
B as in Bunch (n.) A protuberance; a hunch; a knob or lump; a hump.,
B as in Bunch (n.) A collection, cluster, or tuft, properly of things of the same kind, growing or fastened together; as, a bunch of grapes; a bunch of keys.,
B as in Bunch (n.) A small isolated mass of ore, as distinguished from a continuous vein.,
B as in Bunched (imp. & p. p.) of Bunch,
B as in Bunching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bunch,
B as in Bunch (v. i.) To swell out into a bunch or protuberance; to be protuberant or round.,
B as in Bunch (v. t.) To form into a bunch or bunches.,
B as in Bunch-backed (a.) Having a bunch on the back; crooked.,
B as in Bunchberry (n.) The dwarf cornel (Cornus Canadensis), which bears a dense cluster of bright red, edible berries.,
B as in Bunch grass () A grass growing in bunches and affording pasture. In California, Atropis tenuifolia, Festuca scabrella, and several kinds of Stipa are favorite bunch grasses. In Utah, Eriocoma cuspidata is a good bunch grass.,
B as in Bunchiness (n.) The quality or condition of being bunchy; knobbiness.,
B as in Bunchy (a.) Swelling out in bunches.,
B as in Bunchy (a.) Growing in bunches, or resembling a bunch; having tufts; as, the bird's bunchy tail.,
B as in Bunchy (a.) Yielding irregularly; sometimes rich, sometimes poor; as, a bunchy mine.,
B as in Buncombe (n.) Alt. of Bunkum,
B as in Bunkum (n.) Speech-making for the gratification of constituents, or to gain public applause; flattering talk for a selfish purpose; anything said for mere show.,
B as in Bund (n.) League; confederacy; esp. the confederation of German states.,
B as in Bund (n.) An embankment against inundation.,
B as in Bunder (n.) A boat or raft used in the East Indies in the landing of passengers and goods.,
B as in Bundesrath (n.) The federal council of the German Empire. In the Bundesrath and the Reichstag are vested the legislative functions. The federal council of Switzerland is also so called.,
B as in Bundle (n.) A number of things bound together, as by a cord or envelope, into a mass or package convenient for handling or conveyance; a loose package; a roll; as, a bundle of straw or of paper; a bundle of old clothes.,
B as in Bundled (imp. & p. p.) of Bundle,
B as in Bundling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bundle,
B as in Bundle (v. t.) To tie or bind in a bundle or roll.,
B as in Bundle (v. t.) To send off abruptly or without ceremony.,
B as in Bundle (v. i.) To prepare for departure; to set off in a hurry or without ceremony.,
B as in Bundle (v. i.) To sleep on the same bed without undressing; -- applied to the custom of a man and woman, especially lovers, thus sleeping.,
B as in Bung (n.) The large stopper of the orifice in the bilge of a cask.,
B as in Bung (n.) The orifice in the bilge of a cask through which it is filled; bunghole.,
B as in Bung (n.) A sharper or pickpocket.,
B as in Bunged (imp. & p. p.) of Bung,
B as in Bunging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bung,
B as in Bung (v. t.) To stop, as the orifice in the bilge of a cask, with a bung; to close; -- with up.,
B as in Bungalow (n.) A thatched or tiled house or cottage, of a single story, usually surrounded by a veranda.,
B as in Bungarum (n.) A venomous snake of India, of the genus Bungarus, allied to the cobras, but without a hood.,
B as in Bunghole (n.) See Bung, n., 2.,
B as in Bungled (imp. & p. p.) of Bungle,
B as in Bungling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bungle,
B as in Bungle (v. i.) To act or work in a clumsy, awkward manner.,
B as in Bungle (v. t.) To make or mend clumsily; to manage awkwardly; to botch; -- sometimes with up.,
B as in Bungle (n.) A clumsy or awkward performance; a botch; a gross blunder.,
B as in Bungler (n.) A clumsy, awkward workman; one who bungles.,
B as in Bungling (a.) Unskillful; awkward; clumsy; as, a bungling workman.,
B as in Bunglingly (adv.) Clumsily; awkwardly.,
B as in Bungo (n.) A kind of canoe used in Central and South America; also, a kind of boat used in the Southern United States.,
B as in Bunion (n.) Same as Bunyon.,
B as in Bunk (n.) A wooden case or box, which serves for a seat in the daytime and for a bed at night.,
B as in Bunk (n.) One of a series of berths or bed places in tiers.,
B as in Bunk (n.) A piece of wood placed on a lumberman's sled to sustain the end of heavy timbers.,
B as in Bunked (imp. & p. p.) of Bunk,
B as in Bunking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bunk,
B as in Bunk (v. i.) To go to bed in a bunk; -- sometimes with in.,
B as in Bunker (n.) A sort of chest or box, as in a window, the lid of which serves for a seat.,
B as in Bunker (n.) A large bin or similar receptacle; as, a coal bunker.,
B as in Bunko (n.) A kind of swindling game or scheme, by means of cards or by a sham lottery.,
B as in Bunkum (n.) See Buncombe.,
B as in Bunn (n.) See Bun.,
B as in Bunnian (n.) See Bunyon.,
B as in Bunny (n.) A great collection of ore without any vein coming into it or going out from it.,
B as in Bunny (n.) A pet name for a rabbit or a squirrel.,
B as in Bunodonta (n. pl.) Alt. of Bunodonts,
B as in Bunodonts (n. pl.) A division of the herbivorous mammals including the hogs and hippopotami; -- so called because the teeth are tuberculated.,
B as in Bunsen's battery () Alt. of Bunsen's burner,
B as in Bunsen's burner () See under Battery, and Burner.,
B as in Bunt (n.) A fungus (Ustilago foetida) which affects the ear of cereals, filling the grains with a fetid dust; -- also called pepperbrand.,
B as in Bunt (n.) The middle part, cavity, or belly of a sail; the part of a furled sail which is at the center of the yard.,
B as in Bunt (v. i.) To swell out; as, the sail bunts.,
B as in Bunt (v. t. & i.) To strike or push with the horns or head; to butt; as, the ram bunted the boy.,
B as in Bunter (n.) A woman who picks up rags in the streets; hence, a low, vulgar woman.,
B as in Bunting (n.) A bird of the genus Emberiza, or of an allied genus, related to the finches and sparrows (family Fringillidae).,
B as in Bunting (n.) Alt. of Buntine,
B as in Buntine (n.) A thin woolen stuff, used chiefly for flags, colors, and ships' signals.,
B as in Buntline (n.) One of the ropes toggled to the footrope of a sail, used to haul up to the yard the body of the sail when taking it in.,
B as in Bunyon (n.) Alt. of Bunion,
B as in Bunion (n.) An enlargement and inflammation of a small membranous sac (one of the bursae muscosae), usually occurring on the first joint of the great toe.,
B as in Buoy (n.) A float; esp. a floating object moored to the bottom, to mark a channel or to point out the position of something beneath the water, as an anchor, shoal, rock, etc.,
B as in Buoyed (imp. & p. p.) of Buoy,
B as in Buoying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Buoy,
B as in Buoy (v. t.) To keep from sinking in a fluid, as in water or air; to keep afloat; -- with up.,
B as in Buoy (v. t.) To support or sustain; to preserve from sinking into ruin or despondency.,
B as in Buoy (v. t.) To fix buoys to; to mark by a buoy or by buoys; as, to buoy an anchor; to buoy or buoy off a channel.,
B as in Buoy (v. i.) To float; to rise like a buoy.,
B as in Buoyage (n.) Buoys, taken collectively; a series of buoys, as for the guidance of vessels into or out of port; the providing of buoys.,
B as in Buoyance (n.) Buoyancy.,
B as in Buoyancies (pl. ) of Buoyancy,
B as in Buoyancy (n.) The property of floating on the surface of a liquid, or in a fluid, as in the atmosphere; specific lightness, which is inversely as the weight compared with that of an equal volume of water.,
B as in Buoyancy (n.) The upward pressure exerted upon a floating body by a fluid, which is equal to the weight of the body; hence, also, the weight of a floating body, as measured by the volume of fluid displaced.,
B as in Buoyancy (n.) Cheerfulness; vivacity; liveliness; sprightliness; -- the opposite of heaviness; as, buoyancy of spirits.,
B as in Buoyant (v. t. & i.) Having the quality of rising or floating in a fluid; tending to rise or float; as, iron is buoyant in mercury.,
B as in Buoyant (v. t. & i.) Bearing up, as a fluid; sustaining another body by being specifically heavier.,
B as in Buoyant (v. t. & i.) Light-hearted; vivacious; cheerful; as, a buoyant disposition; buoyant spirits.,
B as in Buprestidan (n.) One of a tribe of beetles, of the genus Buprestis and allied genera, usually with brilliant metallic colors. The larvae are usually borers in timber, or beneath bark, and are often very destructive to trees.,
B as in Bur (n.) Alt. of Burr,
B as in Burr (n.) Any rough or prickly envelope of the seeds of plants, whether a pericarp, a persistent calyx, or an involucre, as of the chestnut and burdock. Also, any weed which bears burs.,
B as in Burr (n.) The thin ridge left by a tool in cutting or shaping metal. See Burr, n., 2.,
B as in Burr (n.) A ring of iron on a lance or spear. See Burr, n., 4.,
B as in Burr (n.) The lobe of the ear. See Burr, n., 5.,
B as in Burr (n.) The sweetbread.,
B as in Burr (n.) A clinker; a partially vitrified brick.,
B as in Burr (n.) A small circular saw.,
B as in Burr (n.) A triangular chisel.,
B as in Burr (n.) A drill with a serrated head larger than the shank; -- used by dentists.,
B as in Burr (n.) The round knob of an antler next to a deer's head.,
B as in Burbolt (n.) A birdbolt.,
B as in Burbot (n.) A fresh-water fish of the genus Lota, having on the nose two very small barbels, and a larger one on the chin.,
B as in Burdelais (n.) A sort of grape.,
B as in Burden (n.) That which is borne or carried; a load.,
B as in Burden (n.) That which is borne with labor or difficulty; that which is grievous, wearisome, or oppressive.,
B as in Burden (n.) The capacity of a vessel, or the weight of cargo that she will carry; as, a ship of a hundred tons burden.,
B as in Burden (n.) The tops or heads of stream-work which lie over the stream of tin.,
B as in Burden (n.) The proportion of ore and flux to fuel, in the charge of a blast furnace.,
B as in Burden (n.) A fixed quantity of certain commodities; as, a burden of gad steel, 120 pounds.,
B as in Burden (n.) A birth.,
B as in Burdened (imp. & p. p.) of Burden,
B as in Burdening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Burden,
B as in Burden (v. t.) To encumber with weight (literal or figurative); to lay a heavy load upon; to load.,
B as in Burden (v. t.) To oppress with anything grievous or trying; to overload; as, to burden a nation with taxes.,
B as in Burden (v. t.) To impose, as a load or burden; to lay or place as a burden (something heavy or objectionable).,
B as in Burden (n.) The verse repeated in a song, or the return of the theme at the end of each stanza; the chorus; refrain. Hence: That which is often repeated or which is dwelt upon; the main topic; as, the burden of a prayer.,
B as in Burden (n.) The drone of a bagpipe.,
B as in Burden (n.) A club.,
B as in Burdener (n.) One who loads; an oppressor.,
B as in Burdenous (a.) Burdensome.,
B as in Burdensome (a.) Grievous to be borne; causing uneasiness or fatigue; oppressive.,
B as in Burdock (n.) A genus of coarse biennial herbs (Lappa), bearing small burs which adhere tenaciously to clothes, or to the fur or wool of animals.,
B as in Burdon (n.) A pilgrim's staff.,
B as in Bureaus (pl. ) of Bureau,
B as in Bureaux (pl. ) of Bureau,
B as in Bureau (n.) Originally, a desk or writing table with drawers for papers.,
B as in Bureau (n.) The place where such a bureau is used; an office where business requiring writing is transacted.,
B as in Bureau (n.) Hence: A department of public business requiring a force of clerks; the body of officials in a department who labor under the direction of a chief.,
B as in Bureau (n.) A chest of drawers for clothes, especially when made as an ornamental piece of furniture.,
B as in Bureaucracy (n.) A system of carrying on the business of government by means of departments or bureaus, each under the control of a chief, in contradiction to a system in which the officers of government have an associated authority and responsibility; also, government conducted on this system.,
B as in Bureaucracy (n.) Government officials, collectively.,
B as in Bureaucrat (n.) An official of a bureau; esp. an official confirmed in a narrow and arbitrary routine.,
B as in Bureaucratic (a.) Alt. of Bureaucratical,
B as in Bureaucratical (a.) Of, relating to, or resembling, a bureaucracy.,
B as in Bureaucratist (n.) An advocate for , or supporter of, bureaucracy.,
B as in Burel (n. & a.) Same as Borrel.,
B as in Burette (n.) An apparatus for delivering measured quantities of liquid or for measuring the quantity of liquid or gas received or discharged. It consists essentially of a graduated glass tube, usually furnished with a small aperture and stopcock.,
B as in Bur fish () A spinose, plectognath fish of the Allantic coast of the United States (esp. Chilo mycterus geometricus) having the power of distending its body with water or air, so as to resemble a chestnut bur; -- called also ball fish, balloon fish, and swellfish.,
B as in Burg (n.) A fortified town.,
B as in Burg (n.) A borough.,
B as in Burgage (n.) A tenure by which houses or lands are held of the king or other lord of a borough or city; at a certain yearly rent, or by services relating to trade or handicraft.,
B as in Burgall (n.) A small marine fish; -- also called cunner.,
B as in Burgamot (n.) See Bergamot.,
B as in Burganet (n.) See Burgonet.,
B as in Burgee (n.) A kind of small coat.,
B as in Burgee (n.) A swallow-tailed flag; a distinguishing pennant, used by cutters, yachts, and merchant vessels.,
B as in Burgeois (n.) See 1st Bourgeois.,
B as in Burgeois (n.) A burgess; a citizen. See 2d Bourgeois.,
B as in Burgeon (v. i.) To bud. See Bourgeon.,
B as in Burgess (n.) An inhabitant of a borough or walled town, or one who possesses a tenement therein; a citizen or freeman of a borough.,
B as in Burgess (n.) One who represents a borough in Parliament.,
B as in Burgess (n.) A magistrate of a borough.,
B as in Burgess (n.) An inhabitant of a Scotch burgh qualified to vote for municipal officers.,
B as in Burgess-ship (n.) The state of privilege of a burgess.,
B as in Burggrave (n.) Originally, one appointed to the command of a burg (fortress or castle); but the title afterward became hereditary, with a domain attached.,
B as in Burgh (n.) A borough or incorporated town, especially, one in Scotland. See Borough.,
B as in Burghal (a.) Belonging to a burgh.,
B as in Burghbote (n.) A contribution toward the building or repairing of castles or walls for the defense of a city or town.,
B as in Burghbrech (n.) The offense of violating the pledge given by every inhabitant of a tithing to keep the peace; breach of the peace.,
B as in Burgher (n.) A freeman of a burgh or borough, entitled to enjoy the privileges of the place; any inhabitant of a borough.,
B as in Burgher (n.) A member of that party, among the Scotch seceders, which asserted the lawfulness of the burgess oath (in which burgesses profess "the true religion professed within the realm"), the opposite party being called antiburghers.,
B as in Burghermaster (n.) See Burgomaster.,
B as in Burghership (n.) The state or privileges of a burgher.,
B as in Burghmaster (n.) A burgomaster.,
B as in Burghmaster (n.) An officer who directs and lays out the meres or boundaries for the workmen; -- called also bailiff, and barmaster.,
B as in Burghmote (n.) A court or meeting of a burgh or borough; a borough court held three times yearly.,
B as in Burglar (n.) One guilty of the crime of burglary.,
B as in Burglarer (n.) A burglar.,
B as in Burglarious (a.) Pertaining to burglary; constituting the crime of burglary.,
B as in Burglariously (adv.) With an intent to commit burglary; in the manner of a burglar.,
B as in Burglaries (pl. ) of Burglary,
B as in Burglary (n.) Breaking and entering the dwelling house of another, in the nighttime, with intent to commit a felony therein, whether the felonious purpose be accomplished or not.,
B as in Burgomaster (n.) A chief magistrate of a municipal town in Holland, Flanders, and Germany, corresponding to mayor in England and the United States; a burghmaster.,
B as in Burgomaster (n.) An aquatic bird, the glaucous gull (Larus glaucus), common in arctic regions.,
B as in Burgonet (n.) A kind of helmet.,
B as in Burgoo (n.) A kind of oatmeal pudding, or thick gruel, used by seamen.,
B as in Burgrass (n.) Grass of the genus Cenchrus, growing in sand, and having burs for fruit.,
B as in Burgrave (n.) See Burggrave.,
B as in Burgundy (n.) An old province of France (in the eastern central part).,
B as in Burgundy (n.) A richly flavored wine, mostly red, made in Burgundy, France.,
B as in Burh (n.) See Burg.,
B as in Burhel (n.) Alt. of Burrhel,
B as in Burrhel (n.) The wild Himalayan, or blue, sheep (Ovis burrhel).,
B as in Burial (n.) A grave; a tomb; a place of sepulture.,
B as in Burial (n.) The act of burying; depositing a dead body in the earth, in a tomb or vault, or in the water, usually with attendant ceremonies; sepulture; interment.,
B as in Burier (n.) One who, or that which, buries.,
B as in Burin (n.) The cutting tool of an engraver on metal, used in line engraving. It is made of tempered steel, one end being ground off obliquely so as to produce a sharp point, and the other end inserted in a handle; a graver; also, the similarly shaped tool used by workers in marble.,
B as in Burin (n.) The manner or style of execution of an engraver; as, a soft burin; a brilliant burin.,
B as in Burinist (n.) One who works with the burin.,
B as in Burion (n.) The red-breasted house sparrow of California (Carpodacus frontalis); -- called also crimson-fronted bullfinch.,
B as in Burked (imp. & p. p.) of Burke,
B as in Burking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Burke,
B as in Burke (v. t.) To murder by suffocation, or so as to produce few marks of violence, for the purpose of obtaining a body to be sold for dissection.,
B as in Burke (v. t.) To dispose of quietly or indirectly; to suppress; to smother; to shelve; as, to burke a parliamentary question.,
B as in Burkism (n.) The practice of killing persons for the purpose of selling their bodies for dissection.,
B as in Burled (imp. & p. p.) of Burl,
B as in Burling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Burl,
B as in Burl (v. t.) To dress or finish up (cloth); to pick knots, burs, loose threads, etc., from, as in finishing cloth.,
B as in Burl (n.) A knot or lump in thread or cloth.,
B as in Burl (n.) An overgrown knot, or an excrescence, on a tree; also, veneer made from such excrescences.,
B as in Burlap (n.) A coarse fabric, made of jute or hemp, used for bagging; also, a finer variety of similar material, used for curtains, etc.,
B as in Burler (n.) One who burls or dresses cloth.,
B as in Burlesque (a.) Tending to excite laughter or contempt by extravagant images, or by a contrast between the subject and the manner of treating it, as when a trifling subject is treated with mock gravity; jocular; ironical.,
B as in Burlesque (n.) Ludicrous representation; exaggerated parody; grotesque satire.,
B as in Burlesque (n.) An ironical or satirical composition intended to excite laughter, or to ridicule anything.,
B as in Burlesque (n.) A ludicrous imitation; a caricature; a travesty; a gross perversion.,
B as in Burlesqued (imp. & p. p.) of Burlesque,
B as in Burlesquing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Burlesque,
B as in Burlesque (v. t.) To ridicule, or to make ludicrous by grotesque representation in action or in language.,
B as in Burlesque (v. i.) To employ burlesque.,
B as in Burlesquer (n.) One who burlesques.,
B as in Burletta (a.) A comic operetta; a music farce.,
B as in Burliness (n.) Quality of being burly.,
B as in Burly (a.) Having a large, strong, or gross body; stout; lusty; -- now used chiefly of human beings, but formerly of animals, in the sense of stately or beautiful, and of inanimate things that were huge and bulky.,
B as in Burly (a.) Coarse and rough; boisterous.,
B as in Burmans (pl. ) of Burman,
B as in Burman (n.) A member of the Burman family, one of the four great families Burmah; also, sometimes, any inhabitant of Burmah; a Burmese.,
B as in Burman (a.) Of or pertaining to the Burmans or to Burmah.,
B as in Bur marigold () See Beggar's ticks.,
B as in Burmese (a.) Of or pertaining to Burmah, or its inhabitants.,
B as in Burmese (n. sing. & pl.) A native or the natives of Burmah. Also (sing.), the language of the Burmans.,
B as in Burned (imp. & p. p.) of Burn,
B as in Burnt () of Burn,
B as in Burning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Burn,
B as in Burn (v. t.) To consume with fire; to reduce to ashes by the action of heat or fire; -- frequently intensified by up: as, to burn up wood.,
B as in Burn (v. t.) To injure by fire or heat; to change destructively some property or properties of, by undue exposure to fire or heat; to scorch; to scald; to blister; to singe; to char; to sear; as, to burn steel in forging; to burn one's face in the sun; the sun burns the grass.,
B as in Burn (v. t.) To perfect or improve by fire or heat; to submit to the action of fire or heat for some economic purpose; to destroy or change some property or properties of, by exposure to fire or heat in due degree for obtaining a desired residuum, product, or effect; to bake; as, to burn clay in making bricks or pottery; to burn wood so as to produce charcoal; to burn limestone for the lime.,
B as in Burn (v. t.) To make or produce, as an effect or result, by the application of fire or heat; as, to burn a hole; to burn charcoal; to burn letters into a block.,
B as in Burn (v. t.) To consume, injure, or change the condition of, as if by action of fire or heat; to affect as fire or heat does; as, to burn the mouth with pepper.,
B as in Burn (v. t.) To apply a cautery to; to cauterize.,
B as in Burn (v. t.) To cause to combine with oxygen or other active agent, with evolution of heat; to consume; to oxidize; as, a man burns a certain amount of carbon at each respiration; to burn iron in oxygen.,
B as in Burn (v. i.) To be of fire; to flame.,
B as in Burn (v. i.) To suffer from, or be scorched by, an excess of heat.,
B as in Burn (v. i.) To have a condition, quality, appearance, sensation, or emotion, as if on fire or excessively heated; to act or rage with destructive violence; to be in a state of lively emotion or strong desire; as, the face burns; to burn with fever.,
B as in Burn (v. i.) To combine energetically, with evolution of heat; as, copper burns in chlorine.,
B as in Burn (v. i.) In certain games, to approach near to a concealed object which is sought.,
B as in Burn (n.) A hurt, injury, or effect caused by fire or excessive or intense heat.,
B as in Burn (n.) The operation or result of burning or baking, as in brickmaking; as, they have a good burn.,
B as in Burn (n.) A disease in vegetables. See Brand, n., 6.,
B as in Burn (n.) A small stream.,
B as in Burnable (a.) Combustible.,
B as in Burned (p. p. & a.) See Burnt.,
B as in Burned (p. p.) Burnished.,
B as in Burner (n.) One who, or that which, burns or sets fire to anything.,
B as in Burner (n.) The part of a lamp, gas fixture, etc., where the flame is produced.,
B as in Burnet (n.) A genus of perennial herbs (Poterium); especially, P.Sanguisorba, the common, or garden, burnet.,
B as in Burnettized (imp. & p. p.) of Burnettize,
B as in Burnettizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Burnettize,
B as in Burnettize (v. t.) To subject (wood, fabrics, etc.) to a process of saturation in a solution of chloride of zinc, to prevent decay; -- a process invented by Sir William Burnett.,
B as in Burnie (n.) A small brook.,
B as in Burniebee (n.) The ladybird.,
B as in Burning (a.) That burns; being on fire; excessively hot; fiery.,
B as in Burning (a.) Consuming; intense; inflaming; exciting; vehement; powerful; as, burning zeal.,
B as in Burning (n.) The act of consuming by fire or heat, or of subjecting to the effect of fire or heat; the state of being on fire or excessively heated.,
B as in Burnished (imp. & p. p.) of Burnish,
B as in Burnishing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Burnish,
B as in Burnish (a.) To cause to shine; to make smooth and bright; to polish; specifically, to polish by rubbing with something hard and smooth; as, to burnish brass or paper.,
B as in Burnish (v. i.) To shine forth; to brighten; to become smooth and glossy, as from swelling or filling out; hence, to grow large.,
B as in Burnish (n.) The effect of burnishing; gloss; brightness; luster.,
B as in Burnisher (n.) One who burnishes.,
B as in Burnisher (n.) A tool with a hard, smooth, rounded end or surface, as of steel, ivory, or agate, used in smoothing or polishing by rubbing. It has a variety of forms adapted to special uses.,
B as in Burnoose (n.) Alt. of Burnous,
B as in Burnous (n.) A cloaklike garment and hood woven in one piece, worn by Arabs.,
B as in Burnous (n.) A combination cloak and hood worn by women.,
B as in Burnstickle (n.) A stickleback (Gasterosteus aculeatus).,
B as in Burnt (p. p. & a.) Consumed with, or as with, fire; scorched or dried, as with fire or heat; baked or hardened in the fire or the sun.,
B as in Burr (n.) A prickly seed vessel. See Bur, 1.,
B as in Burr (n.) The thin edge or ridge left by a tool in cutting or shaping metal, as in turning, engraving, pressing, etc.; also, the rough neck left on a bullet in casting.,
B as in Burr (n.) A thin flat piece of metal, formed from a sheet by punching; a small washer put on the end of a rivet before it is swaged down.,
B as in Burr (n.) A broad iron ring on a tilting lance just below the gripe, to prevent the hand from slipping.,
B as in Burr (n.) The lobe or lap of the ear.,
B as in Burr (n.) A guttural pronounciation of the letter r, produced by trilling the extremity of the soft palate against the back part of the tongue; rotacism; -- often called the Newcastle, Northumberland, or Tweedside, burr.,
B as in Burr (n.) The knot at the bottom of an antler. See Bur, n., 8.,
B as in Burred (imp. & p. p.) of Burr,
B as in Burring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Burr,
B as in Burr (v. i.) To speak with burr; to make a hoarse or guttural murmur.,
B as in Burrel (n.) A sort of pear, called also the red butter pear, from its smooth, delicious, soft pulp.,
B as in Burrel (n.) Same as Borrel.,
B as in Burrel fly () The botfly or gadfly of cattle (Hypoderma bovis). See Gadfly.,
B as in Burrel shot () A mixture of shot, nails, stones, pieces of old iron, etc., fired from a cannon at short range, in an emergency.,
B as in Burring machine () A machine for cleansing wool of burs, seeds, and other substances.,
B as in Burr millstone () See Buhrstone.,
B as in Burro (n.) A donkey.,
B as in Burrock (n.) A small weir or dam in a river to direct the stream to gaps where fish traps are placed.,
B as in Burrow (n.) An incorporated town. See 1st Borough.,
B as in Burrow (n.) A shelter; esp. a hole in the ground made by certain animals, as rabbits, for shelter and habitation.,
B as in Burrow (n.) A heap or heaps of rubbish or refuse.,
B as in Burrow (n.) A mound. See 3d Barrow, and Camp, n., 5.,
B as in Burrowed (imp. & p. p.) of Burrow,
B as in Burrowing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Burrow,
B as in Burrow (v. i.) To excavate a hole to lodge in, as in the earth; to lodge in a hole excavated in the earth, as conies or rabbits.,
B as in Burrow (v. i.) To lodge, or take refuge, in any deep or concealed place; to hide.,
B as in Burrower (n.) One who, or that which, burrows; an animal that makes a hole under ground and lives in it.,
B as in Burrstone (n.) See Buhrstone.,
B as in Burry (a.) Abounding in burs, or containing burs; resembling burs; as, burry wool.,
B as in Bursae (pl. ) of Bursa,
B as in Bursa (n.) Any sac or saclike cavity; especially, one of the synovial sacs, or small spaces, often lined with synovial membrane, interposed between tendons and bony prominences.,
B as in Bursal (a.) Of or pertaining to a bursa or to bursae.,
B as in Bursar (n.) A treasurer, or cash keeper; a purser; as, the bursar of a college, or of a monastery.,
B as in Bursar (n.) A student to whom a stipend or bursary is paid for his complete or partial support.,
B as in Bursarship (n.) The office of a bursar.,
B as in -ries (pl. ) of Bursary,
B as in Bursary (n.) The treasury of a college or monastery.,
B as in Bursary (n.) A scholarship or charitable foundation in a university, as in Scotland; a sum given to enable a student to pursue his studies.,
B as in Burschen (pl. ) of Bursch,
B as in Bursch (n.) A youth; especially, a student in a german university.,
B as in Burse (n.) A purse; also, a vesicle; a pod; a hull.,
B as in Burse (n.) A fund or foundation for the maintenance of needy scholars in their studies; also, the sum given to the beneficiaries.,
B as in Burse (n.) An ornamental case of hold the corporal when not in use.,
B as in Burse (n.) An exchange, for merchants and bankers, in the cities of continental Europe. Same as Bourse.,
B as in Burse (n.) A kind of bazaar.,
B as in Bursiculate (a.) Bursiform.,
B as in Bursiform (a.) Shaped like a purse.,
B as in Bursitis (n.) Inflammation of a bursa.,
B as in Burst (imp. & p. p.) of Burst,
B as in Bursting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Burst,
B as in Burst (v. i.) To fly apart or in pieces; of break open; to yield to force or pressure, especially to a sudden and violent exertion of force, or to pressure from within; to explode; as, the boiler had burst; the buds will burst in spring.,
B as in Burst (v. i.) To exert force or pressure by which something is made suddenly to give way; to break through obstacles or limitations; hence, to appear suddenly and unexpectedly or unaccountably, or to depart in such manner; -- usually with some qualifying adverb or preposition, as forth, out, away, into, upon, through, etc.,
B as in Burst (v. t.) To break or rend by violence, as by an overcharge or by strain or pressure, esp. from within; to force open suddenly; as, to burst a cannon; to burst a blood vessel; to burst open the doors.,
B as in Burst (v. t.) To break.,
B as in Burst (v. t.) To produce as an effect of bursting; as, to burst a hole through the wall.,
B as in Burst (n.) A sudden breaking forth; a violent rending; an explosion; as, a burst of thunder; a burst of applause; a burst of passion; a burst of inspiration.,
B as in Burst (n.) Any brief, violent exertion or effort; a spurt; as, a burst of speed.,
B as in Burst (n.) A sudden opening, as of landscape; a stretch; an expanse.,
B as in Burst (n.) A rupture or hernia; a breach.,
B as in Bursten () p. p. of Burst, v. i.,
B as in Burster (n.) One that bursts.,
B as in Burstwort (n.) A plant (Herniaria glabra) supposed to be valuable for the cure of hernia or rupture.,
B as in Burt (n.) See Birt.,
B as in Burthen (n. & v. t.) See Burden.,
B as in Burton (n.) A peculiar tackle, formed of two or more blocks, or pulleys, the weight being suspended to a hook block in the bight of the running part.,
B as in Bury (n.) A borough; a manor; as, the Bury of St. Edmond's,
B as in Bury (n.) A manor house; a castle.,
B as in Buried (imp. & p. p.) of Bury,
B as in Burying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bury,
B as in Bury (v. t.) To cover out of sight, either by heaping something over, or by placing within something, as earth, etc.; to conceal by covering; to hide; as, to bury coals in ashes; to bury the face in the hands.,
B as in Bury (v. t.) Specifically: To cover out of sight, as the body of a deceased person, in a grave, a tomb, or the ocean; to deposit (a corpse) in its resting place, with funeral ceremonies; to inter; to inhume.,
B as in Bury (v. t.) To hide in oblivion; to put away finally; to abandon; as, to bury strife.,
B as in Burying ground () Alt. of Burying place,
B as in Burying place () The ground or place for burying the dead; burial place.,
B as in Bus (n.) An omnibus.,
B as in Busbies (pl. ) of Busby,
B as in Busby (n.) A military headdress or cap, used in the British army. It is of fur, with a bag, of the same color as the facings of the regiment, hanging from the top over the right shoulder.,
B as in Buscon (n.) One who searches for ores; a prospector.,
B as in Bush (n.) A thicket, or place abounding in trees or shrubs; a wild forest.,
B as in Bush (n.) A shrub; esp., a shrub with branches rising from or near the root; a thick shrub or a cluster of shrubs.,
B as in Bush (n.) A shrub cut off, or a shrublike branch of a tree; as, bushes to support pea vines.,
B as in Bush (n.) A shrub or branch, properly, a branch of ivy (as sacred to Bacchus), hung out at vintners' doors, or as a tavern sign; hence, a tavern sign, and symbolically, the tavern itself.,
B as in Bush (n.) The tail, or brush, of a fox.,
B as in Bush (v. i.) To branch thickly in the manner of a bush.,
B as in Bushed (imp. & p. p.) of Bush,
B as in Bushing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bush,
B as in Bush (v. t.) To set bushes for; to support with bushes; as, to bush peas.,
B as in Bush (v. t.) To use a bush harrow on (land), for covering seeds sown; to harrow with a bush; as, to bush a piece of land; to bush seeds into the ground.,
B as in Bush (n.) A lining for a hole to make it smaller; a thimble or ring of metal or wood inserted in a plate or other part of machinery to receive the wear of a pivot or arbor.,
B as in Bush (n.) A piece of copper, screwed into a gun, through which the venthole is bored.,
B as in Bush (v. t.) To furnish with a bush, or lining; as, to bush a pivot hole.,
B as in Bushboy (n.) See Bushman.,
B as in Bushel (n.) A dry measure, containing four pecks, eight gallons, or thirty-two quarts.,
B as in Bushel (n.) A vessel of the capacity of a bushel, used in measuring; a bushel measure.,
B as in Bushel (n.) A quantity that fills a bushel measure; as, a heap containing ten bushels of apples.,
B as in Bushel (n.) A large indefinite quantity.,
B as in Bushel (n.) The iron lining in the nave of a wheel. [Eng.] In the United States it is called a box. See 4th Bush.,
B as in Bushelage (n.) A duty payable on commodities by the bushel.,
B as in Bushelman (n.) A tailor's assistant for repairing garments; -- called also busheler.,
B as in Bushet (n.) A small bush.,
B as in Bushfighter (n.) One accustomed to bushfighting.,
B as in Bushfighting (n.) Fighting in the bush, or from behind bushes, trees, or thickets.,
B as in Bushhammer (n.) A hammer with a head formed of a bundle of square bars, with pyramidal points, arranged in rows, or a solid head with a face cut into a number of rows of such points; -- used for dressing stone.,
B as in Bushhammer (v. t.) To dress with bushhammer; as, to bushhammer a block of granite.,
B as in Bushiness (n.) The condition or quality of being bushy.,
B as in Bushing (n.) The operation of fitting bushes, or linings, into holes or places where wear is to be received, or friction diminished, as pivot holes, etc.,
B as in Bushing (n.) A bush or lining; -- sometimes called a thimble. See 4th Bush.,
B as in Bushless (a.) Free from bushes; bare.,
B as in Bushmen (pl. ) of Bushman,
B as in Bushman (n.) A woodsman; a settler in the bush.,
B as in Bushman (n.) One of a race of South African nomads, living principally in the deserts, and not classified as allied in race or language to any other people.,
B as in Bushment (n.) A thicket; a cluster of bushes.,
B as in Bushment (n.) An ambuscade.,
B as in Bushranger (n.) One who roams, or hides, among the bushes; especially, in Australia, an escaped criminal living in the bush.,
B as in Bushwhacker (n.) One accustomed to beat about, or travel through, bushes.,
B as in Bushwhacker (n.) A guerrilla; a marauding assassin; one who pretends to be a peaceful citizen, but secretly harasses a hostile force or its sympathizers.,
B as in Bushwhacking (n.) Traveling, or working a way, through bushes; pulling by the bushes, as in hauling a boat along the bushy margin of a stream.,
B as in Bushwhacking (n.) The crimes or warfare of bushwhackers.,
B as in Bushy (a.) Thick and spreading, like a bush.,
B as in Bushy (a.) Full of bushes; overgrowing with shrubs.,
B as in Busily (adv.) In a busy manner.,
B as in Businesses (pl. ) of Business,
B as in Business (n.) That which busies one, or that which engages the time, attention, or labor of any one, as his principal concern or interest, whether for a longer or shorter time; constant employment; regular occupation; as, the business of life; business before pleasure.,
B as in Business (n.) Any particular occupation or employment engaged in for livelihood or gain, as agriculture, trade, art, or a profession.,
B as in Business (n.) Financial dealings; buying and selling; traffic in general; mercantile transactions.,
B as in Business (n.) That which one has to do or should do; special service, duty, or mission.,
B as in Business (n.) Affair; concern; matter; -- used in an indefinite sense, and modified by the connected words.,
B as in Business (n.) The position, distribution, and order of persons and properties on the stage of a theater, as determined by the stage manager in rehearsal.,
B as in Business (n.) Care; anxiety; diligence.,
B as in Businesslike (a.) In the manner of one transacting business wisely and by right methods.,
B as in Busk (n.) A thin, elastic strip of metal, whalebone, wood, or other material, worn in the front of a corset.,
B as in Busked (imp. & p. p.) of Busk,
B as in Busk (v. t. & i.) To prepare; to make ready; to array; to dress.,
B as in Busk (v. t. & i.) To go; to direct one's course.,
B as in Busked (a.) Wearing a busk.,
B as in Busket (n.) A small bush; also, a sprig or bouquet.,
B as in Busket (n.) A part of a garden devoted to shrubs.,
B as in Buskin (n.) A strong, protecting covering for the foot, coming some distance up the leg.,
B as in Buskin (n.) A similar covering for the foot and leg, made with very thick soles, to give an appearance of elevation to the stature; -- worn by tragic actors in ancient Greece and Rome. Used as a symbol of tragedy, or the tragic drama, as distinguished from comedy.,
B as in Buskined (a.) Wearing buskins.,
B as in Buskined (a.) Trodden by buskins; pertaining to tragedy.,
B as in Busky (a.) See Bosky, and 1st Bush, n.,
B as in Buss (n.) A kiss; a rude or playful kiss; a smack.,
B as in Bussed (imp. & p. p.) of Buss,
B as in Bussing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Buss,
B as in Buss (v. t.) To kiss; esp. to kiss with a smack, or rudely.,
B as in Buss (n.) A small strong vessel with two masts and two cabins; -- used in the herring fishery.,
B as in Bust (n.) A piece of sculpture representing the upper part of the human figure, including the head, shoulders, and breast.,
B as in Bust (n.) The portion of the human figure included between the head and waist, whether in statuary or in the person; the chest or thorax; the upper part of the trunk of the body.,
B as in Bustard (n.) A bird of the genus Otis.,
B as in Buster (n.) Something huge; a roistering blade; also, a spree.,
B as in Bustled (imp. & p. p.) of Bustle,
B as in Bustling (n.) of Bustle,
B as in Bustle (v. i.) To move noisily; to be rudely active; to move in a way to cause agitation or disturbance; as, to bustle through a crowd.,
B as in Bustle (n.) Great stir; agitation; tumult from stirring or excitement.,
B as in Bustle (n.) A kind of pad or cushion worn on the back below the waist, by women, to give fullness to the skirts; -- called also bishop, and tournure.,
B as in Bustler (n.) An active, stirring person.,
B as in Bustling (a.) Agitated; noisy; tumultuous; characterized by confused activity; as, a bustling crowd.,
B as in Bustoes (pl. ) of Busto,
B as in Busto (n.) A bust; a statue.,
B as in Busy (a.) Engaged in some business; hard at work (either habitually or only for the time being); occupied with serious affairs; not idle nor at leisure; as, a busy merchant.,
B as in Busy (a.) Constantly at work; diligent; active.,
B as in Busy (a.) Crowded with business or activities; -- said of places and times; as, a busy street.,
B as in Busy (a.) Officious; meddling; foolish active.,
B as in Busy (a.) Careful; anxious.,
B as in Busied (imp. & p. p.) of Busy,
B as in Busying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Busy,
B as in Busy (v. t.) To make or keep busy; to employ; to engage or keep engaged; to occupy; as, to busy one's self with books.,
B as in Busybodies (pl. ) of Busybody,
B as in Busybody (n.) One who officiously concerns himself with the affairs of others; a meddling person.,
B as in But (adv. & conj.) Except with; unless with; without.,
B as in But (adv. & conj.) Except; besides; save.,
B as in But (adv. & conj.) Excepting or excluding the fact that; save that; were it not that; unless; -- elliptical, for but that.,
B as in But (adv. & conj.) Otherwise than that; that not; -- commonly, after a negative, with that.,
B as in But (adv. & conj.) Only; solely; merely.,
B as in But (adv. & conj.) On the contrary; on the other hand; only; yet; still; however; nevertheless; more; further; -- as connective of sentences or clauses of a sentence, in a sense more or less exceptive or adversative; as, the House of Representatives passed the bill, but the Senate dissented; our wants are many, but quite of another kind.,
B as in But (prep., adv. & conj.) The outer apartment or kitchen of a two-roomed house; -- opposed to ben, the inner room.,
B as in But (n.) A limit; a boundary.,
B as in But (n.) The end; esp. the larger or thicker end, or the blunt, in distinction from the sharp, end. See 1st Butt.,
B as in Butted (imp. & p. p.) of But,
B as in Butting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of But,
B as in But (v. i.) See Butt, v., and Abut, v.,
B as in Butane (n.) An inflammable gaseous hydrocarbon, C4H10, of the marsh gas, or paraffin, series.,
B as in Butcher (n.) One who slaughters animals, or dresses their flesh for market; one whose occupation it is to kill animals for food.,
B as in Butcher (n.) A slaughterer; one who kills in large numbers, or with unusual cruelty; one who causes needless loss of life, as in battle.,
B as in Butchered (imp. & p. p.) of Butcher,
B as in Butchering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Butcher,
B as in Butcher (v. t.) To kill or slaughter (animals) for food, or for market; as, to butcher hogs.,
B as in Butcher (v. t.) To murder, or kill, especially in an unusually bloody or barbarous manner.,
B as in Butchering (n.) The business of a butcher.,
B as in Butchering (n.) The act of slaughtering; the act of killing cruelly and needlessly.,
B as in Butcherliness (n.) Butchery quality.,
B as in Butcherly (a.) Like a butcher; without compunction; savage; bloody; inhuman; fell.,
B as in Butcher's broom () A genus of plants (Ruscus); esp. R. aculeatus, which has large red berries and leaflike branches. See Cladophyll.,
B as in Butchery (n.) The business of a butcher.,
B as in Butchery (n.) Murder or manslaughter, esp. when committed with unusual barbarity; great or cruel slaughter.,
B as in Butchery (n.) A slaughterhouse; the shambles; a place where blood is shed.,
B as in Butler (n.) An officer in a king's or a nobleman's household, whose principal business it is to take charge of the liquors, plate, etc.; the head servant in a large house.,
B as in Butlerage (n.) A duty of two shillings on every tun of wine imported into England by merchant strangers; -- so called because paid to the king's butler for the king.,
B as in Butlership (n.) The office of a butler.,
B as in Butment (n.) A buttress of an arch; the supporter, or that part which joins it to the upright pier.,
B as in Butment (n.) The mass of stone or solid work at the end of a bridge, by which the extreme arches are sustained, or by which the end of a bridge without arches is supported.,
B as in Butt (v. t.) Alt. of But,
B as in But (v. t.) A limit; a bound; a goal; the extreme bound; the end.,
B as in But (v. t.) The thicker end of anything. See But.,
B as in But (v. t.) A mark to be shot at; a target.,
B as in But (v. t.) A person at whom ridicule, jest, or contempt is directed; as, the butt of the company.,
B as in But (v. t.) A push, thrust, or sudden blow, given by the head of an animal; as, the butt of a ram.,
B as in But (v. t.) A thrust in fencing.,
B as in But (v. t.) A piece of land left unplowed at the end of a field.,
B as in But (v. t.) A joint where the ends of two objects come squarely together without scarfing or chamfering; -- also called butt joint.,
B as in But (v. t.) The end of a connecting rod or other like piece, to which the boxing is attached by the strap, cotter, and gib.,
B as in But (v. t.) The portion of a half-coupling fastened to the end of a hose.,
B as in But (v. t.) The joint where two planks in a strake meet.,
B as in But (v. t.) A kind of hinge used in hanging doors, etc.; -- so named because fastened on the edge of the door, which butts against the casing, instead of on its face, like the strap hinge; also called butt hinge.,
B as in But (v. t.) The thickest and stoutest part of tanned oxhides, used for soles of boots, harness, trunks.,
B as in But (v. t.) The hut or shelter of the person who attends to the targets in rifle practice.,
B as in Butted (imp. & p. p.) of Butt,
B as in Butting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Butt,
B as in Butt (v. i.) To join at the butt, end, or outward extremity; to terminate; to be bounded; to abut.,
B as in Butt (v. i.) To thrust the head forward; to strike by thrusting the head forward, as an ox or a ram. [See Butt, n.],
B as in Butt (v. t.) To strike by thrusting the head against; to strike with the head.,
B as in Butt (n.) A large cask or vessel for wine or beer. It contains two hogsheads.,
B as in Butt (n.) The common English flounder.,
B as in Butte (n.) A detached low mountain, or high rising abruptly from the general level of the surrounding plain; -- applied to peculiar elevations in the Rocky Mountain region.,
B as in Butter (n.) An oily, unctuous substance obtained from cream or milk by churning.,
B as in Butter (n.) Any substance resembling butter in degree of consistence, or other qualities, especially, in old chemistry, the chlorides, as butter of antimony, sesquichloride of antimony; also, certain concrete fat oils remaining nearly solid at ordinary temperatures, as butter of cacao, vegetable butter, shea butter.,
B as in Buttered (imp. & p. p.) of Butter,
B as in Buttering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Butter,
B as in Butter (v. t.) To cover or spread with butter.,
B as in Butter (v. t.) To increase, as stakes, at every throw or every game.,
B as in Butter (n.) One who, or that which, butts.,
B as in Butterball (n.) The buffel duck.,
B as in Butterbird (n.) The rice bunting or bobolink; -- so called in the island of Jamaica.,
B as in Butterbump (n.) The European bittern.,
B as in Butterbur (n.) A broad-leaved plant (Petasites vulgaris) of the Composite family, said to have been used in England for wrapping up pats of butter.,
B as in Buttercup (n.) A plant of the genus Ranunculus, or crowfoot, particularly R. bulbosus, with bright yellow flowers; -- called also butterflower, golden cup, and kingcup. It is the cuckoobud of Shakespeare.,
B as in Butter-fingered (a.) Apt to let things fall, or to let them slip away; slippery; careless.,
B as in Butterfish (n.) A name given to several different fishes, in allusion to their slippery coating of mucus, as the Stromateus triacanthus of the Atlantic coast, the Epinephelus punctatus of the southern coast, the rock eel, and the kelpfish of New Zealand.,
B as in Butterflies (pl. ) of Butterfly,
B as in Butterfly (n.) A general name for the numerous species of diurnal Lepidoptera.,
B as in Butterine (n.) A substance prepared from animal fat with some other ingredients intermixed, as an imitation of butter.,
B as in Butteris (n.) A steel cutting instrument, with a long bent shank set in a handle which rests against the shoulder of the operator. It is operated by a thrust movement, and used in paring the hoofs of horses.,
B as in Buttermen (pl. ) of Butterman,
B as in Butterman (n.) A man who makes or sells butter.,
B as in Buttermilk (n.) The milk that remains after the butter is separated from the cream.,
B as in Butternut (n.) An American tree (Juglans cinerea) of the Walnut family, and its edible fruit; -- so called from the oil contained in the latter. Sometimes called oil nut and white walnut.,
B as in Butternut (n.) The nut of the Caryocar butyrosum and C. nuciferum, of S. America; -- called also Souari nut.,
B as in Butter-scotch (n.) A kind of candy, mainly composed of sugar and butter.,
B as in Butterweed (n.) An annual composite plant of the Mississippi valley (Senecio lobatus).,
B as in Butterweight (n.) Over weight.,
B as in Butterwort (n.) A genus of low herbs (Pinguicula) having simple leaves which secrete from their glandular upper surface a viscid fluid, to which insects adhere, after which the margin infolds and the insects are digested by the plant. The species are found mostly in the North Temperate zone.,
B as in Buttery (a.) Having the qualities, consistence, or appearance, of butter.,
B as in Butteries (pl. ) of Buttery,
B as in Buttery (n.) An apartment in a house where butter, milk and other provisions are kept.,
B as in Buttery (n.) A room in some English colleges where liquors, fruit, and refreshments are kept for sale to the students.,
B as in Buttery (n.) A cellar in which butts of wine are kept.,
B as in Butt hinge () See 1st Butt, 10.,
B as in But-thorn (n.) The common European starfish (Asterias rubens).,
B as in Butting (n.) An abuttal; a boundary.,
B as in Butting joint () A joint between two pieces of timber or wood, at the end of one or both, and either at right angles or oblique to the grain, as the joints which the struts and braces form with the truss posts; -- sometimes called abutting joint.,
B as in Butt joint () A joint in which the edges or ends of the pieces united come squarely together instead of overlapping. See 1st Butt, 8.,
B as in Buttock (n.) The part at the back of the hip, which, in man, forms one of the rounded protuberances on which he sits; the rump.,
B as in Buttock (n.) The convexity of a ship behind, under the stern.,
B as in Button (n.) A knob; a small ball; a small, roundish mass.,
B as in Button (n.) A catch, of various forms and materials, used to fasten together the different parts of dress, by being attached to one part, and passing through a slit, called a buttonhole, in the other; -- used also for ornament.,
B as in Button (n.) A bud; a germ of a plant.,
B as in Button (n.) A piece of wood or metal, usually flat and elongated, turning on a nail or screw, to fasten something, as a door.,
B as in Button (n.) A globule of metal remaining on an assay cupel or in a crucible, after fusion.,
B as in Buttoned (imp. & p. p.) of Button,
B as in Buttoning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Button,
B as in Button (n.) To fasten with a button or buttons; to inclose or make secure with buttons; -- often followed by up.,
B as in Button (n.) To dress or clothe.,
B as in Button (v. i.) To be fastened by a button or buttons; as, the coat will not button.,
B as in Buttonball (n.) See Buttonwood.,
B as in Buttonbush (n.) A shrub (Cephalanthus occidentalis) growing by the waterside; -- so called from its globular head of flowers. See Capitulum.,
B as in Buttonhole (n.) The hole or loop in which a button is caught.,
B as in Buttonhole (v. t.) To hold at the button or buttonhole; to detain in conversation to weariness; to bore; as, he buttonholed me a quarter of an hour.,
B as in Buttonmold (n.) A disk of bone, wood, or other material, which is made into a button by covering it with cloth.,
B as in Buttons (n.) A boy servant, or page, -- in allusion to the buttons on his livery.,
B as in Buttonweed (n.) The name of several plants of the genera Spermacoce and Diodia, of the Madder family.,
B as in Buttonwood (n.) The Platanus occidentalis, or American plane tree, a large tree, producing rough balls, from which it is named; -- called also buttonball tree, and, in some parts of the United States, sycamore. The California buttonwood is P. racemosa.,
B as in Buttony (a.) Ornamented with a large number of buttons.,
B as in Buttress (n.) A projecting mass of masonry, used for resisting the thrust of an arch, or for ornament and symmetry.,
B as in Buttress (n.) Anything which supports or strengthens.,
B as in Buttressed (imp. & p. p.) of Buttress,
B as in Buttressing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Buttress,
B as in Buttress (v. t.) To support with a buttress; to prop; to brace firmly.,
B as in Butt shaft () An arrow without a barb, for shooting at butts; an arrow.,
B as in Butt weld () See Butt weld, under Butt.,
B as in Buttweld (v. t.) To unite by a butt weld.,
B as in Butty (n.) One who mines by contract, at so much per ton of coal or ore.,
B as in Butyl (n.) A compound radical, regarded as butane, less one atom of hydrogen.,
B as in Butylene (n.) Any one of three metameric hydrocarbons, C4H8, of the ethylene series. They are gaseous or easily liquefiable.,
B as in Butyraceous (a.) Having the qualities of butter; resembling butter.,
B as in Butyrate (n.) A salt of butyric acid.,
B as in Butyric (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, butter.,
B as in Butyrin (n.) A butyrate of glycerin; a fat contained in small quantity in milk, which helps to give to butter its peculiar flavor.,
B as in Butyrometer (n.) An instrument for determining the amount of fatty matter or butter contained in a sample of milk.,
B as in Butyrone (n.) A liquid ketone obtained by heating calcium butyrate.,
B as in Butyrous (a.) Butyraceous.,
B as in Buxeous (a.) Belonging to the box tree.,
B as in Buxine (n.) An alkaloid obtained from the Buxus sempervirens, or common box tree. It is identical with bebeerine; -- called also buxina.,
B as in Buxom (a.) Yielding; pliable or compliant; ready to obey; obedient; tractable; docile; meek; humble.,
B as in Buxom (a.) Having the characteristics of health, vigor, and comeliness, combined with a gay, lively manner; stout and rosy; jolly; frolicsome.,
B as in Bought (imp. & p. p.) of Buy,
B as in Buying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Buy,
B as in Buy (v. t.) To acquire the ownership of (property) by giving an accepted price or consideration therefor, or by agreeing to do so; to acquire by the payment of a price or value; to purchase; -- opposed to sell.,
B as in Buy (v. t.) To acquire or procure by something given or done in exchange, literally or figuratively; to get, at a cost or sacrifice; to buy pleasure with pain.,
B as in Buy (v. i.) To negotiate or treat about a purchase.,
B as in Buyer (n.) One who buys; a purchaser.,
B as in Buz (v. & n.) See Buzz.,
B as in Buzzed (imp. & p. p.) of Buzz,
B as in Buzzing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Buzz,
B as in Buzz (v. i.) To make a low, continuous, humming or sibilant sound, like that made by bees with their wings. Hence: To utter a murmuring sound; to speak with a low, humming voice.,
B as in Buzz (v. t.) To sound forth by buzzing.,
B as in Buzz (v. t.) To whisper; to communicate, as tales, in an under tone; to spread, as report, by whispers, or secretly.,
B as in Buzz (v. t.) To talk to incessantly or confidentially in a low humming voice.,
B as in Buzz (v. t.) To sound with a "buzz".,
B as in Buzz (n.) A continuous, humming noise, as of bees; a confused murmur, as of general conversation in low tones, or of a general expression of surprise or approbation.,
B as in Buzz (n.) A whisper; a report spread secretly or cautiously.,
B as in Buzz (n.) The audible friction of voice consonants.,
B as in Buzzard (n.) A bird of prey of the Hawk family, belonging to the genus Buteo and related genera.,
B as in Buzzard (n.) A blockhead; a dunce.,
B as in Buzzard (a.) Senseless; stupid.,
B as in Buzzardet (n.) A hawk resembling the buzzard, but with legs relatively longer.,
B as in Buzzer (n.) One who, or that which, buzzes; a whisperer; a talebearer.,
B as in Buzzingly (adv.) In a buzzing manner; with a buzzing sound.,
B as in Buzzsaw () A circular saw; -- so called from the buzzing it makes when running at full speed.,
B as in By (pref.) In the neighborhood of; near or next to; not far from; close to; along with; as, come and sit by me.,
B as in By (pref.) On; along; in traversing. Compare 5.,
B as in By (pref.) Near to, while passing; hence, from one to the other side of; past; as, to go by a church.,
B as in By (pref.) Used in specifying adjacent dimensions; as, a cabin twenty feet by forty.,
B as in By (pref.) Against.,
B as in By (pref.) With, as means, way, process, etc.; through means of; with aid of; through; through the act or agency of; as, a city is destroyed by fire; profit is made by commerce; to take by force.,
B as in By (adv.) Near; in the neighborhood; present; as, there was no person by at the time.,
B as in By (adv.) Passing near; going past; past; beyond; as, the procession has gone by; a bird flew by.,
B as in By (adv.) Aside; as, to lay by; to put by.,
B as in By (a.) Out of the common path; aside; -- used in composition, giving the meaning of something aside, secondary, or incidental, or collateral matter, a thing private or avoiding notice; as, by-line, by-place, by-play, by-street. It was formerly more freely used in composition than it is now; as, by-business, by-concernment, by-design, by-interest, etc.,
B as in Byard (n.) A piece of leather crossing the breast, used by the men who drag sledges in coal mines.,
B as in By-bidder (n.) One who bids at an auction in behalf of the auctioneer or owner, for the purpose of running up the price of articles.,
B as in By-blow (n.) A side or incidental blow; an accidental blow.,
B as in By-blow (n.) An illegitimate child; a bastard.,
B as in By-corner (n.) A private corner.,
B as in By-dependence (n.) An appendage; that which depends on something else, or is distinct from the main dependence; an accessory.,
B as in By-drinking (n.) A drinking between meals.,
B as in Bye (n.) A thing not directly aimed at; something which is a secondary object of regard; an object by the way, etc.; as in on or upon the bye, i. e., in passing; indirectly; by implication.,
B as in Bye (n.) A run made upon a missed ball; as, to steal a bye.,
B as in Bye (n.) A dwelling.,
B as in Bye (n.) In certain games, a station or place of an individual player.,
B as in By-election (n.) An election held by itself, not at the time of a general election.,
B as in By-end (n.) Private end or interest; secret purpose; selfish advantage.,
B as in Bygone (a.) Past; gone by.,
B as in Bygone (n.) Something gone by or past; a past event.,
B as in By-interest (n.) Self-interest; private advantage.,
B as in Byland (n.) A peninsula.,
B as in Bylander (n.) See Bilander.,
B as in By-lane (n.) A private lane, or one opening out of the usual road.,
B as in By-law (n.) A local or subordinate law; a private law or regulation made by a corporation for its own government.,
B as in By-law (n.) A law that is less important than a general law or constitutional provision, and subsidiary to it; a rule relating to a matter of detail; as, civic societies often adopt a constitution and by-laws for the government of their members. In this sense the word has probably been influenced by by, meaning secondary or aside.,
B as in By-name (n.) A nickname.,
B as in Byname (v. t.) To give a nickname to.,
B as in By-pass (n.) A by-passage, for a pipe, or other channel, to divert circulation from the usual course.,
B as in By-passage (n.) A passage different from the usual one; a byway.,
B as in By-past (a.) Past; gone by.,
B as in Bypaths (pl. ) of Bypath,
B as in Bypath (n.) A private path; an obscure way; indirect means.,
B as in By-place (n.) A retired or private place.,
B as in Byplay (n.) Action carried on aside, and commonly in dumb show, while the main action proceeds.,
B as in By-product (n.) A secondary or additional product; something produced, as in the course of a manufacture, in addition to the principal product.,
B as in Byre (n.) A cow house.,
B as in By-respect (n.) Private end or view; by-interest.,
B as in Byroad (n.) A private or obscure road.,
B as in Byronic (a.) Pertaining to, or in the style of, Lord Byron.,
B as in By-room (n.) A private room or apartment.,
B as in Bysmottered (p.a.) Bespotted with mud or dirt.,
B as in By-speech (n.) An incidental or casual speech, not directly relating to the point.,
B as in By-spell (n.) A proverb.,
B as in Byss (n.) See Byssus, n., 1.,
B as in Byssaceous (a.) Byssuslike; consisting of fine fibers or threads, as some very delicate filamentous algae.,
B as in Byssiferous (a.) Bearing a byssus or tuft.,
B as in Byssin (n.) See Byssus, n., 1.,
B as in Byssine (a.) Made of silk; having a silky or flaxlike appearance.,
B as in Byssoid (a.) Byssaceous.,
B as in Byssolite (n.) An olive-green fibrous variety of hornblende.,
B as in Byssuses (pl. ) of Byssus,
B as in Byssi (pl. ) of Byssus,
B as in Byssus (n.) A cloth of exceedingly fine texture, used by the ancients. It is disputed whether it was of cotton, linen, or silk.,
B as in Byssus (n.) A tuft of long, tough filaments which are formed in a groove of the foot, and issue from between the valves of certain bivalve mollusks, as the Pinna and Mytilus, by which they attach themselves to rocks, etc.,
B as in Byssus (n.) An obsolete name for certain fungi composed of slender threads.,
B as in Byssus (n.) Asbestus.,
B as in Bystander (n.) One who stands near; a spectator; one who has no concern with the business transacting.,
B as in By-street (n.) A separate, private, or obscure street; an out of the way or cross street.,
B as in By-stroke (n.) An accidental or a slyly given stroke.,
B as in By-turning (n.) An obscure road; a way turning from the main road.,
B as in By-view (n.) A private or selfish view; self-interested aim or purpose.,
B as in By-walk (n.) A secluded or private walk.,
B as in By-wash (n.) The outlet from a dam or reservoir; also, a cut to divert the flow of water.,
B as in Byway (n.) A secluded, private, or obscure way; a path or road aside from the main one.,
B as in By-wipe (n.) A secret or side stroke, as of raillery or sarcasm.,
B as in Byword (n.) A common saying; a proverb; a saying that has a general currency.,
B as in Byword (n.) The object of a contemptuous saying.,
B as in Bywork (n.) Work aside from regular work; subordinate or secondary business.,
B as in Byzant (n.) Alt. of Byzantine,
B as in Byzantine (n.) A gold coin, so called from being coined at Byzantium. See Bezant.,
B as in Byzantian (a. & n.) See Byzantine.,
B as in Byzantine (a.) Of or pertaining to Byzantium.,
B as in Byzantine (n.) A native or inhabitant of Byzantium, now Constantinople; sometimes, applied to an inhabitant of the modern city of Constantinople.,
