C as in C () C is the third letter of the English alphabet. It is from the Latin letter C, which in old Latin represented the sounds of k, and g (in go); its original value being the latter. In Anglo-Saxon words, or Old English before the Norman Conquest, it always has the sound of k. The Latin C was the same letter as the Greek /, /, and came from the Greek alphabet. The Greeks got it from the Ph/nicians. The English name of C is from the Latin name ce, and was derived, probably, through the French. Etymologically C is related to g, h, k, q, s (and other sibilant sounds). Examples of these relations are in L. acutus, E. acute, ague; E. acrid, eager, vinegar; L. cornu, E. horn; E. cat, kitten; E. coy, quiet; L. circare, OF. cerchier, E. search.,
C as in C () The keynote of the normal or "natural" scale, which has neither flats nor sharps in its signature; also, the third note of the relative minor scale of the same.,
C as in C () C after the clef is the mark of common time, in which each measure is a semibreve (four fourths or crotchets); for alla breve time it is written /.,
C as in C () The "C clef," a modification of the letter C, placed on any line of the staff, shows that line to be middle C.,
C as in C () As a numeral, C stands for Latin centum or 100, CC for 200, etc.,
C as in Caaba (n.) The small and nearly cubical stone building, toward which all Mohammedans must pray.,
C as in Caas (n. sing. & pl.) Case.,
C as in Cab (n.) A kind of close carriage with two or four wheels, usually a public vehicle.,
C as in Cab (n.) The covered part of a locomotive, in which the engineer has his station.,
C as in Cab (n.) A Hebrew dry measure, containing a little over two (2.37) pints.,
C as in Cabal (n.) Tradition; occult doctrine. See Cabala,
C as in Cabal (n.) A secret.,
C as in Cabal (n.) A number of persons united in some close design, usually to promote their private views and interests in church or state by intrigue; a secret association composed of a few designing persons; a junto.,
C as in Cabal (n.) The secret artifices or machinations of a few persons united in a close design; intrigue.,
C as in Caballed (imp. & p. p.) of Cabal,
C as in Caballing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cabal,
C as in Cabal (v. i.) To unite in a small party to promote private views and interests by intrigue; to intrigue; to plot.,
C as in Cabala (n.) A kind of occult theosophy or traditional interpretation of the Scriptures among Jewish rabbis and certain mediaeval Christians, which treats of the nature of god and the mystery of human existence. It assumes that every letter, word, number, and accent of Scripture contains a hidden sense; and it teaches the methods of interpretation for ascertaining these occult meanings. The cabalists pretend even to foretell events by this means.,
C as in Cabala (n.) Secret science in general; mystic art; mystery.,
C as in Cabalism (n.) The secret science of the cabalists.,
C as in Cabalism (n.) A superstitious devotion to the mysteries of the religion which one professes.,
C as in Cabalist (n.) One versed in the cabala, or the mysteries of Jewish traditions.,
C as in Cabalistic (a.) Alt. of Cabalistical,
C as in Cabalistical (a.) Of or pertaining to the cabala; containing or conveying an occult meaning; mystic.,
C as in Cabalistically (adv.) In a cabalistic manner.,
C as in Cabalize (v. i.) To use cabalistic language.,
C as in Caballer (n.) One who cabals.,
C as in Caballine (a.) Of or pertaining to a horse.,
C as in Caballine (n.) Caballine aloes.,
C as in Cabaret (n.) A tavern; a house where liquors are retailed.,
C as in Cabaret (n.) a type of restaurant where liquor and dinner is served, and entertainment is provided, as by musicians, dancers, or comedians, and providing space for dancing by the patrons; -- similar to a nightclub. The term cabaret is often used in the names of such an establishment.,
C as in Cabaret (n.) the type of entertainment provided in a cabaret{2}.,
C as in Cabas (n.) A flat basket or frail for figs, etc.; hence, a lady's flat workbasket, reticule, or hand bag; -- often written caba.,
C as in Cabassou (n.) A species of armadillo of the genus Xenurus (X. unicinctus and X. hispidus); the tatouay.,
C as in Cabbage (n.) An esculent vegetable of many varieties, derived from the wild Brassica oleracea of Europe. The common cabbage has a compact head of leaves. The cauliflower, Brussels sprouts, etc., are sometimes classed as cabbages.,
C as in Cabbage (n.) The terminal bud of certain palm trees, used, like, cabbage, for food. See Cabbage tree, below.,
C as in Cabbage (n.) The cabbage palmetto. See below.,
C as in Cabbage (v. i.) To form a head like that the cabbage; as, to make lettuce cabbage.,
C as in Cabbaged (imp. & p. p) of Cabbage,
C as in Cabbaging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cabbage,
C as in Cabbage (v. i.) To purloin or embezzle, as the pieces of cloth remaining after cutting out a garment; to pilfer.,
C as in Cabbage (n.) Cloth or clippings cabbaged or purloined by one who cuts out garments.,
C as in Cabbler (n.) One who works at cabbling.,
C as in Cabbling (n.) The process of breaking up the flat masses into which wrought iron is first hammered, in order that the pieces may be reheated and wrought into bar iron.,
C as in Cabeca (n.) Alt. of Cabesse,
C as in Cabesse (n.) The finest kind of silk received from India.,
C as in Caber (n.) A pole or beam used in Scottish games for tossing as a trial of strength.,
C as in Cabezon (n.) A California fish (Hemilepidotus spinosus), allied to the sculpin.,
C as in Cabiai (n.) The capybara. See Capybara.,
C as in Cabin (n.) A cottage or small house; a hut.,
C as in Cabin (n.) A small room; an inclosed place.,
C as in Cabin (n.) A room in ship for officers or passengers.,
C as in Cabined (imp. & p. p.) of Cabin,
C as in Cabining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cabin,
C as in Cabin (v. i.) To live in, or as in, a cabin; to lodge.,
C as in Cabin (v. t.) To confine in, or as in, a cabin.,
C as in Cabinet (n.) A hut; a cottage; a small house.,
C as in Cabinet (n.) A small room, or retired apartment; a closet.,
C as in Cabinet (n.) A private room in which consultations are held.,
C as in Cabinet (n.) The advisory council of the chief executive officer of a nation; a cabinet council.,
C as in Cabinet (n.) A set of drawers or a cupboard intended to contain articles of value. Hence:,
C as in Cabinet (n.) A decorative piece of furniture, whether open like an etagere or closed with doors. See Etagere.,
C as in Cabinet (n.) Any building or room set apart for the safe keeping and exhibition of works of art, etc.; also, the collection itself.,
C as in Cabinet (a.) Suitable for a cabinet; small.,
C as in Cabineting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cabinet,
C as in Cabinet (v. i.) To inclose,
C as in Cabinetmaker (n.) One whose occupation is to make cabinets or other choice articles of household furniture, as tables, bedsteads, bureaus, etc.,
C as in Cabinetmaking (n.) The art or occupation of making the finer articles of household furniture.,
C as in Cabinetwork (n.) The art or occupation of working upon wooden furniture requiring nice workmanship; also, such furniture.,
C as in Cabirean (n.) One of the Cabiri.,
C as in Cabbiri (n. pl.) Certain deities originally worshiped with mystical rites by the Pelasgians in Lemnos and Samothrace and afterwards throughout Greece; -- also called sons of Hephaestus (or Vulcan), as being masters of the art of working metals.,
C as in Cabirian (a.) Same as Cabiric.,
C as in Cabiric (a.) Of or pertaining to the Cabiri, or to their mystical worship.,
C as in Cable (n.) A large, strong rope or chain, of considerable length, used to retain a vessel at anchor, and for other purposes. It is made of hemp, of steel wire, or of iron links.,
C as in Cable (n.) A rope of steel wire, or copper wire, usually covered with some protecting or insulating substance; as, the cable of a suspension bridge; a telegraphic cable.,
C as in Cable (n.) A molding, shaft of a column, or any other member of convex, rounded section, made to resemble the spiral twist of a rope; -- called also cable molding.,
C as in Cable (v. t.) To fasten with a cable.,
C as in Cable (v. t.) To ornament with cabling. See Cabling.,
C as in Cabled (imp. & p. p.) of Cable,
C as in Cabling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cable,
C as in Cable (v. t. & i.) To telegraph by a submarine cable,
C as in Cabled (a.) Fastened with, or attached to, a cable or rope.,
C as in Cabled (a.) Adorned with cabling.,
C as in Cablegram (n.) A message sent by a submarine telegraphic cable.,
C as in Cablelaid (a.) Composed of three three-stranded ropes, or hawsers, twisted together to form a cable.,
C as in Cablelaid (a.) Twisted after the manner of a cable; as, a cable-laid gold chain.,
C as in Cablet (n.) A little cable less than ten inches in circumference.,
C as in Cabling (n.) The decoration of a fluted shaft of a column or of a pilaster with reeds, or rounded moldings, which seem to be laid in the hollows of the fluting. These are limited in length to about one third of the height of the shaft.,
C as in Cabmen (pl. ) of Cabman,
C as in Cabman (n.) The driver of a cab.,
C as in Cabob (n.) A small piece of mutton or other meat roasted on a skewer; -- so called in Turkey and Persia.,
C as in Cabob (n.) A leg of mutton roasted, stuffed with white herrings and sweet herbs.,
C as in Cabob (v. t.) To roast, as a cabob.,
C as in Caboched (a.) Showing the full face, but nothing of the neck; -- said of the head of a beast in armorial bearing.,
C as in Caboodle (n.) The whole collection; the entire quantity or number; -- usually in the phrase the whole caboodle.,
C as in Caboose (n.) A house on deck, where the cooking is done; -- commonly called the galley.,
C as in Caboose (n.) A car used on freight or construction trains for brakemen, workmen, etc.; a tool car.,
C as in Cabotage (n.) Navigation along the coast; the details of coast pilotage.,
C as in Cabree (n.) The pronghorn antelope.,
C as in Cabrerite (n.) An apple-green mineral, a hydrous arseniate of nickel, cobalt, and magnesia; -- so named from the Sierra Cabrera, Spain.,
C as in Cabrilla (n.) A name applied to various species of edible fishes of the genus Serranus, and related genera, inhabiting the Meditarranean, the coast of California, etc. In California, some of them are also called rock bass and kelp salmon.,
C as in Cabriole (n.) A curvet; a leap. See Capriole.,
C as in Cabriolet (n.) A one-horse carriage with two seats and a calash top.,
C as in Cabrit (n.) Same as Cabree.,
C as in Caburn (n.) A small line made of spun yarn, to bind or worm cables, seize tackles, etc.,
C as in Cacaemia (n.) Alt. of Cachaemia,
C as in Cachaemia (n.) A degenerated or poisoned condition of the blood.,
C as in Cacaine (n.) The essential principle of cacao; -- now called theobromine.,
C as in Cacajao (n.) A South American short-tailed monkey (Pithecia (/ Brachyurus) melanocephala).,
C as in Cacao (n.) A small evergreen tree (Theobroma Cacao) of South America and the West Indies. Its fruit contains an edible pulp, inclosing seeds about the size of an almond, from which cocoa, chocolate, and broma are prepared.,
C as in Cachalot (n.) The sperm whale (Physeter macrocephalus). It has in the top of its head a large cavity, containing an oily fluid, which, after death, concretes into a whitish crystalline substance called spermaceti. See Sperm whale.,
C as in Cache (n.) A hole in the ground, or hiding place, for concealing and preserving provisions which it is inconvenient to carry.,
C as in Cachectic (a.) Alt. of Cachectical,
C as in Cachectical (a.) Having, or pertaining to, cachexia; as, cachectic remedies; cachectical blood.,
C as in Cachepot (n.) An ornamental casing for a flowerpot, of porcelain, metal, paper, etc.,
C as in Cachet (n.) A seal, as of a letter.,
C as in Cachexia (n.) Alt. of Cachexy,
C as in Cachexy (n.) A condition of ill health and impairment of nutrition due to impoverishment of the blood, esp. when caused by a specific morbid process (as cancer or tubercle).,
C as in Cachinnation (n.) Loud or immoderate laughter; -- often a symptom of hysterical or maniacal affections.,
C as in Cachinnatory (a.) Consisting of, or accompanied by, immoderate laughter.,
C as in Cachiri (n.) A fermented liquor made in Cayenne from the grated root of the manioc, and resembling perry.,
C as in Cacholong (n.) An opaque or milk-white chalcedony, a variety of quartz; also, a similar variety of opal.,
C as in Cachou (n.) A silvered aromatic pill, used to correct the odor of the breath.,
C as in Cachucha (n.) An Andalusian dance in three-four time, resembling the bolero.,
C as in Cachunde (n.) A pastil or troche, composed of various aromatic and other ingredients, highly celebrated in India as an antidote, and as a stomachic and antispasmodic.,
C as in Cacique (n.) See Cazique.,
C as in Cack (v. i.) To ease the body by stool; to go to stool.,
C as in Cackerel (n.) The mendole; a small worthless Mediterranean fish considered poisonous by the ancients. See Mendole.,
C as in Cackled (imp. & p. p.) of Cackle,
C as in Cackling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cackle,
C as in Cackle (v. i.) To make a sharp, broken noise or cry, as a hen or goose does.,
C as in Cackle (v. i.) To laugh with a broken noise, like the cackling of a hen or a goose; to giggle.,
C as in Cackle (v. i.) To talk in a silly manner; to prattle.,
C as in Cackle (n.) The sharp broken noise made by a goose or by a hen that has laid an egg.,
C as in Cackle (n.) Idle talk; silly prattle.,
C as in Cackler (n.) A fowl that cackles.,
C as in Cackler (n.) One who prattles, or tells tales; a tattler.,
C as in Cackling (n.) The broken noise of a goose or a hen.,
C as in Cacochymia (n.) Alt. of Cacochymy,
C as in Cacochymy (n.) A vitiated state of the humors, or fluids, of the body, especially of the blood.,
C as in Cacochymic (a.) Alt. of Cacochymical,
C as in Cacochymical (a.) Having the fluids of the body vitiated, especially the blood.,
C as in Cacodemon (n.) An evil spirit; a devil or demon.,
C as in Cacodemon (n.) The nightmare.,
C as in Cacodoxical (a.) Heretical.,
C as in Cacodoxy (n.) Erroneous doctrine; heresy; heterodoxy.,
C as in Cacodyl (n.) Alkarsin; a colorless, poisonous, arsenical liquid, As2(CH3)4, spontaneously inflammable and possessing an intensely disagreeable odor. It is the type of a series of compounds analogous to the nitrogen compounds called hydrazines.,
C as in Cacodylic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or derived from, cacodyl.,
C as in Cacoethes (n.) A bad custom or habit; an insatiable desire; as, cacoethes scribendi, "The itch for writing".,
C as in Cacoethes (n.) A bad quality or disposition in a disease; an incurable ulcer.,
C as in Cacogastric (a.) Troubled with bad digestion.,
C as in Cacographic (a.) Pertaining to, or characterized by, cacography; badly written or spelled.,
C as in Cacography (n.) Incorrect or bad writing or spelling.,
C as in Cacolet (n.) A chair, litter, or other contrivance fitted to the back or pack saddle of a mule for carrying travelers in mountainous districts, or for the transportation of the sick and wounded of an army.,
C as in Cacology (n.) Bad speaking; bad choice or use of words.,
C as in Cacomixle (n.) Alt. of Cacomixl,
C as in Cacomixtle (n.) Alt. of Cacomixl,
C as in Cacomixl (n.) A North American carnivore (Bassaris astuta), about the size of a cat, related to the raccoons. It inhabits Mexico, Texas, and California.,
C as in Cacoon (n.) One of the seeds or large beans of a tropical vine (Entada scandens) used for making purses, scent bottles, etc.,
C as in Cacophonic (a.) Alt. of Cacophonious,
C as in Cacophonical (a.) Alt. of Cacophonious,
C as in Cacophonous (a.) Alt. of Cacophonious,
C as in Cacophonious (a.) Harsh-sounding.,
C as in Cacophonies (pl. ) of Cacophony,
C as in Cacophony (n.) An uncouth or disagreable sound of words, owing to the concurrence of harsh letters or syllables.,
C as in Cacophony (n.) A combination of discordant sounds.,
C as in Cacophony (n.) An unhealthy state of the voice.,
C as in Cacotechny (n.) A corruption or corrupt state of art.,
C as in Cacoxene (n.) Alt. of Cacoxenite,
C as in Cacoxenite (n.) A hydrous phosphate of iron occurring in yellow radiated tufts. The phosphorus seriously injures it as an iron ore.,
C as in Cactaceous (a.) Belonging to, or like, the family of plants of which the prickly pear is a common example.,
C as in Cactuses (pl. ) of Cactus,
C as in Cacti (pl. ) of Cactus,
C as in Cactus (n.) Any plant of the order Cactacae, as the prickly pear and the night-blooming cereus. See Cereus. They usually have leafless stems and branches, often beset with clustered thorns, and are mostly natives of the warmer parts of America.,
C as in Cacuminal (a.) Pertaining to the top of the palate; cerebral; -- applied to certain consonants; as, cacuminal (or cerebral) letters.,
C as in Cacuminate (v. i.) To make sharp or pointed.,
C as in Cad (n.) A person who stands at the door of an omnibus to open and shut it, and to receive fares; an idle hanger-on about innyards.,
C as in Cad (n.) A lowbred, presuming person; a mean, vulgar fellow.,
C as in Cadastral (a.) Of or pertaining to landed property.,
C as in Cadastre (n.) Alt. of Cadaster,
C as in Cadaster (n.) An official statement of the quantity and value of real estate for the purpose of apportioning the taxes payable on such property.,
C as in Cadaver (n.) A dead human body; a corpse.,
C as in Cadaveric (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a corpse, or the changes produced by death; cadaverous; as, cadaveric rigidity.,
C as in Cadaverous (a.) Having the appearance or color of a dead human body; pale; ghastly; as, a cadaverous look.,
C as in Cadaverous (a.) Of or pertaining to, or having the qualities of, a dead body.,
C as in Cadbait (n.) See Caddice.,
C as in Caddice (n.) Alt. of Caddis,
C as in Caddis (n.) The larva of a caddice fly. These larvae generally live in cylindrical cases, open at each end, and covered externally with pieces of broken shells, gravel, bits of wood, etc. They are a favorite bait with anglers. Called also caddice worm, or caddis worm.,
C as in Caddis (n.) A kind of worsted lace or ribbon.,
C as in Caddish (a.) Like a cad; lowbred and presuming.,
C as in Caddow (n.) A jackdaw.,
C as in Caddies (pl. ) of Caddy,
C as in Caddy (n.) A small box, can, or chest to keep tea in.,
C as in Cade (a.) Bred by hand; domesticated; petted.,
C as in Cade (v. t.) To bring up or nourish by hand, or with tenderness; to coddle; to tame.,
C as in Cade (n.) A barrel or cask, as of fish.,
C as in Cade (n.) A species of juniper (Juniperus Oxycedrus) of Mediterranean countries.,
C as in Cadence (n.) The act or state of declining or sinking.,
C as in Cadence (n.) A fall of the voice in reading or speaking, especially at the end of a sentence.,
C as in Cadence (n.) A rhythmical modulation of the voice or of any sound; as, music of bells in cadence sweet.,
C as in Cadence (n.) Rhythmical flow of language, in prose or verse.,
C as in Cadence (n.) See Cadency.,
C as in Cadence (n.) Harmony and proportion in motions, as of a well-managed horse.,
C as in Cadence (n.) A uniform time and place in marching.,
C as in Cadence (n.) The close or fall of a strain; the point of rest, commonly reached by the immediate succession of the tonic to the dominant chord.,
C as in Cadence (n.) A cadenza, or closing embellishment; a pause before the end of a strain, which the performer may fill with a flight of fancy.,
C as in Cadence (v. t.) To regulate by musical measure.,
C as in Cadency (n.) Descent of related families; distinction between the members of a family according to their ages.,
C as in Cadene (n.) A species of inferior carpet imported from the Levant.,
C as in Cadent (a.) Falling.,
C as in Cadenza (n.) A parenthetic flourish or flight of ornament in the course of a piece, commonly just before the final cadence.,
C as in Cader (n.) See Cadre.,
C as in Cadet (n.) The younger of two brothers; a younger brother or son; the youngest son.,
C as in Cadet (n.) A gentleman who carries arms in a regiment, as a volunteer, with a view of acquiring military skill and obtaining a commission.,
C as in Cadet (n.) A young man in training for military or naval service; esp. a pupil in a military or naval school, as at West Point, Annapolis, or Woolwich.,
C as in Cadetship (n.) The position, rank, or commission of a cadet; as, to get a cadetship.,
C as in Cadew (n.) Alt. of Cadeworm,
C as in Cadeworm (n.) A caddice. See Caddice.,
C as in Cadged (imp. & p. p.) of Cadge,
C as in Cadging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cadge,
C as in Cadge (v. t. & i.) To carry, as a burden.,
C as in Cadge (v. t. & i.) To hawk or peddle, as fish, poultry, etc.,
C as in Cadge (v. t. & i.) To intrude or live on another meanly; to beg.,
C as in Cadge (n.) A circular frame on which cadgers carry hawks for sale.,
C as in Cadger (v. t.) A packman or itinerant huckster.,
C as in Cadger (v. t.) One who gets his living by trickery or begging.,
C as in Cadger (n.) One who carries hawks on a cadge.,
C as in Cadgy (a.) Cheerful or mirthful, as after good eating or drinking; also, wanton.,
C as in Cadi (n.) An inferior magistrate or judge among the Mohammedans, usually the judge of a town or village.,
C as in Cadie (n.) Alt. of Caddie,
C as in Caddie (n.) A Scotch errand boy, porter, or messenger.,
C as in Cadilesker (n.) A chief judge in the Turkish empire, so named originally because his jurisdiction extended to the cases of soldiers, who are now tried only by their own officers.,
C as in Cadillac (n.) A large pear, shaped like a flattened top, used chiefly for cooking.,
C as in Cadis (n.) A kind of coarse serge.,
C as in Cadmean (a.) Of or pertaining to Cadmus, a fabulous prince of Thebes, who was said to have introduced into Greece the sixteen simple letters of the alphabet -- /, /, /, /, /, /, /, /, /, /, /, /, /, /, /, /. These are called Cadmean letters.,
C as in Cadmia (n.) An oxide of zinc which collects on the sides of furnaces where zinc is sublimed. Formerly applied to the mineral calamine.,
C as in Cadmian (a.) See Cadmean.,
C as in Cadmic (a.) Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, cadmium; as, cadmic sulphide.,
C as in Cadmium (n.) A comparatively rare element related to zinc, and occurring in some zinc ores. It is a white metal, both ductile and malleable. Symbol Cd. Atomic weight 111.8. It was discovered by Stromeyer in 1817, who named it from its association with zinc or zinc ore.,
C as in Cadrans (n.) An instrument with a graduated disk by means of which the angles of gems are measured in the process of cutting and polishing.,
C as in Cadre (n.) The framework or skeleton upon which a regiment is to be formed; the officers of a regiment forming the staff.,
C as in Caducary (a.) Relating to escheat, forfeiture, or confiscation.,
C as in Caducean (a.) Of or belonging to Mercury's caduceus, or wand.,
C as in Caduceus (n.) The official staff or wand of Hermes or Mercury, the messenger of the gods. It was originally said to be a herald's staff of olive wood, but was afterwards fabled to have two serpents coiled about it, and two wings at the top.,
C as in Caducibranchiate (a.) With temporary gills: -- applied to those Amphibia in which the gills do not remain in adult life.,
C as in Caducity (n.) Tendency to fall; the feebleness of old age; senility.,
C as in Caducous () Dropping off or disappearing early, as the calyx of a poppy, or the gills of a tadpole.,
C as in Caduke (a.) Perishable; frail; transitory.,
C as in Cady (n.) See Cadie.,
C as in Caeca (n. pl.) See Caecum.,
C as in Caecal (a.) Of or pertaining to the caecum, or blind gut.,
C as in Caecal (a.) Having the form of a caecum, or bag with one opening; baglike; as, the caecal extremity of a duct.,
C as in Caecias (n.) A wind from the northeast.,
C as in Caecilian (n.) A limbless amphibian belonging to the order Caeciliae or Ophimorpha. See Ophiomorpha.,
C as in Caecums (pl. ) of Caecum,
C as in Caeca (pl. ) of Caecum,
C as in Caecum (n.) A cavity open at one end, as the blind end of a canal or duct.,
C as in Caecum (n.) The blind part of the large intestine beyond the entrance of the small intestine; -- called also the blind gut.,
C as in Caenozoic (a.) See Cenozoic.,
C as in Caen stone () A cream-colored limestone for building, found near Caen, France.,
C as in Caesar (n.) A Roman emperor, as being the successor of Augustus Caesar. Hence, a kaiser, or emperor of Germany, or any emperor or powerful ruler. See Kaiser, Kesar.,
C as in Caesarean (a.) Alt. of Caesarian,
C as in Caesarian (a.) Of or pertaining to Caesar or the Caesars; imperial.,
C as in Caesarism (n.) A system of government in which unrestricted power is exercised by a single person, to whom, as Caesar or emperor, it has been committed by the popular will; imperialism; also, advocacy or support of such a system of government.,
C as in Caesious (a.) Of the color of lavender; pale blue with a slight mixture of gray.,
C as in Caesium (n.) A rare alkaline metal found in mineral water; -- so called from the two characteristic blue lines in its spectrum. It was the first element discovered by spectrum analysis, and is the most strongly basic and electro-positive substance known. Symbol Cs. Atomic weight 132.6.,
C as in Caespitose (a.) Same as Cespitose.,
C as in Caesuras (pl. ) of Caesura,
C as in Caesurae (pl. ) of Caesura,
C as in Caesura (n.) A metrical break in a verse, occurring in the middle of a foot and commonly near the middle of the verse; a sense pause in the middle of a foot. Also, a long syllable on which the caesural accent rests, or which is used as a foot.,
C as in Caesural (a.) Of or pertaining to a caesura.,
C as in Cafe (n.) A coffeehouse; a restaurant; also, a room in a hotel or restaurant where coffee and liquors are served.,
C as in Cafenet (n.) Alt. of Cafeneh,
C as in Cafeneh (n.) A humble inn or house of rest for travelers, where coffee is sold.,
C as in Caffeic (a.) Pertaining to, or obtained from, coffee.,
C as in Caffeine (n.) A white, bitter, crystallizable substance, obtained from coffee. It is identical with the alkaloid theine from tea leaves, and with guaranine from guarana.,
C as in Caffetannic (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, the tannin of coffee.,
C as in Caffila (n.) See Cafila.,
C as in Caffre (n.) See Kaffir.,
C as in Cafila (n.) Alt. of Cafileh,
C as in Cafileh (n.) A caravan of travelers; a military supply train or government caravan; a string of pack horses.,
C as in Caftan (n.) A garment worn throughout the Levant, consisting of a long gown with sleeves reaching below the hands. It is generally fastened by a belt or sash.,
C as in Caftan (v. t.) To clothe with a caftan.,
C as in Cag (n.) See Keg.,
C as in Cage (n.) A box or inclosure, wholly or partly of openwork, in wood or metal, used for confining birds or other animals.,
C as in Cage (n.) A place of confinement for malefactors,
C as in Cage (n.) An outer framework of timber, inclosing something within it; as, the cage of a staircase.,
C as in Cage (n.) A skeleton frame to limit the motion of a loose piece, as a ball valve.,
C as in Cage (n.) A wirework strainer, used in connection with pumps and pipes.,
C as in Cage (n.) The box, bucket, or inclosed platform of a lift or elevator; a cagelike structure moving in a shaft.,
C as in Cage (n.) The drum on which the rope is wound in a hoisting whim.,
C as in Cage (n.) The catcher's wire mask.,
C as in Caged (imp. & p. p.) of Cage,
C as in Caging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cage,
C as in Cage (v. i.) To confine in, or as in, a cage; to shut up or confine.,
C as in Caged (a.) Confined in, or as in, a cage; like a cage or prison.,
C as in Cageling (n.) A bird confined in a cage; esp. a young bird.,
C as in Cagit (n.) A kind of parrot, of a beautiful green color, found in the Philippine Islands.,
C as in Cagmag (n.) A tough old goose; hence, coarse, bad food of any kind.,
C as in Cagot (n.) One of a race inhabiting the valleys of the Pyrenees, who until 1793 were political and social outcasts (Christian Pariahs). They are supposed to be a remnant of the Visigoths.,
C as in Cahier (n.) A number of sheets of paper put loosely together; esp. one of the successive portions of a work printed in numbers.,
C as in Cahier (n.) A memorial of a body; a report of legislative proceedings, etc.,
C as in Cahincic (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, cahinca, the native name of a species of Brazilian Chiococca, perhaps C. racemosa; as, cahincic acid.,
C as in Cahoot (n.) Partnership; as, to go in cahoot with a person.,
C as in Caimacam (n.) The governor of a sanjak or district in Turkey.,
C as in Caiman (n.) See Cayman.,
C as in Cainozoic (a.) See Cenozic.,
C as in Caique (n.) A light skiff or rowboat used on the Bosporus; also, a Levantine vessel of larger size.,
C as in Ca ira () The refrain of a famous song of the French Revolution.,
C as in Caird (n.) A traveling tinker; also a tramp or sturdy beggar.,
C as in Cairn (n.) A rounded or conical heap of stones erected by early inhabitants of the British Isles, apparently as a sepulchral monument.,
C as in Cairn (n.) A pile of stones heaped up as a landmark, or to arrest attention, as in surveying, or in leaving traces of an exploring party, etc.,
C as in Cairngormstone () A yellow or smoky brown variety of rock crystal, or crystallized quartz, found esp, in the mountain of Cairngorm, in Scotland.,
C as in Caisson (n.) A chest to hold ammunition.,
C as in Caisson (n.) A four-wheeled carriage for conveying ammunition, consisting of two parts, a body and a limber. In light field batteries there is one caisson to each piece, having two ammunition boxes on the body, and one on the limber.,
C as in Caisson (n.) A chest filled with explosive materials, to be laid in the way of an enemy and exploded on his approach.,
C as in Caisson (n.) A water-tight box, of timber or iron within which work is carried on in building foundations or structures below the water level.,
C as in Caisson (n.) A hollow floating box, usually of iron, which serves to close the entrances of docks and basins.,
C as in Caisson (n.) A structure, usually with an air chamber, placed beneath a vessel to lift or float it.,
C as in Caisson (n.) A sunk panel of ceilings or soffits.,
C as in Caitiff (a.) Captive; wretched; unfortunate.,
C as in Caitiff (a.) Base; wicked and mean; cowardly; despicable.,
C as in Caitiff (n.) A captive; a prisoner.,
C as in Caitiff (n.) A wretched or unfortunate man.,
C as in Caitiff (n.) A mean, despicable person; one whose character meanness and wickedness meet.,
C as in Cajeput (n.) See Cajuput.,
C as in Cajoled (imp. & p. p.) of Cajole,
C as in Cajoling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cajole,
C as in Cajole (v. i.) To deceive with flattery or fair words; to wheedle.,
C as in Cajolement (n.) The act of cajoling; the state of being cajoled; cajolery.,
C as in Cajoler (n.) A flatterer; a wheedler.,
C as in Cajoleries (pl. ) of Cajolery,
C as in Cajolery (n.) A wheedling to delude; words used in cajoling; flattery.,
C as in Cajuput (n.) A highly stimulating volatile inflammable oil, distilled from the leaves of an East Indian tree (Melaleuca cajuputi, etc.) It is greenish in color and has a camphoraceous odor and pungent taste.,
C as in Cajuputene (n.) A colorless or greenish oil extracted from cajuput.,
C as in Cake (n.) A small mass of dough baked; especially, a thin loaf from unleavened dough; as, an oatmeal cake; johnnycake.,
C as in Cake (n.) A sweetened composition of flour and other ingredients, leavened or unleavened, baked in a loaf or mass of any size or shape.,
C as in Cake (n.) A thin wafer-shaped mass of fried batter; a griddlecake or pancake; as buckwheat cakes.,
C as in Cake (n.) A mass of matter concreted, congealed, or molded into a solid mass of any form, esp. into a form rather flat than high; as, a cake of soap; an ague cake.,
C as in Cake (v. i.) To form into a cake, or mass.,
C as in Caked (imp. & p. p.) of Cake,
C as in Caking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cake,
C as in Cake (v. i.) To concrete or consolidate into a hard mass, as dough in an oven; to coagulate.,
C as in Cake (v. i.) To cackle as a goose.,
C as in Caking coal () See Coal.,
C as in Cal (n.) Wolfram, an ore of tungsten.,
C as in Calabar (n.) A district on the west coast of Africa.,
C as in Calabarine (n.) An alkaloid resembling physostigmine and occurring with it in the calabar bean.,
C as in Calabash (n.) The common gourd (plant or fruit).,
C as in Calabash (n.) The fruit of the calabash tree.,
C as in Calabash (n.) A water dipper, bottle, bascket, or other utensil, made from the dry shell of a calabash or gourd.,
C as in Calaboose (n.) A prison; a jail.,
C as in Calade (n.) A slope or declivity in a manege ground down which a horse is made to gallop, to give suppleness to his haunches.,
C as in Caladium (n.) A genus of aroideous plants, of which some species are cultivated for their immense leaves (which are often curiously blotched with white and red), and others (in Polynesia) for food.,
C as in Calaite (n.) A mineral. See Turquoise.,
C as in Calamanco (n.) A glossy woolen stuff, plain, striped, or checked.,
C as in Calamander wood () A valuable furniture wood from India and Ceylon, of a hazel-brown color, with black stripes, very hard in texture. It is a species of ebony, and is obtained from the Diospyros quaesita. Called also Coromandel wood.,
C as in Calamar (n.) Alt. of Calamary,
C as in Calamary (n.) A cephalopod, belonging to the genus Loligo and related genera. There are many species. They have a sack of inklike fluid which they discharge from the siphon tube, when pursued or alarmed, in order to confuse their enemies. Their shell is a thin horny plate, within the flesh of the back, shaped very much like a quill pen. In America they are called squids. See Squid.,
C as in Calambac (n.) A fragrant wood; agalloch.,
C as in Calambour (n.) A species of agalloch, or aloes wood, of a dusky or mottled color, of a light, friable texture, and less fragrant than calambac; -- used by cabinetmakers.,
C as in Calamiferous (a.) Producing reeds; reedy.,
C as in Calamine (n.) A mineral, the hydrous silicate of zinc.,
C as in Calamint (n.) A genus of perennial plants (Calamintha) of the Mint family, esp. the C. Nepeta and C. Acinos, which are called also basil thyme.,
C as in Calamist (n.) One who plays upon a reed or pipe.,
C as in Calamistrate (v. i.) To curl or friz, as the hair.,
C as in Calamistration (n.) The act or process of curling the hair.,
C as in Calamistrum (n.) A comblike structure on the metatarsus of the hind legs of certain spiders (Ciniflonidae), used to curl certain fibers in the construction of their webs.,
C as in Calamite (n.) A fossil plant of the coal formation, having the general form of plants of the modern Equiseta (the Horsetail or Scouring Rush family) but sometimes attaining the height of trees, and having the stem more or less woody within. See Acrogen, and Asterophyllite.,
C as in Calamitous (a.) Suffering calamity; wretched; miserable.,
C as in Calamitous (a.) Producing, or attended with distress and misery; making wretched; wretched; unhappy.,
C as in Calamities (pl. ) of Calamity,
C as in Calamity (n.) Any great misfortune or cause of misery; -- generally applied to events or disasters which produce extensive evil, either to communities or individuals.,
C as in Calamity (n.) A state or time of distress or misfortune; misery.,
C as in Calami (pl. ) of Calamus,
C as in Calamus (n.) The indian cane, a plant of the Palm family. It furnishes the common rattan. See Rattan, and Dragon's blood.,
C as in Calamus (n.) A species of Acorus (A. calamus), commonly called calamus, or sweet flag. The root has a pungent, aromatic taste, and is used in medicine as a stomachic; the leaves have an aromatic odor, and were formerly used instead of rushes to strew on floors.,
C as in Calamus (n.) The horny basal portion of a feather; the barrel or quill.,
C as in Calando (a.) Gradually diminishing in rapidity and loudness.,
C as in Calash (n.) A light carriage with low wheels, having a top or hood that can be raised or lowered, seats for inside, a separate seat for the driver, and often a movable front, so that it can be used as either an open or a close carriage.,
C as in Calash (n.) In Canada, a two-wheeled, one-seated vehicle, with a calash top, and the driver's seat elevated in front.,
C as in Calash (n.) A hood or top of a carriage which can be thrown back at pleasure.,
C as in Calash (n.) A hood, formerly worn by ladies, which could be drawn forward or thrown back like the top of a carriage.,
C as in Calaverite (n.) A bronze-yellow massive mineral with metallic luster; a telluride of gold; -- first found in Calaveras County California.,
C as in Calcaneal (a.) Pertaining to the calcaneum; as, calcaneal arteries.,
C as in -neums (pl. ) of Calcaneum,
C as in -nea (pl. ) of Calcaneum,
C as in Calcaneum (n.) One of the bones of the tarsus which in man, forms the great bone of the heel; -- called also fibulare.,
C as in Calcar (n.) A kind of oven, or reverberatory furnace, used for the calcination of sand and potash, and converting them into frit.,
C as in Calcaria (pl. ) of Calcar,
C as in Calcar (n.) A hollow tube or spur at the base of a petal or corolla.,
C as in Calcar (n.) A slender bony process from the ankle joint of bats, which helps to support the posterior part of the web, in flight.,
C as in Calcar (n.) A spur, or spurlike prominence.,
C as in Calcar (n.) A curved ridge in the floor of the leteral ventricle of the brain; the calcar avis, hippocampus minor, or ergot.,
C as in Calcarate (a.) Alt. of Calcarated,
C as in Calcarated (a.) Having a spur, as the flower of the toadflax and larkspur; spurred.,
C as in Calcarated (a.) Armed with a spur.,
C as in Calcareo-argillaceous (a.) consisting of, or containing, calcareous and argillaceous earths.,
C as in Calcareo-bituminous (a.) Consisting of, or containing, lime and bitumen.,
C as in Calcareo-siliceous (a.) Consisting of, or containing calcareous and siliceous earths.,
C as in Calcareous (a.) Partaking of the nature of calcite or calcium carbonate; consisting of, or containing, calcium carbonate or carbonate of lime.,
C as in Calcareousness (n.) Quality of being calcareous.,
C as in Calcariferous (a.) Lime-yielding; calciferous,
C as in Calcarine (a.) Pertaining to, or situated near, the calcar of the brain.,
C as in Calcavella (n.) A sweet wine from Portugal; -- so called from the district of Carcavelhos.,
C as in Calceated (a.) Fitted with, or wearing, shoes.,
C as in Calced (a.) Wearing shoes; calceated; -- in distintion from discalced or barefooted; as the calced Carmelites.,
C as in Calcedon (n.) A foul vein, like chalcedony, in some precious stones.,
C as in Calcedonic (a.) Alt. of Calcedonian,
C as in Calcedonian (a.) See Chalcedonic.,
C as in Calceiform (a.) Shaped like a slipper, as one petal of the lady's-slipper; calceolate.,
C as in Calceolaria (n.) A genus of showy herbaceous or shrubby plants, brought from South America; slipperwort. It has a yellow or purple flower, often spotted or striped, the shape of which suggests its name.,
C as in Calceolate (a.) Slipper-ahaped. See Calceiform.,
C as in Calces (n. pl.) See Calx.,
C as in Calcic (a.) Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, calcium or lime.,
C as in Calciferous (a.) Bearing, producing, or containing calcite, or carbonate of lime.,
C as in Calcific (a.) Calciferous. Specifically: (Zool.) of or pertaining to the portion of the oviduct which forms the eggshell in birds and reptiles.,
C as in Calcification (n.) The process of change into a stony or calcareous substance by the deposition of lime salt; -- normally, as in the formation of bone and of teeth; abnormally, as in calcareous degeneration of tissue.,
C as in Calcified (a.) Consisting of, or containing, calcareous matter or lime salts; calcareous.,
C as in Calciform (a.) In the form of chalk or lime.,
C as in Calcified (imp. & p. p.) of Calcify,
C as in Calcifying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Calcify,
C as in Calcify (v. t.) To make stony or calcareous by the deposit or secretion of salts of lime.,
C as in Calcify (v. i.) To become changed into a stony or calcareous condition, in which lime is a principal ingredient, as in the formation of teeth.,
C as in Calcigenous (a.) Tending to form, or to become, a calx or earthlike substance on being oxidized or burnt; as magnesium, calcium. etc.,
C as in Calcigerous (a.) Holding lime or other earthy salts; as, the calcigerous cells of the teeth.,
C as in Calcimine (n.) A white or colored wash for the ceiling or other plastering of a room, consisting of a mixture of clear glue, Paris white or zinc white, and water.,
C as in Calcimined (imp. &p. p.) of Calcimine,
C as in Calcimining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Calcimine,
C as in Calcimine (v. t.) To wash or cover with calcimine; as, to calcimine walls.,
C as in Calciminer (n.) One who calcimines.,
C as in Calcinable (a.) That may be calcined; as, a calcinable fossil.,
C as in Calcinate (v. i.) To calcine.,
C as in Calcination (n.) The act or process of disintegrating a substance, or rendering it friable by the action of heat, esp. by the expulsion of some volatile matter, as when carbonic and acid is expelled from carbonate of calcium in the burning of limestone in order to make lime.,
C as in Calcination (n.) The act or process of reducing a metal to an oxide or metallic calx; oxidation.,
C as in Calcinatory (n.) A vessel used in calcination.,
C as in Calciden (imp. & p. p.) of Calcine,
C as in Calcining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Calcine,
C as in Calcine (v. i.) To reduce to a powder, or to a friable state, by the action of heat; to expel volatile matter from by means of heat, as carbonic acid from limestone, and thus (usually) to produce disintegration; as to, calcine bones.,
C as in Calcine (v. i.) To oxidize, as a metal by the action of heat; to reduce to a metallic calx.,
C as in Calcine (v. i.) To be converted into a powder or friable substance, or into a calx, by the action of heat.,
C as in Calciner (n.) One who, or that which, calcines.,
C as in Calcispongiae (n. pl.) An order of marine sponges, containing calcareous spicules. See Porifera.,
C as in Calcite (n.) Calcium carbonate, or carbonate of lime. It is rhombohedral in its crystallization, and thus distinguished from aragonite. It includes common limestone, chalk, and marble. Called also calc-spar and calcareous spar.,
C as in Calcitrant (a.) Kicking. Hence: Stubborn; refractory.,
C as in Calcitrate (v. i. & i.) To kick.,
C as in Calcitration (n.) Act of kicking.,
C as in Calcium (n.) An elementary substance; a metal which combined with oxygen forms lime. It is of a pale yellow color, tenacious, and malleable. It is a member of the alkaline earth group of elements. Atomic weight 40. Symbol Ca.,
C as in Calcivorous (a.) Eroding, or eating into, limestone.,
C as in Calcographer (n.) One who practices calcography.,
C as in Calcographic (a.) Alt. of Calcographical,
C as in Calcographical (a.) Relating to, or in the style of, calcography.,
C as in Calcography (n.) The art of drawing with chalk.,
C as in Calc-sinter (n.) See under Calcite.,
C as in Calc-spar (n.) Same as Calcite.,
C as in Calc-tufa (n.) See under Calcite.,
C as in Calculable (a.) That may be calculated or ascertained by calculation.,
C as in Calculary (a.) Of or pertaining to calculi.,
C as in Calculary (n.) A congeries of little stony knots found in the pulp of the pear and other fruits.,
C as in Calculater (imp. & p. p.) of Calculate,
C as in Calculating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Calculate,
C as in Calculate (v. i.) To ascertain or determine by mathematical processes, usually by the ordinary rules of arithmetic; to reckon up; to estimate; to compute.,
C as in Calculate (v. i.) To ascertain or predict by mathematical or astrological computations the time, circumstances, or other conditions of; to forecast or compute the character or consequences of; as, to calculate or cast one's nativity.,
C as in Calculate (v. i.) To adjust for purpose; to adapt by forethought or calculation; to fit or prepare by the adaptation of means to an end; as, to calculate a system of laws for the government and protection of a free people.,
C as in Calculate (v. i.) To plan; to expect; to think.,
C as in Calculate (v. i.) To make a calculation; to forecast consequences; to estimate; to compute.,
C as in Calculated (p. p. & a.) Worked out by calculation; as calculated tables for computing interest; ascertained or conjectured as a result of calculation; as, the calculated place of a planet; the calculated velocity of a cannon ball.,
C as in Calculated (p. p. & a.) Adapted by calculation, contrivance. or forethought to accomplish a purpose; as, to use arts calculated to deceive the people.,
C as in Calculated (p. p. & a.) Likely to produce a certain effect, whether intended or not; fitted; adapted; suited.,
C as in Calculating (a.) Of or pertaining to mathematical calculations; performing or able to perform mathematical calculations.,
C as in Calculating (a.) Given to contrivance or forethought; forecasting; scheming; as, a cool calculating disposition.,
C as in Calculating (n.) The act or process of making mathematical computations or of estimating results.,
C as in Calculation (n.) The act or process, or the result, of calculating; computation; reckoning, estimate.,
C as in Calculation (n.) An expectation based on circumstances.,
C as in Calculative (a.) Of or pertaining to calculation; involving calculation.,
C as in Calculator (n.) One who computes or reckons: one who estimates or considers the force and effect of causes, with a view to form a correct estimate of the effects.,
C as in Calculatory (a.) Belonging to calculation.,
C as in Calcule (n.) Reckoning; computation.,
C as in Calcule (v. i.) To calculate,
C as in Calculi (n. pl.) See Calculus.,
C as in Calculous (a.) Of the nature of a calculus; like stone; gritty; as, a calculous concretion.,
C as in Calculous (a.) Caused, or characterized, by the presence of a calculus or calculi; a, a calculous disorder; affected with gravel or stone; as, a calculous person.,
C as in Calculi (pl. ) of Calculus,
C as in Calculus (n.) Any solid concretion, formed in any part of the body, but most frequent in the organs that act as reservoirs, and in the passages connected with them; as, biliary calculi; urinary calculi, etc.,
C as in Calculus (n.) A method of computation; any process of reasoning by the use of symbols; any branch of mathematics that may involve calculation.,
C as in Caldron (n.) A large kettle or boiler of copper, brass, or iron. [Written also cauldron.],
C as in Caleche (n.) See Calash.,
C as in Caledonia (n.) The ancient Latin name of Scotland; -- still used in poetry.,
C as in Caledonian (a.) Of or pertaining to Caledonia or Scotland; Scottish; Scotch.,
C as in Caledonian (n.) A native or inhabitant of Caledonia or Scotland.,
C as in Caledonite (n.) A hydrous sulphate of copper and lead, found in some parts of Caledonia or Scotland.,
C as in Calefacient (a.) Making warm; heating.,
C as in Calefacient (n.) A substance that excites warmth in the parts to which it is applied, as mustard.,
C as in Calefaction (n.) The act of warming or heating; the production of heat in a body by the action of fire, or by communication of heat from other bodies.,
C as in Calefaction (n.) The state of being heated.,
C as in Calefactive (a.) See Calefactory.,
C as in Calefactor (n.) A heater; one who, or that which, makes hot, as a stove, etc.,
C as in Calefactory (a.) Making hot; producing or communicating heat.,
C as in Calefactory (n.) An apartment in a monastery, warmed and used as a sitting room.,
C as in Calefactory (n.) A hollow sphere of metal, filled with hot water, or a chafing dish, placed on the altar in cold weather for the priest to warm his hands with.,
C as in Calefied (imp. & p. p.) of Calefy,
C as in Calefying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Calefy,
C as in Calefy (v. i.) To make warm or hot.,
C as in Calefy (v. i.) To grow hot or warm.,
C as in Calembour (n.) A pun.,
C as in Calendar (n.) An orderly arrangement of the division of time, adapted to the purposes of civil life, as years, months, weeks, and days; also, a register of the year with its divisions; an almanac.,
C as in Calendar (n.) A tabular statement of the dates of feasts, offices, saints' days, etc., esp. of those which are liable to change yearly according to the varying date of Easter.,
C as in Calendar (n.) An orderly list or enumeration of persons, things, or events; a schedule; as, a calendar of state papers; a calendar of bills presented in a legislative assembly; a calendar of causes arranged for trial in court; a calendar of a college or an academy.,
C as in Calendared (imp. & p. p.) of Calendar,
C as in Calendaring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Calendar,
C as in Calendar (v. t.) To enter or write in a calendar; to register.,
C as in Calendarial (a.) Of or pertaining to the calendar or a calendar.,
C as in Calendary (a.) Calendarial.,
C as in Calender (n.) A machine, used for the purpose of giving cloth, paper, etc., a smooth, even, and glossy or glazed surface, by cold or hot pressure, or for watering them and giving them a wavy appearance. It consists of two or more cylinders revolving nearly in contact, with the necessary apparatus for moving and regulating.,
C as in Calender (n.) One who pursues the business of calendering.,
C as in Calendered (imp. & p. p.) of Calender,
C as in Calendering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Calender,
C as in Calender (n.) To press between rollers for the purpose of making smooth and glossy, or wavy, as woolen and silk stuffs, linens, paper, etc.,
C as in Calender (n.) One of a sect or order of fantastically dressed or painted dervishes.,
C as in Calendographer (n.) One who makes calendars.,
C as in Calendrer (n.) A person who calenders cloth; a calender.,
C as in Calendric (a.) Alt. of Calendrical,
C as in Calendrical (a.) Of or pertaining to a calendar.,
C as in Calends (n. pl.) The first day of each month in the ancient Roman calendar.,
C as in Calendula (n.) A genus of composite herbaceous plants. One species, Calendula officinalis, is the common marigold, and was supposed to blossom on the calends of every month, whence the name.,
C as in Calendulin (n.) A gummy or mucilaginous tasteless substance obtained from the marigold or calendula, and analogous to bassorin.,
C as in Calenture (n.) A name formerly given to various fevers occuring in tropics; esp. to a form of furious delirium accompanied by fever, among sailors, which sometimes led the affected person to imagine the sea to be a green field, and to throw himself into it.,
C as in Calenture (v. i.) To see as in the delirium of one affected with calenture.,
C as in Calescence (n.) Growing warmth; increasing heat.,
C as in Calves (pl. ) of Calf,
C as in Calf (n.) The young of the cow, or of the Bovine family of quadrupeds. Also, the young of some other mammals, as of the elephant, rhinoceros, hippopotamus, and whale.,
C as in Calf (n.) Leather made of the skin of the calf; especially, a fine, light-colored leather used in bookbinding; as, to bind books in calf.,
C as in Calf (n.) An awkward or silly boy or young man; any silly person; a dolt.,
C as in Calf (n.) A small island near a larger; as, the Calf of Man.,
C as in Calf (n.) A small mass of ice set free from the submerged part of a glacier or berg, and rising to the surface.,
C as in Calf (n.) The fleshy hinder part of the leg below the knee.,
C as in Calfskin (n.) The hide or skin of a calf; or leather made of the skin.,
C as in Cali (n.) The tenth avatar or incarnation of the god Vishnu.,
C as in Caliber (n.) Alt. of Calibre,
C as in Calibre (n.) The diameter of the bore, as a cannon or other firearm, or of any tube; or the weight or size of the projectile which a firearm will carry; as, an 8 inch gun, a 12-pounder, a 44 caliber.,
C as in Calibre (n.) The diameter of round or cylindrical body, as of a bullet or column.,
C as in Calibre (n.) Fig.: Capacity or compass of mind.,
C as in Calibrate (v. i.) To ascertain the caliber of, as of a thermometer tube; also, more generally, to determine or rectify the graduation of, as of the various standards or graduated instruments.,
C as in Calibration (n.) The process of estimating the caliber a tube, as of a thermometer tube, in order to graduate it to a scale of degrees; also, more generally, the determination of the true value of the spaces in any graduated instrument.,
C as in Calice (n.) See Chalice.,
C as in Calicle (n.) One of the small cuplike cavities, often with elevated borders, covering the surface of most corals. Each is formed by a polyp. (b) One of the cuplike structures inclosing the zooids of certain hydroids. See Campanularian.,
C as in Calicoes (pl. ) of Calico,
C as in Calico (n.) Plain white cloth made from cotton, but which receives distinctive names according to quality and use, as, super calicoes, shirting calicoes, unbleached calicoes, etc.,
C as in Calico (n.) Cotton cloth printed with a figured pattern.,
C as in Calico (a.) Made of, or having the appearance of, calico; -- often applied to an animal, as a horse or cat, on whose body are large patches of a color strikingly different from its main color.,
C as in Calicoback (n.) The calico bass.,
C as in Calicoback (n.) An hemipterous insect (Murgantia histrionica) which injures the cabbage and other garden plants; -- called also calico bug and harlequin cabbage bug.,
C as in Calicular (a.) Alt. of Caliculate,
C as in Caliculate (a.) Relating to, or resembling, a cup; also improperly used for calycular, calyculate.,
C as in Calid (a.) Hot; burning; ardent.,
C as in Calidity (n.) Heat.,
C as in Caliduct (n.) A pipe or duct used to convey hot air or steam.,
C as in Calif (n.) Alt. of Califate,
C as in Califate (n.) Same as Caliph, Caliphate, etc.,
C as in Californian (a.) Of or pertaining to California.,
C as in Californian (n.) A native or inhabitant of California.,
C as in Caligation (n.) Dimness; cloudiness.,
C as in Caliginosity (n.) Darkness.,
C as in Caliginous (a.) Affected with darkness or dimness; dark; obscure.,
C as in Caligo (n.) Dimness or obscurity of sight, dependent upon a speck on the cornea; also, the speck itself.,
C as in Caligraphic (a.) See Calligraphic.,
C as in Caligraphy (n.) See Caligraphy.,
C as in Calin (n.) An alloy of lead and tin, of which the Chinese make tea canisters.,
C as in Calipash (n.) A part of a turtle which is next to the upper shell. It contains a fatty and gelatinous substance of a dull greenish tinge, much esteemed as a delicacy in preparations of turtle.,
C as in Calipee (n.) A part of a turtle which is attached to the lower shell. It contains a fatty and gelatinous substance of a light yellowish color, much esteemed as a delicacy.,
C as in Calipers (n. pl.) An instrument, usually resembling a pair of dividers or compasses with curved legs, for measuring the diameter or thickness of bodies, as of work shaped in a lathe or planer, timber, masts, shot, etc.; or the bore of firearms, tubes, etc.; -- called also caliper compasses, or caliber compasses.,
C as in Caliph (n.) Successor or vicar; -- a title of the successors of Mohammed both as temporal and spiritual rulers, now used by the sultans of Turkey.,
C as in Caliphate (n.) The office, dignity, or government of a caliph or of the caliphs.,
C as in Calippic (a.) Of or pertaining to Calippus, an Athenian astronomer.,
C as in Calisaya bark () A valuable kind of Peruvian bark obtained from the Cinchona Calisaya, and other closely related species.,
C as in Calistheneum (n.) A gymnasium; esp. one for light physical exercise by women and children.,
C as in Calisthenis (a.) Of or pertaining to calisthenics.,
C as in Calisthenics (n.) The science, art, or practice of healthful exercise of the body and limbs, to promote strength and gracefulness; light gymnastics.,
C as in Caliver (n.) An early form of hand gun, variety of the arquebus; originally a gun having a regular size of bore.,
C as in Calix (n.) A cup. See Calyx.,
C as in Calked (imp. &p. p.) of Calk,
C as in Calking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Calk,
C as in Calk (v. t.) To drive tarred oakum into the seams between the planks of (a ship, boat, etc.), to prevent leaking. The calking is completed by smearing the seams with melted pitch.,
C as in Calk (v. t.) To make an indentation in the edge of a metal plate, as along a seam in a steam boiler or an iron ship, to force the edge of the upper plate hard against the lower and so fill the crevice.,
C as in Calk (v. t.) To copy, as a drawing, by rubbing the back of it with red or black chalk, and then passing a blunt style or needle over the lines, so as to leave a tracing on the paper or other thing against which it is laid or held.,
C as in Calk (n.) A sharp-pointed piece of iron or steel projecting downward on the shoe of a horse or an ox, to prevent the animal from slipping; -- called also calker, calkin.,
C as in Calk (n.) An instrument with sharp points, worn on the sole of a shoe or boot, to prevent slipping.,
C as in Calk (v. i.) To furnish with calks, to prevent slipping on ice; as, to calk the shoes of a horse or an ox.,
C as in Calk (v. i.) To wound with a calk; as when a horse injures a leg or a foot with a calk on one of the other feet.,
C as in Calker (n.) One who calks.,
C as in Calker (n.) A calk on a shoe. See Calk, n., 1.,
C as in Calkin (n.) A calk on a shoe. See Calk, n., 1.,
C as in Calking (n.) The act or process of making seems tight, as in ships, or of furnishing with calks, as a shoe, or copying, as a drawing.,
C as in Called (imp. & p. p.) of Call,
C as in Calling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Call,
C as in Call (v. t.) To command or request to come or be present; to summon; as, to call a servant.,
C as in Call (v. t.) To summon to the discharge of a particular duty; to designate for an office, or employment, especially of a religious character; -- often used of a divine summons; as, to be called to the ministry; sometimes, to invite; as, to call a minister to be the pastor of a church.,
C as in Call (v. t.) To invite or command to meet; to convoke; -- often with together; as, the President called Congress together; to appoint and summon; as, to call a meeting of the Board of Aldermen.,
C as in Call (v. t.) To give name to; to name; to address, or speak of, by a specifed name.,
C as in Call (v. t.) To regard or characterize as of a certain kind; to denominate; to designate.,
C as in Call (v. t.) To state, or estimate, approximately or loosely; to characterize without strict regard to fact; as, they call the distance ten miles; he called it a full day's work.,
C as in Call (v. t.) To show or disclose the class, character, or nationality of.,
C as in Call (v. t.) To utter in a loud or distinct voice; -- often with off; as, to call, or call off, the items of an account; to call the roll of a military company.,
C as in Call (v. t.) To invoke; to appeal to.,
C as in Call (v. t.) To rouse from sleep; to awaken.,
C as in Call (v. i.) To speak in loud voice; to cry out; to address by name; -- sometimes with to.,
C as in Call (v. i.) To make a demand, requirement, or request.,
C as in Call (v. i.) To make a brief visit; also, to stop at some place designated, as for orders.,
C as in Call (n.) The act of calling; -- usually with the voice, but often otherwise, as by signs, the sound of some instrument, or by writing; a summons; an entreaty; an invitation; as, a call for help; the bugle's call.,
C as in Call (n.) A signal, as on a drum, bugle, trumpet, or pipe, to summon soldiers or sailors to duty.,
C as in Call (n.) An invitation to take charge of or serve a church as its pastor.,
C as in Call (n.) A requirement or appeal arising from the circumstances of the case; a moral requirement or appeal.,
C as in Call (n.) A divine vocation or summons.,
C as in Call (n.) Vocation; employment.,
C as in Call (n.) A short visit; as, to make a call on a neighbor; also, the daily coming of a tradesman to solicit orders.,
C as in Call (n.) A note blown on the horn to encourage the hounds.,
C as in Call (n.) A whistle or pipe, used by the boatswain and his mate, to summon the sailors to duty.,
C as in Call (n.) The cry of a bird; also a noise or cry in imitation of a bird; or a pipe to call birds by imitating their note or cry.,
C as in Call (n.) A reference to, or statement of, an object, course, distance, or other matter of description in a survey or grant requiring or calling for a corresponding object, etc., on the land.,
C as in Call (n.) The privilege to demand the delivery of stock, grain, or any commodity, at a fixed, price, at or within a certain time agreed on.,
C as in Call (n.) See Assessment, 4.,
C as in Calla (n.) A genus of plants, of the order Araceae.,
C as in Callat (n.) Same as Callet.,
C as in Calle (n.) A kind of head covering; a caul.,
C as in Caller (n.) One who calls.,
C as in Caller (a.) Cool; refreshing; fresh; as, a caller day; the caller air.,
C as in Caller (a.) Fresh; in good condition; as, caller berrings.,
C as in Callet (n.) A trull or prostitute; a scold or gossip.,
C as in Callet (v. i.) To rail or scold.,
C as in Callid (a.) Characterized by cunning or shrewdness; crafty.,
C as in Callidity (n.) Acuteness of discernment; cunningness; shrewdness.,
C as in Calligrapher (n.) One skilled in calligraphy; a good penman.,
C as in Calligraphic (a.) Alt. of Calligraphical,
C as in Calligraphical (a.) Of or pertaining to calligraphy.,
C as in Calligraphist (n.) A calligrapher,
C as in Calligraphy (n.) Fair or elegant penmanship.,
C as in Calling (n.) The act of one who calls; a crying aloud, esp. in order to summon, or to attact the attention of, some one.,
C as in Calling (n.) A summoning or convocation, as of Parliament.,
C as in Calling (n.) A divine summons or invitation; also, the state of being divinely called.,
C as in Calling (n.) A naming, or inviting; a reading over or reciting in order, or a call of names with a view to obtaining an answer, as in legislative bodies.,
C as in Calling (n.) One's usual occupation, or employment; vocation; business; trade.,
C as in Calling (n.) The persons, collectively, engaged in any particular professions or employment.,
C as in Calling (n.) Title; appellation; name.,
C as in Calliope (n.) The Muse that presides over eloquence and heroic poetry; mother of Orpheus, and chief of the nine Muses.,
C as in Calliope (n.) One of the asteroids. See Solar.,
C as in Calliope (n.) A musical instrument consisting of a series of steam whistles, toned to the notes of the scale, and played by keys arranged like those of an organ. It is sometimes attached to steamboat boilers.,
C as in Calliope (n.) A beautiful species of humming bird (Stellula Calliope) of California and adjacent regions.,
C as in Calliopsis (n.) A popular name given to a few species of the genus Coreopsis, especially to C. tinctoria of Arkansas.,
C as in Callipash (n.) See Calipash.,
C as in Callipee (n.) See Calipee.,
C as in Callipers (n. pl.) See Calipers.,
C as in Callisection (n.) Painless vivisection; -- opposed to sentisection.,
C as in Callisthenic (n.) Alt. of Callisthenics,
C as in Callisthenics (n.) See Calisthenic, Calisthenics.,
C as in Callithump (n.) A somewhat riotous parade, accompanied with the blowing of tin horns, and other discordant noises; also, a burlesque serenade; a charivari.,
C as in Callithumpian (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a callithump.,
C as in Callosan (a.) Of the callosum.,
C as in Callose (a.) Furnished with protuberant or hardened spots.,
C as in Callosities (pl. ) of Callosity,
C as in Callosity (n.) A hard or thickened spot or protuberance; a hardening and thickening of the skin or bark of a part, eps. as a result of continued pressure or friction.,
C as in Callosum (n.) The great band commissural fibers which unites the two cerebral hemispheres. See corpus callosum, under Carpus.,
C as in Callot (n.) A plant coif or skullcap. Same as Calotte.,
C as in Callous (a.) Hardened; indurated.,
C as in Callous (a.) Hardened in mind; insensible; unfeeling; unsusceptible.,
C as in Callow (a.) Destitute of feathers; naked; unfledged.,
C as in Callow (a.) Immature; boyish; "green"; as, a callow youth.,
C as in Callow (n.) A kind of duck. See Old squaw.,
C as in Callus (n.) Same as Callosity,
C as in Callus (n.) The material of repair in fractures of bone; a substance exuded at the site of fracture, which is at first soft or cartilaginous in consistence, but is ultimately converted into true bone and unites the fragments into a single piece.,
C as in Callus (n.) The new formation over the end of a cutting, before it puts out rootlets.,
C as in Calm (n.) Freedom from motion, agitation, or disturbance; a cessation or absence of that which causes motion or disturbance, as of winds or waves; tranquility; stillness; quiet; serenity.,
C as in Calmed (imp. & p. p.) of Calm,
C as in Calming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Calm,
C as in Calm (n.) To make calm; to render still or quiet, as elements; as, to calm the winds.,
C as in Calm (n.) To deliver from agitation or excitement; to still or soothe, as the mind or passions.,
C as in Calm (super.) Not stormy; without motion, as of winds or waves; still; quiet; serene; undisturbed.,
C as in Calm (super.) Undisturbed by passion or emotion; not agitated or excited; tranquil; quiet in act or speech.,
C as in Calmer (n.) One who, or that which, makes calm.,
C as in Calmly (adv.) In a calm manner.,
C as in Calmness (n.) The state of quality of being calm; quietness; tranquillity; self-repose.,
C as in Calmucks (n. pl.) A branch of the Mongolian race inhabiting parts of the Russian and Chinese empires; also (sing.), the language of the Calmucks.,
C as in Calmy (n.) Tranquil; peaceful; calm.,
C as in Calomel (n.) Mild chloride of mercury, Hg2Cl2, a heavy, white or yellowish white substance, insoluble and tasteless, much used in medicine as a mercurial and purgative; mercurous chloride. It occurs native as the mineral horn quicksilver.,
C as in Calorescence (n.) The conversion of obscure radiant heat into light; the transmutation of rays of heat into others of higher refrangibility.,
C as in Caloric (n.) The principle of heat, or the agent to which the phenomena of heat and combustion were formerly ascribed; -- not now used in scientific nomenclature, but sometimes used as a general term for heat.,
C as in Caloric (a.) Of or pertaining to caloric.,
C as in Caloricity (n.) A faculty in animals of developing and preserving the heat necessary to life, that is, the animal heat.,
C as in Caloriduct (n.) A tube or duct for conducting heat; a caliduct.,
C as in Calorie (n.) The unit of heat according to the French standard; the amount of heat required to raise the temperature of one kilogram (sometimes, one gram) of water one degree centigrade, or from 0 to 1. Compare the English standard unit, Foot pound.,
C as in Calorifacient (a.) See Calorificient.,
C as in Calorifere (n.) An apparatus for conveying and distributing heat, especially by means of hot water circulating in tubes.,
C as in Calorifiant (a.) See Calorificient.,
C as in Calorific (a.) Possessing the quality of producing heat; heating.,
C as in Calorification (n.) Production of heat, esp. animal heat.,
C as in Calorificient (a.) Having, or relating to the power of producing heat; -- applied to foods which, being rich in carbon, as the fats, are supposed to give rise to heat in the animal body by oxidation.,
C as in Calorimeter (n.) An apparatus for measuring the amount of heat contained in bodies or developed by some mechanical or chemical process, as friction, chemical combination, combustion, etc.,
C as in Calorimeter (n.) An apparatus for measuring the proportion of unevaporated water contained in steam.,
C as in Calorimetric (a.) Of or pertaining to the process of using the calorimeter.,
C as in Calorimetry (n.) Measurement of the quantities of heat in bodies.,
C as in Calorimotor (n.) A voltaic battery, having a large surface of plate, and producing powerful heating effects.,
C as in Calotte (n.) Alt. of Callot,
C as in Callot (n.) A close cap without visor or brim.,
C as in Callot (n.) Such a cap, worn by English serjeants at law.,
C as in Callot (n.) Such a cap, worn by the French cavalry under their helmets.,
C as in Callot (n.) Such a cap, worn by the clergy of the Roman Catholic Church.,
C as in Calotype (n.) A method of taking photographic pictures, on paper sensitized with iodide of silver; -- also called Talbotype, from the inventor, Mr. Fox. Talbot.,
C as in Caloyer (n.) A monk of the Greek Church; a cenobite, anchoret, or recluse of the rule of St. Basil, especially, one on or near Mt. Athos.,
C as in Calque (v. t.) See 2d Calk, v. t.,
C as in Caltrop (n.) Alt. of Caltrap,
C as in Caltrap (n.) A genus of herbaceous plants (Tribulus) of the order Zygophylleae, having a hard several-celled fruit, armed with stout spines, and resembling the military instrument of the same name. The species grow in warm countries, and are often very annoying to cattle.,
C as in Caltrap (n.) An instrument with four iron points, so disposed that, any three of them being on the ground, the other projects upward. They are scattered on the ground where an enemy's cavalry are to pass, to impede their progress by endangering the horses' feet.,
C as in Calumba (n.) The root of a plant (Jateorrhiza Calumba, and probably Cocculus palmatus), indigenous in Mozambique. It has an unpleasantly bitter taste, and is used as a tonic and antiseptic.,
C as in Calumbin (n.) A bitter principle extracted as a white crystalline substance from the calumba root.,
C as in Calumet (n.) A kind of pipe, used by the North American Indians for smoking tobacco. The bowl is usually made of soft red stone, and the tube is a long reed often ornamented with feathers.,
C as in Calumniated (imp. & p. p.) of Calumniate,
C as in Calumniating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Calumniate,
C as in Calumniate (v. t.) To accuse falsely and maliciously of a crime or offense, or of something disreputable; to slander; to libel.,
C as in Calumniate (v. i.) To propagate evil reports with a design to injure the reputation of another; to make purposely false charges of some offense or crime.,
C as in Calumniation (n.) False accusation of crime or offense, or a malicious and false representation of the words or actions of another, with a view to injure his good name.,
C as in Calumniator (n.) One who calumniates.,
C as in Calumniatory (a.) Containing calumny; slanderous.,
C as in Calumnious (a.) Containing or implying calumny; false, malicious, and injurious to reputation; slanderous; as, calumnious reports.,
C as in Calumnies (pl. ) of Calumny,
C as in Calumny (n.) False accusation of a crime or offense, maliciously made or reported, to the injury of another; malicious misrepresentation; slander; detraction.,
C as in Calvaria (n.) The bones of the cranium; more especially, the bones of the domelike upper portion.,
C as in Calvary (n.) The place where Christ was crucified, on a small hill outside of Jerusalem.,
C as in Calvary (n.) A representation of the crucifixion, consisting of three crosses with the figures of Christ and the thieves, often as large as life, and sometimes surrounded by figures of other personages who were present at the crucifixion.,
C as in Calvary (n.) A cross, set upon three steps; -- more properly called cross calvary.,
C as in Calved (imp. & p. p.) of Calve,
C as in Calving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Calve,
C as in Calve (v. i.) To bring forth a calf.,
C as in Calve (v. i.) To bring forth young; to produce offspring.,
C as in Calver (v. i.) To cut in slices and pickle, as salmon.,
C as in Calver (v. i.) To crimp; as, calvered salmon.,
C as in Calver (v. i.) To bear, or be susceptible of, being calvered; as, grayling's flesh will calver.,
C as in Calvessnout (n.) Snapdragon.,
C as in Calvinism (n.) The theological tenets or doctrines of John Calvin (a French theologian and reformer of the 16th century) and his followers, or of the so-called calvinistic churches.,
C as in Calvinist (n.) A follower of Calvin; a believer in Calvinism.,
C as in Calvinistic (a.) Alt. of Calvinistical,
C as in Calvinistical (a.) Of or pertaining to Calvin, or Calvinism; following Calvin; accepting or Teaching Calvinism.,
C as in Calvinize (v. t.) To convert to Calvinism.,
C as in Calvish (a.) Like a calf; stupid.,
C as in Calxes (pl. ) of Calx,
C as in Calces (pl. ) of Calx,
C as in Calx (n.) Quicklime.,
C as in Calx (n.) The substance which remains when a metal or mineral has been subjected to calcination or combustion by heat, and which is, or may be, reduced to a fine powder.,
C as in Calx (n.) Broken and refuse glass, returned to the post.,
C as in Calycifloral (a.) Alt. of callyciflorous,
C as in Callyciflorous (a.) Having the petals and stamens adnate to the calyx; -- applied to a subclass of dicotyledonous plants in the system of the French botanist Candolle.,
C as in Calyciform (a.) Having the form or appearance of a calyx.,
C as in Calycinal (a.) Alt. of Calycine,
C as in Calycine (a.) Pertaining to a calyx; having the nature of a calyx.,
C as in Calycle (n.) A row of small bracts, at the base of the calyx, on the outside.,
C as in Calycled (a.) Calyculate.,
C as in Calycozoa (n. pl.) A group of acalephs of which Lucernaria is the type. The body is cup-shaped with eight marginal lobes bearing clavate tentacles. An aboral sucker serves for attachment. The interior is divided into four large compartments. See Lucernarida.,
C as in Calycular (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, the bracts of a calycle.,
C as in Calyculate (a.) Alt. of Calyculated,
C as in Calyculated (a.) Having a set of bracts resembling a calyx.,
C as in Calymene (n.) A genus of trilobites characteristic of the Silurian age.,
C as in Calyon (n.) Flint or pebble stone, used in building walls, etc.,
C as in Calypso (n.) A small and beautiful species of orchid, having a flower variegated with purple, pink, and yellow. It grows in cold and wet localities in the northern part of the United States. The Calypso borealis is the only orchid which reaches 68 N.,
C as in Calyptra (n.) A little hood or veil, resembling an extinguisher in form and position, covering each of the small flasklike capsules which contain the spores of mosses; also, any similar covering body.,
C as in Calyptriform (a.) Having the form a calyptra, or extinguisher.,
C as in Calyxes (pl. ) of Calyx,
C as in Calyces (pl. ) of Calyx,
C as in Calyx (n.) The covering of a flower. See Flower.,
C as in Calyx (n.) A cuplike division of the pelvis of the kidney, which surrounds one or more of the renal papillae.,
C as in Calzoons (n. pl.) Drawers.,
C as in Cam (n.) A turning or sliding piece which, by the shape of its periphery or face, or a groove in its surface, imparts variable or intermittent motion to, or receives such motion from, a rod, lever, or block brought into sliding or rolling contact with it.,
C as in Cam (n.) A curved wedge, movable about an axis, used for forcing or clamping two pieces together.,
C as in Cam (n.) A projecting part of a wheel or other moving piece so shaped as to give alternate or variable motion to another piece against which it acts.,
C as in Cam (n.) A ridge or mound of earth.,
C as in Cam (a.) Crooked.,
C as in Camaieu (n.) A cameo.,
C as in Camaieu (n.) Painting in shades of one color; monochrome.,
C as in Camail (n.) A neck guard of chain mall, hanging from the bascinet or other headpiece.,
C as in Camail (n.) A hood of other material than mail;,
C as in Camail (n.) a hood worn in church services, -- the amice, or the like.,
C as in Camarasaurus (n.) A genus of gigantic American Jurassic dinosaurs, having large cavities in the bodies of the dorsal vertebrae.,
C as in Camarilla (n.) The private audience chamber of a king.,
C as in Camarilla (n.) A company of secret and irresponsible advisers, as of a king; a cabal or clique.,
C as in Camass (n.) A blue-flowered liliaceous plant (Camassia esculenta) of northwestern America, the bulbs of which are collected for food by the Indians.,
C as in Camber (n.) An upward convexity of a deck or other surface; as, she has a high camber (said of a vessel having an unusual convexity of deck).,
C as in Camber (n.) An upward concavity in the under side of a beam, girder, or lintel; also, a slight upward concavity in a straight arch. See Hogback.,
C as in Cambered (imp. & p. p.) of Camber,
C as in Cambering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Camber,
C as in Camber (v. t.) To cut bend to an upward curve; to construct, as a deck, with an upward curve.,
C as in Camber (v. i.) To curve upward.,
C as in Camberkeeled (a.) Having the keel arched upwards, but not actually hogged; -- said of a ship.,
C as in Cambial (a.) Belonging to exchanges in commerce; of exchange.,
C as in Cambist (n.) A banker; a money changer or broker; one who deals in bills of exchange, or who is skilled in the science of exchange.,
C as in Cambistry (n.) The science of exchange, weight, measures, etc.,
C as in Cambium (n.) A series of formative cells lying outside of the wood proper and inside of the inner bark. The growth of new wood takes place in the cambium, which is very soft.,
C as in Cambium (n.) A fancied nutritive juice, formerly supposed to originate in the blood, to repair losses of the system, and to promote its increase.,
C as in Camblet (n.) See Camlet.,
C as in Camboge (n.) See Gamboge.,
C as in Camboose (n.) See Caboose.,
C as in Cambrasine (n.) A kind of linen cloth made in Egypt, and so named from its resemblance to cambric.,
C as in Cambrel (n.) See Gambrel, n., 2.,
C as in Cambria (n.) The ancient Latin name of Wales. It is used by modern poets.,
C as in Cambrian (a.) Of or pertaining to Cambria or Wales.,
C as in Cambrian (a.) Of or pertaining to the lowest subdivision of the rocks of the Silurian or Molluscan age; -- sometimes described as inferior to the Silurian. It is named from its development in Cambria or Wales. See the Diagram under Geology.,
C as in Cambrian (n.) A native of Cambria or Wales.,
C as in Cambrian (n.) The Cambrian formation.,
C as in Cambric (n.) A fine, thin, and white fabric made of flax or linen.,
C as in Cambric (n.) A fabric made, in imitation of linen cambric, of fine, hardspun cotton, often with figures of various colors; -- also called cotton cambric, and cambric muslin.,
C as in Cambro-Briton (n.) A Welshman.,
C as in Came () imp. of Come.,
C as in Came (n.) A slender rod of cast lead, with or without grooves, used, in casements and stained-glass windows, to hold together the panes or pieces of glass.,
C as in Camel (n.) A large ruminant used in Asia and Africa for carrying burdens and for riding. The camel is remarkable for its ability to go a long time without drinking. Its hoofs are small, and situated at the extremities of the toes, and the weight of the animal rests on the callous. The dromedary (Camelus dromedarius) has one bunch on the back, while the Bactrian camel (C. Bactrianus) has two. The llama, alpaca, and vicua, of South America, belong to a related genus (Auchenia).,
C as in Camel (n.) A water-tight structure (as a large box or boxes) used to assist a vessel in passing over a shoal or bar or in navigating shallow water. By admitting water, the camel or camels may be sunk and attached beneath or at the sides of a vessel, and when the water is pumped out the vessel is lifted.,
C as in Camel-backed (a.) Having a back like a camel; humpbacked.,
C as in Cameleon (n.) See Chaceleon.,
C as in Camellia (n.) An Asiatic genus of small shrubs, often with shining leaves and showy flowers. Camellia Japonica is much cultivated for ornament, and C. Sassanqua and C. oleifera are grown in China for the oil which is pressed from their seeds. The tea plant is now referred to this genus under the name of Camellia Thea.,
C as in Camelopard (n.) An African ruminant; the giraffe. See Giraffe.,
C as in Camelot (n.) See Camelet.,
C as in Camelshair (a.) Of camel's hair.,
C as in Cameos (pl. ) of Cameo,
C as in Cameo (n.) A carving in relief, esp. one on a small scale used as a jewel for personal adornment, or like.,
C as in Cameras (pl. ) of Camera,
C as in Camerae (pl. ) of Camera,
C as in Camera (n.) A chamber, or instrument having a chamber. Specifically: The camera obscura when used in photography. See Camera, and Camera obscura.,
C as in Camerade (n.) See Comrade.,
C as in Cameralistic (a.) Of or pertaining to finance and public revenue.,
C as in Cameralistics (n.) The science of finance or public revenue.,
C as in Camera lucida () An instrument which by means of a prism of a peculiar form, or an arrangement of mirrors, causes an apparent image of an external object or objects to appear as if projected upon a plane surface, as of paper or canvas, so that the outlines may conveniently traced. It is generally used with the microscope.,
C as in Camera obscura () An apparatus in which the images of external objects, formed by a convex lens or a concave mirror, are thrown on a paper or other white surface placed in the focus of the lens or mirror within a darkened chamber, or box, so that the outlines may be traced.,
C as in Camera obscura () An apparatus in which the image of an external object or objects is, by means of lenses, thrown upon a sensitized plate or surface placed at the back of an extensible darkened box or chamber variously modified; -- commonly called simply the camera.,
C as in Camerated (imp. & p. p.) of Camerate,
C as in Camerzting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Camerate,
C as in Camerate (v. i.) To build in the form of a vault; to arch over.,
C as in Camerate (v. i.) To divide into chambers.,
C as in Cameration (n.) A vaulting or arching over.,
C as in Camerlingo (n.) The papal chamberlain; the cardinal who presides over the pope's household. He has at times possessed great power.,
C as in Cameronian (n.) A follower of the Rev. Richard Cameron, a Scotch Covenanter of the time of Charles II.,
C as in Camis (n.) A light, loose dress or robe.,
C as in Camisade (n.) Alt. of Camisado,
C as in Camisado (n.) A shirt worn by soldiers over their uniform, in order to be able to recognize one another in a night attack.,
C as in Camisado (n.) An attack by surprise by soldiers wearing the camisado.,
C as in Camisard (n.) One of the French Protestant insurgents who rebelled against Louis XIV, after the revocation of the edict of Nates; -- so called from the peasant's smock (camise) which they wore.,
C as in Camisated (a.) Dressed with a shirt over the other garments.,
C as in Camisole (n.) A short dressing jacket for women.,
C as in Camisole (n.) A kind of straitjacket.,
C as in Camlet (n.) A woven fabric originally made of camel's hair, now chiefly of goat's hair and silk, or of wool and cotton.,
C as in Camleted (a.) Wavy or undulating like camlet; veined.,
C as in Cammas (n.) See Camass.,
C as in Cammock (n.) A plant having long hard, crooked roots, the Ononis spinosa; -- called also rest-harrow. The Scandix Pecten-Veneris is also called cammock.,
C as in Camomile (n.) Alt. of Chamomile,
C as in Chamomile (n.) A genus of herbs (Anthemis) of the Composite family. The common camomile, A. nobilis, is used as a popular remedy. Its flowers have a strong and fragrant and a bitter, aromatic taste. They are tonic, febrifugal, and in large doses emetic, and the volatile oil is carminative.,
C as in Camonflet (n.) A small mine, sometimes formed in the wall or side of an enemy's gallery, to blow in the earth and cut off the retreat of the miners.,
C as in Camous (a.) Alt. of Camoys,
C as in Camoys (a.) Flat; depressed; crooked; -- said only of the nose.,
C as in Camoused (a.) Depressed; flattened.,
C as in Camously (adv.) Awry.,
C as in Camp (n.) The ground or spot on which tents, huts, etc., are erected for shelter, as for an army or for lumbermen, etc.,
C as in Camp (n.) A collection of tents, huts, etc., for shelter, commonly arranged in an orderly manner.,
C as in Camp (n.) A single hut or shelter; as, a hunter's camp.,
C as in Camp (n.) The company or body of persons encamped, as of soldiers, of surveyors, of lumbermen, etc.,
C as in Camp (n.) A mound of earth in which potatoes and other vegetables are stored for protection against frost; -- called also burrow and pie.,
C as in Camp (n.) An ancient game of football, played in some parts of England.,
C as in Camped (imp. & p. p.) of Camp,
C as in Camping (p. pr. & vb n.) of Camp,
C as in Camp (v. t.) To afford rest or lodging for, as an army or travelers.,
C as in Camp (v. i.) To pitch or prepare a camp; to encamp; to lodge in a camp; -- often with out.,
C as in Camp (n.) To play the game called camp.,
C as in Campagna (n.) An open level tract of country; especially "Campagna di Roma." The extensive undulating plain which surrounds Rome.,
C as in Campagnol (n.) A mouse (Arvicala agrestis), called also meadow mouse, which often does great damage in fields and gardens, by feeding on roots and seeds.,
C as in Campaign (n.) An open field; a large, open plain without considerable hills. SeeChampaign.,
C as in Campaign (n.) A connected series of military operations forming a distinct stage in a war; the time during which an army keeps the field.,
C as in Campaign (n.) Political operations preceding an election; a canvass.,
C as in Campaign (n.) The period during which a blast furnace is continuously in operation.,
C as in Campaign (v. i.) To serve in a campaign.,
C as in Campaigner (n.) One who has served in an army in several campaigns; an old soldier; a veteran.,
C as in Campana (n.) A church bell.,
C as in Campana (n.) The pasque flower.,
C as in Campana (n.) Same as Gutta.,
C as in Campaned (a.) Furnished with, or bearing, campanes, or bells.,
C as in Campanero (n.) The bellbird of South America. See Bellbird.,
C as in Campanes (n. pl.) Bells.,
C as in Campania (n.) Open country.,
C as in Campaniform (a.) Bell-shaped.,
C as in Campanile (n.) A bell tower, esp. one built separate from a church.,
C as in Campaniliform (a.) Bell-shaped; campanulate; campaniform.,
C as in Campanologist (n.) One skilled in campanology; a bell ringer.,
C as in Campanology (n.) The art of ringing bells, or a treatise on the art.,
C as in Campanula (n.) A large genus of plants bearing bell-shaped flowers, often of great beauty; -- also called bellflower.,
C as in Campanulaceous (a.) Of pertaining to, or resembling, the family of plants (Camponulaceae) of which Campanula is the type, and which includes the Canterbury bell, the harebell, and the Venus's looking-glass.,
C as in Campanularian (n.) A hydroid of the family ampanularidae, characterized by having the polyps or zooids inclosed in bell-shaped calicles or hydrothecae.,
C as in Campanulate (a.) Bell-shaped.,
C as in Campbellite (n.) A member of the denomination called Christians or Disciples of Christ. They themselves repudiate the term Campbellite as a nickname. See Christian, 3.,
C as in Campeachy Wood () Logwood.,
C as in Camper (n.) One who lodges temporarily in a hut or camp.,
C as in Campestral (a.) Alt. of Campestrian,
C as in Campestrian (a.) Relating to an open fields; drowing in a field; growing in a field, or open ground.,
C as in Camptight (n.) A duel; the decision of a case by a duel.,
C as in Camphene (n.) One of a series of substances C10H16, resembling camphor, regarded as modified terpenes.,
C as in Camphine (n.) Rectified oil of turpentine, used for burning in lamps, and as a common solvent in varnishes.,
C as in Camphire (n.) An old spelling of Camphor.,
C as in Camphogen (n.) See Cymene.,
C as in Camphol (n.) See Borneol.,
C as in Camphor (n.) A tough, white, aromatic resin, or gum, obtained from different species of the Laurus family, esp. from Cinnamomum camphara (the Laurus camphara of Linnaeus.). Camphor, C10H16O, is volatile and fragrant, and is used in medicine as a diaphoretic, a stimulant, or sedative.,
C as in Camphor (n.) A gum resembling ordinary camphor, obtained from a tree (Dryobalanops camphora) growing in Sumatra and Borneo; -- called also Malay camphor, camphor of Borneo, or borneol. See Borneol.,
C as in Camphor (v. t.) To impregnate or wash with camphor; to camphorate.,
C as in Camphoraceous (a.) Of the nature of camphor; containing camphor.,
C as in Camphorate (v. t.) To impregnate or treat with camphor.,
C as in Camphorate (n.) A salt of camphoric acid.,
C as in Camphorate () Alt. of Camporated,
C as in Camporated () Combined or impregnated with camphor.,
C as in Camphoric (a.) Of, pertaining to, or derived from, camphor.,
C as in Camphretic (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from camphor.,
C as in Camping (n.) Lodging in a camp.,
C as in Camping (n.) A game of football.,
C as in Campion (n.) A plant of the Pink family (Cucubalus bacciferus), bearing berries regarded as poisonous.,
C as in Campus (n.) The principal grounds of a college or school, between the buildings or within the main inclosure; as, the college campus.,
C as in Campylospermous (a.) Having seeds grooved lengthwise on the inner face, as in sweet cicely.,
C as in Campylotropous (a.) Having the ovules and seeds so curved, or bent down upon themselves, that the ends of the embryo are brought close together.,
C as in Camus (n.) See Camis.,
C as in Camwood (n.) See Barwood.,
C as in Can () an obs. form of began, imp. & p. p. of Begin, sometimes used in old poetry. [See Gan.],
C as in Can (n.) A drinking cup; a vessel for holding liquids.,
C as in Can (n.) A vessel or case of tinned iron or of sheet metal, of various forms, but usually cylindrical; as, a can of tomatoes; an oil can; a milk can.,
C as in Canned (imp. & p. p.) of Can,
C as in Canning (p. pr. &vb. n.) of Can,
C as in Can (v. t.) To preserve by putting in sealed cans,
C as in Could (imp.) of Can,
C as in Can (v. t. & i.) To know; to understand.,
C as in Can (v. t. & i.) To be able to do; to have power or influence.,
C as in Can (v. t. & i.) To be able; -- followed by an infinitive without to; as, I can go, but do not wish to.,
C as in Canaanite (n.) A descendant of Canaan, the son of Ham, and grandson of Noah.,
C as in Canaanite (n.) A Native or inhabitant of the land of Canaan, esp. a member of any of the tribes who inhabited Canaan at the time of the exodus of the Israelites from Egypt.,
C as in Canaanite (n.) A zealot.,
C as in Canaanitish (a.) Of or pertaining to Canaan or the Canaanites.,
C as in Caada (n.) A small caon; a narrow valley or glen; also, but less frequently, an open valley.,
C as in Canada (n.) A British province in North America, giving its name to various plants and animals.,
C as in Canadian (a.) Of or pertaining to Canada.,
C as in Canadian (n.) A native or inhabitant of Canada.,
C as in Canaille (n.) The lowest class of people; the rabble; the vulgar.,
C as in Canaille (n.) Shorts or inferior flour.,
C as in Canakin (n.) A little can or cup.,
C as in Canal (n.) An artificial channel filled with water and designed for navigation, or for irrigating land, etc.,
C as in Canal (n.) A tube or duct; as, the alimentary canal; the semicircular canals of the ear.,
C as in Canal coal () See Cannel coal.,
C as in Canaliculate (a.) Alt. of Canaliculated,
C as in Canaliculated (a.) Having a channel or groove, as in the leafstalks of most palms.,
C as in Canaliculi (pl. ) of Canaliculus,
C as in Canaliculus (n.) A minute canal.,
C as in Canalization (n.) Construction of, or furnishing with, a canal or canals.,
C as in Canard (n.) An extravagant or absurd report or story; a fabricated sensational report or statement; esp. one set afloat in the newspapers to hoax the public.,
C as in Canarese (a.) Pertaining to Canara, a district of British India.,
C as in Canary (a.) Of or pertaining to the Canary Islands; as, canary wine; canary birds.,
C as in Canary (a.) Of a pale yellowish color; as, Canary stone.,
C as in Canaries (pl. ) of Canary,
C as in Canary (n.) Wine made in the Canary Islands; sack.,
C as in Canary (n.) A canary bird.,
C as in Canary (n.) A pale yellow color, like that of a canary bird.,
C as in Canary (n.) A quick and lively dance.,
C as in Canary (v. i.) To perform the canary dance; to move nimbly; to caper.,
C as in Canary bird () A small singing bird of the Finch family (Serinus Canarius), a native of the Canary Islands. It was brought to Europe in the 16th century, and made a household pet. It generally has a yellowish body with the wings and tail greenish, but in its wild state it is more frequently of gray or brown color. It is sometimes called canary finch.,
C as in Canaster (n.) A kind of tobacco for smoking, made of the dried leaves, coarsely broken; -- so called from the rush baskets in which it is packed in South America.,
C as in Can buoy () See under Buoy, n.,
C as in Cancan (n.) A rollicking French dance, accompanied by indecorous or extravagant postures and gestures.,
C as in Canceled (imp. & p. p.) of Cancel,
C as in Cancelled () of Cancel,
C as in Canceling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cancel,
C as in Cancelling () of Cancel,
C as in Cancel (v. i.) To inclose or surround, as with a railing, or with latticework.,
C as in Cancel (v. i.) To shut out, as with a railing or with latticework; to exclude.,
C as in Cancel (v. i.) To cross and deface, as the lines of a writing, or as a word or figure; to mark out by a cross line; to blot out or obliterate.,
C as in Cancel (v. i.) To annul or destroy; to revoke or recall.,
C as in Cancel (v. i.) To suppress or omit; to strike out, as matter in type.,
C as in Cancel (v. i.) An inclosure; a boundary; a limit.,
C as in Cancel (v. i.) The suppression or striking out of matter in type, or of a printed page or pages.,
C as in Cancel (v. i.) The part thus suppressed.,
C as in Cancelier (v. i.) To turn in flight; -- said of a hawk.,
C as in Cancelier (n.) Alt. of Canceleer,
C as in Canceleer (n.) The turn of a hawk upon the wing to recover herself, when she misses her aim in the stoop.,
C as in Cancellarean (a.) Cancellarean.,
C as in Cancellate (v. t.) Consisting of a network of veins, without intermediate parenchyma, as the leaves of certain plants; latticelike.,
C as in Cancellate (v. t.) Having the surface coveres with raised lines, crossing at right angles.,
C as in Cancellated (a.) Crossbarred; marked with cross lines.,
C as in Cancellated (a.) Open or spongy, as some porous bones.,
C as in Cancellation (n.) The act, process, or result of canceling; as, the cansellation of certain words in a contract, or of the contract itself.,
C as in Cancellation (n.) The operation of striking out common factors, in both the dividend and divisor.,
C as in Cancelli (v. t.) An interwoven or latticed wall or inclosure; latticework, rails, or crossbars, as around the bar of a court of justice, between the chancel and the nave of a church, or in a window.,
C as in Cancelli (v. t.) The interlacing osseous plates constituting the elastic porous tissue of certain parts of the bones, esp. in their articular extremities.,
C as in Cancellous (a.) Having a spongy or porous structure; made up of cancelli; cancellated; as, the cancellous texture of parts of many bones.,
C as in Cancer (n.) A genus of decapod Crustacea, including some of the most common shore crabs of Europe and North America, as the rock crab, Jonah crab, etc. See Crab.,
C as in Cancer (n.) The fourth of the twelve signs of the zodiac. The first point is the northern limit of the sun's course in summer; hence, the sign of the summer solstice. See Tropic.,
C as in Cancer (n.) A northern constellation between Gemini and Leo.,
C as in Cancer (n.) Formerly, any malignant growth, esp. one attended with great pain and ulceration, with cachexia and progressive emaciation. It was so called, perhaps, from the great veins which surround it, compared by the ancients to the claws of a crab. The term is now restricted to such a growth made up of aggregations of epithelial cells, either without support or embedded in the meshes of a trabecular framework.,
C as in Cancerated (imp. & p. p.) of Cancerate,
C as in Cancerate (v. i.) To grow into a canser; to become cancerous.,
C as in Canceration (n.) The act or state of becoming cancerous or growing into a cancer.,
C as in Cancerite (n.) Like a cancer; having the qualities or virulence of a cancer; affected with cancer.,
C as in Cancriform (a.) Having the form of, or resembling, a crab; crab-shaped.,
C as in Cancriform (a.) Like a cancer; cancerous.,
C as in Cancrine (a.) Having the qualities of a crab; crablike.,
C as in Cancrinite (n.) A mineral occurring in hexagonal crystals, also massive, generally of a yellow color, containing silica, alumina, lime, soda, and carbon dioxide.,
C as in Cancroid (a.) Resembling a crab; pertaining to the Cancroidea, one of the families of crabs, including the genus Cancer.,
C as in Cancroid (a.) Like a cancer; as, a cancroid tumor.,
C as in Cand (n.) Fluor spar. See Kand.,
C as in Candelabra (pl. ) of Candelabrum,
C as in Candelabrums (pl. ) of Candelabrum,
C as in Candelabrum (n.) A lamp stand of any sort.,
C as in Candelabrum (n.) A highly ornamented stand of marble or other ponderous material, usually having three feet, -- frequently a votive offering to a temple.,
C as in Candelabrum (n.) A large candlestick, having several branches.,
C as in Candent (a.) Heated to whiteness; glowing with heat.,
C as in Canderos (n.) An East Indian resin, of a pellucid white color, from which small ornaments and toys are sometimes made.,
C as in Candescence (n.) See Incandescence.,
C as in Candicant (a.) Growing white.,
C as in Candid (a.) White.,
C as in Candid (a.) Free from undue bias; disposed to think and judge according to truth and justice, or without partiality or prejudice; fair; just; impartial; as, a candid opinion.,
C as in Candid (a.) Open; frank; ingenuous; outspoken.,
C as in Candidacy (n.) The position of a candidate; state of being a candidate; candidateship.,
C as in Candidate (n.) One who offers himself, or is put forward by others, as a suitable person or an aspirant or contestant for an office, privilege, or honor; as, a candidate for the office of governor; a candidate for holy orders; a candidate for scholastic honors.,
C as in Candidateship (n.) Candidacy.,
C as in Candidating (n.) The taking of the position of a candidate; specifically, the preaching of a clergyman with a view to settlement.,
C as in Candidature (n.) Candidacy.,
C as in Candidly (adv.) In a candid manner.,
C as in Candidness (n.) The quality of being candid.,
C as in Candied (a.) Preserved in or with sugar; incrusted with a candylike substance; as, candied fruits.,
C as in Candied (a.) Converted wholly or partially into sugar or candy; as candied sirup.,
C as in Candied (a.) Conted or more or less with sugar; as, candidied raisins,
C as in Candied (a.) Figuratively; Honeyed; sweet; flattering.,
C as in Candied (a.) Covered or incrusted with that which resembles sugar or candy.,
C as in Candify (v. t. / v. i.) To make or become white, or candied.,
C as in Candiot (a.) Of or pertaining to Candia; Cretary.,
C as in Candite (n.) A variety of spinel, of a dark color, found at Candy, in Ceylon.,
C as in Candle (n.) A slender, cylindrical body of tallow, containing a wick composed of loosely twisted linen of cotton threads, and used to furnish light.,
C as in Candle (n.) That which gives light; a luminary.,
C as in Candleberry tree () A shrub (the Myrica cerifera, or wax-bearing myrtle), common in North America, the little nuts of which are covered with a greenish white wax, which was formerly, used for hardening candles; -- also called bayberry tree, bayberry, or candleberry.,
C as in Candlebomb (n.) A small glass bubble, filled with water, which, if placed in the flame of a candle, bursts by expansion of steam.,
C as in Candlebomb (n.) A pasteboard shell used in signaling. It is filled with a composition which makes a brilliant light when it explodes.,
C as in Candle coal () See Cannel coal.,
C as in Candlefish (n.) A marine fish (Thaleichthys Pacificus), allied to the smelt, found on the north Pacific coast; -- called also eulachon. It is so oily that, when dried, it may be used as a candle, by drawing a wick through it,
C as in Candlefish (n.) The beshow.,
C as in Candleholder (n.) One who, or that which, holds a candle; also, one who assists another, but is otherwise not of importance.,
C as in Candlelight (n.) The light of a candle.,
C as in Candlemas (n.) The second day of February, on which is celebrated the feast of the Purification of the Virgin Mary; -- so called because the candles for the altar or other sacred uses are blessed on that day.,
C as in Candlestick (n.) An instrument or utensil for supporting a candle.,
C as in Candlewaster (n.) One who consumes candles by being up late for study or dissipation.,
C as in Candock (n.) A plant or weed that grows in rivers; a species of Equisetum; also, the yellow frog lily (Nuphar luteum).,
C as in Candor (n.) Whiteness; brightness; (as applied to moral conditions) usullied purity; innocence.,
C as in Candor (n.) A disposition to treat subjects with fairness; freedom from prejudice or disguise; frankness; sincerity.,
C as in Candroy (n.) A machine for spreading out cotton cloths to prepare them for printing.,
C as in Candied (imp. & p. p.) of Candy,
C as in Candying (p. pr & vb. n.) of Candy,
C as in Candy (v. t.) To conserve or boil in sugar; as, to candy fruits; to candy ginger.,
C as in Candy (v. t.) To make sugar crystals of or in; to form into a mass resembling candy; as, to candy sirup.,
C as in Candy (v. t.) To incrust with sugar or with candy, or with that which resembles sugar or candy.,
C as in Candy (v. i.) To have sugar crystals form in or on; as, fruits preserved in sugar candy after a time.,
C as in Candy (v. i.) To be formed into candy; to solidify in a candylike form or mass.,
C as in Candy (v. t.) A more or less solid article of confectionery made by boiling sugar or molasses to the desired consistency, and than crystallizing, molding, or working in the required shape. It is often flavored or colored, and sometimes contains fruit, nuts, etc.,
C as in Candy (n.) A weight, at Madras 500 pounds, at Bombay 560 pounds.,
C as in Candytuft (n.) An annual plant of the genus Iberis, cultivated in gardens. The name was originally given to the I. umbellata, first, discovered in the island of Candia.,
C as in Cane (n.) A name given to several peculiar palms, species of Calamus and Daemanorops, having very long, smooth flexible stems, commonly called rattans.,
C as in Cane (n.) Any plant with long, hard, elastic stems, as reeds and bamboos of many kinds; also, the sugar cane.,
C as in Cane (n.) Stems of other plants are sometimes called canes; as, the canes of a raspberry.,
C as in Cane (n.) A walking stick; a staff; -- so called because originally made of one the species of cane.,
C as in Cane (n.) A lance or dart made of cane.,
C as in Cane (n.) A local European measure of length. See Canna.,
C as in Caned (imp. & p. p.) of Cane,
C as in Caning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cane,
C as in Cane (v. t.) To beat with a cane.,
C as in Cane (v. t.) To make or furnish with cane or rattan; as, to cane chairs.,
C as in Canebrake (n.) A thicket of canes.,
C as in Caned (a.) Filled with white flakes; mothery; -- said vinegar when containing mother.,
C as in Canella (n.) A genus of trees of the order Canellaceae, growing in the West Indies.,
C as in Canescent (a.) Growing white, or assuming a color approaching to white.,
C as in Can hook () A device consisting of a short rope with flat hooks at each end, for hoisting casks or barrels by the ends of the staves.,
C as in Cannicula (n.) The Dog Star; Sirius.,
C as in Canicular (a.) Pertaining to, or measured, by the rising of the Dog Star.,
C as in Canicule (n.) Canicula.,
C as in Caninal (a.) See Canine, a.,
C as in Canine (a.) Of or pertaining to the family Canidae, or dogs and wolves; having the nature or qualities of a dog; like that or those of a dog.,
C as in Canine (a.) Of or pertaining to the pointed tooth on each side the incisors.,
C as in Canine (n.) A canine tooth.,
C as in Canes (pl. ) of Canis,
C as in Canis (n.) A genus of carnivorous mammals, of the family Canidae, including the dogs and wolves.,
C as in Canister (n.) A small basket of rushes, reeds, or willow twigs, etc.,
C as in Canister (n.) A small box or case for holding tea, coffee, etc.,
C as in Canister (n.) A kind of case shot for cannon, in which a number of lead or iron balls in layers are inclosed in a case fitting the gun; -- called also canister shot.,
C as in Canker (n.) A corroding or sloughing ulcer; esp. a spreading gangrenous ulcer or collection of ulcers in or about the mouth; -- called also water canker, canker of the mouth, and noma.,
C as in Canker (n.) Anything which corrodes, corrupts, or destroy.,
C as in Canker (n.) A disease incident to trees, causing the bark to rot and fall off.,
C as in Canker (n.) An obstinate and often incurable disease of a horse's foot, characterized by separation of the horny portion and the development of fungoid growths; -- usually resulting from neglected thrush.,
C as in Canker (n.) A kind of wild, worthless rose; the dog-rose.,
C as in Cankered (imp. & p. p.) of Canker,
C as in Cankering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Canker,
C as in Canker (v. t.) To affect as a canker; to eat away; to corrode; to consume.,
C as in Canker (v. t.) To infect or pollute; to corrupt.,
C as in Canker (v. i.) To waste away, grow rusty, or be oxidized, as a mineral.,
C as in Canker (v. i.) To be or become diseased, or as if diseased, with canker; to grow corrupt; to become venomous.,
C as in Canker-bit (a.) Eaten out by canker, or as by canker.,
C as in Canker bloom () The bloom or blossom of the wild rose or dog-rose.,
C as in Canker blossom () That which blasts a blossom as a canker does.,
C as in Cankered (a.) Affected with canker; as, a cankered mouth.,
C as in Cankered (a.) Affected mentally or morally as with canker; sore, envenomed; malignant; fretful; ill-natured.,
C as in Cankeredly (adv.) Fretfully; spitefully.,
C as in Canker fly () A fly that preys on fruit.,
C as in Cankerous (a.) Affecting like a canker.,
C as in Canker rash () A form of scarlet fever characterized by ulcerated or putrid sore throat.,
C as in Cankerworm (n.) The larva of two species of geometrid moths which are very injurious to fruit and shade trees by eating, and often entirely destroying, the foliage. Other similar larvae are also called cankerworms.,
C as in Cankery (a.) Like a canker; full of canker.,
C as in Cankery (a.) Surly; sore; malignant.,
C as in Canna (n.) A measure of length in Italy, varying from six to seven feet. See Cane, 4.,
C as in Canna (n.) A genus of tropical plants, with large leaves and often with showy flowers. The Indian shot (C. Indica) is found in gardens of the northern United States.,
C as in Cannabene (n.) A colorless oil obtained from hemp by distillation, and possessing its intoxicating properties.,
C as in Cannabin (n.) A poisonous resin extracted from hemp (Cannabis sativa, variety Indica). The narcotic effects of hasheesh are due to this resin.,
C as in Cannabine (a.) Pertaining to hemp; hempen.,
C as in Cannabis (n.) A genus of a single species belonging to the order Uricaceae; hemp.,
C as in Cannel coal () A kind of mineral coal of a black color, sufficiently hard and solid to be cut and polished. It burns readily, with a clear, yellow flame, and on this account has been used as a substitute for candles.,
C as in Cannery (n.) A place where the business of canning fruit, meat, etc., is carried on.,
C as in Cannibal (n.) A human being that eats human flesh; hence, any that devours its own kind.,
C as in Cannibal (a.) Relating to cannibals or cannibalism.,
C as in Cannibalism (n.) The act or practice of eating human flesh by mankind. Hence; Murderous cruelty; barbarity.,
C as in Cannibally (adv.) In the manner of cannibal.,
C as in Cannikin (n.) A small can or drinking vessel.,
C as in Cannily (adv.) In a canny manner.,
C as in Canniness (n.) Caution; crafty management.,
C as in Cannons (pl. ) of Cannon,
C as in Cannon (pl. ) of Cannon,
C as in Cannon (n.) A great gun; a piece of ordnance or artillery; a firearm for discharging heavy shot with great force.,
C as in Cannon (n.) A hollow cylindrical piece carried by a revolving shaft, on which it may, however, revolve independently.,
C as in Cannon (n.) A kind of type. See Canon.,
C as in Cannon (n. & v.) See Carom.,
C as in Cannonade (n.) The act of discharging cannon and throwing ball, shell, etc., for the purpose of destroying an army, or battering a town, ship, or fort; -- usually, an attack of some continuance.,
C as in Cannonade (n.) Fig.; A loud noise like a cannonade; a booming.,
C as in Cannonade (imp. & p. p.) of Cannonade,
C as in Cannonading (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cannonade,
C as in Cannonade (v. t.) To attack with heavy artillery; to batter with cannon shot.,
C as in Cannonade (v. i.) To discharge cannon; as, the army cannonaded all day.,
C as in Cannon bone () See Canon Bone.,
C as in Cannoned (a.) Furnished with cannon.,
C as in Cannoneer (n.) Alt. of Cannonier,
C as in Cannonier (n.) A man who manages, or fires, cannon.,
C as in Cannonering (n.) The use of cannon.,
C as in Cannonry (n.) Cannon, collectively; artillery.,
C as in Cannot () Am, is, or are, not able; -- written either as one word or two.,
C as in Cannula (n.) A small tube of metal, wood, or India rubber, used for various purposes, esp. for injecting or withdrawing fluids. It is usually associated with a trocar.,
C as in Cannular (a.) Having the form of a tube; tubular.,
C as in Cannulated (a.) Hollow; affording a passage through its interior length for wire, thread, etc.; as, a cannulated (suture) needle.,
C as in Canny (a.) Alt. of Cannei,
C as in Cannei (a.) Artful; cunning; shrewd; wary.,
C as in Cannei (a.) Skillful; knowing; capable.,
C as in Cannei (a.) Cautious; prudent; safe..,
C as in Cannei (a.) Having pleasing or useful qualities; gentle.,
C as in Cannei (a.) Reputed to have magical powers.,
C as in Canoes (pl. ) of Canoe,
C as in Canoe (n.) A boat used by rude nations, formed of trunk of a tree, excavated, by cutting of burning, into a suitable shape. It is propelled by a paddle or paddles, or sometimes by sail, and has no rudder.,
C as in Canoe (n.) A boat made of bark or skins, used by savages.,
C as in Canoe (n.) A light pleasure boat, especially designed for use by one who goes alone upon long excursions, including portage. It it propelled by a paddle, or by a small sail attached to a temporary mast.,
C as in Canoed (imp. & p. p.) of Canoe,
C as in Canoeing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Canoe,
C as in Canoe (v. i.) To manage a canoe, or voyage in a canoe.,
C as in Canoeing (n.) The act or art of using a canoe.,
C as in Canoeist (n.) A canoeman.,
C as in Canoemen (pl. ) of Canoeman,
C as in Canoeman (n.) One who uses a canoe; one who travels in a canoe.,
C as in Canon (n.) A law or rule.,
C as in Canon (n.) A law, or rule of doctrine or discipline, enacted by a council and confirmed by the pope or the sovereign; a decision, regulation, code, or constitution made by ecclesiastical authority.,
C as in Canon (n.) The collection of books received as genuine Holy Scriptures, called the sacred canon, or general rule of moral and religious duty, given by inspiration; the Bible; also, any one of the canonical Scriptures. See Canonical books, under Canonical, a.,
C as in Canon (n.) In monasteries, a book containing the rules of a religious order.,
C as in Canon (n.) A catalogue of saints acknowledged and canonized in the Roman Catholic Church.,
C as in Canon (n.) A member of a cathedral chapter; a person who possesses a prebend in a cathedral or collegiate church.,
C as in Canon (n.) A musical composition in which the voices begin one after another, at regular intervals, successively taking up the same subject. It either winds up with a coda (tailpiece), or, as each voice finishes, commences anew, thus forming a perpetual fugue or round. It is the strictest form of imitation. See Imitation.,
C as in Canon (n.) The largest size of type having a specific name; -- so called from having been used for printing the canons of the church.,
C as in Canon (n.) The part of a bell by which it is suspended; -- called also ear and shank.,
C as in Canon (n.) See Carom.,
C as in Caon (n.) A deep gorge, ravine, or gulch, between high and steep banks, worn by water courses.,
C as in Canon bit () That part of a bit which is put in a horse's mouth.,
C as in Canon bone () The shank bone, or great bone above the fetlock, in the fore and hind legs of the horse and allied animals, corresponding to the middle metacarpal or metatarsal bone of most mammals. See Horse.,
C as in Canoness (n.) A woman who holds a canonry in a conventual chapter.,
C as in Canonic (a.) Alt. of Cannonical,
C as in Cannonical (a.) Of or pertaining to a canon; established by, or according to a , canon or canons.,
C as in Canonically (adv.) In a canonical manner; according to the canons.,
C as in Canonicalness (n.) The quality of being canonical; canonicity.,
C as in Canonicals (n. pl.) The dress prescribed by canon to be worn by a clergyman when officiating. Sometimes, any distinctive professional dress.,
C as in Canonicate (n.) The office of a canon; a canonry.,
C as in Canonicity (n.) The state or quality of being canonical; agreement with the canon.,
C as in Canonist (n.) A professor of canon law; one skilled in the knowledge and practice of ecclesiastical law.,
C as in Canonistic (a.) Of or pertaining to a canonist.,
C as in Canonization (n.) The final process or decree (following beatifacation) by which the name of a deceased person is placed in the catalogue (canon) of saints and commended to perpetual veneration and invocation.,
C as in Canonization (n.) The state of being canonized or sainted.,
C as in Canonized (imp. & p. p.) of Canonize,
C as in Canonizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Canonize,
C as in Canonize (v. t.) To declare (a deceased person) a saint; to put in the catalogue of saints; as, Thomas a Becket was canonized.,
C as in Canonize (v. t.) To glorify; to exalt to the highest honor.,
C as in Canonize (v. t.) To rate as inspired; to include in the canon.,
C as in Canonry (n. pl.) A benefice or prebend in a cathedral or collegiate church; a right to a place in chapter and to a portion of its revenues; the dignity or emoluments of a canon.,
C as in Canonship (a.) Of or pertaining to Canopus in Egypt; as, the Canopic vases, used in embalming.,
C as in Canopus (n.) A star of the first magnitude in the southern constellation Argo.,
C as in Canopies (pl. ) of Canopy,
C as in Canopy (n.) A covering fixed over a bed, dais, or the like, or carried on poles over an exalted personage or a sacred object, etc. chiefly as a mark of honor.,
C as in Canopy (n.) An ornamental projection, over a door, window, niche, etc.,
C as in Canopy (n.) Also, a rooflike covering, supported on pillars over an altar, a statue, a fountain, etc.,
C as in Canopes (imp. & p. p.) of Canopy,
C as in Canopying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Canopy,
C as in Canopy (v. t.) To cover with, or as with, a canopy.,
C as in Canorous (a.) Melodious; musical.,
C as in Canorousness (n.) The quality of being musical.,
C as in Canstick (n.) Candlestick.,
C as in Cant (n.) A corner; angle; niche.,
C as in Cant (n.) An outer or external angle.,
C as in Cant (n.) An inclination from a horizontal or vertical line; a slope or bevel; a titl.,
C as in Cant (n.) A sudden thrust, push, kick, or other impulse, producing a bias or change of direction; also, the bias or turn so give; as, to give a ball a cant.,
C as in Cant (n.) A segment forming a side piece in the head of a cask.,
C as in Cant (n.) A segment of he rim of a wooden cogwheel.,
C as in Cant (n.) A piece of wood laid upon the deck of a vessel to support the bulkheads.,
C as in Canted (imp. & p. p.) of Cant,
C as in Canting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cant,
C as in Cant (v. t.) To incline; to set at an angle; to tilt over; to tip upon the edge; as, to cant a cask; to cant a ship.,
C as in Cant (v. t.) To give a sudden turn or new direction to; as, to cant round a stick of timber; to cant a football.,
C as in Cant (v. t.) To cut off an angle from, as from a square piece of timber, or from the head of a bolt.,
C as in Cant (n.) An affected, singsong mode of speaking.,
C as in Cant (n.) The idioms and peculiarities of speech in any sect, class, or occupation.,
C as in Cant (n.) The use of religious phraseology without understanding or sincerity; empty, solemn speech, implying what is not felt; hypocrisy.,
C as in Cant (n.) Vulgar jargon; slang; the secret language spoker by gipsies, thieves, tramps, or beggars.,
C as in Cant (a.) Of the nature of cant; affected; vulgar.,
C as in Cant (v. i.) To speak in a whining voice, or an affected, singsong tone.,
C as in Cant (v. i.) To make whining pretensions to goodness; to talk with an affectation of religion, philanthropy, etc.; to practice hypocrisy; as, a canting fanatic.,
C as in Cant (v. i.) To use pretentious language, barbarous jargon, or technical terms; to talk with an affectation of learning.,
C as in Cant (n.) A call for bidders at a public sale; an auction.,
C as in Cant (v. t.) to sell by auction, or bid a price at a sale by auction.,
C as in Can't () A colloquial contraction for can not.,
C as in Cantab (n.) A Cantabrigian.,
C as in Cantabile (a.) In a melodious, flowing style; in a singing style, as opposed to bravura, recitativo, or parlando.,
C as in Cantabile (n.) A piece or passage, whether vocal or instrumental, peculiarly adapted to singing; -- sometimes called cantilena.,
C as in Cantabrian (a.) Of or pertaining to Cantabria on the Bay of Biscay in Spain.,
C as in Cantabrigian (n.) A native or resident of Cambridge; esp. a student or graduate of the university of Cambridge, England.,
C as in Cantalever (n.) A bracket to support a balcony, a cornice, or the like.,
C as in Cantalever (n.) A projecting beam, truss, or bridge unsupported at the outer end; one which overhangs.,
C as in Cantaloupe (n.) A muskmelon of several varieties, having when mature, a yellowish skin, and flesh of a reddish orange color.,
C as in Cantankerous (a.) Perverse; contentious; ugly; malicious.,
C as in Cantar (n.) Alt. of Cantarro,
C as in Cantarro (n.) A weight used in southern Europe and East for heavy articles. It varies in different localities; thus, at Rome it is nearly 75 pounds, in Sardinia nearly 94 pounds, in Cairo it is 95 pounds, in Syria about 503 pounds.,
C as in Cantarro (n.) A liquid measure in Spain, ranging from two and a half to four gallons.,
C as in Cantata (n.) A poem set to music; a musical composition comprising choruses, solos, interludes, etc., arranged in a somewhat dramatic manner; originally, a composition for a single noise, consisting of both recitative and melody.,
C as in Cantation (n.) A singing.,
C as in Cantatory (a.) Containing cant or affectation; whining; singing.,
C as in Cantatrice (n.) A female professional singer.,
C as in Canted (a.) Having angles; as, a six canted bolt head; a canted window.,
C as in Canted (a.) Inclined at an angle to something else; tipped; sloping.,
C as in Canteen (n.) A vessel used by soldiers for carrying water, liquor, or other drink.,
C as in Canteen (n.) The sutler's shop in a garrison; also, a chest containing culinary and other vessels for officers.,
C as in Cantel (n.) See Cantle.,
C as in Canter (n.) A moderate and easy gallop adapted to pleasure riding.,
C as in Canter (n.) A rapid or easy passing over.,
C as in Cantered (imp. & p. p.) of Canter,
C as in Cantering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Canter,
C as in Canter (v. i.) To move in a canter.,
C as in Canter (v. t.) To cause, as a horse, to go at a canter; to ride (a horse) at a canter.,
C as in Canter (n.) One who cants or whines; a beggar.,
C as in Canter (n.) One who makes hypocritical pretensions to goodness; one who uses canting language.,
C as in Canterbury (n.) A city in England, giving its name various articles. It is the seat of the Archbishop of Canterbury (primate of all England), and contains the shrine of Thomas a Becket, to which pilgrimages were formerly made.,
C as in Canterbury (n.) A stand with divisions in it for holding music, loose papers, etc.,
C as in Cantharidal (a.) Of or pertaining to cantharides or made of cantharides; as, cantharidal plaster.,
C as in Cantharides (n. pl.) See Cantharis.,
C as in Cantharidin (n.) The active principle of the cantharis, or Spanish fly, a volatile, acrid, bitter solid, crystallizing in four-sided prisms.,
C as in Cantharides (pl. ) of Cantharis,
C as in Cantharis (n.) A beetle (Lytta, / Cantharis, vesicatoria), havin1g an elongated cylindrical body of a brilliant green color, and a nauseous odor; the blister fly or blister beetle, of the apothecary; -- also called Spanish fly. Many other species of Lytta, used for the same purpose, take the same name. See Blister beetle, under Blister. The plural form in usually applied to the dried insects used in medicine.,
C as in Cant hook () A wooden lever with a movable iron hook. hear the end; -- used for canting or turning over heavy logs, etc.,
C as in Canthoplasty (n.) The operation of forming a new canthus, when one has been destroyed by injury or disease.,
C as in Canthi (pl. ) of Canthus,
C as in Canthus (n.) The corner where the upper and under eyelids meet on each side of the eye.,
C as in Canticles (pl. ) of Canticle,
C as in Canticle (n.) A song; esp. a little song or hymn.,
C as in Canticle (n.) The Song of Songs or Song of Solomon, one of the books of the Old Testament.,
C as in Canticle (n.) A canto or division of a poem,
C as in Canticle (n.) A psalm, hymn, or passage from the Bible, arranged for chanting in church service.,
C as in Canticoy (n.) A social gathering; usually, one for dancing.,
C as in Cantile (v. i.) Same as Cantle, v. t.,
C as in Cantilena (n.) See Cantabile.,
C as in Cantilever (n.) Same as Cantalever.,
C as in Cantillate (v. i.) To chant; to recite with musical tones.,
C as in Cantillation (n.) A chanting; recitation or reading with musical modulations.,
C as in Cantine (n.) See Canteen.,
C as in Canting (a.) Speaking in a whining tone of voice; using technical or religious terms affectedly; affectedly pious; as, a canting rogue; a canting tone.,
C as in Canting (n.) The use of cant; hypocrisy.,
C as in Cantiniere (n.) A woman who carries a canteen for soldiers; a vivandiere.,
C as in Cantion (n.) A song or verses.,
C as in Cantle (n.) A corner or edge of anything; a piece; a fragment; a part.,
C as in Cantle (n.) The upwardly projecting rear part of saddle, opposite to the pommel.,
C as in Cantle (v. t.) To cut in pieces; to cut out from.,
C as in Cantlet (n.) A piece; a fragment; a corner.,
C as in Cantos (pl. ) of Canto,
C as in Canto (n.) One of the chief divisions of a long poem; a book.,
C as in Canto (n.) The highest vocal part; the air or melody in choral music; anciently the tenor, now the soprano.,
C as in Canton (n.) A song or canto,
C as in Canton (n.) A small portion; a division; a compartment.,
C as in Canton (n.) A small community or clan.,
C as in Canton (n.) A small territorial district; esp. one of the twenty-two independent states which form the Swiss federal republic; in France, a subdivision of an arrondissement. See Arrondissement.,
C as in Canton (n.) A division of a shield occupying one third part of the chief, usually on the dexter side, formed by a perpendicular line from the top of the shield, meeting a horizontal line from the side.,
C as in Cantoned (imp. & p. p.) of Canton,
C as in Cantoning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Canton,
C as in Canton (v. i.) To divide into small parts or districts; to mark off or separate, as a distinct portion or division.,
C as in Canton (v. i.) To allot separate quarters to, as to different parts or divisions of an army or body of troops.,
C as in Cantonal (a.) Of or pertaining to a canton or cantons; of the nature of a canton.,
C as in Canton crape () A soft, white or colored silk fabric, of a gauzy texture and wavy appearance, used for ladies' scarfs, shawls, bonnet trimmings, etc.; -- called also Oriental crape.,
C as in Cantoned (a.) Having a charge in each of the four corners; -- said of a cross on a shield, and also of the shield itself.,
C as in Cantoned (a.) Having the angles marked by, or decorated with, projecting moldings or small columns; as, a cantoned pier or pilaster.,
C as in Canton flannel () See Cotton flannel.,
C as in Cantonize (v. i.) To divide into cantons or small districts.,
C as in Cantonment (n.) A town or village, or part of a town or village, assigned to a body of troops for quarters; temporary shelter or place of rest for an army; quarters.,
C as in Cantoon (n.) A cotton stuff showing a fine cord on one side and a satiny surface on the other.,
C as in Cantor (n.) A singer; esp. the leader of a church choir; a precentor.,
C as in Cantoral (a.) Of or belonging to a cantor.,
C as in Cantoris (a.) Of or pertaining to a cantor; as, the cantoris side of a choir; a cantoris stall.,
C as in Cantrap (n.) Alt. of Cantrip,
C as in Cantrip (n.) A charm; an incantation; a shell; a trick; adroit mischief.,
C as in Cantred (n.) Alt. of Cantref,
C as in Cantref (n.) A district comprising a hundred villages, as in Wales.,
C as in Canty (a.) Cheerful; sprightly; lively; merry.,
C as in Canuck (n.) A Canadian.,
C as in Canuck (n.) A small or medium-sized hardy horse, common in Canada.,
C as in Canula (a.) Alt. of Canulated,
C as in Canular (a.) Alt. of Canulated,
C as in Canulated (a.) See Cannula, Cannular, and Cannulated.,
C as in Canvas (n.) A strong cloth made of hemp, flax, or cotton; -- used for tents, sails, etc.,
C as in Canvas (n.) A coarse cloth so woven as to form regular meshes for working with the needle, as in tapestry, or worsted work.,
C as in Canvas (n.) A piece of strong cloth of which the surface has been prepared to receive painting, commonly painting in oil.,
C as in Canvas (n.) Something for which canvas is used: (a) A sail, or a collection of sails. (b) A tent, or a collection of tents. (c) A painting, or a picture on canvas.,
C as in Canvas (n.) A rough draft or model of a song, air, or other literary or musical composition; esp. one to show a poet the measure of the verses he is to make.,
C as in Canvas (a.) Made of, pertaining to, or resembling, canvas or coarse cloth; as, a canvas tent.,
C as in Canvasback (n.) A Species of duck (Aythya vallisneria), esteemed for the delicacy of its flesh. It visits the United States in autumn; particularly Chesapeake Bay and adjoining waters; -- so named from the markings of the plumage on its back.,
C as in Canvassed (imp. & p. p.) of Canvass,
C as in Canvassing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Canvass,
C as in Canvass (n.) To sift; to strain; to examine thoroughly; to scrutinize; as, to canvass the votes cast at an election; to canvass a district with reference to its probable vote.,
C as in Canvass (n.) To examine by discussion; to debate.,
C as in Canvass (n.) To go trough, with personal solicitation or public addresses; as, to canvass a district for votes; to canvass a city for subscriptions.,
C as in Canvass (v. i.) To search thoroughly; to engage in solicitation by traversing a district; as, to canvass for subscriptions or for votes; to canvass for a book, a publisher, or in behalf of a charity; -- commonly followed by for.,
C as in Canvass (n.) Close inspection; careful review for verification; as, a canvass of votes.,
C as in Canvass (n.) Examination in the way of discussion or debate.,
C as in Canvass (n.) Search; exploration; solicitation; systematic effort to obtain votes, subscribers, etc.,
C as in Canvasser (n.) One who canvasses.,
C as in Cany (a.) Of or pertaining to cane or canes; abounding with canes.,
C as in Canyon (n.) The English form of the Spanish word Caon.,
C as in Canzone (n.) A song or air for one or more voices, of Provencal origin, resembling, though not strictly, the madrigal.,
C as in Canzone (n.) An instrumental piece in the madrigal style.,
C as in Canzonet (n.) A short song, in one or more parts.,
C as in Caoutchin (n.) An inflammable, volatile, oily, liquid hydrocarbon, obtained by the destructive distillation of caoutchouc.,
C as in Caoutchouc (n.) A tenacious, elastic, gummy substance obtained from the milky sap of several plants of tropical South America (esp. the euphorbiaceous tree Siphonia elastica or Hevea caoutchouc), Asia, and Africa. Being impermeable to liquids and gases, and not readly affected by exposure to air, acids, and alkalies, it is used, especially when vulcanized, for many purposes in the arts and in manufactures. Also called India rubber (because it was first brought from India, and was formerly used chiefly for erasing pencil marks) and gum elastic. See Vulcanization.,
C as in Caoutchoucin (n.) See Caoutchin.,
C as in Cap (n.) A covering for the head,
C as in Cap (n.) One usually with a visor but without a brim, for men and boys,
C as in Cap (n.) One of lace, muslin, etc., for women, or infants,
C as in Cap (n.) One used as the mark or ensign of some rank, office, or dignity, as that of a cardinal.,
C as in Cap (n.) The top, or uppermost part; the chief.,
C as in Cap (n.) A respectful uncovering of the head.,
C as in Cap (n.) The whole top of the head of a bird from the base of the bill to the nape of the neck.,
C as in Cap (n.) Anything resembling a cap in form, position, or use,
C as in Cap (n.) The uppermost of any assemblage of parts; as, the cap of column, door, etc.; a capital, coping, cornice, lintel, or plate.,
C as in Cap (n.) Something covering the top or end of a thing for protection or ornament.,
C as in Cap (n.) A collar of iron or wood used in joining spars, as the mast and the topmast, the bowsprit and the jib boom; also, a covering of tarred canvas at the end of a rope.,
C as in Cap (n.) A percussion cap. See under Percussion.,
C as in Cap (n.) The removable cover of a journal box.,
C as in Cap (n.) A portion of a spherical or other convex surface.,
C as in Cap (n.) A large size of writing paper; as, flat cap; foolscap; legal cap.,
C as in Capped (imp. & p. p.) of Cap,
C as in Capping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cap,
C as in Cap (v. t.) To cover with a cap, or as with a cap; to provide with a cap or cover; to cover the top or end of; to place a cap upon the proper part of; as, to cap a post; to cap a gun.,
C as in Cap (v. t.) To deprive of cap.,
C as in Cap (v. t.) To complete; to crown; to bring to the highest point or consummation; as, to cap the climax of absurdity.,
C as in Cap (v. t.) To salute by removing the cap.,
C as in Cap (v. t.) To match; to mate in contest; to furnish a complement to; as, to cap text; to cap proverbs.,
C as in Cap (v. i.) To uncover the head respectfully.,
C as in Capabilities (pl. ) of Capability,
C as in Capability (n.) The quality of being capable; capacity; capableness; esp. intellectual power or ability.,
C as in Capability (n.) Capacity of being used or improved.,
C as in Capable (a.) Possessing ability, qualification, or susceptibility; having capacity; of sufficient size or strength; as, a room capable of holding a large number; a castle capable of resisting a long assault.,
C as in Capable (a.) Possessing adequate power; qualified; able; fully competent; as, a capable instructor; a capable judge; a mind capable of nice investigations.,
C as in Capable (a.) Possessing legal power or capacity; as, a man capable of making a contract, or a will.,
C as in Capable (a.) Capacious; large; comprehensive.,
C as in Capableness (n.) The quality or state of being capable; capability; adequateness; competency.,
C as in Capacified (imp. & p. p.) of Capacify,
C as in Capacify (v. t.) To quality.,
C as in Capacious (a.) Having capacity; able to contain much; large; roomy; spacious; extended; broad; as, a capacious vessel, room, bay, or harbor.,
C as in Capacious (a.) Able or qualified to make large views of things, as in obtaining knowledge or forming designs; comprehensive; liberal.,
C as in Capaciosly (adv.) In a capacious manner or degree; comprehensively.,
C as in Capaciousness (n.) The quality of being capacious, as of a vessel, a reservoir a bay, the mind, etc.,
C as in Capacitated (imp. & p. p.) of Capacitate,
C as in Capacitating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Capacitate,
C as in Capacitate (v. t.) To render capable; to enable; to qualify.,
C as in Capacities (pl. ) of Capacity,
C as in Capacity (n.) The power of receiving or containing; extent of room or space; passive power; -- used in reference to physical things.,
C as in Capacity (n.) The power of receiving and holding ideas, knowledge, etc.; the comprehensiveness of the mind; the receptive faculty; capability of undestanding or feeling.,
C as in Capacity (n.) Ability; power pertaining to, or resulting from, the possession of strength, wealth, or talent; possibility of being or of doing.,
C as in Capacity (n.) Outward condition or circumstances; occupation; profession; character; position; as, to work in the capacity of a mason or a carpenter.,
C as in Capacity (n.) Legal or noral qualification, as of age, residence, character, etc., necessary for certain purposes, as for holding office, for marrying, for making contracts, will, etc.; legal power or right; competency.,
C as in Capape (adv.) See Cap-a-pie.,
C as in Capapie (adv.) From head to foot; at all points.,
C as in Caparison (n.) An ornamental covering or housing for a horse; the harness or trappings of a horse, taken collectively, esp. when decorative.,
C as in Caparison (n.) Gay or rich clothing.,
C as in Caparisoned (imp. & p. p.) of Caparison,
C as in Caparisoning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Caparison,
C as in Caparison (v. t.) To cover with housings, as a horse; to harness or fit out with decorative trappings, as a horse.,
C as in Caparison (v. t.) To aborn with rich dress; to dress.,
C as in Caparro (n.) A large South American monkey (Lagothrix Humboldtii), with prehensile tail.,
C as in Capcase (n.) A small traveling case or bandbox; formerly, a chest.,
C as in Cape (n.) A piece or point of land, extending beyond the adjacent coast into the sea or a lake; a promontory; a headland.,
C as in Cape (v. i.) To head or point; to keep a course; as, the ship capes southwest by south.,
C as in Cape (n.) A sleeveless garment or part of a garment, hanging from the neck over the back, arms, and shoulders, but not reaching below the hips. See Cloak.,
C as in Cape (v. i.) To gape.,
C as in Capel (n.) Alt. of Caple,
C as in Caple (n.) A horse; a nag.,
C as in Capel (n.) A composite stone (quartz, schorl, and hornblende) in the walls of tin and copper lodes.,
C as in Capelan (n.) See Capelin.,
C as in Capelin (n.) A small marine fish (Mallotus villosus) of the family Salmonidae, very abundant on the coasts of Greenland, Iceland, Newfoundland, and Alaska. It is used as a bait for the cod.,
C as in Cappeline (n.) A hood-shaped bandage for the head, the shoulder, or the stump of an amputated limb.,
C as in Capella (n.) A brilliant star in the constellation Auriga.,
C as in Capellane (n.) The curate of a chapel; a chaplain.,
C as in Capelle (n.) The private orchestra or band of a prince or of a church.,
C as in Capellet (n.) A swelling, like a wen, on the point of the elbow (or the heel of the hock) of a horse, caused probably by bruises in lying down.,
C as in Capellmeister (n.) The musical director in royal or ducal chapel; a choir-master.,
C as in Capered (imp. & p. p.) of Caper,
C as in Capering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Caper,
C as in Caper (v. i.) To leap or jump about in a sprightly manner; to cut capers; to skip; to spring; to prance; to dance.,
C as in Caper (n.) A frolicsome leap or spring; a skip; a jump, as in mirth or dancing; a prank.,
C as in Caper (n.) A vessel formerly used by the Dutch, privateer.,
C as in Caper (n.) The pungent grayish green flower bud of the European and Oriental caper (Capparis spinosa), much used for pickles.,
C as in Caper (n.) A plant of the genus Capparis; -- called also caper bush, caper tree.,
C as in Caperberry (n.) The small olive-shaped berry of the European and Oriental caper, said to be used in pickles and as a condiment.,
C as in Caperberry (n.) The currantlike fruit of the African and Arabian caper (Capparis sodado).,
C as in Caper bush () Alt. of Caper tree,
C as in Caper tree () See Capper, a plant, 2.,
C as in Capercailzie (n.) Alt. of Capercally,
C as in Capercally (n.) A species of grouse (Tetrao uragallus) of large size and fine flavor, found in northern Europe and formerly in Scotland; -- called also cock of the woods.,
C as in Caperclaw (v. t.) To treat with cruel playfulness, as a cat treats a mouse; to abuse.,
C as in Caperer (n.) One who capers, leaps, and skips about, or dances.,
C as in Capful (n.) As much as will fill a cap.,
C as in Capias (n.) A writ or process commanding the officer to take the body of the person named in it, that is, to arrest him; -- also called writ of capias.,
C as in Capibara (n.) See Capybara.,
C as in Capillaceous (a.) Having long filaments; resembling a hair; slender. See Capillary.,
C as in Capillaire (n.) A sirup prepared from the maiden-hair, formerly supposed to have medicinal properties.,
C as in Capillaire (n.) Any simple sirup flavored with orange flowers.,
C as in Capillament (n.) A filament.,
C as in Capillament (n.) Any villous or hairy covering; a fine fiber or filament, as of the nerves.,
C as in Capillariness (n.) The quality of being capillary.,
C as in Capillarity (n.) The quality or condition of being capillary.,
C as in Capillarity (n.) The peculiar action by which the surface of a liquid, where it is in contact with a solid (as in a capillary tube), is elevated or depressed; capillary attraction.,
C as in Capillary (a.) Resembling a hair; fine; minute; very slender; having minute tubes or interspaces; having very small bore; as, the capillary vessels of animals and plants.,
C as in Capillary (a.) Pertaining to capillary tubes or vessels; as, capillary action.,
C as in Capillary (n.) A tube or vessel, extremely fine or minute.,
C as in Capillary (n.) A minute, thin-walled vessel; particularly one of the smallest blood vessels connecting arteries and veins, but used also for the smallest lymphatic and biliary vessels.,
C as in Capillation (n.) A capillary blood vessel.,
C as in Capillature (n.) A bush of hair; frizzing of the hair.,
C as in Capilliform (a.) In the shape or form of, a hair, or of hairs.,
C as in Capillose (a.) Having much hair; hairy.,
C as in Capistrate (a.) Hooded; cowled.,
C as in Capital (n.) Of or pertaining to the head.,
C as in Capital (n.) Having reference to, or involving, the forfeiture of the head or life; affecting life; punishable with death; as, capital trials; capital punishment.,
C as in Capital (n.) First in importance; chief; principal.,
C as in Capital (n.) Chief, in a political sense, as being the seat of the general government of a state or nation; as, Washington and Paris are capital cities.,
C as in Capital (n.) Of first rate quality; excellent; as, a capital speech or song.,
C as in Capital (n.) The head or uppermost member of a column, pilaster, etc. It consists generally of three parts, abacus, bell (or vase), and necking. See these terms, and Column.,
C as in Capital (n.) The seat of government; the chief city or town in a country; a metropolis.,
C as in Capital (n.) Money, property, or stock employed in trade, manufactures, etc.; the sum invested or lent, as distinguished from the income or interest. See Capital stock, under Capital, a.,
C as in Capital (a.) That portion of the produce of industry, which may be directly employed either to support human beings or to assist in production.,
C as in Capital (a.) Anything which can be used to increase one's power or influence.,
C as in Capital (a.) An imaginary line dividing a bastion, ravelin, or other work, into two equal parts.,
C as in Capital (a.) A chapter, or section, of a book.,
C as in Capital (a.) See Capital letter, under Capital, a.,
C as in Capitalist (n.) One who has capital; one who has money for investment, or money invested; esp. a person of large property, which is employed in business.,
C as in Capitalization (n.) The act or process of capitalizing.,
C as in Capitalized (imp. & p. p.) of Capitalize,
C as in Capitalizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Capitalize,
C as in Capitalize (v. t.) To convert into capital, or to use as capital.,
C as in Capitalize (v. t.) To compute, appraise, or assess the capital value of (a patent right, an annuity, etc.),
C as in Capitalize (v. t.) To print in capital letters, or with an initial capital.,
C as in Capitally (adv.) In a way involving the forfeiture of the head or life; as, to punish capitally.,
C as in Capitally (adv.) In a capital manner; excellently.,
C as in Capitalness (n.) The quality of being capital; preeminence.,
C as in Capitan Pasha () Alt. of Pacha,
C as in Pacha () The chief admiral of the Turkish fleet.,
C as in Capitate (a.) Headlike in form; also, having the distal end enlarged and rounded, as the stigmas of certain flowers.,
C as in Capitate (a.) Having the flowers gathered into a head.,
C as in Capitatim (a.) Of so much per head; as, a capitatim tax; a capitatim grant.,
C as in Capitation (n.) A numbering of heads or individuals.,
C as in Capitation (n.) A tax upon each head or person, without reference to property; a poll tax.,
C as in Capite (n.) See under Tenant.,
C as in Capitellate (a.) Having a very small knoblike termination, or collected into minute capitula.,
C as in Capitibranchiata (n. pl.) A division of annelids in which the gills arise from or near the head. See Tubicola.,
C as in Capitol () The temple of Jupiter, at Rome, on the Mona Capitolinus, where the Senate met.,
C as in Capitol () The edifice at Washington occupied by the Congress of the United States; also, the building in which the legislature of State holds its sessions; a statehouse.,
C as in Capitolian (a.) Alt. of Capitoline,
C as in Capitoline (a.) Of or pertaining to the Capitol in Rome.,
C as in Capitula (n. pl.) See Capitulum.,
C as in Capitular (n.) An act passed in a chapter.,
C as in Capitular (n.) A member of a chapter.,
C as in Capitular (n.) The head or prominent part.,
C as in Capitular (a.) Of or pertaining to a chapter; capitulary.,
C as in Capitular (a.) Growing in, or pertaining to, a capitulum.,
C as in Capitular (a.) Pertaining to a capitulum; as, the capitular process of a vertebra, the process which articulates with the capitulum of a rib.,
C as in Capitularly (adv.) In the manner or form of an ecclesiastical chapter.,
C as in Capitularies (pl. ) of Capitulary,
C as in Capitulary (n.) A capitular.,
C as in Capitulary (n.) The body of laws or statutes of a chapter, or of an ecclesiastical council.,
C as in Capitulary (n.) A collection of laws or statutes, civil and ecclesiastical, esp. of the Frankish kings, in chapters or sections.,
C as in Capitulary (a.) Relating to the chapter of a cathedral; capitular.,
C as in Capitulated (imp. & p. p.) of Capitulate,
C as in Capitulating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Capitulate,
C as in Capitulate (n.) To settle or draw up the heads or terms of an agreement, as in chapters or articles; to agree.,
C as in Capitulate (n.) To surrender on terms agreed upon (usually, drawn up under several heads); as, an army or a garrison capitulates.,
C as in Capitulate (v. t.) To surrender or transfer, as an army or a fortress, on certain conditions.,
C as in Capitulation (n.) A reducing to heads or articles; a formal agreement.,
C as in Capitulation (n.) The act of capitulating or surrendering to an emeny upon stipulated terms.,
C as in Capitulation (n.) The instrument containing the terms of an agreement or surrender.,
C as in Capitulator (n.) One who capitulates.,
C as in Capitule (n.) A summary.,
C as in Capitulum (n.) A thick head of flowers on a very short axis, as a clover top, or a dandelion; a composite flower. A capitulum may be either globular or flat.,
C as in Capitulum (n.) A knoblike protuberance of any part, esp. at the end of a bone or cartilage. [See Illust. of Artiodactyla.],
C as in Capivi (n.) A balsam of the Spanish West Indies. See Copaiba.,
C as in Caple (n.) See Capel.,
C as in Caplin (n.) See Capelin.,
C as in Caplin (n.) Alt. of Capling,
C as in Capling (n.) The cap or coupling of a flail, through which the thongs pass which connect the handle and swingel.,
C as in Capnomancy (n.) Divination by means of the ascent or motion of smoke.,
C as in Capnomor (n.) A limpid, colorless oil with a peculiar odor, obtained from beech tar.,
C as in Capoc (n.) A sort of cotton so short and fine that it can not be spun, used in the East Indies to line palanquins, to make mattresses, etc.,
C as in Capoches (pl. ) of Capoch,
C as in Capoch (n.) A hood; especially, the hood attached to the gown of a monk.,
C as in Capoched (imp. & p. p.) of Capoch,
C as in Capoch (v. t.) To cover with, or as with, a hood; hence, to hoodwink or blind.,
C as in Capon (n.) A castrated cock, esp. when fattened; a male chicken gelded to improve his flesh for the table.,
C as in Capon (v. t.) To castrate; to make a capon of.,
C as in Caponet (n.) A young capon.,
C as in Caponiere (n.) A work made across or in the ditch, to protect it from the enemy, or to serve as a covered passageway.,
C as in Caponize (v. t.) To castrate, as a fowl.,
C as in Capot (n.) A winning of all the tricks at the game of piquet. It counts for forty points.,
C as in Capotted (imp. & p. p.) of Capot,
C as in Capot (v. t.) To win all the tricks from, in playing at piquet.,
C as in Capote (n.) A long cloak or overcoat, especially one with a hood.,
C as in Capouch (n. & v. t.) Same as Capoch.,
C as in Cappadine (n.) A floss or waste obtained from the cocoon after the silk has been reeled off, used for shag.,
C as in Cappaper () See cap, n., also Paper, n.,
C as in Cappeak (n.) The front piece of a cap; -- now more commonly called visor.,
C as in Cappella (n.) See A cappella.,
C as in Capper (n.) One whose business is to make or sell caps.,
C as in Capper (n.) A by-bidder; a decoy for gamblers [Slang, U. S.].,
C as in Capper (n.) An instrument for applying a percussion cap to a gun or cartridge.,
C as in Capping plane () A plane used for working the upper surface of staircase rails.,
C as in Capra (n.) A genus of ruminants, including the common goat.,
C as in Caprate (n.) A salt of capric acid.,
C as in Capreolate (a.) Having a tendril or tendrils.,
C as in Capreoline (a.) Of or pertaining to the roebuck.,
C as in Capric (a.) Of or pertaining to capric acid or its derivatives.,
C as in Cariccio (n.) A piece in a free form, with frequent digressions from the theme; a fantasia; -- often called caprice.,
C as in Cariccio (n.) A caprice; a freak; a fancy.,
C as in Capricioso (a.) In a free, fantastic style.,
C as in Caprice (v. i.) An abrupt change in feeling, opinion, or action, proceeding from some whim or fancy; a freak; a notion.,
C as in Caprice (v. i.) See Capriccio.,
C as in Capricious (a.) Governed or characterized by caprice; apt to change suddenly; freakish; whimsical; changeable.,
C as in Capricorn (n.) The tenth sign of zodiac, into which the sun enters at the winter solstice, about December 21. See Tropic.,
C as in Capricorn (n.) A southern constellation, represented on ancient monuments by the figure of a goat, or a figure with its fore part like a fish.,
C as in Caprid (a.) Of or pertaining to the tribe of ruminants of which the goat, or genus Capra, is the type.,
C as in Caprification (n.) The practice of hanging, upon the cultivated fig tree, branches of the wild fig infested with minute hymenopterous insects.,
C as in Caprifole (n.) The woodbine or honeysuckle.,
C as in Caprifoliaceous (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the Honeysuckle family of plants (Caprifoliacae.,
C as in Capriform (a.) Having the form of a goat.,
C as in Caprigenous (a.) Of the goat kind.,
C as in Caprine (a.) Of or pertaining to a goat; as, caprine gambols.,
C as in Capriole (v. i.) A leap that a horse makes with all fours, upwards only, without advancing, but with a kick or jerk of the hind legs when at the height of the leap.,
C as in Capriole (v. i.) A leap or caper, as in dancing.,
C as in Capriole (v. i.) To perform a capriole.,
C as in Capriped (a.) Having feet like those of a goat.,
C as in Caproate (n.) A salt of caproic acid.,
C as in Caproic (a.) See under Capric.,
C as in Caprylate (n.) A salt of caprylic acid.,
C as in Caprylic (a.) See under Capric.,
C as in Capsaicin (n.) A colorless crystalline substance extracted from the Capsicum annuum, and giving off vapors of intense acridity.,
C as in Capsheaf (n.) The top sheaf of a stack of grain: (fig.) the crowning or finishing part of a thing.,
C as in Capsicin (n.) A red liquid or soft resin extracted from various species of capsicum.,
C as in Capsicine (n.) A volatile alkaloid extracted from Capsicum annuum or from capsicin.,
C as in Capsicum (n.) A genus of plants of many species, producing capsules or dry berries of various forms, which have an exceedingly pungent, biting taste, and when ground form the red or Cayenne pepper of commerce.,
C as in Capsized (imp. & p. p.) of Capsize,
C as in Capsizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Capsize,
C as in Capsize (v. t. & i.) To upset or overturn, as a vessel or other body.,
C as in Capsize (n.) An upset or overturn.,
C as in Capsquare (n.) A metal covering plate which passes over the trunnions of a cannon, and holds it in place.,
C as in Capstan (n.) A vertical cleated drum or cylinder, revolving on an upright spindle, and surmounted by a drumhead with sockets for bars or levers. It is much used, especially on shipboard, for moving or raising heavy weights or exerting great power by traction upon a rope or cable, passing around the drum. It is operated either by steam power or by a number of men walking around the capstan, each pushing on the end of a lever fixed in its socket.,
C as in Capstone (n.) A fossil echinus of the genus Cannulus; -- so called from its supposed resemblance to a cap.,
C as in Capsular (a.) Alt. of Capsulary,
C as in Capsulary (a.) Of or pertaining to a capsule; having the nature of a capsule; hollow and fibrous.,
C as in Capsulate (a.) Alt. of Capsulated,
C as in Capsulated (a.) Inclosed in a capsule, or as in a chest or box.,
C as in Capsule (n.) a dry fruit or pod which is made up of several parts or carpels, and opens to discharge the seeds, as, the capsule of the poppy, the flax, the lily, etc.,
C as in Capsule (n.) A small saucer of clay for roasting or melting samples of ores, etc.; a scorifier.,
C as in Capsule (n.) a small, shallow, evaporating dish, usually of porcelain.,
C as in Capsule (n.) A small cylindrical or spherical gelatinous envelope in which nauseous or acrid doses are inclosed to be swallowed.,
C as in Capsule (n.) A membranous sac containing fluid, or investing an organ or joint; as, the capsule of the lens of the eye. Also, a capsulelike organ.,
C as in Capsule (n.) A metallic seal or cover for closing a bottle.,
C as in Capsule (n.) A small cup or shell, as of metal, for a percussion cap, cartridge, etc.,
C as in Captain (n.) A head, or chief officer,
C as in Captain (n.) The military officer who commands a company, troop, or battery, or who has the rank entitling him to do so though he may be employed on other service.,
C as in Captain (n.) An officer in the United States navy, next above a commander and below a commodore, and ranking with a colonel in the army.,
C as in Captain (n.) By courtesy, an officer actually commanding a vessel, although not having the rank of captain.,
C as in Captain (n.) The master or commanding officer of a merchant vessel.,
C as in Captain (n.) One in charge of a portion of a ship's company; as, a captain of a top, captain of a gun, etc.,
C as in Captain (n.) The foreman of a body of workmen.,
C as in Captain (n.) A person having authority over others acting in concert; as, the captain of a boat's crew; the captain of a football team.,
C as in Captain (n.) A military leader; a warrior.,
C as in Captain (v. t.) To act as captain of; to lead.,
C as in Captain (a.) Chief; superior.,
C as in Captaincy (n.) The rank, post, or commission of a captain.,
C as in Captainry (n.) Power, or command, over a certain district; chieftainship.,
C as in Captainship (n.) The condition, rank, post, or authority of a captain or chief commander.,
C as in Captainship (n.) Military skill; as, to show good captainship.,
C as in Captation (n.) A courting of favor or applause, by flattery or address; a captivating quality; an attraction.,
C as in Caption (n.) A caviling; a sophism.,
C as in Caption (n.) The act of taking or arresting a person by judicial process.,
C as in Caption (n.) That part of a legal instrument, as a commission, indictment, etc., which shows where, when, and by what authority, it was taken, found, or executed.,
C as in Caption (n.) The heading of a chapter, section, or page.,
C as in Captious (a.) Apt to catch at faults; disposed to find fault or to cavil; eager to object; difficult to please.,
C as in Captious (a.) Fitted to harass, perplex, or insnare; insidious; troublesome.,
C as in Captiously (adv.) In a captious manner.,
C as in Captiousness (n.) Captious disposition or manner.,
C as in Captivated (imp. & p. p.) of Captivate,
C as in Captivating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Captivate,
C as in Captivate (v. t.) To take prisoner; to capture; to subdue.,
C as in Captivate (v. t.) To acquire ascendancy over by reason of some art or attraction; to fascinate; to charm; as, Cleopatra captivated Antony; the orator captivated all hearts.,
C as in Captivate (p. a.) Taken prisoner; made captive; insnared; charmed.,
C as in Captivating (a.) Having power to captivate or charm; fascinating; as, captivating smiles.,
C as in Captivation (n.) The act of captivating.,
C as in Captive (n.) A prisoner taken by force or stratagem, esp., by an enemy, in war; one kept in bondage or in the power of another.,
C as in Captive (n.) One charmed or subdued by beaty, excellence, or affection; one who is captivated.,
C as in Captive (a.) Made prisoner, especially in war; held in bondage or in confinement.,
C as in Captive (a.) Subdued by love; charmed; captivated.,
C as in Captive (a.) Of or pertaining to bondage or confinement; serving to confine; as, captive chains; captive hours.,
C as in Captived (imp. & p. p.) of Captive,
C as in Captiving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Captive,
C as in Captive (v. t.) To take prisoner; to capture.,
C as in Captivity (n.) The state of being a captive or a prisoner.,
C as in Captivity (n.) A state of being under control; subjection of the will or affections; bondage.,
C as in Captor (n.) One who captures any person or thing, as a prisoner or a prize.,
C as in Capture (n.) The act of seizing by force, or getting possession of by superior power or by stratagem; as, the capture of an enemy, a vessel, or a criminal.,
C as in Capture (n.) The securing of an object of strife or desire, as by the power of some attraction.,
C as in Capture (n.) The thing taken by force, surprise, or stratagem; a prize; prey.,
C as in Captured (imp. & p. p.) of Capture,
C as in Capturing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Capture,
C as in Capture (v. t.) To seize or take possession of by force, surprise, or stratagem; to overcome and hold; to secure by effort.,
C as in Capuccio (n.) A capoch or hood.,
C as in Capuched (a.) Cover with, or as with, a hood.,
C as in Capuchin (n.) A Franciscan monk of the austere branch established in 1526 by Matteo di Baschi, distinguished by wearing the long pointed cowl or capoch of St. Francis.,
C as in Capuchin (n.) A garment for women, consisting of a cloak and hood, resembling, or supposed to resemble, that of capuchin monks.,
C as in Capuchin (n.) A long-tailed South American monkey (Cabus capucinus), having the forehead naked and wrinkled, with the hair on the crown reflexed and resembling a monk's cowl, the rest being of a grayish white; -- called also capucine monkey, weeper, sajou, sapajou, and sai.,
C as in Capuchin (n.) Other species of Cabus, as C. fatuellus (the brown or horned capucine.), C. albifrons (the cararara), and C. apella.,
C as in Capuchin (n.) A variety of the domestic pigeon having a hoodlike tuft of feathers on the head and sides of the neck.,
C as in Capucine (n.) See Capuchin, 3.,
C as in Capulet (n.) Same as Capellet.,
C as in Capulin (n.) The Mexican cherry (Prunus Capollin).,
C as in Capita (pl. ) of Caput,
C as in Caput (n.) The head; also, a knoblike protuberance or capitulum.,
C as in Caput (n.) The top or superior part of a thing.,
C as in Caput (n.) The council or ruling body of the University of Cambridge prior to the constitution of 1856.,
C as in Capybara (n.) A large South American rodent (Hydrochaerus capybara) Living on the margins of lakes and rivers. It is the largest extant rodent, being about three feet long, and half that in height. It somewhat resembles the Guinea pig, to which it is related; -- called also cabiai and water hog.,
C as in Car (n.) A small vehicle moved on wheels; usually, one having but two wheels and drawn by one horse; a cart.,
C as in Car (n.) A vehicle adapted to the rails of a railroad.,
C as in Car (n.) A chariot of war or of triumph; a vehicle of splendor, dignity, or solemnity.,
C as in Car (n.) The stars also called Charles's Wain, the Great Bear, or the Dipper.,
C as in Car (n.) The cage of a lift or elevator.,
C as in Car (n.) The basket, box, or cage suspended from a balloon to contain passengers, ballast, etc.,
C as in Car (n.) A floating perforated box for living fish.,
C as in Carabid (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the genus Carbus or family Carabidae.,
C as in Carabid (n.) One of the Carabidae, a family of active insectivorous beetles.,
C as in Carabine (n.) A carbine.,
C as in Carabineer (n.) A carbineer.,
C as in Caraboid (a.) Like, or pertaining to the genus Carabus.,
C as in Carabus (n.) A genus of ground beetles, including numerous species. They devour many injurious insects.,
C as in Carac (n.) See Carack.,
C as in Caracal (n.) A lynx (Felis, or Lynx, caracal.) It is a native of Africa and Asia. Its ears are black externally, and tipped with long black hairs.,
C as in Caracara (n.) A south American bird of several species and genera, resembling both the eagles and the vultures. The caracaras act as scavengers, and are also called carrion buzzards.,
C as in Carack (n.) A kind of large ship formerly used by the Spaniards and Portuguese in the East India trade; a galleon.,
C as in Caracole (n.) A half turn which a horseman makes, either to the right or the left.,
C as in Caracole (n.) A staircase in a spiral form.,
C as in Caracoled (imp. & p. p.) of Caracole,
C as in Caracole (v. i.) To move in a caracole, or in caracoles; to wheel.,
C as in Caracoly (n.) An alloy of gold, silver, and copper, of which an inferior quality of jewelry is made.,
C as in Caracore (n.) Alt. of Caracora,
C as in Caracora (n.) A light vessel or proa used by the people of Borneo, etc., and by the Dutch in the East Indies.,
C as in Carafe (n.) A glass water bottle for the table or toilet; -- called also croft.,
C as in Carageen (n.) Alt. of Caragheen,
C as in Caragheen (n.) See Carrageen.,
C as in Carambola (n.) An East Indian tree (Averrhoa Carambola), and its acid, juicy fruit; called also Coromandel gooseberry.,
C as in Caramel (n.) Burnt sugar; a brown or black porous substance obtained by heating sugar. It is soluble in water, and is used for coloring spirits, gravies, etc.,
C as in Caramel (n.) A kind of confectionery, usually a small cube or square of tenacious paste, or candy, of varying composition and flavor.,
C as in Carangoid (a.) Belonging to the Carangidae, a family of fishes allied to the mackerels, and including the caranx, American bluefish, and the pilot fish.,
C as in Caranx (n.) A genus of fishes, common on the Atlantic coast, including the yellow or golden mackerel.,
C as in Carapace (n.) The thick shell or shield which covers the back of the tortoise, or turtle, the crab, and other crustaceous animals.,
C as in Carapato (n.) A south American tick of the genus Amblyomma. There are several species, very troublesome to man and beast.,
C as in Carapax (n.) See Carapace.,
C as in Carat (n.) The weight by which precious stones and pearls are weighed.,
C as in Carat (n.) A twenty-fourth part; -- a term used in estimating the proportionate fineness of gold.,
C as in Caravan (n.) A company of travelers, pilgrims, or merchants, organized and equipped for a long journey, or marching or traveling together, esp. through deserts and countries infested by robbers or hostile tribes, as in Asia or Africa.,
C as in Caravan (n.) A large, covered wagon, or a train of such wagons, for conveying wild beasts, etc., for exhibition; an itinerant show, as of wild beasts.,
C as in Caravan (n.) A covered vehicle for carrying passengers or for moving furniture, etc.; -- sometimes shorted into van.,
C as in Caravaneer (n.) The leader or driver of the camels in caravan.,
C as in Caravansaries (pl. ) of Caravansary,
C as in Caravansary (n.) A kind of inn, in the East, where caravans rest at night, being a large, rude, unfurnished building, surrounding a court.,
C as in Caravel (n.) A name given to several kinds of vessels.,
C as in Caravel (n.) The caravel of the 16th century was a small vessel with broad bows, high, narrow poop, four masts, and lateen sails. Columbus commanded three caravels on his great voyage.,
C as in Caravel (n.) A Portuguese vessel of 100 or 150 tons burden.,
C as in Caravel (n.) A small fishing boat used on the French coast.,
C as in Caravel (n.) A Turkish man-of-war.,
C as in Caraway (n.) A biennial plant of the Parsley family (Carum Carui). The seeds have an aromatic smell, and a warm, pungent taste. They are used in cookery and confectionery, and also in medicine as a carminative.,
C as in Caraway (n.) A cake or sweetmeat containing caraway seeds.,
C as in Carbamic (a.) Pertaining to an acid so called.,
C as in Carbamide (n.) The technical name for urea.,
C as in Carbamine (n.) An isocyanide of a hydrocarbon radical. The carbamines are liquids, usually colorless, and of unendurable odor.,
C as in Carbanil (n.) A mobile liquid, CO.N.C6H5, of pungent odor. It is the phenyl salt of isocyanic acid.,
C as in Carbazol (n.) A white crystallized substance, C12H8NH, derived from aniline and other amines.,
C as in Carbazotate (n.) A salt of carbazotic or picric acid; a picrate.,
C as in Carbazotic (a.) Containing, or derived from, carbon and nitrogen.,
C as in Carbide (n.) A binary compound of carbon with some other element or radical, in which the carbon plays the part of a negative; -- formerly termed carburet.,
C as in Carbimide (n.) The technical name for isocyanic acid. See under Isocyanic.,
C as in Carbine (n.) A short, light musket or rifle, esp. one used by mounted soldiers or cavalry.,
C as in Carbineer (n.) A soldier armed with a carbine.,
C as in Carbinol (n.) Methyl alcohol, CH3OH; -- also, by extension, any one in the homologous series of paraffine alcohols of which methyl alcohol is the type.,
C as in Carbohydrate (n.) One of a group of compounds including the sugars, starches, and gums, which contain six (or some multiple of six) carbon atoms, united with a variable number of hydrogen and oxygen atoms, but with the two latter always in proportion as to form water; as dextrose, C6H12O6.,
C as in Carbohydride (n.) A hydrocarbon.,
C as in Carbolic (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, an acid derived from coal tar and other sources; as, carbolic acid (called also phenic acid, and phenol). See Phenol.,
C as in Carbolize (v. t.) To apply carbolic acid to; to wash or treat with carbolic acid.,
C as in Carbon (n.) An elementary substance, not metallic in its nature, which is present in all organic compounds. Atomic weight 11.97. Symbol C. it is combustible, and forms the base of lampblack and charcoal, and enters largely into mineral coals. In its pure crystallized state it constitutes the diamond, the hardest of known substances, occuring in monometric crystals like the octahedron, etc. Another modification is graphite, or blacklead, and in this it is soft, and occurs in hexagonal prisms or tables. When united with oxygen it forms carbon dioxide, commonly called carbonic acid, or carbonic oxide, according to the proportions of the oxygen; when united with hydrogen, it forms various compounds called hydrocarbons. Compare Diamond, and Graphite.,
C as in Carbonaceous (a.) Pertaining to, containing, or composed of, carbon.,
C as in Carbonade (n.) Alt. of Carbonado,
C as in Carbonado (n.) Flesh, fowl, etc., cut across, seasoned, and broiled on coals; a chop.,
C as in Carbonadoed (imp. & p. p.) of Carbonade,
C as in Carbonadoing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Carbonade,
C as in Carbonado (v. t.) Alt. of Carbonade,
C as in Carbonade (v. t.) To cut (meat) across for frying or broiling; to cut or slice and broil.,
C as in Carbonade (v. t.) To cut or hack, as in fighting.,
C as in Carbonadoes (pl. ) of Carbonado,
C as in Carbonado (n.) A black variety of diamond, found in Brazil, and used for diamond drills. It occurs in irregular or rounded fragments, rarely distinctly crystallized, with a texture varying from compact to porous.,
C as in Carbonarism (n.) The principles, practices, or organization of the Carbonari.,
C as in Carbonari (pl. ) of Carbonaro,
C as in Carbonaro (n.) A member of a secret political association in Italy, organized in the early part of the nineteenth centry for the purpose of changing the government into a republic.,
C as in Carbonatation (n.) The saturation of defecated beet juice with carbonic acid gas.,
C as in Carbonate (n.) A salt or carbonic acid, as in limestone, some forms of lead ore, etc.,
C as in Carbonated (a.) Combined or impregnated with carbonic acid.,
C as in Carbone (v. t.) To broil. [Obs.] "We had a calf's head carboned".,
C as in Carbonic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or obtained from, carbon; as, carbonic oxide.,
C as in Carbonide (n.) A carbide.,
C as in Carboniferous (a.) Producing or containing carbon or coal.,
C as in Carbonization (n.) The act or process of carbonizing.,
C as in Carbonized (imp. & p. p.) of Carbonize,
C as in Carbonizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Carbonize,
C as in Carbonize (v. t.) To convert (an animal or vegetable substance) into a residue of carbon by the action of fire or some corrosive agent; to char.,
C as in Carbonize (v. t.) To impregnate or combine with carbon, as in making steel by cementation.,
C as in Carbonometer (n.) An instrument for detecting and measuring the amount of carbon which is present, or more esp. the amount of carbon dioxide, by its action on limewater or by other means.,
C as in Carbonyl (n.) The radical (CO)'', occuring, always combined, in many compounds, as the aldehydes, the ketones, urea, carbonyl chloride, etc.,
C as in Carbostyril (n.) A white crystalline substance, C9H6N.OH, of acid properties derived from one of the amido cinnamic acids.,
C as in Carboxide (n.) A compound of carbon and oxygen, as carbonyl, with some element or radical; as, potassium carboxide.,
C as in Carboxyl (n.) The complex radical, CO.OH, regarded as the essential and characteristic constituent which all oxygen acids of carbon (as formic, acetic, benzoic acids, etc.) have in common; -- called also oxatyl.,
C as in Carboy (n.) A large, globular glass bottle, esp. one of green glass, inclosed in basket work or in a box, for protection; -- used commonly for carrying corrosive liquids; as sulphuric acid, etc.,
C as in Carbuncle (n.) A beautiful gem of a deep red color (with a mixture of scarlet) called by the Greeks anthrax; found in the East Indies. When held up to the sun, it loses its deep tinge, and becomes of the color of burning coal. The name belongs for the most part to ruby sapphire, though it has been also given to red spinel and garnet.,
C as in Carbuncle (n.) A very painful acute local inflammation of the subcutaneous tissue, esp. of the trunk or back of the neck, characterized by brawny hardness of the affected parts, sloughing of the skin and deeper tissues, and marked constitutional depression. It differs from a boil in size, tendency to spread, and the absence of a central core, and is frequently fatal. It is also called anthrax.,
C as in Carbuncle (n.) A charge or bearing supposed to represent the precious stone. It has eight scepters or staves radiating from a common center. Called also escarbuncle.,
C as in Carbuncled (a.) Set with carbuncles.,
C as in Carbuncled (a.) Affected with a carbuncle or carbuncles; marked with red sores; pimpled and blotched.,
C as in Carbuncular (a.) Belonging to a carbuncle; resembling a carbuncle; red; inflamed.,
C as in Carbunculation (n.) The blasting of the young buds of trees or plants, by excessive heat or cold.,
C as in Carburet (n.) A carbide. See Carbide,
C as in Carbureted (imp. & p. p.) of Carburet,
C as in Carburetted () of Carburet,
C as in Carbureting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Carburet,
C as in Carburetting () of Carburet,
C as in Carburet (v. t.) To combine or to impregnate with carbon, as by passing through or over a liquid hydrocarbon; to carbonize or carburize.,
C as in Carburetant (n.) Any volatile liquid used in charging illuminating gases.,
C as in Carbureted (a.) Combined with carbon in the manner of a carburet or carbide.,
C as in Carbureted (a.) Saturated or impregnated with some volatile carbon compound; as, water gas is carbureted to increase its illuminating power.,
C as in Carburetor (n.) An apparatus in which coal gas, hydrogen, or air is passed through or over a volatile hydrocarbon, in order to confer or increase illuminating power.,
C as in Carburization (n.) The act, process, or result of carburizing.,
C as in Carburized (imp. & p. p.) of Carburize,
C as in Carburizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Carburize,
C as in Carburize (v. t.) To combine with carbon or a carbon compound; -- said esp. of a process for conferring a higher degree of illuminating power on combustible gases by mingling them with a vapor of volatile hydrocarbons.,
C as in Carcajou (n.) The wolverene; -- also applied, but erroneously, to the Canada lynx, and sometimes to the American badger. See Wolverene.,
C as in Carcanet (n.) A jeweled chain, necklace, or collar.,
C as in Carcase (n.) See Carcass.,
C as in Carcasses (pl. ) of Carcass,
C as in Carcass (n.) A dead body, whether of man or beast; a corpse; now commonly the dead body of a beast.,
C as in Carcass (n.) The living body; -- now commonly used in contempt or ridicule.,
C as in Carcass (n.) The abandoned and decaying remains of some bulky and once comely thing, as a ship; the skeleton, or the uncovered or unfinished frame, of a thing.,
C as in Carcass (n.) A hollow case or shell, filled with combustibles, to be thrown from a mortar or howitzer, to set fire to buldings, ships, etc.,
C as in Carcavelhos (n.) A sweet wine. See Calcavella.,
C as in Carcelage (n.) Prison fees.,
C as in Carcel lamp () A French mechanical lamp, for lighthouses, in which a superabundance of oil is pumped to the wick tube by clockwork.,
C as in Carceral (a.) Belonging to a prison.,
C as in Carcinological (a.) Of or pertaining to carcinology.,
C as in Carcinology (n.) The department of zoology which treats of the Crustacea (lobsters, crabs, etc.); -- called also malacostracology and crustaceology.,
C as in Carcinoma (n.) A cancer. By some medical writers, the term is applied to an indolent tumor. See Cancer.,
C as in Carcinomatous (a.) Of or pertaining to carcinoma.,
C as in Carcinosys (n.) The affection of the system with cancer.,
C as in Card (n.) A piece of pasteboard, or thick paper, blank or prepared for various uses; as, a playing card; a visiting card; a card of invitation; pl. a game played with cards.,
C as in Card (n.) A published note, containing a brief statement, explanation, request, expression of thanks, or the like; as, to put a card in the newspapers. Also, a printed programme, and (fig.), an attraction or inducement; as, this will be a good card for the last day of the fair.,
C as in Card (n.) A paper on which the points of the compass are marked; the dial or face of the mariner's compass.,
C as in Card (n.) A perforated pasteboard or sheet-metal plate for warp threads, making part of the Jacquard apparatus of a loom. See Jacquard.,
C as in Card (n.) An indicator card. See under Indicator.,
C as in Carded (imp. & p. p.) of Card,
C as in Carding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Card,
C as in Card (v. i.) To play at cards; to game.,
C as in Card (n.) An instrument for disentangling and arranging the fibers of cotton, wool, flax, etc.; or for cleaning and smoothing the hair of animals; -- usually consisting of bent wire teeth set closely in rows in a thick piece of leather fastened to a back.,
C as in Card (n.) A roll or sliver of fiber (as of wool) delivered from a carding machine.,
C as in Card (v. t.) To comb with a card; to cleanse or disentangle by carding; as, to card wool; to card a horse.,
C as in Card (v. t.) To clean or clear, as if by using a card.,
C as in Card (v. t.) To mix or mingle, as with an inferior or weaker article.,
C as in Cardamine (n.) A genus of cruciferous plants, containing the lady's-smock, cuckooflower, bitter cress, meadow cress, etc.,
C as in Cardamom (n.) The aromatic fruit, or capsule with its seeds, of several plants of the Ginger family growing in the East Indies and elsewhere, and much used as a condiment, and in medicine.,
C as in Cardamom (n.) A plant which produces cardamoms, esp. Elettaria Cardamomum and several species of Amomum.,
C as in Cardboard (n.) A stiff compact pasteboard of various qualities, for making cards, etc., often having a polished surface.,
C as in Cardcase (n.) A case for visiting cards.,
C as in Cardecu (n.) A quarter of a crown.,
C as in Carder (n.) One who, or that which cards wool flax, etc.,
C as in Cardia (n.) The heart.,
C as in Cardia (n.) The anterior or cardiac orifice of the stomach, where the esophagus enters it.,
C as in Cardiac (a.) Pertaining to, resembling, or hear the heart; as, the cardiac arteries; the cardiac, or left, end of the stomach.,
C as in Cardiac (a.) Exciting action in the heart, through the medium of the stomach; cordial; stimulant.,
C as in Cardiac (n.) A medicine which excites action in the stomach; a cardial.,
C as in Cardiacal (a.) Cardiac.,
C as in Cardiacle (n.) A pain about the heart.,
C as in Cardiagraph (n.) See Cardiograph.,
C as in Cardialgla (n.) Alt. of Cardialgy,
C as in Cardialgy (n.) A burning or gnawing pain, or feeling of distress, referred to the region of the heart, accompanied with cardiac palpitation; heartburn. It is usually a symptom of indigestion.,
C as in Cardigan jacket () A warm jacket of knit worsted with or without sleeves.,
C as in Cardinal (a.) Of fundamental importance; preeminent; superior; chief; principal.,
C as in Cardinal (a.) One of the ecclesiastical princes who constitute the pope's council, or the sacred college.,
C as in Cardinal (a.) A woman's short cloak with a hood.,
C as in Cardinal (a.) Mulled red wine.,
C as in Cardinalate (n.) The office, rank, or dignity of a cardinal.,
C as in Cardinalize (v. t.) To exalt to the office of a cardinal.,
C as in Cardinalship (n.) The condition, dignity, of office of a cardinal,
C as in Carding (a.) The act or process of preparing staple for spinning, etc., by carding it. See the Note under Card, v. t.,
C as in Carding (v. t.) A roll of wool or other fiber as it comes from the carding machine.,
C as in Cardiograph (n.) An instrument which, when placed in contact with the chest, will register graphically the comparative duration and intensity of the heart's movements.,
C as in Cardiographic (a.) Of or pertaining to, or produced by, a cardiograph.,
C as in Cardioid (n.) An algebraic curve, so called from its resemblance to a heart.,
C as in Cardioinhibitory (a.) Checking or arresting the heart's action.,
C as in Cardiolgy (n.) The science which treats of the heart and its functions.,
C as in Cardiometry (n.) Measurement of the heart, as by percussion or auscultation.,
C as in Cardiosphygmograph (n.) A combination of cardiograph and sphygmograph.,
C as in Carditis (n.) Inflammation of the fleshy or muscular substance of the heart. See Endocarditis and Pericarditis.,
C as in Cardines (pl. ) of Cardo,
C as in Cardo (n.) The basal joint of the maxilla in insects.,
C as in Cardo (n.) The hinge of a bivalve shell.,
C as in Cardol (n.) A yellow oily liquid, extracted from the shell of the cashew nut.,
C as in Cardoon (n.) A large herbaceous plant (Cynara Cardunculus) related to the artichoke; -- used in cookery and as a salad.,
C as in Care (n.) A burdensome sense of responsibility; trouble caused by onerous duties; anxiety; concern; solicitude.,
C as in Care (n.) Charge, oversight, or management, implying responsibility for safety and prosperity.,
C as in Care (n.) Attention or heed; caution; regard; heedfulness; watchfulness; as, take care; have a care.,
C as in Care (n.) The object of watchful attention or anxiety.,
C as in Cared (imp. & p. p.) of Care,
C as in Caring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Care,
C as in Care (n.) To be anxious or solicitous; to be concerned; to have regard or interest; -- sometimes followed by an objective of measure.,
C as in Careened (imp. & p. p.) of Careen,
C as in Careening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Careen,
C as in Careen (v. t.) To cause (a vessel) to lean over so that she floats on one side, leaving the other side out of water and accessible for repairs below the water line; to case to be off the keel.,
C as in Careen (v. i.) To incline to one side, or lie over, as a ship when sailing on a wind; to be off the keel.,
C as in Careenage (n.) Expense of careening ships.,
C as in Careenage (n.) A place for careening.,
C as in Career (n.) A race course: the ground run over.,
C as in Career (n.) A running; full speed; a rapid course.,
C as in Career (n.) General course of action or conduct in life, or in a particular part or calling in life, or in some special undertaking; usually applied to course or conduct which is of a public character; as, Washington's career as a soldier.,
C as in Career (n.) The flight of a hawk.,
C as in Careered (imp. & p. p.) of Career,
C as in Careering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Career,
C as in Career (v. i.) To move or run rapidly.,
C as in Careful (a.) Full of care; anxious; solicitous.,
C as in Careful (a.) Filling with care or solicitude; exposing to concern, anxiety, or trouble; painful.,
C as in Careful (a.) Taking care; giving good heed; watchful; cautious; provident; not indifferent, heedless, or reckless; -- often followed by of, for, or the infinitive; as, careful of money; careful to do right.,
C as in Carefully (adv.) In a careful manner.,
C as in Carefulness (n.) Quality or state of being careful.,
C as in Careless (a.) Free from care or anxiety. hence, cheerful; light-hearted.,
C as in Careless (a.) Having no care; not taking ordinary or proper care; negligent; unconcerned; heedless; inattentive; unmindful; regardless.,
C as in Careless (a.) Without thought or purpose; without due care; without attention to rule or system; unstudied; inconsiderate; spontaneous; rash; as, a careless throw; a careless expression.,
C as in Careless (a.) Not receiving care; uncared for.,
C as in Carelessly (adv.) In a careless manner.,
C as in Carelessness (n.) The quality or state of being careless; heedlessness; negligenece; inattention.,
C as in Carene (n.) A fast of forty days on bread and water.,
C as in Caress (n.) An act of endearment; any act or expression of affection; an embracing, or touching, with tenderness.,
C as in Caressed (imp. & p. p.) of Caress,
C as in Caressing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Caress,
C as in Caress (n.) To treat with tokens of fondness, affection, or kindness; to touch or speak to in a loving or endearing manner; to fondle.,
C as in Caressingly (ad.) In caressing manner.,
C as in Caret (n.) A mark [^] used by writers and proof readers to indicate that something is interlined above, or inserted in the margin, which belongs in the place marked by the caret.,
C as in Caret (n.) The hawkbill turtle. See Hawkbill.,
C as in Caretuned (a.) Weary; mournful.,
C as in Careworn (a.) Worn or burdened with care; as, careworn look or face.,
C as in Carex (n.) A numerous and widely distributed genus of perennial herbaceous plants of the order Cypreaceae; the sedges.,
C as in Carf () pret. of Carve.,
C as in Cargason (n.) A cargo.,
C as in Cargoes (pl. ) of Cargo,
C as in Cargo (n.) The lading or freight of a ship or other vessel; the goods, merchandise, or whatever is conveyed in a vessel or boat; load; freight.,
C as in Cargoose (n.) A species of grebe (Podiceps crisratus); the crested grebe.,
C as in Cariama (n.) A large, long-legged South American bird (Dicholophus cristatus) which preys upon snakes, etc. See Seriema.,
C as in Caries (pl. ) of Carib,
C as in Carib (n.) A native of the Caribbee islands or the coasts of the Caribbean sea; esp., one of a tribe of Indians inhabiting a region of South America, north of the Amazon, and formerly most of the West India islands.,
C as in Caribbean (a.) Alt. of Caribbee,
C as in Caribbee (a.) Of or pertaining to the Caribs, to their islands (the eastern and southern West Indies), or to the sea (called the Caribbean sea) lying between those islands and Central America.,
C as in Caribbee (n.) A Carib.,
C as in Caribe (n.) A south American fresh water fish of the genus Serrasalmo of many species, remarkable for its voracity. When numerous they attack man or beast, often with fatal results.,
C as in Caribou (n.) The American reindeer, especially the common or woodland species (Rangifer Caribou).,
C as in Caricature (v. t.) An exaggeration, or distortion by exaggeration, of parts or characteristics, as in a picture.,
C as in Caricature (v. t.) A picture or other figure or description in which the peculiarities of a person or thing are so exaggerated as to appear ridiculous; a burlesque; a parody.,
C as in Caricatured (imp. & p. p.) of Caricature,
C as in Caricaturing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Caricature,
C as in Caricature (v. t.) To make or draw a caricature of; to represent with ridiculous exaggeration; to burlesque.,
C as in Caricaturist (n.) One who caricatures.,
C as in Caricous (a.) Of the shape of a fig; as, a caricous tumor.,
C as in Caries (n.) Ulceration of bone; a process in which bone disintegrates and is carried away piecemeal, as distinguished from necrosis, in which it dies in masses.,
C as in Carillon (n.) A chime of bells diatonically tuned, played by clockwork or by finger keys.,
C as in Carillon (n.) A tune adapted to be played by musical bells.,
C as in Carina (n.) A keel,
C as in Carina (n.) That part of a papilionaceous flower, consisting of two petals, commonly united, which incloses the organs of fructification,
C as in Carina (n.) A longitudinal ridge or projection like the keel of a boat.,
C as in Carina (n.) The keel of the breastbone of birds.,
C as in Carinaria (n.) A genus of oceanic heteropod Mollusca, having a thin, glassy, bonnet-shaped shell, which covers only the nucleus and gills.,
C as in Carinatae (n. pl.) A grand division of birds, including all existing flying birds; -- So called from the carina or keel on the breastbone.,
C as in Carinate (a.) Alt. of Carinated,
C as in Carinated (a.) Shaped like the keel or prow of a ship; having a carina or keel; as, a carinate calyx or leaf; a carinate sternum (of a bird).,
C as in Cariole (n.) A small, light, open one-horse carriage,
C as in Cariole (n.) A covered cart,
C as in Cariole (n.) A kind of calash. See Carryall.,
C as in Cariopsis (n.) See Caryopsis.,
C as in Cariosity (n.) Caries.,
C as in Carious (a.) Affected with caries; decaying; as, a carious tooth.,
C as in Cark (n.) A noxious or corroding care; solicitude; worry.,
C as in Cark (v. i.) To be careful, anxious, solicitous, or troubles in mind; to worry or grieve.,
C as in Cark (v. t.) To vex; to worry; to make by anxious care or worry.,
C as in Carkanet (n.) A carcanet.,
C as in Carking (a.) Distressing; worrying; perplexing; corroding; as, carking cares.,
C as in Carl (n.) A rude, rustic man; a churl.,
C as in Carl (n.) Large stalks of hemp which bear the seed; -- called also carl hemp.,
C as in Carl (n.) A kind of food. See citation, below.,
C as in Carlin (n.) An old woman.,
C as in Carline (n.) Alt. of Caroline,
C as in Caroline (n.) A silver coin once current in some parts of Italy, worth about seven cents.,
C as in Carline (n.) Alt. of Carling,
C as in Carling (n.) A short timber running lengthwise of a ship, from one transverse desk beam to another; also, one of the cross timbers that strengthen a hath; -- usually in pl.,
C as in Carline thistle () A prickly plant of the genus Carlina (C. vulgaris), found in Europe and Asia.,
C as in Carlings (n. pl.) Same as Carl, 3.,
C as in Carlist (n.) A partisan of Charles X. of France, or of Don Carlos of Spain.,
C as in Carlock (n.) A sort of Russian isinglass, made from the air bladder of the sturgeon, and used in clarifying wine.,
C as in Carlot (n.) A churl; a boor; a peasant or countryman.,
C as in Carlovingian (a.) Pertaining to, founded by, of descended from, Charlemagne; as, the Carlovingian race of kings.,
C as in Carmagnole (n.) A popular or Red Rebublican song and dance, of the time of the first French Revolution.,
C as in Carmagnole (n.) A bombastic report from the French armies.,
C as in Carman (n.) A man whose employment is to drive, or to convey goods in, a car or car.,
C as in Carmelite (a.) Alt. of Carmelin,
C as in Carmelin (a.) Of or pertaining to the order of Carmelites.,
C as in Carmelite (n.) A friar of a mendicant order (the Order of Our Lady of Mount Carmel) established on Mount Carmel, in Syria, in the twelfth century; a White Friar.,
C as in Carmelite (n.) A nun of the Order of Our lady of Mount Carmel.,
C as in Carminated (a.) Of, relating to, or mixed with, carmine; as, carminated lake.,
C as in Carminative (a.) Expelling wind from the body; warming; antispasmodic.,
C as in Carminative (n.) A substance, esp. an aromatic, which tends to expel wind from the alimentary canal, or to relieve colic, griping, or flatulence.,
C as in Carmine (n.) A rich red or crimson color with a shade of purple.,
C as in Carmine (n.) A beautiful pigment, or a lake, of this color, prepared from cochineal, and used in miniature painting.,
C as in Carmine (n.) The essential coloring principle of cochineal, extracted as a purple-red amorphous mass. It is a glucoside and possesses acid properties; -- hence called also carminic acid.,
C as in Carminic (a.) Of or pertaining to, or derived from, carmine.,
C as in Carmot (n.) The matter of which the philosopher's stone was believed to be composed.,
C as in Carnage (n.) Flesh of slain animals or men.,
C as in Carnage (n.) Great destruction of life, as in battle; bloodshed; slaughter; massacre; murder; havoc.,
C as in Carnal (a.) Of or pertaining to the body or its appetites; animal; fleshly; sensual; given to sensual indulgence; lustful; human or worldly as opposed to spiritual.,
C as in Carnal (a.) Flesh-devouring; cruel; ravenous; bloody.,
C as in Carnalism (n.) The state of being carnal; carnality; sensualism.,
C as in Carnalist (n.) A sensualist.,
C as in Carnality (n.) The state of being carnal; fleshly lust, or the indulgence of lust; grossness of mind.,
C as in Carnalized (imp. & p. p.) of Carnalize,
C as in Carnalizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Carnalize,
C as in Carnalize (v. t.) To make carnal; to debase to carnality.,
C as in Carnallite (n.) A hydrous chloride of potassium and magnesium, sometimes found associated with deposits of rock salt.,
C as in Carnally (adv.) According to the flesh, to the world, or to human nature; in a manner to gratify animal appetites and lusts; sensually.,
C as in Carnal-minded (a.) Worldly-minded.,
C as in Carnal-mindedness (n.) Grossness of mind.,
C as in Carnary (n.) A vault or crypt in connection with a church, used as a repository for human bones disintered from their original burial places; a charnel house.,
C as in Carnassial (a.) Adapted to eating flesh.,
C as in Carnassial (n.) A carnassial tooth; especially, the last premolar in many carnivores.,
C as in Carnate (a.) Invested with, or embodied in, flesh.,
C as in Carnation (n.) The natural color of flesh; rosy pink.,
C as in Carnation (n.) Those parts of a picture in which the human body or any part of it is represented in full color; the flesh tints.,
C as in Carnation (n.) A species of Dianthus (D. Caryophyllus) or pink, having very beautiful flowers of various colors, esp. white and usually a rich, spicy scent.,
C as in Carnationed (a.) Having a flesh color.,
C as in Carnauba (n.) The Brazilian wax palm. See Wax palm.,
C as in Carnelian (n.) A variety of chalcedony, of a clear, deep red, flesh red, or reddish white color. It is moderately hard, capable of a good polish, and often used for seals.,
C as in Carneous (a.) Consisting of, or like, flesh; carnous; fleshy.,
C as in Carney (n.) A disease of horses, in which the mouth is so furred that the afflicted animal can not eat.,
C as in Carnifex (n.) The public executioner at Rome, who executed persons of the lowest rank; hence, an executioner or hangman.,
C as in Carnification (n.) The act or process of turning to flesh, or to a substance resembling flesh.,
C as in Carnify (v. i.) To form flesh; to become like flesh.,
C as in Carnin (n.) A white crystalline nitrogenous substance, found in extract of meat, and related to xanthin.,
C as in Carnival (n.) A festival celebrated with merriment and revelry in Roman Gatholic countries during the week before Lent, esp. at Rome and Naples, during a few days (three to ten) before Lent, ending with Shrove Tuesday.,
C as in Carnival (n.) Any merrymaking, feasting, or masquerading, especially when overstepping the bounds of decorum; a time of riotous excess.,
C as in Carnivora (n. pl.) An order of Mammallia including the lion, tiger, wolf bear, seal, etc. They are adapted by their structure to feed upon flesh, though some of them, as the bears, also eat vegetable food. The teeth are large and sharp, suitable for cutting flesh, and the jaws powerful.,
C as in Carnivoracity (n.) Greediness of appetite for flesh.,
C as in Carnivore (n.) One of the Carnivora.,
C as in Carnivorous (a.) Eating or feeding on flesh. The term is applied: (a) to animals which naturally seek flesh for food, as the tiger, dog, etc.; (b) to plants which are supposed to absorb animal food; (c) to substances which destroy animal tissue, as caustics.,
C as in Carnose (a.) Alt. of Carnous,
C as in Carnous (a.) Of or pertaining to flesh; fleshy.,
C as in Carnous (a.) Of a fleshy consistence; -- applied to succulent leaves, stems, etc.,
C as in Carnosity (n.) A fleshy excrescence; esp. a small excrescence or fungous growth.,
C as in Carnosity (n.) Fleshy substance or quality; fleshy covering.,
C as in Carob (n.) An evergreen leguminous tree (Ceratania Siliqua) found in the countries bordering the Mediterranean; the St. John's bread; -- called also carob tree.,
C as in Carob (n.) One of the long, sweet, succulent, pods of the carob tree, which are used as food for animals and sometimes eaten by man; -- called also St. John's bread, carob bean, and algaroba bean.,
C as in Caroche (n.) A kind of pleasure carriage; a coach.,
C as in Caroched (a.) Placed in a caroche.,
C as in Caroigne (n.) Dead body; carrion.,
C as in Carol (n.) A round dance.,
C as in Carol (n.) A song of joy, exultation, or mirth; a lay.,
C as in Carol (n.) A song of praise of devotion; as, a Christmas or Easter carol.,
C as in Carol (n.) Joyful music, as of a song.,
C as in Caroled (imp. & p. p.) of Carol,
C as in Carolled () of Carol,
C as in Caroling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Carol,
C as in Carolling () of Carol,
C as in Carol (v. t.) To praise or celebrate in song.,
C as in Carol (v. t.) To sing, especially with joyful notes.,
C as in Carol (v. i.) To sing; esp. to sing joyfully; to warble.,
C as in Carol (n.) Alt. of Carrol,
C as in Carrol (n.) A small closet or inclosure built against a window on the inner side, to sit in for study. The word was used as late as the 16th century.,
C as in Carolin (n.) A former gold coin of Germany worth nearly five dollars; also, a gold coin of Sweden worth nearly five dollars.,
C as in Carolina pink () See Pinkboot.,
C as in Caroline (n.) A coin. See Carline.,
C as in Caroling (n.) A song of joy or devotion; a singing, as of carols.,
C as in Carolinian (n.) A native or inhabitant of north or South Carolina.,
C as in Carolitic (a.) Adorned with sculptured leaves and branches.,
C as in Caroluses (pl. ) of Carolus,
C as in Caroli (pl. ) of Carolus,
C as in Carolus (n.) An English gold coin of the value of twenty or twenty-three shillings. It was first struck in the reign of Charles I.,
C as in Carom (n.) A shot in which the ball struck with the cue comes in contact with two or more balls on the table; a hitting of two or more balls with the player's ball. In England it is called cannon.,
C as in Carom (v. i.) To make a carom.,
C as in Caromel (n.) See Caramel.,
C as in Caroteel (n.) A tierce or cask for dried fruits, etc., usually about 700 lbs.,
C as in Carotic (a.) Of or pertaining to stupor; as, a carotic state.,
C as in Carotic (a.) Carotid; as, the carotic arteries.,
C as in Carotid (n.) One of the two main arteries of the neck, by which blood is conveyed from the aorta to the head. [See Illust. of Aorta.],
C as in Carotid (a.) Alt. of Carotidal,
C as in Carotidal (a.) Pertaining to, or near, the carotids or one of them; as, the carotid gland.,
C as in Carotin (n.) A red crystallizable tasteless substance, extracted from the carrot.,
C as in Carousal (n.) A jovial feast or festival; a drunken revel; a carouse.,
C as in Carouse (n.) A large draught of liquor.,
C as in Carouse (n.) A drinking match; a carousal.,
C as in Caroused (imp. & p. p.) of Carouse,
C as in Carousing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Carouse,
C as in Carouse (v. i.) To drink deeply or freely in compliment; to take part in a carousal; to engage in drunken revels.,
C as in Carouse (v. t.) To drink up; to drain; to drink freely or jovially.,
C as in Carouser (n.) One who carouses; a reveler.,
C as in Carousing (a.) That carouses; relating to a carouse.,
C as in Carousingly (adv.) In the manner of a carouser.,
C as in Carped (imp. & p. p.) of Carp,
C as in Carping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Carp,
C as in Carp (v. i.) To talk; to speak; to prattle.,
C as in Carp (v. i.) To find fault; to cavil; to censure words or actions without reason or ill-naturedly; -- usually followed by at.,
C as in Carp (v. t.) To say; to tell.,
C as in Carp (v. t.) To find fault with; to censure.,
C as in Carp (pl. ) of Carp,
C as in Carps (pl. ) of Carp,
C as in Carp (n.) A fresh-water herbivorous fish (Cyprinus carpio.). Several other species of Cyprinus, Catla, and Carassius are called carp. See Cruclan carp.,
C as in Carpal (a.) Of or pertaining to the carpus, or wrist.,
C as in Carpal (n.) One of the bones or cartilages of the carpus; a carpale.,
C as in Carpalia (pl. ) of Carpale,
C as in Carpale (n.) One of the bones or cartilages of the carpus; esp. one of the series articulating with the metacarpals.,
C as in Carpathian (a.) Of or pertaining to a range of mountains in Austro-Hungary, called the Carpathians, which partially inclose Hungary on the north, east, and south.,
C as in Carpel (n.) Alt. of Carpellum,
C as in Carpellum (n.) A simple pistil or single-celled ovary or seed vessel, or one of the parts of a compound pistil, ovary, or seed vessel. See Illust of Carpaphore.,
C as in Carpellary (a.) Belonging to, forming, or containing carpels.,
C as in Carpenter (n.) An artificer who works in timber; a framer and builder of houses, ships, etc.,
C as in Carpentering (n.) The occupation or work of a carpenter; the act of working in timber; carpentry.,
C as in Carpentry (n.) The art of cutting, framing, and joining timber, as in the construction of buildings.,
C as in Carpentry (n.) An assemblage of pieces of timber connected by being framed together, as the pieces of a roof, floor, etc.; work done by a carpenter.,
C as in Carper (n.) One who carps; a caviler.,
C as in Carpet (n.) A heavy woven or felted fabric, usually of wool, but also of cotton, hemp, straw, etc.; esp. a floor covering made in breadths to be sewed together and nailed to the floor, as distinguished from a rug or mat; originally, also, a wrought cover for tables.,
C as in Carpet (n.) A smooth soft covering resembling or suggesting a carpet.,
C as in Carpeted (imp. & p. p.) of Carpet,
C as in Carpeting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Carpet,
C as in Carpet (v. t.) To cover with, or as with, a carpet; to spread with carpets; to furnish with a carpet or carpets.,
C as in Carpetbag (n.) A portable bag for travelers; -- so called because originally made of carpet.,
C as in Carpetbagger (n.) An adventurer; -- a term of contempt for a Northern man seeking private gain or political advancement in the southern part of the United States after the Civil War (1865).,
C as in Carpeting (n.) The act of covering with carpets.,
C as in Carpeting (n.) Cloth or materials for carpets; carpets, in general.,
C as in Carpetless (a.) Without a carpet.,
C as in Carpetmonger (n.) One who deals in carpets; a buyer and seller of carpets.,
C as in Carpetmonger (n.) One fond of pleasure; a gallant.,
C as in Carpetway (n.) A border of greensward left round the margin of a plowed field.,
C as in Carphology (n.) See Floccillation.,
C as in Carping (a.) Fault-finding; censorious caviling. See Captious.,
C as in Carpintero (n.) A california woodpecker (Melanerpes formicivorus), noted for its habit of inserting acorns in holes which it drills in trees. The acorns become infested by insect larvae, which, when grown, are extracted for food by the bird.,
C as in Carpogenic (a.) Productive of fruit, or causing fruit to be developed.,
C as in Carpolite (n.) A general term for a fossil fruit, nut, or seed.,
C as in Carpological (a.) Of or pertaining to carpology.,
C as in Carpologist (n.) One who describes fruits; one versed in carpology.,
C as in Carpology (n.) That branch of botany which relates to the structure of seeds and fruit.,
C as in Carpophagous (a.) Living on fruits; fruit-consuming.,
C as in Carpophore (n.) A slender prolongation of the receptacle as an axis between the carpels, as in Geranium and many umbelliferous plants.,
C as in Carpophyll (n.) A leaf converted into a fruit or a constituent portion of a fruit; a carpel. [See Illust. of Gymnospermous.],
C as in Carpophyte (n.) A flowerless plant which forms a true fruit as the result of fertilization, as the red seaweeds, the Ascomycetes, etc.,
C as in Carpospore (n.) A kind of spore formed in the conceptacles of red algae.,
C as in Carpi (pl. ) of Carpus,
C as in Carpus (n.) The wrist; the bones or cartilages between the forearm, or antibrachium, and the hand or forefoot; in man, consisting of eight short bones disposed in two rows.,
C as in Carrack (n.) See Carack.,
C as in Carrageen (n.) Alt. of Carrigeen,
C as in Carrigeen (n.) A small, purplish, branching, cartilaginous seaweed (Chondrus crispus), which, when bleached, is the Irish moss of commerce.,
C as in Carrancha (n.) The Brazilian kite (Polyborus Brasiliensis); -- so called in imitation of its notes.,
C as in Carraway (n.) See Caraway.,
C as in Carrel (n.) See Quarrel, an arrow.,
C as in Carrel (n.) Same as 4th Carol.,
C as in Carriable (a.) Capable of being carried.,
C as in Carriage (n.) That which is carried; burden; baggage.,
C as in Carriage (n.) The act of carrying, transporting, or conveying.,
C as in Carriage (n.) The price or expense of carrying.,
C as in Carriage (n.) That which carries of conveys,,
C as in Carriage (n.) A wheeled vehicle for persons, esp. one designed for elegance and comfort.,
C as in Carriage (n.) A wheeled vehicle carrying a fixed burden, as a gun carriage.,
C as in Carriage (n.) A part of a machine which moves and carries of supports some other moving object or part.,
C as in Carriage (n.) A frame or cage in which something is carried or supported; as, a bell carriage.,
C as in Carriage (n.) The manner of carrying one's self; behavior; bearing; deportment; personal manners.,
C as in Carriage (n.) The act or manner of conducting measures or projects; management.,
C as in Carriageable (a.) Passable by carriages; that can be conveyed in carriages.,
C as in Carriboo (n.) See Caribou.,
C as in Carrick (n.) A carack. See Carack.,
C as in Carrier (n.) One who, or that which, carries or conveys; a messenger.,
C as in Carrier (n.) One who is employed, or makes it his business, to carry goods for others for hire; a porter; a teamster.,
C as in Carrier (n.) That which drives or carries; as: (a) A piece which communicates to an object in a lathe the motion of the face plate; a lathe dog. (b) A spool holder or bobbin holder in a braiding machine. (c) A movable piece in magazine guns which transfers the cartridge to a position from which it can be thrust into the barrel.,
C as in Carrion (n.) The dead and putrefying body or flesh of an animal; flesh so corrupted as to be unfit for food.,
C as in Carrion (n.) A contemptible or worthless person; -- a term of reproach.,
C as in Carrion (a.) Of or pertaining to dead and putrefying carcasses; feeding on carrion.,
C as in Carrol (n.) See 4th Carol.,
C as in Carrom (n.) See Carom.,
C as in Carronade (n.) A kind of short cannon, formerly in use, designed to throw a large projectile with small velocity, used for the purpose of breaking or smashing in, rather than piercing, the object aimed at, as the side of a ship. It has no trunnions, but is supported on its carriage by a bolt passing through a loop on its under side.,
C as in Carron oil () A lotion of linseed oil and lime water, used as an application to burns and scalds; -- first used at the Carron iron works in Scotland.,
C as in Carrot (n.) An umbelliferous biennial plant (Daucus Carota), of many varieties.,
C as in Carrot (n.) The esculent root of cultivated varieties of the plant, usually spindle-shaped, and of a reddish yellow color.,
C as in Carroty (a.) Like a carrot in color or in taste; -- an epithet given to reddish yellow hair, etc.,
C as in Carrow (n.) A strolling gamester.,
C as in Carried (imp. & p. p.) of Carry,
C as in Carrying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Carry,
C as in Carry (v. t.) To convey or transport in any manner from one place to another; to bear; -- often with away or off.,
C as in Carry (v. t.) To have or hold as a burden, while moving from place to place; to have upon or about one's person; to bear; as, to carry a wound; to carry an unborn child.,
C as in Carry (v. t.) To move; to convey by force; to impel; to conduct; to lead or guide.,
C as in Carry (v. t.) To transfer from one place (as a country, book, or column) to another; as, to carry the war from Greece into Asia; to carry an account to the ledger; to carry a number in adding figures.,
C as in Carry (v. t.) To convey by extension or continuance; to extend; as, to carry the chimney through the roof; to carry a road ten miles farther.,
C as in Carry (v. t.) To bear or uphold successfully through conflict, as a leader or principle; hence, to succeed in, as in a contest; to bring to a successful issue; to win; as, to carry an election.,
C as in Carry (v. t.) To get possession of by force; to capture.,
C as in Carry (v. t.) To contain; to comprise; to bear the aspect of ; to show or exhibit; to imply.,
C as in Carry (v. t.) To bear (one's self); to behave, to conduct or demean; -- with the reflexive pronouns.,
C as in Carry (v. t.) To bear the charges or burden of holding or having, as stocks, merchandise, etc., from one time to another; as, a merchant is carrying a large stock; a farm carries a mortgage; a broker carries stock for a customer; to carry a life insurance.,
C as in Carry (v. i.) To act as a bearer; to convey anything; as, to fetch and carry.,
C as in Carry (v. i.) To have propulsive power; to propel; as, a gun or mortar carries well.,
C as in Carry (v. i.) To hold the head; -- said of a horse; as, to carry well i. e., to hold the head high, with arching neck.,
C as in Carry (v. i.) To have earth or frost stick to the feet when running, as a hare.,
C as in Carries (pl. ) of Carry,
C as in Carry (n.) A tract of land, over which boats or goods are carried between two bodies of navigable water; a carrying place; a portage.,
C as in Carryall (n.) A light covered carriage, having four wheels and seats for four or more persons, usually drawn by one horse.,
C as in Carrying (n.) The act or business of transporting from one place to another.,
C as in Carryk (n.) A carack.,
C as in Carrytale (n.) A talebearer.,
C as in Carse (n.) Low, fertile land; a river valley.,
C as in Cart (n.) A common name for various kinds of vehicles, as a Scythian dwelling on wheels, or a chariot.,
C as in Cart (n.) A two-wheeled vehicle for the ordinary purposes of husbandry, or for transporting bulky and heavy articles.,
C as in Cart (n.) A light business wagon used by bakers, grocerymen, butchers, etc.,
C as in Cart (n.) An open two-wheeled pleasure carriage.,
C as in Carted (imp. & p. p.) of Cart,
C as in Carting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cart,
C as in Cart (v. t.) To carry or convey in a cart.,
C as in Cart (v. t.) To expose in a cart by way of punishment.,
C as in Cart (v. i.) To carry burdens in a cart; to follow the business of a carter.,
C as in Cartage (n.) The act of carrying in a cart.,
C as in Cartage (n.) The price paid for carting.,
C as in Cartbote (n.) Wood to which a tenant is entitled for making and repairing carts and other instruments of husbandry.,
C as in Carte (n.) Bill of fare.,
C as in Carte (n.) Short for Carte de visite.,
C as in Carte (n.) Alt. of Quarte,
C as in Quarte (n.) A position in thrusting or parrying, with the inside of the hand turned upward and the point of the weapon toward the adversary's right breast.,
C as in Carte blanche () A blank paper, with a person's signature, etc., at the bottom, given to another person, with permission to superscribe what conditions he pleases. Hence: Unconditional terms; unlimited authority.,
C as in Cartes de visite (pl. ) of Carte de visite,
C as in Carte de visite () A visiting card.,
C as in Carte de visite () A photographic picture of the size formerly in use for a visiting card.,
C as in Cartel (n.) An agreement between belligerents for the exchange of prisoners.,
C as in Cartel (n.) A letter of defiance or challenge; a challenge to single combat.,
C as in Cartel (v. t.) To defy or challenge.,
C as in Carter (n.) A charioteer.,
C as in Carter (n.) A man who drives a cart; a teamster.,
C as in Carter (n.) Any species of Phalangium; -- also called harvestman,
C as in Carter (n.) A British fish; the whiff.,
C as in Cartesian (a.) Of or pertaining to the French philosopher Rene Descartes, or his philosophy.,
C as in Cartesian (n.) An adherent of Descartes.,
C as in Cartesianism (n.) The philosophy of Descartes.,
C as in Carthaginian (a.) Of a pertaining to ancient Carthage, a city of northern Africa.,
C as in Carthaginian (n.) A native or inhabitant of Carthage.,
C as in Carthamin (n.) A red coloring matter obtained from the safflower, or Carthamus tinctorius.,
C as in Carthusian (n.) A member of an exceeding austere religious order, founded at Chartreuse in France by St. Bruno, in the year 1086.,
C as in Carthusian (a.) Pertaining to the Carthusian.,
C as in Cartilage (n.) A translucent, elastic tissue; gristle.,
C as in Cartilagineous (a.) See Cartilaginous.,
C as in Cartilaginification (n.) The act or process of forming cartilage.,
C as in Cartilaginous (a.) Of or pertaining to cartilage; gristly; firm and tough like cartilage.,
C as in Cartilaginous (a.) Having the skeleton in the state of cartilage, the bones containing little or no calcareous matter; said of certain fishes, as the sturgeon and the sharks.,
C as in Cartman (n.) One who drives or uses a cart; a teamster; a carter.,
C as in Cartographer (n.) One who makes charts or maps.,
C as in Cartographic (a.) Alt. of Cartographical,
C as in Cartographical (a.) Of or pertaining to cartography.,
C as in Cartographically (adv.) By cartography.,
C as in Cartography (n.) The art or business of forming charts or maps.,
C as in Cartomancy (n.) The art of telling fortunes with cards.,
C as in Carton (n.) Pasteboard for paper boxes; also, a pasteboard box.,
C as in Cartoon (n.) A design or study drawn of the full size, to serve as a model for transferring or copying; -- used in the making of mosaics, tapestries, fresco pantings and the like; as, the cartoons of Raphael.,
C as in Cartoon (n.) A large pictorial sketch, as in a journal or magazine; esp. a pictorial caricature; as, the cartoons of "Puck.",
C as in Cartoonist (n.) One skilled in drawing cartoons.,
C as in Cartouches (pl. ) of Cartouch,
C as in Cartouch (n.) A roll or case of paper, etc., holding a charge for a firearm; a cartridge,
C as in Cartouch (n.) A cartridge box.,
C as in Cartouch (n.) A wooden case filled with balls, to be shot from a cannon.,
C as in Cartouch (n.) A gunner's bag for ammunition,
C as in Cartouch (n.) A military pass for a soldier on furlough.,
C as in Cartouch (n.) A cantalever, console, corbel, or modillion, which has the form of a scroll of paper,
C as in Cartouch (n.) A tablet for ornament, or for receiving an inscription, formed like a sheet of paper with the edges rolled up; hence, any tablet of ornamental form.,
C as in Cartouch (n.) An oval figure on monuments, and in papyri, containing the name of a sovereign.,
C as in Cartridge (n.) A complete charge for a firearm, contained in, or held together by, a case, capsule, or shell of metal, pasteboard, or other material.,
C as in Cartularies (pl. ) of Cartulary,
C as in Cartulary (n.) A register, or record, as of a monastery or church.,
C as in Cartulary (n.) An ecclesiastical officer who had charge of records or other public papers.,
C as in Cartway (n.) A way or road for carts.,
C as in Cartwright (n.) An artificer who makes carts; a cart maker.,
C as in Carucage (n.) A tax on every plow or plowland.,
C as in Carucage (n.) The act of plowing.,
C as in Carucate (n.) A plowland; as much land as one team can plow in a year and a day; -- by some said to be about 100 acres.,
C as in Caruncle (n.) Alt. of Caruncula,
C as in Caruncula (n.) A small fleshy prominence or excrescence; especially the small, reddish body, the caruncula lacrymalis, in the inner angle of the eye.,
C as in Caruncula (n.) An excrescence or appendage surrounding or near the hilum of a seed.,
C as in Caruncula (n.) A naked, flesh appendage, on the head of a bird, as the wattles of a turkey, etc.,
C as in Caruncular (a.) Alt. of Carunculous,
C as in Carunculous (a.) Of, pertaining to, or like, a caruncle; furnished with caruncles.,
C as in Carunculate (a.) Alt. of Carunculated,
C as in Carunculated (a.) Having a caruncle or caruncles; caruncular.,
C as in Carus (n.) Coma with complete insensibility; deep lethargy.,
C as in Carvacrol (n.) A thick oily liquid, C10H13.OH, of a strong taste and disagreeable odor, obtained from oil of caraway (Carum carui).,
C as in Carved (imp. & p. p.) of Carve,
C as in Carving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Carve,
C as in Carve (v. t.) To cut.,
C as in Carve (v. t.) To cut, as wood, stone, or other material, in an artistic or decorative manner; to sculpture; to engrave.,
C as in Carve (v. t.) To make or shape by cutting, sculpturing, or engraving; to form; as, to carve a name on a tree.,
C as in Carve (v. t.) To cut into small pieces or slices, as meat at table; to divide for distribution or apportionment; to apportion.,
C as in Carve (v. t.) To cut: to hew; to mark as if by cutting.,
C as in Carve (v. t.) To take or make, as by cutting; to provide.,
C as in Carve (v. t.) To lay out; to contrive; to design; to plan.,
C as in Carve (v. i.) To exercise the trade of a sculptor or carver; to engrave or cut figures.,
C as in Carve (v. i.) To cut up meat; as, to carve for all the guests.,
C as in Carve (n.) A carucate.,
C as in Carvel (n.) Same as Caravel.,
C as in Carvel (n.) A species of jellyfish; sea blubber.,
C as in Carvelbuilt (a.) Having the planks meet flush at the seams, instead of lapping as in a clinker-built vessel.,
C as in Carven (a.) Wrought by carving; ornamented by carvings; carved.,
C as in Carvene (n.) An oily substance, C10H16, extracted from oil caraway.,
C as in Carver (n.) One who carves; one who shapes or fashions by carving, or as by carving; esp. one who carves decorative forms, architectural adornments, etc.,
C as in Carver (n.) One who carves or divides meat at table.,
C as in Carver (n.) A large knife for carving.,
C as in Carving (n.) The act or art of one who carves.,
C as in Carving (n.) A piece of decorative work cut in stone, wood, or other material.,
C as in Carving (n.) The whole body of decorative sculpture of any kind or epoch, or in any material; as, the Italian carving of the 15th century.,
C as in Carvist (n.) A hawk which is of proper age and training to be carried on the hand; a hawk in its first year.,
C as in Carvol (n.) One of a species of aromatic oils, resembling carvacrol.,
C as in Car wheel () A flanged wheel of a railway car or truck.,
C as in Caryatic (a.) Alt. of Caryatid,
C as in Caryatid (a.) Of or pertaining to a caryatid.,
C as in Caryatids (pl. ) of Caryatid,
C as in Caryatid (n.) A draped female figure supporting an entablature, in the place of a column or pilaster.,
C as in Caryatides (n. pl.) Caryatids.,
C as in Caryophyllaceous (a.) Having corollas of five petals with long claws inclosed in a tubular, calyx, as the pink,
C as in Caryophyllaceous (a.) Belonging to the family of which the pink and the carnation are the types.,
C as in Caryophyllin (n.) A tasteless and odorless crystalline substance, extracted from cloves, polymeric with common camphor.,
C as in Caryophyllous (a.) Caryophyllaceous.,
C as in Caryopses (pl. ) of Caryopsis,
C as in Caryopsis (n.) A one-celled, dry, indehiscent fruit, with a thin membranous pericarp, adhering closely to the seed, so that fruit and seed are incorporated in one body, forming a single grain, as of wheat, barley, etc.,
C as in Casal (a.) Of or pertaining to case; as, a casal ending.,
C as in Cascabel (n.) The projection in rear of the breech of a cannon, usually a knob or breeching loop connected with the gun by a neck. In old writers it included all in rear of the base ring. [See Illust. of Cannon.],
C as in Cascade (n.) A fall of water over a precipice, as in a river or brook; a waterfall less than a cataract.,
C as in Cascade (v. i.) To fall in a cascade.,
C as in Cascade (v. i.) To vomit.,
C as in Cascalho (n.) A deposit of pebbles, gravel, and ferruginous sand, in which the Brazilian diamond is usually found.,
C as in Cascara sagrada () Holy bark; the bark of the California buckthorn (Rhamnus Purshianus), used as a mild cathartic or laxative.,
C as in Cascarilla (n.) A euphorbiaceous West Indian shrub (Croton Eleutheria); also, its aromatic bark.,
C as in Cascarillin (n.) A white, crystallizable, bitter substance extracted from oil of cascarilla.,
C as in Case (n.) A box, sheath, or covering; as, a case for holding goods; a case for spectacles; the case of a watch; the case (capsule) of a cartridge; a case (cover) for a book.,
C as in Case (n.) A box and its contents; the quantity contained in a box; as, a case of goods; a case of instruments.,
C as in Case (n.) A shallow tray divided into compartments or "boxes" for holding type.,
C as in Case (n.) An inclosing frame; a casing; as, a door case; a window case.,
C as in Case (n.) A small fissure which admits water to the workings.,
C as in Cased (imp. & p. p.) of Case,
C as in Casing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Case,
C as in Case (v. t.) To cover or protect with, or as with, a case; to inclose.,
C as in Case (v. t.) To strip the skin from; as, to case a box.,
C as in Case (n.) Chance; accident; hap; opportunity.,
C as in Case (n.) That which befalls, comes, or happens; an event; an instance; a circumstance, or all the circumstances; condition; state of things; affair; as, a strange case; a case of injustice; the case of the Indian tribes.,
C as in Case (n.) A patient under treatment; an instance of sickness or injury; as, ten cases of fever; also, the history of a disease or injury.,
C as in Case (n.) The matters of fact or conditions involved in a suit, as distinguished from the questions of law; a suit or action at law; a cause.,
C as in Case (n.) One of the forms, or the inflections or changes of form, of a noun, pronoun, or adjective, which indicate its relation to other words, and in the aggregate constitute its declension; the relation which a noun or pronoun sustains to some other word.,
C as in Case (v. i.) To propose hypothetical cases.,
C as in Caseation (n.) A degeneration of animal tissue into a cheesy or curdy mass.,
C as in Case-bay (n.) The space between two principals or girders,
C as in Case-bay (n.) One of the joists framed between a pair of girders in naked flooring.,
C as in Caseharden (v. t.) To subject to a process which converts the surface of iron into steel.,
C as in Caseharden (v. t.) To render insensible to good influences.,
C as in Casehardened (a.) Having the surface hardened, as iron tools.,
C as in Casehardened (a.) Hardened against, or insusceptible to, good influences; rendered callous by persistence in wrongdoing or resistance of good influences; -- said of persons.,
C as in Casehardening (n.) The act or process of converting the surface of iron into steel.,
C as in Caseic (a.) Of or pertaining to cheese; as, caseic acid.,
C as in Casein (n.) A proteid substance present in both the animal and the vegetable kingdom. In the animal kingdom it is chiefly found in milk, and constitutes the main part of the curd separated by rennet; in the vegetable kingdom it is found more or less abundantly in the seeds of leguminous plants. Its reactions resemble those of alkali albumin.,
C as in Case knife () A knife carried in a sheath or case.,
C as in Case knife () A large table knife; -- so called from being formerly kept in a case.,
C as in Casemate (n.) A bombproof chamber, usually of masonry, in which cannon may be placed, to be fired through embrasures; or one capable of being used as a magazine, or for quartering troops.,
C as in Casemate (n.) A hollow molding, chiefly in cornices.,
C as in Casemated (a.) Furnished with, protected by, or built like, a casemate.,
C as in Casement (n.) A window sash opening on hinges affixed to the upright side of the frame into which it is fitted. (Poetically) A window.,
C as in Casemented (a.) Having a casement or casements.,
C as in Caseous (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, cheese; having the qualities of cheese; cheesy.,
C as in Casern (n.) A lodging for soldiers in garrison towns, usually near the rampart; barracks.,
C as in Case shot () A collection of small projectiles, inclosed in a case or canister.,
C as in Caseum (n.) Same as Casein.,
C as in Caseworm (n.) A worm or grub that makes for itself a case. See Caddice.,
C as in Cash (n.) A place where money is kept, or where it is deposited and paid out; a money box.,
C as in Cash (n.) Ready money; especially, coin or specie; but also applied to bank notes, drafts, bonds, or any paper easily convertible into money,
C as in Cash (n.) Immediate or prompt payment in current funds; as, to sell goods for cash; to make a reduction in price for cash.,
C as in Cashed (imp. & p. p.) of Cash,
C as in Casing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cash,
C as in Cash (v. t.) To pay, or to receive, cash for; to exchange for money; as, cash a note or an order.,
C as in Cash (v. t.) To disband.,
C as in Cash (n.sing & pl.) A Chinese coin.,
C as in Cashbook (n.) A book in which is kept a register of money received or paid out.,
C as in Cashew (n.) A tree (Anacardium occidentale) of the same family which the sumac. It is native in tropical America, but is now naturalized in all tropical countries. Its fruit, a kidney-shaped nut, grows at the extremity of an edible, pear-shaped hypocarp, about three inches long.,
C as in Cashier (n.) One who has charge of money; a cash keeper; the officer who has charge of the payments and receipts (moneys, checks, notes), of a bank or a mercantile company.,
C as in Cahiered (imp. & p. p.) of Cashier,
C as in Cashiering (p. pr. &vb. n.) of Cashier,
C as in Cashier (v. t.) To dismiss or discard; to discharge; to dismiss with ignominy from military service or from an office or place of trust.,
C as in Cashier (v. t.) To put away or reject; to disregard.,
C as in Cashierer (n.) One who rejects, discards, or dismisses; as, a cashierer of monarchs.,
C as in Cashmere (n.) A rich stuff for shawls, scarfs, etc., originally made in Cashmere from the soft wool found beneath the hair of the goats of Cashmere, Thibet, and the Himalayas. Some cashmere, of fine quality, is richly embroidered for sale to Europeans.,
C as in Cashmere (n.) A dress fabric made of fine wool, or of fine wool and cotton, in imitation of the original cashmere.,
C as in Cashmerette (n.) A kind of dress goods, made with a soft and glossy surface like cashmere.,
C as in Cashoo (n.) See Catechu.,
C as in Casing (n.) The act or process of inclosing in, or covering with, a case or thin substance, as plaster, boards, etc.,
C as in Casing (n.) An outside covering, for protection or ornament, or to precent the radiation of heat.,
C as in Casing (n.) An inclosing frame; esp. the framework around a door or a window. See Case, n., 4.,
C as in Casings (n. pl.) Dried dung of cattle used as fuel.,
C as in Casinos (pl. ) of Casino,
C as in Casini (pl. ) of Casino,
C as in Casino (n.) A small country house.,
C as in Casino (n.) A building or room used for meetings, or public amusements, for dancing, gaming, etc.,
C as in Casino (n.) A game at cards. See Cassino.,
C as in Cask (n.) Same as Casque.,
C as in Cask (n.) A barrel-shaped vessel made of staves headings, and hoops, usually fitted together so as to hold liquids. It may be larger or smaller than a barrel.,
C as in Cask (n.) The quantity contained in a cask.,
C as in Cask (n.) A casket; a small box for jewels.,
C as in Cask (v. t.) To put into a cask.,
C as in Casket (n.) A small chest or box, esp. of rich material or ornamental character, as for jewels, etc.,
C as in Casket (n.) A kind of burial case.,
C as in Casket (n.) Anything containing or intended to contain something highly esteemed,
C as in Casket (n.) The body.,
C as in Casket (n.) The tomb.,
C as in Casket (n.) A book of selections.,
C as in Casket (n.) A gasket. See Gasket.,
C as in Casket (v. t.) To put into, or preserve in, a casket.,
C as in Casque (n.) A piece of defensive or ornamental armor (with or without a vizor) for the head and neck; a helmet.,
C as in Cass (v. t.) To render useless or void; to annul; to reject; to send away.,
C as in Cassada (n.) See Cassava.,
C as in Cassareep (n.) A condiment made from the sap of the bitter cassava (Manihot utilissima) deprived of its poisonous qualities, concentrated by boiling, and flavored with aromatics. See Pepper pot.,
C as in Cassate (v. t.) To render void or useless; to vacate or annul.,
C as in Cassation (n.) The act of annulling.,
C as in Cassava (n.) A shrubby euphorbiaceous plant of the genus Manihot, with fleshy rootstocks yielding an edible starch; -- called also manioc.,
C as in Cassava (n.) A nutritious starch obtained from the rootstocks of the cassava plant, used as food and in making tapioca.,
C as in Casse Paper () Broken paper; the outside quires of a ream.,
C as in Casserole (n.) A small round dish with a handle, usually of porcelain.,
C as in Casserole (n.) A mold (in the shape of a hollow vessel or incasement) of boiled rice, mashed potato or paste, baked, and afterwards filled with vegetables or meat.,
C as in Cassia (n.) A genus of leguminous plants (herbs, shrubs, or trees) of many species, most of which have purgative qualities. The leaves of several species furnish the senna used in medicine.,
C as in Cassia (n.) The bark of several species of Cinnamomum grown in China, etc.; Chinese cinnamon. It is imported as cassia, but commonly sold as cinnamon, from which it differs more or less in strength and flavor, and the amount of outer bark attached.,
C as in Cassican (n.) An American bird of the genus Cassicus, allied to the starlings and orioles, remarkable for its skillfully constructed and suspended nest; the crested oriole. The name is also sometimes given to the piping crow, an Australian bird.,
C as in Cassideous (a.) Helmet-shaped; -- applied to a corolla having a broad, helmet-shaped upper petal, as in aconite.,
C as in Cassidony (n.) The French lavender (Lavandula Stoechas),
C as in Cassidony (n.) The goldilocks (Chrysocoma Linosyris) and perhaps other plants related to the genus Gnaphalium or cudweed.,
C as in Cassimere (n.) A thin, twilled, woolen cloth, used for men's garments.,
C as in Cassinette (n.) A cloth with a cotton warp, and a woof of very fine wool, or wool and silk.,
C as in Cassinian ovals () See under Oval.,
C as in Cassino (n.) A game at cards, played by two or more persons, usually for twenty-one points.,
C as in Cassioberry (n.) The fruit of the Viburnum obovatum, a shrub which grows from Virginia to Florida.,
C as in Cassiopeia (n.) A constellation of the northern hemisphere, situated between Cepheus and Perseus; -- so called in honor of the wife of Cepheus, a fabulous king of Ethiopia.,
C as in Cassiterite (n.) Native tin dioxide; tin stone; a mineral occurring in tetragonal crystals of reddish brown color, and brilliant adamantine luster; also massive, sometimes in compact forms with concentric fibrous structure resembling wood (wood tin), also in rolled fragments or pebbly (Stream tin). It is the chief source of metallic tin. See Black tin, under Black.,
C as in Cassius (n.) A brownish purple pigment, obtained by the action of some compounds of tin upon certain salts of gold. It is used in painting and staining porcelain and glass to give a beautiful purple color. Commonly called Purple of Cassius.,
C as in Cassock (n.) A long outer garment formerly worn by men and women, as well as by soldiers as part of their uniform.,
C as in Cassock (n.) A garment resembling a long frock coat worn by the clergy of certain churches when officiating, and by others as the usually outer garment.,
C as in Cassocked (a.) Clothed with a cassock.,
C as in Cassolette (n.) a box, or vase, with a perforated cover to emit perfumes.,
C as in Cassonade (n.) Raw sugar; sugar not refined.,
C as in Cassowaries (pl. ) of Cassowary,
C as in Cassowary (n.) A large bird, of the genus Casuarius, found in the east Indies. It is smaller and stouter than the ostrich. Its head is armed with a kind of helmet of horny substance, consisting of plates overlapping each other, and it has a group of long sharp spines on each wing which are used as defensive organs. It is a shy bird, and runs with great rapidity. Other species inhabit New Guinea, Australia, etc.,
C as in Cassumunar (n.) Alt. of Cassumuniar,
C as in Cassumuniar (n.) A pungent, bitter, aromatic, gingerlike root, obtained from the East Indies.,
C as in Cast (imp. & p. p.) of Cast,
C as in Casting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cast,
C as in Cast (v. t.) To send or drive by force; to throw; to fling; to hurl; to impel.,
C as in Cast (v. t.) To direct or turn, as the eyes.,
C as in Cast (v. t.) To drop; to deposit; as, to cast a ballot.,
C as in Cast (v. t.) To throw down, as in wrestling.,
C as in Cast (v. t.) To throw up, as a mound, or rampart.,
C as in Cast (v. t.) To throw off; to eject; to shed; to lose.,
C as in Cast (v. t.) To bring forth prematurely; to slink.,
C as in Cast (v. t.) To throw out or emit; to exhale.,
C as in Cast (v. t.) To cause to fall; to shed; to reflect; to throw; as, to cast a ray upon a screen; to cast light upon a subject.,
C as in Cast (v. t.) To impose; to bestow; to rest.,
C as in Cast (v. t.) To dismiss; to discard; to cashier.,
C as in Cast (v. t.) To compute; to reckon; to calculate; as, to cast a horoscope.,
C as in Cast (v. t.) To contrive; to plan.,
C as in Cast (v. t.) To defeat in a lawsuit; to decide against; to convict; as, to be cast in damages.,
C as in Cast (v. t.) To turn (the balance or scale); to overbalance; hence, to make preponderate; to decide; as, a casting voice.,
C as in Cast (v. t.) To form into a particular shape, by pouring liquid metal or other material into a mold; to fashion; to found; as, to cast bells, stoves, bullets.,
C as in Cast (v. t.) To stereotype or electrotype.,
C as in Cast (v. t.) To fix, distribute, or allot, as the parts of a play among actors; also to assign (an actor) for a part.,
C as in Cast (v. i.) To throw, as a line in angling, esp, with a fly hook.,
C as in Cast (v. i.) To turn the head of a vessel around from the wind in getting under weigh.,
C as in Cast (v. i.) To consider; to turn or revolve in the mind; to plan; as, to cast about for reasons.,
C as in Cast (v. i.) To calculate; to compute.,
C as in Cast (v. i.) To receive form or shape in a mold.,
C as in Cast (v. i.) To warp; to become twisted out of shape.,
C as in Cast (v. i.) To vomit.,
C as in Cast () 3d pres. of Cast, for Casteth.,
C as in Cast (n.) The act of casting or throwing; a throw.,
C as in Cast (n.) The thing thrown.,
C as in Cast (n.) The distance to which a thing is or can be thrown.,
C as in Cast (n.) A throw of dice; hence, a chance or venture.,
C as in Cast (n.) That which is throw out or off, shed, or ejected; as, the skin of an insect, the refuse from a hawk's stomach, the excrement of a earthworm.,
C as in Cast (n.) The act of casting in a mold.,
C as in Cast (n.) An impression or mold, taken from a thing or person; amold; a pattern.,
C as in Cast (n.) That which is formed in a mild; esp. a reproduction or copy, as of a work of art, in bronze or plaster, etc.; a casting.,
C as in Cast (n.) Form; appearence; mien; air; style; as, a peculiar cast of countenance.,
C as in Cast (n.) A tendency to any color; a tinge; a shade.,
C as in Cast (n.) A chance, opportunity, privilege, or advantage; specifically, an opportunity of riding; a lift.,
C as in Cast (n.) The assignment of parts in a play to the actors.,
C as in Cast (n.) A flight or a couple or set of hawks let go at one time from the hand.,
C as in Cast (n.) A stoke, touch, or trick.,
C as in Cast (n.) A motion or turn, as of the eye; direction; look; glance; squint.,
C as in Cast (n.) A tube or funnel for conveying metal into a mold.,
C as in Cast (n.) Four; that is, as many as are thrown into a vessel at once in counting herrings, etc; a warp.,
C as in Cast (n.) Contrivance; plot, design.,
C as in Castalian (a.) Of or pertaining to Castalia, a mythical fountain of inspiration on Mt. Parnassus sacred to the Muses.,
C as in Castanea (n.) A genus of nut-bearing trees or shrubs including the chestnut and chinquapin.,
C as in Castanet (n.) See Castanets.,
C as in Castanets (n. pl.) Two small, concave shells of ivory or hard wood, shaped like spoons, fastened to the thumb, and beaten together with the middle finger; -- used by the Spaniards and Moors as an accompaniment to their dance and guitars.,
C as in Castaway (n.) One who, or that which, is cast away or shipwrecked.,
C as in Castaway (n.) One who is ruined; one who has made moral shipwreck; a reprobate.,
C as in Castaway (a.) Of no value; rejected; useless.,
C as in Caste (n.) One of the hereditary classes into which the Hindoos are divided according to the laws of Brahmanism.,
C as in Caste (n.) A separate and fixed order or class of persons in society who chiefly hold intercourse among themselves.,
C as in Castellan (n.) A governor or warden of a castle.,
C as in Castellanies (pl. ) of Castellany,
C as in Castellany (n.) The lordship of a castle; the extent of land and jurisdiction appertaining to a castle.,
C as in Castellated (a.) Inclosed within a building; as, a fountain or cistern castellated.,
C as in Castellated (a.) Furnished with turrets and battlements, like a castle; built in the style of a castle.,
C as in Castellation (n.) The act of making into a castle.,
C as in Caster (n.) One who casts; as, caster of stones, etc. ; a caster of cannon; a caster of accounts.,
C as in Caster (n.) A vial, cruet, or other small vessel, used to contain condiments at the table; as, a set of casters.,
C as in Caster (n.) A stand to hold a set of cruets.,
C as in Caster (n.) A small wheel on a swivel, on which furniture is supported and moved.,
C as in Castigated (imp. & p. p.) of Castigate,
C as in Castigating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Castigate,
C as in Castigate (v. t.) To punish by stripes; to chastise by blows; to chasten; also, to chastise verbally; to reprove; to criticise severely.,
C as in Castigate (v. t.) To emend; to correct.,
C as in Castigation (n.) Corrective punishment; chastisement; reproof; pungent criticism.,
C as in Castigation (n.) Emendation; correction.,
C as in Castigator (n.) One who castigates or corrects.,
C as in Castigatory (a.) Punitive in order to amendment; corrective.,
C as in Castigatory (n.) An instrument formerly used to punish and correct arrant scolds; -- called also a ducking stool, or trebucket.,
C as in Castile soap () A kind of fine, hard, white or mottled soap, made with olive oil and soda; also, a soap made in imitation of the above-described soap.,
C as in Castilian (n.) An inhabitant or native of Castile, in Spain.,
C as in Castilian (n.) The Spanish language as spoken in Castile.,
C as in Castillan (a.) Of or pertaining to Castile, in Spain.,
C as in Casting (n.) The act of one who casts or throws, as in fishing.,
C as in Casting (n.) The act or process of making casts or impressions, or of shaping metal or plaster in a mold; the act or the process of pouring molten metal into a mold.,
C as in Casting (n.) That which is cast in a mold; esp. the mass of metal so cast; as, a casting in iron; bronze casting.,
C as in Casting (n.) The warping of a board.,
C as in Casting (n.) The act of casting off, or that which is cast off, as skin, feathers, excrement, etc.,
C as in Cast iron () Highly carbonized iron, the direct product of the blast furnace; -- used for making castings, and for conversion into wrought iron and steel. It can not be welded or forged, is brittle, and sometimes very hard. Besides carbon, it contains sulphur, phosphorus, silica, etc.,
C as in Cast-iron (a.) Made of cast iron. Hence, Fig.: like cast iron; hardy; unyielding.,
C as in Castle (n.) A fortified residence, especially that of a prince or nobleman; a fortress.,
C as in Castle (n.) Any strong, imposing, and stately mansion.,
C as in Castle (n.) A small tower, as on a ship, or an elephant's back.,
C as in Castle (n.) A piece, made to represent a castle, used in the game of chess; a rook.,
C as in Castled (imp. & p. p.) of Castle,
C as in Castling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Castle,
C as in Castle (v. i.) To move the castle to the square next to king, and then the king around the castle to the square next beyond it, for the purpose of covering the king.,
C as in Castlebuilder (n.) Fig.: one who builds castles in the air or forms visionary schemes.,
C as in Castled (a.) Having a castle or castles; supporting a castle; as, a castled height or crag.,
C as in Castled (a.) Fortified; turreted; as, castled walls.,
C as in Castle-guard (n.) The guard or defense of a castle.,
C as in Castle-guard (n.) A tax or imposition an a dwelling within a certain distance of a castle, for the purpose of maintaining watch and ward in it; castle-ward.,
C as in Castle-guard (n.) A feudal tenure, obliging the tenant to perform service within the realm, without limitation of time.,
C as in Castlery (n.) The government of a castle.,
C as in Castlet (n.) A small castle.,
C as in Castleward (n.) Same as Castleguard.,
C as in Castling (n.) That which is cast or brought forth prematurely; an abortion.,
C as in Castling (n.) A compound move of the king and castle. See Castle, v. i.,
C as in Cast-off (a.) Cast or laid aside; as, cast-off clothes.,
C as in Castor (n.) A genus of rodents, including the beaver. See Beaver.,
C as in Castor (n.) Castoreum. See Castoreum.,
C as in Castor (n.) A hat, esp. one made of beaver fur; a beaver.,
C as in Castor (n.) A heavy quality of broadcloth for overcoats.,
C as in Castor (n.) See Caster, a small wheel.,
C as in Castor (n.) the northernmost of the two bright stars in the constellation Gemini, the other being Pollux.,
C as in Castor (n.) Alt. of Castorite,
C as in Castorite (n.) A variety of the mineral called petalite, from Elba.,
C as in Castor and Pollux () See Saint Elmo's fire, under Saint.,
C as in Castor bean () The bean or seed of the castor-oil plant (Ricinus communis, or Palma Christi.),
C as in Castoreum (n.) A peculiar bitter orange-brown substance, with strong, penetrating odor, found in two sacs between the anus and external genitals of the beaver; castor; -- used in medicine as an antispasmodic, and by perfumers.,
C as in Castorin (n.) A white crystalline substance obtained from castoreum.,
C as in Castor oil () A mild cathartic oil, expressed or extracted from the seeds of the Ricinus communis, or Palma Christi. When fresh the oil is inodorous and insipid.,
C as in Castrametation (n.) The art or act of encamping; the making or laying out of a camp.,
C as in Castrated (imp. & p. p.) of Castrate,
C as in Castrating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Castrate,
C as in Castrate (v. t.) To deprive of the testicles; to emasculate; to geld; to alter.,
C as in Castrate (v. t.) To cut or take out; esp. to remove anything erroneous, or objectionable from, as the obscene parts of a writing; to expurgate.,
C as in Castration (n.) The act of castrating.,
C as in Castrato (n.) A male person castrated for the purpose of improving his voice for singing; an artificial, or male, soprano.,
C as in Castrel (n.) See Kestrel.,
C as in Castrensial (a.) Belonging to a camp.,
C as in Castrensian (a.) Castrensial.,
C as in Cast steel () See Cast steel, under Steel.,
C as in Casual (a.) Happening or coming to pass without design, and without being foreseen or expected; accidental; fortuitous; coming by chance.,
C as in Casual (a.) Coming without regularity; occasional; incidental; as, casual expenses.,
C as in Casual (n.) One who receives relief for a night in a parish to which he does not belong; a vagrant.,
C as in Casualism (n.) The doctrine that all things exist or are controlled by chance.,
C as in Casualist (n.) One who believes in casualism.,
C as in Casually (adv.) Without design; accidentally; fortuitously; by chance; occasionally.,
C as in Casualness (n.) The quality of being casual.,
C as in Casualties (pl. ) of Casualty,
C as in Casualty (n.) That which comes without design or without being foreseen; contingency.,
C as in Casualty (n.) Any injury of the body from accident; hence, death, or other misfortune, occasioned by an accident; as, an unhappy casualty.,
C as in Casualty (n.) Numerical loss caused by death, wounds, discharge, or desertion.,
C as in Casuarina (n.) A genus of leafless trees or shrubs, with drooping branchlets of a rushlike appearance, mostly natives of Australia. Some of them are large, producing hard and heavy timber of excellent quality, called beefwood from its color.,
C as in Casuist (n.) One who is skilled in, or given to, casuistry.,
C as in Casuist (v. i.) To play the casuist.,
C as in Casuistic (a.) Alt. of Casuistieal,
C as in Casuistieal (a.) Of or pertaining to casuists or casuistry.,
C as in Casuistry (a.) The science or doctrine of dealing with cases of conscience, of resolving questions of right or wrong in conduct, or determining the lawfulness or unlawfulness of what a man may do by rules and principles drawn from the Scriptures, from the laws of society or the church, or from equity and natural reason; the application of general moral rules to particular cases.,
C as in Casuistry (a.) Sophistical, equivocal, or false reasoning or teaching in regard to duties, obligations, and morals.,
C as in Casus (n.) An event; an occurrence; an occasion; a combination of circumstances; a case; an act of God. See the Note under Accident.,
C as in Cat (n.) An animal of various species of the genera Felis and Lynx. The domestic cat is Felis domestica. The European wild cat (Felis catus) is much larger than the domestic cat. In the United States the name wild cat is commonly applied to the bay lynx (Lynx rufus) See Wild cat, and Tiger cat.,
C as in Cat (n.) A strong vessel with a narrow stern, projecting quarters, and deep waist. It is employed in the coal and timber trade.,
C as in Cat (n.) A strong tackle used to draw an anchor up to the cathead of a ship.,
C as in Cat (n.) A double tripod (for holding a plate, etc.), having six feet, of which three rest on the ground, in whatever position in is placed.,
C as in Cat (n.) An old game; (a) The game of tipcat and the implement with which it is played. See Tipcat. (c) A game of ball, called, according to the number of batters, one old cat, two old cat, etc.,
C as in Cat (n.) A cat o' nine tails. See below.,
C as in tted (imp. & p. p.) of Cat,
C as in Catting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cat,
C as in Cat (v. t.) To bring to the cathead; as, to cat an anchor. See Anchor.,
C as in Cata () The Latin and English form of a Greek preposition, used as a prefix to signify down, downward, under, against, contrary or opposed to, wholly, completely; as in cataclysm, catarrh. It sometimes drops the final vowel, as in catoptric; and is sometimes changed to cath, as in cathartic, catholic.,
C as in Catabaptist (n.) One who opposes baptism, especially of infants.,
C as in Catabasion (n.) A vault under altar of a Greek church.,
C as in Catabiotic (a.) See under Force.,
C as in Catacaustic (a.) Relating to, or having the properties of, a caustic curve formed by reflection. See Caustic, a.,
C as in Catacaustic (n.) A caustic curve formed by reflection of light.,
C as in Catachresis (n.) A figure by which one word is wrongly put for another, or by which a word is wrested from its true signification; as, "To take arms against a sea of troubles". Shak. "Her voice was but the shadow of a sound." Young.,
C as in Catachrestic (a.) Alt. of Catachrestical,
C as in Catachrestical (a.) Belonging to, or in the manner of, a catachresis; wrested from its natural sense or form; forced; far-fetched.,
C as in Cataclysm (n.) An extensive overflow or sweeping flood of water; a deluge.,
C as in Cataclysm (n.) Any violent catastrophe, involving sudden and extensive changes of the earth's surface.,
C as in Cataclysmal (a.) Alt. of Cataclysmic,
C as in Cataclysmic (a.) Of or pertaining to a cataclysm.,
C as in Cataclysmist (n.) One who believes that the most important geological phenomena have been produced by cataclysms.,
C as in Catacomb (n.) A cave, grotto, or subterraneous place of large extent used for the burial of the dead; -- commonly in the plural.,
C as in Catacoustic (n.) That part of acoustics which treats of reflected sounds or echoes See Acoustics.,
C as in Catadioptric (a.) Alt. of Catadioptrical,
C as in Catadioptrical (a.) Pertaining to, produced by, or involving, both the reflection and refraction of light; as, a catadioptric light.,
C as in Catadioptrics (n.) The science which treats of catadioptric phenomena, or of the used of catadioptric instruments.,
C as in Catadrome (n.) A race course.,
C as in Catadrome (n.) A machine for raising or lowering heavy weights.,
C as in Catadromous (a.) Having the lowest inferior segment of a pinna nearer the rachis than the lowest superior one; -- said of a mode of branching in ferns, and opposed to anadromous.,
C as in Catadromous (a.) Living in fresh water, and going to the sea to spawn; -- opposed to anadromous, and said of the eel.,
C as in Catafalco (n.) See Catafalque.,
C as in Catafalque (n.) A temporary structure sometimes used in the funeral solemnities of eminent persons, for the public exhibition of the remains, or their conveyance to the place of burial.,
C as in Catagmatic (a.) Having the quality of consolidating broken bones.,
C as in Cataian (n.) A native of Cathay or China; a foreigner; -- formerly a term of reproach.,
C as in Catalan (a.) Of or pertaining to Catalonia.,
C as in Catalan (n.) A native or inhabitant of Catalonia; also, the language of Catalonia.,
C as in Catalectic (a.) Wanting a syllable at the end, or terminating in an imperfect foot; as, a catalectic verse.,
C as in Catalectic (a.) Incomplete; partial; not affecting the whole of a substance.,
C as in Catalepsy (n.) Alt. of Catalepsis,
C as in Catalepsis (n.) A sudden suspension of sensation and volition, the body and limbs preserving the position that may be given them, while the action of the heart and lungs continues.,
C as in Cataleptic (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, catalepsy; affected with catalepsy; as, a cataleptic fit.,
C as in Catallacta (n. pl.) A division of Protozoa, of which Magosphaera is the type. They exist both in a myxopod state, with branched pseudopodia, and in the form of ciliated bodies united in free, spherical colonies.,
C as in Catallactics (n.) The science of exchanges, a branch of political economy.,
C as in Catalog (n. & v.) Catalogue.,
C as in Catalogize (v. t.) To insert in a catalogue; to register; to catalogue.,
C as in Catalogue (n.) A list or enumeration of names, or articles arranged methodically, often in alphabetical order; as, a catalogue of the students of a college, or of books, or of the stars.,
C as in Catalogued (imp. & p. p.) of Catalogue,
C as in Cataloguing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Catalogue,
C as in Catalogue (v. t.) To make a list or catalogue; to insert in a catalogue.,
C as in Cataloguer (n.) A maker of catalogues; esp. one skilled in the making of catalogues.,
C as in Catalpa (n.) A genus of American and East Indian trees, of which the best know species are the Catalpa bignonioides, a large, ornamental North American tree, with spotted white flowers and long cylindrical pods, and the C. speciosa, of the Mississipi valley; -- called also Indian bean.,
C as in Catalyse (pl. ) of Catalysis,
C as in Catalysis (n.) Dissolution; degeneration; decay.,
C as in Catalysis (n.) A process by which reaction occurs in the presence of certain agents which were formerly believed to exert an influence by mere contact. It is now believed that such reactions are attended with the formation of an intermediate compound or compounds, so that by alternate composition and decomposition the agent is apparenty left unchanged; as, the catalysis of making ether from alcohol by means of sulphuric acid; or catalysis in the action of soluble ferments (as diastase, or ptyalin) on starch.,
C as in Catalysis (n.) The catalytic force.,
C as in Catalytic (a.) Relating to, or causing, catalysis.,
C as in Catalytic (n.) An agent employed in catalysis, as platinum black, aluminium chloride, etc.,
C as in Catamaran (n.) A kind of raft or float, consisting of two or more logs or pieces of wood lashed together, and moved by paddles or sail; -- used as a surf boat and for other purposes on the coasts of the East and West Indies and South America. Modified forms are much used in the lumber regions of North America, and at life-saving stations.,
C as in Catamaran (n.) Any vessel with twin hulls, whether propelled by sails or by steam; esp., one of a class of double-hulled pleasure boats remarkable for speed.,
C as in Catamaran (n.) A kind of fire raft or torpedo bat.,
C as in Catamaran (n.) A quarrelsome woman; a scold.,
C as in Catamenia (n. pl.) The monthly courses of women; menstrual discharges; menses.,
C as in Catamenial (a.) Pertaining to the catamenia, or menstrual discharges.,
C as in Catamite (n.) A boy kept for unnatural purposes.,
C as in Catamount (n.) The cougar. Applied also, in some parts of the United States, to the lynx.,
C as in Catanadromous (a.) Ascending and descending fresh streams from and to the sea, as the salmon; anadromous.,
C as in Catapasm (n.) A compound medicinal powder, used by the ancients to sprinkle on ulcers, to absorb perspiration, etc.,
C as in Catapeltic (a.) Of or pertaining to a catapult.,
C as in Catapetalous (a.) Having the petals held together by stamens, which grow to their bases, as in the mallow.,
C as in Cataphonic (a.) Of or relating to cataphonics; catacoustic.,
C as in Cataphonics (n.) That branch of acoustics which treats of reflected sounds; catacoustics.,
C as in Cataphract (n.) Defensive armor used for the whole body and often for the horse, also, esp. the linked mail or scale armor of some eastern nations.,
C as in Cataphract (n.) A horseman covered with a cataphract.,
C as in Cataphract (n.) The armor or plate covering some fishes.,
C as in Cataphracted (a.) Covered with a cataphract, or armor of plates, scales, etc.; or with that which corresponds to this, as horny or bony plates, hard, callous skin, etc.,
C as in Cataphractic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a cataphract.,
C as in Cataphysical (a.) Unnatural; contrary to nature.,
C as in Cataplasm (n.) A soft and moist substance applied externally to some part of the body; a poultice.,
C as in Catapuce (n.) Spurge.,
C as in Catapult (n.) An engine somewhat resembling a massive crossbow, used by the ancient Greeks and Romans for throwing stones, arrows, spears, etc.,
C as in Catapult (n.) A forked stick with elastic band for throwing small stones, etc.,
C as in Cataract (n.) A great fall of water over a precipice; a large waterfall.,
C as in Cataract (n.) An opacity of the crystalline lens, or of its capsule, which prevents the passage of the rays of light and impairs or destroys the sight.,
C as in Cataract (n.) A kind of hydraulic brake for regulating the action of pumping engines and other machines; -- sometimes called dashpot.,
C as in Cataractous (a.) Of the nature of a cataract in the eye; affected with cataract.,
C as in Catarrh (n.) An inflammatory affection of any mucous membrane, in which there are congestion, swelling, and an altertion in the quantity and quality of mucus secreted; as, catarrh of the stomach; catarrh of the bladder.,
C as in Catarrhal (a.) Pertaining to, produced by, or attending, catarrh; of the nature of catarrh.,
C as in Catarrhine (n.) One of the Catarrhina, a division of Quadrumana, including the Old World monkeys and apes which have the nostrils close together and turned downward. See Monkey.,
C as in Catarrhous (a.) Catarrhal.,
C as in Catastaltic (a.) Checking evacuations through astringent or styptic qualities.,
C as in Catastasis (n.) That part of a speech, usually the exordium, in which the orator sets forth the subject matter to be discussed.,
C as in Catastasis (n.) The state, or condition of anything; constitution; habit of body.,
C as in Catasterism (n.) A placing among the stars; a catalogue of stars.,
C as in Catastrophe (n.) An event producing a subversion of the order or system of things; a final event, usually of a calamitous or disastrous nature; hence, sudden calamity; great misfortune.,
C as in Catastrophe (n.) The final event in a romance or a dramatic piece; a denouement, as a death in a tragedy, or a marriage in a comedy.,
C as in Catastrophe (n.) A violent and widely extended change in the surface of the earth, as, an elevation or subsidence of some part of it, effected by internal causes.,
C as in Catastrophic (a.) Of a pertaining to a catastrophe.,
C as in Catastrophism (n.) The doctrine that the geological changes in the earth's crust have been caused by the sudden action of violent physical causes; -- opposed to the doctrine of uniformism.,
C as in Catastrophist (n.) One who holds the theory or catastrophism.,
C as in Catawba (n.) A well known light red variety of American grape.,
C as in Catawba (n.) A light-colored, sprightly American wine from the Catawba grape.,
C as in Catawbas (n. pl.) An Appalachian tribe of Indians which originally inhabited the regions near the Catawba river and the head waters of the Santee.,
C as in Catbird (n.) An American bird (Galeoscoptes Carolinensis), allied to the mocking bird, and like it capable of imitating the notes of other birds, but less perfectly. Its note resembles at times the mewing of a cat.,
C as in Catboat (n.) A small sailboat, with a single mast placed as far forward as possible, carring a sail extended by a gaff and long boom. See Illustration in Appendix.,
C as in Catcall (n.) A sound like the cry of a cat, such as is made in playhouses to express dissatisfaction with a play; also, a small shrill instrument for making such a noise.,
C as in Caught (imp. & p. p.) of Catch,
C as in Catched () of Catch,
C as in Catching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Catch,
C as in Catch (v. t.) To lay hold on; to seize, especially with the hand; to grasp (anything) in motion, with the effect of holding; as, to catch a ball.,
C as in Catch (v. t.) To seize after pursuing; to arrest; as, to catch a thief.,
C as in Catch (v. t.) To take captive, as in a snare or net, or on a hook; as, to catch a bird or fish.,
C as in Catch (v. t.) Hence: To insnare; to entangle.,
C as in Catch (v. t.) To seize with the senses or the mind; to apprehend; as, to catch a melody.,
C as in Catch (v. t.) To communicate to; to fasten upon; as, the fire caught the adjoining building.,
C as in Catch (v. t.) To engage and attach; to please; to charm.,
C as in Catch (v. t.) To get possession of; to attain.,
C as in Catch (v. t.) To take or receive; esp. to take by sympathy, contagion, infection, or exposure; as, to catch the spirit of an occasion; to catch the measles or smallpox; to catch cold; the house caught fire.,
C as in Catch (v. t.) To come upon unexpectedly or by surprise; to find; as, to catch one in the act of stealing.,
C as in Catch (v. t.) To reach in time; to come up with; as, to catch a train.,
C as in Catch (v. i.) To attain possession.,
C as in Catch (v. i.) To be held or impeded by entanglement or a light obstruction; as, a kite catches in a tree; a door catches so as not to open.,
C as in Catch (v. i.) To take hold; as, the bolt does not catch.,
C as in Catch (v. i.) To spread by, or as by, infecting; to communicate.,
C as in Catch (n.) Act of seizing; a grasp.,
C as in Catch (n.) That by which anything is caught or temporarily fastened; as, the catch of a gate.,
C as in Catch (n.) The posture of seizing; a state of preparation to lay hold of, or of watching he opportunity to seize; as, to lie on the catch.,
C as in Catch (n.) That which is caught or taken; profit; gain; especially, the whole quantity caught or taken at one time; as, a good catch of fish.,
C as in Catch (n.) Something desirable to be caught, esp. a husband or wife in matrimony.,
C as in Catch (n.) Passing opportunities seized; snatches.,
C as in Catch (n.) A slight remembrance; a trace.,
C as in Catch (n.) A humorous canon or round, so contrived that the singers catch up each other's words.,
C as in Catchable (a.) Capable of being caught.,
C as in Catch-basin (n.) A cistern or vault at the point where a street gutter discharges into a sewer, to catch bulky matters which would not pass readily through the sewer.,
C as in Catchdrain (n.) A ditch or drain along the side of a hill to catch the surface water; also, a ditch at the side of a canal to catch the surplus water.,
C as in Catcher (n.) One who, or that which, catches.,
C as in Catcher (n.) The player who stands behind the batsman to catch the ball.,
C as in Catchfly (n.) A plant with the joints of the stem, and sometimes other parts, covered with a viscid secretion to which small insects adhere. The species of Silene are examples of the catchfly.,
C as in Catching (a.) Infectious; contagious.,
C as in Catching (a.) Captivating; alluring.,
C as in Catching (n.) The act of seizing or taking hold of.,
C as in Catch-meadow (n.) A meadow irrigated by water from a spring or rivulet on the side of hill.,
C as in Catchment (n.) A surface of ground on which water may be caught and collected into a reservoir.,
C as in Catchpenny (a.) Made or contrived for getting small sums of money from the ignorant or unwary; as, a catchpenny book; a catchpenny show.,
C as in Catchpenny (n.) Some worthless catchpenny thing.,
C as in Catchpoll (n.) A bailiff's assistant.,
C as in Catchup (n.) Alt. of Catsup,
C as in Catsup (n.) A table sauce made from mushrooms, tomatoes, walnuts, etc.,
C as in Catchwater (n.) A ditch or drain for catching water. See Catchdrain.,
C as in Catchweed (n.) See Cleavers.,
C as in Catchweight (adv.) Without any additional weight; without being handicapped; as, to ride catchweight.,
C as in Catchword (n.) Among theatrical performers, the last word of the preceding speaker, which reminds one that he is to speak next; cue.,
C as in Catchword (n.) The first word of any page of a book after the first, inserted at the right hand bottom corner of the preceding page for the assistance of the reader. It is seldom used in modern printing.,
C as in Catchword (n.) A word or phrase caught up and repeated for effect; as, the catchword of a political party, etc.,
C as in Catchwork (n.) A work or artificial water-course for throwing water on lands that lie on the slopes of hills; a catchdrain.,
C as in Cate (n.) Food. [Obs.] See Cates.,
C as in Catechetic (a.) Alt. of Catechetical,
C as in Catechetical (a.) Relating to or consisting in, asking questions and receiving answers, according to the ancient manner of teaching.,
C as in Catechetically (adv.) In a catechetical manner; by question and answer.,
C as in Catechetics (n.) The science or practice of instructing by questions and answers.,
C as in Catechin (n.) One of the tannic acids, extracted from catechu as a white, crystalline substance; -- called also catechuic acid, and catechuin.,
C as in Catechisation (n.) The act of catechising.,
C as in Catechised (imp. & p. p.) of Catechise,
C as in Catechising (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Catechise,
C as in Catechise (v. t.) To instruct by asking questions, receiving answers, and offering explanations and corrections, -- esp. in regard to points of religious faith.,
C as in Catechise (v. t.) To question or interrogate; to examine or try by questions; -- sometimes with a view to reproof, by eliciting from a person answers which condemn his own conduct.,
C as in Catechiser (n.) One who catechises.,
C as in Catechism (n.) A form of instruction by means of questions and answers.,
C as in Catechism (n.) A book containing a summary of principles, especially of religious doctrine, reduced to the form of questions and answers.,
C as in Catechismal (a.) Of or pertaining to a catechism, having the form of questions and answers; catechetical.,
C as in Catechist (n.) One who instructs by question and answer, especially in religions matters.,
C as in Catechistic (a.) Alt. of Catechistical,
C as in Catechistical (a.) Of or pertaining to a catechist or to a catechism.,
C as in Catechize (v. t.) See Catechise.,
C as in Catechu (n.) A dry, brown, astringent extract, obtained by decoction and evaporation from the Acacia catechu, and several other plants growing in India. It contains a large portion of tannin or tannic acid, and is used in medicine and in the arts. It is also known by the names terra japonica, cutch, gambier, etc.,
C as in Catechuic (a.) Of or pertaining to catechu or its derivatives. See catechin.,
C as in Catechumen (L. catechunenus, Gr. / instructed, from /. See) One who is receiving rudimentary instruction in the doctrines of Christianity; a neophyte; in the primitive church, one officially recognized as a Christian, and admitted to instruction preliminary to admission to full membership in the church.,
C as in Catechumenate (n.) The state or condition of a catechumen or the time during which one is a catechumen.,
C as in Catechumenical (a.) Of or pertaining to catechumens; as, catechumenical instructions.,
C as in Catechumenist (n.) A catechumen.,
C as in Categorematic (a.) Capable of being employed by itself as a term; -- said of a word.,
C as in Categorical (a.) Of or pertaining to a category.,
C as in Categorical (a.) Not hypothetical or relative; admitting no conditions or exceptions; declarative; absolute; positive; express; as, a categorical proposition, or answer.,
C as in Categorically (adv.) Absolutely; directly; expressly; positively; as, to affirm categorically.,
C as in Categoricalness (n.) The quality of being categorical, positive, or absolute.,
C as in Categorist (n.) One who inserts in a category or list; one who classifies.,
C as in Categorize (v. t.) To insert in a category or list; to class; to catalogue.,
C as in Categories (pl. ) of Category,
C as in Category (n.) One of the highest classes to which the objects of knowledge or thought can be reduced, and by which they can be arranged in a system; an ultimate or undecomposable conception; a predicament.,
C as in Category (n.) Class; also, state, condition, or predicament; as, we are both in the same category.,
C as in Catel (n.) Property; -- often used by Chaucer in contrast with rent, or income.,
C as in Catelectrode (n.) The negative electrode or pole of a voltaic battery.,
C as in Catelectrotonic (a.) Relating to, or characterized by, catelectrotonus.,
C as in Catelectrotonus (n.) The condition of increased irritability of a nerve in the region of the cathode or negative electrode, on the passage of a current of electricity through it.,
C as in Catene (pl. ) of Catena,
C as in Catena (n.) A chain or series of things connected with each other.,
C as in Catenary (a.) Alt. of Catenarian,
C as in Catenarian (a.) Relating to a chain; like a chain; as, a catenary curve.,
C as in Catenary (n.) The curve formed by a rope or chain of uniform density and perfect flexibility, hanging freely between two points of suspension, not in the same vertical line.,
C as in Catenated (imp. & p. p.) of Catenate,
C as in Catenating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Catenate,
C as in Catenate (v. t.) To connect, in a series of links or ties; to chain.,
C as in Catenation (n.) Connection of links or union of parts, as in a chain; a regular or connected series. See Concatenation.,
C as in Catenulate (a.) Consisting of little links or chains.,
C as in Catenulate (a.) Chainlike; -- said both or color marks and of indentations when arranged like the links of a chain, as on shells, etc.,
C as in Cater (n.) A provider; a purveyor; a caterer.,
C as in Catered (imp. & p. p.) of Cater,
C as in Catering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cater,
C as in Cater (n.) To provide food; to buy, procure, or prepare provisions.,
C as in Cater (n.) By extension: To supply what is needed or desired, at theatrical or musical entertainments; -- followed by for or to.,
C as in Cater (n.) The four of cards or dice.,
C as in Cater (v. t.) To cut diagonally.,
C as in Cateran (n.) A Highland robber: a kind of irregular soldier.,
C as in Cater-cornered (a.) Diagonal.,
C as in Cater-cousin (n.) A remote relation. See Quater-cousin.,
C as in Caterer (n.) One who caters.,
C as in Cateress (n.) A woman who caters.,
C as in Caterpillar (n.) The larval state of a butterfly or any lepidopterous insect; sometimes, but less commonly, the larval state of other insects, as the sawflies, which are also called false caterpillars. The true caterpillars have three pairs of true legs, and several pairs of abdominal fleshy legs (prolegs) armed with hooks. Some are hairy, others naked. They usually feed on leaves, fruit, and succulent vegetables, being often very destructive, Many of them are popularly called worms, as the cutworm, cankerworm, army worm, cotton worm, silkworm.,
C as in Caterpillar (n.) A plant of the genus Scorpiurus, with pods resembling caterpillars.,
C as in Caterwauled (imp. & p. p.) of Caterwaul,
C as in Caterwauling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Caterwaul,
C as in Caterwaul (v. i.) To cry as cats in rutting time; to make a harsh, offensive noise.,
C as in Caterwaul (n.) A caterwauling.,
C as in Caterwauling (n.) The cry of cats; a harsh, disagreeable noise or cry like the cry of cats.,
C as in Catery (n.) The place where provisions are deposited.,
C as in Cates (n.) Provisions; food; viands; especially, luxurious food; delicacies; dainties.,
C as in Cat-eyed (a.) Having eyes like a cat; hence, able to see in the dark.,
C as in Catfall (n.) A rope used in hoisting the anchor to the cathead.,
C as in Catfish (n.) A name given in the United States to various species of siluroid fishes; as, the yellow cat (Amiurus natalis); the bind cat (Gronias nigrilabrus); the mud cat (Pilodictic oilwaris), the stone cat (Noturus flavus); the sea cat (Arius felis), etc. This name is also sometimes applied to the wolf fish. See Bullhrad.,
C as in Catgut (n.) A cord of great toughness made from the intestines of animals, esp. of sheep, used for strings of musical instruments, etc.,
C as in Catgut (n.) A sort of linen or canvas, with wide interstices.,
C as in Catharine wheel () See catherine wheel.,
C as in Catharist (n.) One aiming at or pretending to a greater purity of like than others about him; -- applied to persons of various sects. See Albigenses.,
C as in Cat-harpin (n.) See Cat-harping.,
C as in Cat-harping (n.) One of the short ropes or iron cramps used to brace in the shrouds toward the masts so a to give freer sweep to the yards.,
C as in Catharsis (n.) A natural or artificial purgation of any passage, as of the mouth, bowels, etc.,
C as in Cathartic (a.) Alt. of Catharical,
C as in Catharical (a.) Cleansing the bowels; promoting evacuations by stool; purgative.,
C as in Catharical (a.) Of or pertaining to the purgative principle of senna, as cathartic acid.,
C as in Cathartic (n.) A medicine that promotes alvine discharges; a purge; a purgative of moderate activity.,
C as in Cathartin (n.) The bitter, purgative principle of senna. It is a glucoside with the properties of a weak acid; -- called also cathartic acid, and cathartina.,
C as in Cathay (n.) China; -- an old name for the Celestial Empire, said have been introduced by Marco Polo and to be a corruption of the Tartar name for North China (Khitai, the country of the Khitans.),
C as in Cathead (n.) A projecting piece of timber or iron near the bow of vessel, to which the anchor is hoisted and secured.,
C as in Cathedra (n.) The official chair or throne of a bishop, or of any person in high authority.,
C as in Cathedral (n.) The principal church in a diocese, so called because in it the bishop has his official chair (Cathedra) or throne.,
C as in Cathedral (a.) Pertaining to the head church of a diocese; as, a cathedral church; cathedral service.,
C as in Cathedral (a.) Emanating from the chair of office, as of a pope or bishop; official; authoritative.,
C as in Cathedral (a.) Resembling the aisles of a cathedral; as, cathedral walks.,
C as in Cathedralic (a.) Cathedral.,
C as in Cathedrated (a.) Relating to the chair or office of a teacher.,
C as in Catheretic (n.) A mild kind caustic used to reduce warts and other excrescences.,
C as in Catherine wheel () Same as Rose window and Wheel window. Called also Catherine-wheel window.,
C as in Catherine wheel () A revolving piece of fireworks resembling in form the window of the same name.,
C as in Catheter (n.) The name of various instruments for passing along mucous canals, esp. applied to a tubular instrument to be introduced into the bladder through the urethra to draw off the urine.,
C as in Catheterism (n.) Alt. of Catheterization,
C as in Catheterization (n.) The operation of introducing a catheter.,
C as in Catheterized (imp. & p. p.) of Catheterize,
C as in Catheterizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Catheterize,
C as in Catheterize (v. t.) To operate on with a catheter.,
C as in Cathetometer (n.) An instrument for the accurate measurement of small differences of height; esp. of the differences in the height of the upper surfaces of two columns of mercury or other fluid, or of the same column at different times. It consists of a telescopic leveling apparatus (d), which slides up or down a perpendicular metallic standard very finely graduated (bb). The telescope is raised or depressed in order to sight the objects or surfaces, and the differences in vertical height are thus shown on the graduated standard.,
C as in Catheti (pl. ) of Cathetus,
C as in Cathetus (n.) One line or radius falling perpendicularly on another; as, the catheti of a right-angled triangle, that is, the two sides that include the right angle.,
C as in Cathode (n.) The part of a voltaic battery by which the electric current leaves substances through which it passes, or the surface at which the electric current passes out of the electrolyte; the negative pole; -- opposed to anode.,
C as in Cathodic (a.) A term applied to the centrifugal, or efferent, course of the nervous influence.,
C as in Cat-hole (n.) One of two small holes astern, above the gunroom ports, through which hawsers may be passed.,
C as in Catholic (a.) Universal or general; as, the catholic faith.,
C as in Catholic (a.) Not narrow-minded, partial, or bigoted; liberal; as, catholic tastes.,
C as in Catholic (a.) Of or pertaining to, or affecting the Roman Catholics; as, the Catholic emancipation act.,
C as in Catholic (n.) A person who accepts the creeds which are received in common by all parts of the orthodox Christian church.,
C as in Catholic (n.) An adherent of the Roman Catholic church; a Roman Catholic.,
C as in Catholical (a.) Catholic.,
C as in Catholicism (n.) The state or quality of being catholic or universal; catholicity.,
C as in Catholicism (n.) Liberality of sentiment; breadth of view.,
C as in Catholicism (n.) The faith of the whole orthodox Christian church, or adherence thereto.,
C as in Catholicism (n.) The doctrines or faith of the Roman Catholic church, or adherence thereto.,
C as in Catholicity (n.) The state or quality of being catholic; universality.,
C as in Catholicity (n.) Liberality of sentiments; catholicism.,
C as in Catholicity (n.) Adherence or conformity to the system of doctrine held by all parts of the orthodox Christian church; the doctrine so held; orthodoxy.,
C as in Catholicity (n.) Adherence to the doctrines of the church of Rome, or the doctrines themselves.,
C as in Catholicize (v. t. & i.) To make or to become catholic or Roman Catholic.,
C as in Catholicly (adv.) In a catholic manner; generally; universally.,
C as in Catholicness (n.) The quality of being catholic; universality; catholicity.,
C as in Catholicon (n.) A remedy for all diseases; a panacea.,
C as in Catholicos (n.) The spiritual head of the Armenian church, who resides at Etchmiadzin, Russia, and has ecclesiastical jurisdiction over, and consecrates the holy oil for, the Armenians of Russia, Turkey, and Persia, including the Patriarchs of Constantinople, Jerusalem, and Sis.,
C as in Catilinarian (a.) Pertaining to Catiline, the Roman conspirator; resembling Catiline's conspiracy.,
C as in Cation (n.) An electro-positive substance, which in electro-decomposition is evolved at the cathode; -- opposed to anion.,
C as in Catkin (n.) An ament; a species of inflorescence, consisting of a slender axis with many unisexual apetalous flowers along its sides, as in the willow and poplar, and (as to the staminate flowers) in the chestnut, oak, hickory, etc. -- so called from its resemblance to a cat's tail. See Illust. of Ament.,
C as in Catlike (a.) Like a cat; stealthily; noiselessly.,
C as in Catling (n.) A little cat; a kitten.,
C as in Catling (n.) Catgut; a catgut string.,
C as in Catling (n.) A double-edged, sharp-pointed dismembering knife.,
C as in Catlinite (n.) A red clay from the Upper Missouri region, used by the Indians for their pipes.,
C as in Catnip (n.) Alt. of Catmint,
C as in Catmint (n.) A well-know plant of the genus Nepeta (N. Cataria), somewhat like mint, having a string scent, and sometimes used in medicine. It is so called because cats have a peculiar fondness for it.,
C as in Cato-cathartic (n.) A remedy that purges by alvine discharges.,
C as in Catonian (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the stern old Roman, Cato the Censor; severe; inflexible.,
C as in Cat o' nine tails () See under Cat.,
C as in Catopter (n.) Alt. of Catoptron,
C as in Catoptron (n.) A reflecting optical glass or instrument; a mirror.,
C as in Catoptric (a.) Alt. of Catoptrical,
C as in Catoptrical (a.) Of or pertaining to catoptrics; produced by reflection.,
C as in Catoptrics (n.) That part of optics which explains the properties and phenomena of reflected light, and particularly that which is reflected from mirrors or polished bodies; -- formerly called anacamptics.,
C as in Catoptromancy (n.) A species of divination, which was performed by letting down a mirror into water, for a sick person to look at his face in it. If his countenance appeared distorted and ghastly, it was an ill omen; if fresh and healthy, it was favorable.,
C as in Catopron (n.) See Catopter.,
C as in Catpipe (n.) See Catcall.,
C as in Cat-rigged (a.) Rigged like a catboat.,
C as in Cat-salt (n.) A sort of salt, finely granulated, formed out of the bittern or leach brine.,
C as in Cat's-eye (n.) A variety of quartz or chalcedony, exhibiting opalescent reflections from within, like the eye of a cat. The name is given to other gems affording like effects, esp. the chrysoberyl.,
C as in Cat's-foot (n.) A plant (Nepeta Glechoma) of the same genus with catnip; ground ivy.,
C as in Cat-silver (n.) Mica.,
C as in Catskill period () The closing subdivision of the Devonian age in America. The rocks of this period are well developed in the Catskill mountains, and extend south and west under the Carboniferous formation. See the Diagram under Geology.,
C as in Catsos (pl. ) of Catso,
C as in Catso (n.) A base fellow; a rogue; a cheat.,
C as in Cat's-paw (n.) A light transitory air which ruffles the surface of the water during a calm, or the ripples made by such a puff of air.,
C as in Cat's-paw (n.) A particular hitch or turn in the bight of a rope, into which a tackle may be hooked.,
C as in Cat's-paw (n.) A dupe; a tool; one who, or that which, is used by another as an instrument to a accomplish his purposes.,
C as in Cat's-tail (n.) See Timothy, Cat-tail, Cirrus.,
C as in Catstick (n.) A stick or club employed in the game of ball called cat or tipcat.,
C as in Catstitch (v. t.) To fold and sew down the edge of with a coarse zigzag stitch.,
C as in Catsup (n.) Same as Catchup, and Ketchup.,
C as in Cat-tail (n.) A tall rush or flag (Typha latifolia) growing in marshes, with long, flat leaves, and having its flowers in a close cylindrical spike at the top of the stem. The leaves are frequently used for seating chairs, making mats, etc. See Catkin.,
C as in Cattish (a.) Catlike; feline,
C as in Cattle (n. pl.) Quadrupeds of the Bovine family; sometimes, also, including all domestic quadrupeds, as sheep, goats, horses, mules, asses, and swine.,
C as in Catty (n.) An East Indian Weight of 1 1/3 pounds.,
C as in Caucasian (a.) Of or pertaining to the Caucasus, a mountainous region between the Black and Caspian seas.,
C as in Caucasian (a.) Of or pertaining to the white races of mankind, of whom the people about Mount Caucasus were formerly taken as the type.,
C as in Caucasian (n.) A native or inhabitant of the Caucasus, esp. a Circassian or Georgian.,
C as in Caucasian (n.) A member of any of the white races of mankind.,
C as in Caucus (n.) A meeting, especially a preliminary meeting, of persons belonging to a party, to nominate candidates for public office, or to select delegates to a nominating convention, or to confer regarding measures of party policy; a political primary meeting.,
C as in Caucused (imp. & p. p.) of Caucus,
C as in Caucusing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Caucus,
C as in Caucus (v. i.) To hold, or meet in, a caucus or caucuses.,
C as in Caudad (adv.) Backwards; toward the tail or posterior part.,
C as in Cauda galli () A plume-shaped fossil, supposed to be a seaweed, characteristic of the lower Devonian rocks; as, the cauda galli grit.,
C as in Caudal (a.) Of the nature of, or pertaining to, a tail; having a tail-like appendage.,
C as in Caudata (n. pl.) See Urodela.,
C as in Caudate (a.) Alt. of Caudated,
C as in Caudated (a.) Having a tail; having a termination like a tail.,
C as in Caudices (pl. ) of Caudex,
C as in Caudexes (pl. ) of Caudex,
C as in Caudex (n.) The stem of a tree., esp. a stem without a branch, as of a palm or a tree fern; also, the perennial rootstock of an herbaceous plant.,
C as in Caudicle (n.) Alt. of Caudicula,
C as in Caudicula (n.) A slender, elastic process, to which the masses of pollen in orchidaceous plants are attached.,
C as in Caudle (n.) A kind of warm drink for sick persons, being a mixture of wine with eggs, bread, sugar, and spices.,
C as in Caudled (imp. & p. p.) of Caudle,
C as in Caudling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Caudle,
C as in Caudle (v. t.) To make into caudle.,
C as in Caudle (v. t.) Too serve as a caudle to; to refresh.,
C as in Cauf (n.) A chest with holes for keeping fish alive in water.,
C as in Caufle (n.) A gang of slaves. Same as Coffle.,
C as in Caught () imp. & p. p. of Catch.,
C as in Cauk (n.) Alt. of Cauker,
C as in Cauker (n.) See Cawk, Calker.,
C as in Caul (n.) A covering of network for the head, worn by women; also, a net.,
C as in Caul (n.) The fold of membrane loaded with fat, which covers more or less of the intestines in mammals; the great omentum. See Omentum.,
C as in Caul (n.) A part of the amnion, one of the membranes enveloping the fetus, which sometimes is round the head of a child at its birth.,
C as in Caulescent (a.) Having a leafy stem.,
C as in Caulicle (n.) A short caulis or stem, esp. the rudimentary stem seen in the embryo of seed; -- otherwise called a radicle.,
C as in Cauliculi (pl. ) of Cauliculus,
C as in Cauliculus (n.) In the Corinthian capital, one of the eight stalks rising out of the lower leafage and terminating in leaves which seem to support the volutes. See Illust. of Corinthian order, under Corinthian.,
C as in Cauliflower (n.) An annual variety of Brassica oleracea, or cabbage, of which the cluster of young flower stalks and buds is eaten as a vegetable.,
C as in Cauliflower (n.) The edible head or "curd" of a cauliflower plant.,
C as in Cauliform (a.) Having the form of a caulis.,
C as in Cauline (a.) Growing immediately on a caulis; of or pertaining to a caulis.,
C as in Caules (pl. ) of Caulis,
C as in Caulis (n.) An herbaceous or woody stem which bears leaves, and may bear flowers.,
C as in Caulk (v. t. & n.) See Calk.,
C as in Caulocarpous (a.) Having stems which bear flowers and fruit year after year, as most trees and shrubs.,
C as in Cauma (n.) Great heat, as of the body in fever.,
C as in Cauponize (v. i.) To sell wine or victuals.,
C as in Causable (a.) Capable of being caused.,
C as in Causal (a.) Relating to a cause or causes; inplying or containing a cause or causes; expressing a cause; causative.,
C as in Causal (n.) A causal word or form of speech.,
C as in Causality (n.) The agency of a cause; the action or power of a cause, in producing its effect.,
C as in Causality (n.) The faculty of tracing effects to their causes.,
C as in Causally (adv.) According to the order or series of causes; by tracing effects to causes.,
C as in Causally (n.) The lighter, earthy parts of ore, carried off washing.,
C as in Causation (n.) The act of causing; also the act or agency by which an effect is produced.,
C as in Causationist (n.) One who believes in the law of universal causation.,
C as in Causative (a.) Effective, as a cause or agent; causing.,
C as in Causative (a.) Expressing a cause or reason; causal; as, the ablative is a causative case.,
C as in Causative (n.) A word which expresses or suggests a cause.,
C as in Causatively (adv.) In a causative manner.,
C as in Causator (n.) One who causes.,
C as in Cause (v.) That which produces or effects a result; that from which anything proceeds, and without which it would not exist.,
C as in Cause (v.) That which is the occasion of an action or state; ground; reason; motive; as, cause for rejoicing.,
C as in Cause (v.) Sake; interest; advantage.,
C as in Cause (v.) A suit or action in court; any legal process by which a party endeavors to obtain his claim, or what he regards as his right; case; ground of action.,
C as in Cause (v.) Any subject of discussion or debate; matter; question; affair in general.,
C as in Cause (v.) The side of a question, which is espoused, advocated, and upheld by a person or party; a principle which is advocated; that which a person or party seeks to attain.,
C as in Caused (imp. & p. p.) of Cause,
C as in Causing (p. pr. & v. n.) of Cause,
C as in Cause (n.) To effect as an agent; to produce; to be the occasion of; to bring about; to bring into existence; to make; -- usually followed by an infinitive, sometimes by that with a finite verb.,
C as in Cause (v. i.) To assign or show cause; to give a reason; to make excuse.,
C as in Cause (conj.) Abbreviation of Because.,
C as in Causeful (n.) Having a cause.,
C as in Causeless (a.) 1. Self-originating; uncreated.,
C as in Causeless (a.) Without just or sufficient reason; groundless.,
C as in Causeless (adv.) Without cause or reason.,
C as in Causelessness (n.) The state of being causeless.,
C as in Causer (n.) One who or that which causes.,
C as in Causeuse (n.) A kind of sofa for two persons. A tete-/-tete.,
C as in Causeway (n.) Alt. of Causey,
C as in Causey (n.) A way or road raised above the natural level of the ground, serving as a dry passage over wet or marshy ground.,
C as in Causewayed (a.) Alt. of Causeyed,
C as in Causeyed (a.) Having a raised way (causeway or causey); paved.,
C as in Causidical (a.) Pertaining to an advocate, or to the maintenance and defense of suits.,
C as in Caustic (a.) Alt. of Caustical,
C as in Caustical (a.) Capable of destroying the texture of anything or eating away its substance by chemical action; burning; corrosive; searing.,
C as in Caustical (a.) Severe; satirical; sharp; as, a caustic remark.,
C as in Caustic (a.) Any substance or means which, applied to animal or other organic tissue, burns, corrodes, or destroys it by chemical action; an escharotic.,
C as in Caustic (a.) A caustic curve or caustic surface.,
C as in Caustically (adv.) In a caustic manner.,
C as in Causticily (n.) The quality of being caustic; corrosiveness; as, the causticity of potash.,
C as in Causticily (n.) Severity of language; sarcasm; as, the causticity of a reply or remark.,
C as in Causticness (n.) The quality of being caustic; causticity.,
C as in Cautel (n.) Caution; prudence; wariness.,
C as in Cautel (n.) Craft; deceit; falseness.,
C as in Cautelous (a.) Caution; prudent; wary.,
C as in Cautelous (a.) Crafty; deceitful; false.,
C as in Cauter (n.) A hot iron for searing or cauterizing.,
C as in Cauterant (n.) A cauterizing substance.,
C as in Cauterism (n.) The use or application of a caustic; cautery.,
C as in Cauterization (n.) The act of searing some morbid part by the application of a cautery or caustic; also, the effect of such application.,
C as in Cauterized (imp. & p. p.) of Cauterize,
C as in Cauterizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cauterize,
C as in Cauterize (v. t.) To burn or sear with a cautery or caustic.,
C as in Cauterize (v. t.) To sear, as the conscience.,
C as in Cauteries (pl. ) of Cautery,
C as in Cautery (n.) A burning or searing, as of morbid flesh, with a hot iron, or by application of a caustic that will burn, corrode, or destroy animal tissue.,
C as in Cautery (n.) The iron of other agent in cauterizing.,
C as in Caution (n.) A careful attention to the probable effects of an act, in order that failure or harm may be avoided; prudence in regard to danger; provident care; wariness.,
C as in Caution (n.) Security; guaranty; bail.,
C as in Caution (n.) Precept or warning against evil of any kind; exhortation to wariness; advice; injunction.,
C as in Cautioned (imp. & p. p.) of Caution,
C as in Cautioning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Caution,
C as in Caution (v. t.) To give notice of danger to; to warn; to exhort [one] to take heed.,
C as in Cautionary (a.) Conveying a caution, or warning to avoid danger; as, cautionary signals.,
C as in Cautionary (a.) Given as a pledge or as security.,
C as in Cautionary (a.) Wary; cautious.,
C as in Cautioner (n.) One who cautions or advises.,
C as in Cautioner (n.) A surety or sponsor.,
C as in Cautionry (n.) Suretyship.,
C as in Cautious (a.) Attentive to examine probable effects and consequences of acts with a view to avoid danger or misfortune; prudent; circumspect; wary; watchful; as, a cautious general.,
C as in Cautiously (adv.) In a cautious manner.,
C as in Cautiousness (n.) The quality of being cautious.,
C as in Cavalcade (n.) A procession of persons on horseback; a formal, pompous march of horsemen by way of parade.,
C as in Cavalero (n.) Alt. of Cavaliero,
C as in Cavaliero (n.) A cavalier; a gallant; a libertine.,
C as in Cavalier (n.) A military man serving on horseback; a knight.,
C as in Cavalier (n.) A gay, sprightly, military man; hence, a gallant.,
C as in Cavalier (n.) One of the court party in the time of king Charles I. as contrasted with a Roundhead or an adherent of Parliament.,
C as in Cavalier (n.) A work of more than ordinary height, rising from the level ground of a bastion, etc., and overlooking surrounding parts.,
C as in Cavalier (a.) Gay; easy; offhand; frank.,
C as in Cavalier (a.) High-spirited.,
C as in Cavalier (a.) Supercilious; haughty; disdainful; curt; brusque.,
C as in Cavalier (a.) Of or pertaining to the party of King Charles I.,
C as in Cavalierish (a.) Somewhat like a cavalier.,
C as in Cavalierism (n.) The practice or principles of cavaliers.,
C as in Cavalierly (adv.) In a supercilious, disdainful, or haughty manner; arrogantly.,
C as in Cavalierness (n.) A disdainful manner.,
C as in Cavally (n.) A carangoid fish of the Atlantic coast (Caranx hippos): -- called also horse crevalle. [See Illust. under Carangoid.],
C as in Cavalry (n.) That part of military force which serves on horseback.,
C as in Cavalryman (n.) One of a body of cavalry.,
C as in Cavatina (n.) Originally, a melody of simpler form than the aria; a song without a second part and a da capo; -- a term now variously and vaguely used.,
C as in Cave (n.) A hollow place in the earth, either natural or artificial; a subterraneous cavity; a cavern; a den.,
C as in Cave (n.) Any hollow place, or part; a cavity.,
C as in Caved (imp. & p. p.) of Cave,
C as in Caving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cave,
C as in Cave (n.) To make hollow; to scoop out.,
C as in Cave (v. i.) To dwell in a cave.,
C as in Cave (v. i.) To fall in or down; as, the sand bank caved. Hence (Slang), to retreat from a position; to give way; to yield in a disputed matter.,
C as in Caveat (n.) A notice given by an interested party to some officer not to do a certain act until the party is heard in opposition; as, a caveat entered in a probate court to stop the proving of a will or the taking out of letters of administration, etc.,
C as in Caveat (n.) A description of some invention, designed to be patented, lodged in the patent office before the patent right is applied for, and operating as a bar to the issue of letters patent to any other person, respecting the same invention.,
C as in Caveat (n.) Intimation of caution; warning; protest.,
C as in Caveating (n.) Shifting the sword from one side of an adversary's sword to the other.,
C as in Caveator (n.) One who enters a caveat.,
C as in Cavendish (n.) Leaf tobacco softened, sweetened, and pressed into plugs or cakes.,
C as in Cavern (n.) A large, deep, hollow place in the earth; a large cave.,
C as in Caverned (a.) Containing caverns.,
C as in Caverned (a.) Living in a cavern.,
C as in Cavernous (a.) Full of caverns; resembling a cavern or large cavity; hollow.,
C as in Cavernous (a.) Filled with small cavities or cells.,
C as in Cavernous (a.) Having a sound caused by a cavity.,
C as in Cavernulous (a.) Full of little cavities; as, cavernulous metal.,
C as in Cavesson (n.) Alt. of Cavezon,
C as in Cavezon (n.) A kind of noseband used in breaking and training horses.,
C as in Cavetto (n.) A concave molding; -- used chiefly in classical architecture. See Illust. of Column.,
C as in Caviare (n.) Alt. of Caviar,
C as in Caviar (n.) The roes of the sturgeon, prepared and salted; -- used as a relish, esp. in Russia.,
C as in Cavicorn (a.) Having hollow horns.,
C as in Cavicornia (n. pl.) A group of ruminants whose horns are hollow, and planted on a bony process of the front, as the ox.,
C as in Caviled (imp. & p. p.) of Cavil,
C as in Cavilled () of Cavil,
C as in Caviling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cavil,
C as in Cavilling () of Cavil,
C as in Cavil (v. i.) To raise captious and frivolous objections; to find fault without good reason.,
C as in Cavil (v. t.) To cavil at.,
C as in Cavil (n.) A captious or frivolous objection.,
C as in Caviler (n.) Alt. of Caviller,
C as in Caviller (n.) One who cavils.,
C as in Caviling (a.) Disposed to cavil; finding fault without good reason. See Captious.,
C as in Cavilingly (adv.) In a caviling manner.,
C as in Cavillation (n.) Frivolous or sophistical objection.,
C as in Cavilous (a.) Alt. of Cavillous,
C as in Cavillous (a.) Characterized by caviling, or disposed to cavil; quibbing.,
C as in Cavin (n.) A hollow way, adapted to cover troops, and facilitate their aproach to a place.,
C as in Cavitary (a.) Containing a body cavity; as, the cavitary or nematoid worms.,
C as in Cavities (pl. ) of Cavity,
C as in Cavity (n.) Hollowness.,
C as in Cavity (n.) A hollow place; a hollow; as, the abdominal cavity.,
C as in Cavo-relievo (n.) Cavo-rilievo.,
C as in Cavo-rilievo (n.) Hollow relief; sculpture in relief within a sinking made for the purpose, so no part of it projects beyond the plain surface around.,
C as in Cavorted (imp. & p. p.) of Cavort,
C as in Cavorting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cavort,
C as in Cavort (v. i.) To prance ostentatiously; -- said of a horse or his rider.,
C as in Cavies (pl. ) of Cavy,
C as in Cavy (n.) A rodent of the genera Cavia and Dolichotis, as the guinea pig (Cavia cobaya). Cavies are natives of South America.,
C as in Cawed (imp. & p. p.) of Caw,
C as in Cawing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Caw,
C as in Caw (v. i.) To cry like a crow, rook, or raven.,
C as in Caw (n.) The cry made by the crow, rook, or raven.,
C as in Cawk (n.) An opaque, compact variety of barite, or heavy spar.,
C as in Cawker (n.) See Calker.,
C as in Cawky (a.) Of or pertaining to cawk; like cawk.,
C as in Caxon (n.) A kind of wig.,
C as in Caxton (n.) Any book printed by William Caxton, the first English printer.,
C as in Cay (n.) See Key, a ledge.,
C as in Cayenne (n.) Cayenne pepper.,
C as in Cayman (n.) The south America alligator. See Alligator.,
C as in Cayugas (n. pl.) A tribe of Indians formerly inhabiting western New-York, forming part of the confederacy called the Five Nations.,
C as in Cayuse (n.) An Indian pony.,
C as in Cazique (n.) Alt. of Cazic,
C as in Cazic (n.) A chief or petty king among some tribes of Indians in America.,
C as in Ceased (imp. & p. p.) of Cease,
C as in Ceasing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cease,
C as in Cease (v. i.) To come to an end; to stop; to leave off or give over; to desist; as, the noise ceased.,
C as in Cease (v. i.) To be wanting; to fail; to pass away.,
C as in Cease (v. t.) To put a stop to; to bring to an end.,
C as in Cease (n.) Extinction.,
C as in Ceaseless (a.) Without pause or end; incessant.,
C as in Ceaseless (adv.) Without intermission or end.,
C as in Cecidomyia (n.) A genus of small dipterous files, including several very injurious species, as the Hessian fly. See Hessian fly.,
C as in Cecity (n.) Blindness.,
C as in Cecutiency (n.) Partial blindness, or a tendency to blindness.,
C as in Cedar (n.) The name of several evergreen trees. The wood is remarkable for its durability and fragrant odor.,
C as in Cedar (a.) Of or pertaining to cedar.,
C as in Cedared (a.) Covered, or furnished with, cedars.,
C as in Cedarn (a.) Of or pertaining to the cedar or its wood.,
C as in Ceded (imp. & p. p.) of Cede,
C as in Ceding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cede,
C as in Cede (v. t.) To yield or surrender; to give up; to resign; as, to cede a fortress, a province, or country, to another nation, by treaty.,
C as in Cedilla (n.) A mark placed under the letter c [thus, c], to show that it is to be sounded like s, as in facade.,
C as in Cedrat (n.) Properly the citron, a variety of Citrus medica, with large fruits, not acid, and having a high perfume.,
C as in Cedrene (n.) A rich aromatic oil, C15H24, extracted from oil of red cedar, and regarded as a polymeric terpene; also any one of a class of similar substances, as the essential oils of cloves, cubebs, juniper, etc., of which cedrene proper is the type.,
C as in Cedrine (a.) Of or pertaining to cedar or the cedar tree.,
C as in Cedriret (n.) Same as Coerulignone.,
C as in Cedry (a.) Of the nature of cedar.,
C as in Cedule (n.) A scroll; a writing; a schedule.,
C as in Ceduous (a.) Fit to be felled.,
C as in Ceiled (imp. & p. p.) of Ceil,
C as in Ceiling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ceil,
C as in Ceil (v. t.) To overlay or cover the inner side of the roof of; to furnish with a ceiling; as, to ceil a room.,
C as in Ceil (v. t.) To line or finish a surface, as of a wall, with plaster, stucco, thin boards, or the like.,
C as in Ceiling (v. t.) The inside lining of a room overhead; the under side of the floor above; the upper surface opposite to the floor.,
C as in Ceiling (v. t.) The lining or finishing of any wall or other surface, with plaster, thin boards, etc.; also, the work when done.,
C as in Ceiling (v. t.) The inner planking of a vessel.,
C as in Ceint (n.) A girdle.,
C as in Celadon (n.) A pale sea-green color; also, porcelain or fine pottery of this tint.,
C as in Celandine (n.) A perennial herbaceous plant (Chelidonium majus) of the poppy family, with yellow flowers. It is used as a medicine in jaundice, etc., and its acrid saffron-colored juice is used to cure warts and the itch; -- called also greater celandine and swallowwort.,
C as in Celature (n.) The act or art of engraving or embossing.,
C as in Celature (n.) That which is engraved.,
C as in Celebrant (n.) One who performs a public religious rite; -- applied particularly to an officiating priest in the Roman Catholic Church, as distinguished from his assistants.,
C as in Celebrated (imp. & p. p.) of Celebrate,
C as in Celebrating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Celebrate,
C as in Celebrate (v. t.) To extol or honor in a solemn manner; as, to celebrate the name of the Most High.,
C as in Celebrate (v. t.) To honor by solemn rites, by ceremonies of joy and respect, or by refraining from ordinary business; to observe duly; to keep; as, to celebrate a birthday.,
C as in Celebrate (v. t.) To perform or participate in, as a sacrament or solemn rite; to solemnize; to perform with appropriate rites; as, to celebrate a marriage.,
C as in Celebrated (a.) Having celebrity; distinguished; renowned.,
C as in Celebration (n.) The act, process, or time of celebrating.,
C as in Celebrator (n.) One who celebrates; a praiser.,
C as in Celebrious (a.) Famous.,
C as in Celebrities (pl. ) of Celebrity,
C as in Celebrity (n.) Celebration; solemnization.,
C as in Celebrity (n.) The state or condition of being celebrated; fame; renown; as, the celebrity of Washington.,
C as in Celebrity (n.) A person of distinction or renown; -- usually in the plural; as, he is one of the celebrities of the place.,
C as in Celeriac (n.) Turnip-rooted celery, a from of celery with a large globular root, which is used for food.,
C as in Celerity (n.) Rapidity of motion; quickness; swiftness.,
C as in Celery (n.) A plant of the Parsley family (Apium graveolens), of which the blanched leafstalks are used as a salad.,
C as in Celestial (a.) Belonging to the aerial regions, or visible heavens.,
C as in Celestial (a.) Of or pertaining to the spiritual heaven; heavenly; divine.,
C as in Celestial (n.) An inhabitant of heaven.,
C as in Celestial (n.) A native of China.,
C as in Celestialize (v. t.) To make celestial.,
C as in Celestially (adv.) In a celestial manner.,
C as in Celestify (v. t.) To make like heaven.,
C as in Celestine (n.) Alt. of Celestite,
C as in Celestite (n.) Native strontium sulphate, a mineral so named from its occasional delicate blue color. It occurs crystallized, also in compact massive and fibrous forms.,
C as in Celestine (n.) Alt. of Celestinian,
C as in Celestinian (n.) A monk of the austere branch of the Franciscan Order founded by Celestine V. in the 13th centry.,
C as in Celiac (a.) See Coellac.,
C as in Celibacy (n.) The state of being unmarried; single life, esp. that of a bachelor, or of one bound by vows not to marry.,
C as in Celibate (n.) Celibate state; celibacy.,
C as in Celibate (n.) One who is unmarried, esp. a bachelor, or one bound by vows not to marry.,
C as in Celibate (a.) Unmarried; single; as, a celibate state.,
C as in Celibatist (n.) One who lives unmarried.,
C as in Celidography (n.) A description of apparent spots on the disk of the sun, or on planets.,
C as in Cell (n.) A very small and close apartment, as in a prison or in a monastery or convent; the hut of a hermit.,
C as in Cell (n.) A small religious house attached to a monastery or convent.,
C as in Cell (n.) Any small cavity, or hollow place.,
C as in Cell (n.) The space between the ribs of a vaulted roof.,
C as in Cell (n.) Same as Cella.,
C as in Cell (n.) A jar of vessel, or a division of a compound vessel, for holding the exciting fluid of a battery.,
C as in Cell (n.) One of the minute elementary structures, of which the greater part of the various tissues and organs of animals and plants are composed.,
C as in Celled (imp. & p. p.) of Cell,
C as in Cell (v. t.) To place or inclose in a cell.,
C as in Cella (n.) The part inclosed within the walls of an ancient temple, as distinguished from the open porticoes.,
C as in Cellar (n.) A room or rooms under a building, and usually below the surface of the ground, where provisions and other stores are kept.,
C as in Cellarage (n.) The space or storerooms of a cellar; a cellar.,
C as in Cellarage (n.) Chare for storage in a cellar.,
C as in Cellarer (n.) A steward or butler of a monastery or chapter; one who has charge of procuring and keeping the provisions.,
C as in Cellaret (n.) A receptacle, as in a dining room, for a few bottles of wine or liquor, made in the form of a chest or coffer, or a deep drawer in a sideboard, and usually lined with metal.,
C as in Cellarist (n.) Same as Cellarer.,
C as in Celled (a.) Containing a cell or cells.,
C as in Cellepore (n.) A genus of delicate branching corals, made up of minute cells, belonging to the Bryozoa.,
C as in Celliferous (a.) Bearing or producing cells.,
C as in Cellos (pl. ) of Cello,
C as in Celli (pl. ) of Cello,
C as in Cello (n.) A contraction for Violoncello.,
C as in Cellular (a.) Consisting of, or containing, cells; of or pertaining to a cell or cells.,
C as in Cellulated (a.) Cellular.,
C as in Cellule (n.) A small cell.,
C as in Celluliferous (a.) Bearing or producing little cells.,
C as in Cellulitis (n.) An inflammantion of the cellular or areolar tissue, esp. of that lying immediately beneath the skin.,
C as in Celluloid (n.) A substance composed essentially of gun cotton and camphor, and when pure resembling ivory in texture and color, but variously colored to imitate coral, tortoise shell, amber, malachite, etc. It is used in the manufacture of jewelry and many small articles, as combs, brushes, collars, and cuffs; -- originally called xylonite.,
C as in Cellulose (a.) Consisting of, or containing, cells.,
C as in Cellulose (n.) The substance which constitutes the essential part of the solid framework of plants, of ordinary wood, linen, paper, etc. It is also found to a slight extent in certain animals, as the tunicates. It is a carbohydrate, (C6H10O5)n, isomeric with starch, and is convertible into starches and sugars by the action of heat and acids. When pure, it is a white amorphous mass. See Starch, Granulose, Lignin.,
C as in Celotomy (n.) The act or operation of cutting, to relieve the structure in strangulated hernia.,
C as in Celsiture (n.) Height; altitude.,
C as in Celsius (n.) The Celsius thermometer or scale, so called from Anders Celsius, a Swedish astronomer, who invented it. It is the same as the centigrade thermometer or scale.,
C as in Celt (n.) One of an ancient race of people, who formerly inhabited a great part of Central and Western Europe, and whose descendants at the present day occupy Ireland, Wales, the Highlands of Scotland, and the northern shores of France.,
C as in Celt (n.) A weapon or implement of stone or metal, found in the tumuli, or barrows, of the early Celtic nations.,
C as in Celtiberian (a.) Of or pertaining to the ancient Celtiberia (a district in Spain lying between the Ebro and the Tagus) or its inhabitants the Celtiberi (Celts of the river Iberus).,
C as in Celtiberian (n.) An inhabitant of Celtiberia.,
C as in Celtic (a.) Of or pertaining to the Celts; as, Celtic people, tribes, literature, tongue.,
C as in Celtic (n.) The language of the Celts.,
C as in Celticism (n.) A custom of the Celts, or an idiom of their language.,
C as in Celticize (v. t.) To render Celtic; to assimilate to the Celts.,
C as in Cembalo (n.) An old name for the harpsichord.,
C as in Cement (n.) Any substance used for making bodies adhere to each other, as mortar, glue, etc.,
C as in Cement (n.) A kind of calcined limestone, or a calcined mixture of clay and lime, for making mortar which will harden under water.,
C as in Cement (n.) The powder used in cementation. See Cementation, n., 2.,
C as in Cement (n.) Bond of union; that which unites firmly, as persons in friendship, or men in society.,
C as in Cement (n.) The layer of bone investing the root and neck of a tooth; -- called also cementum.,
C as in Cemented (imp. & p. p.) of Cement,
C as in Cementing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cement,
C as in Cement (n.) To unite or cause to adhere by means of a cement.,
C as in Cement (n.) To unite firmly or closely.,
C as in Cement (n.) To overlay or coat with cement; as, to cement a cellar bottom.,
C as in Cement (v. i.) To become cemented or firmly united; to cohere.,
C as in Cemental (a.) Of or pertaining to cement, as of a tooth; as, cemental tubes.,
C as in Cementation (n.) The act or process of cementing.,
C as in Cementation (n.) A process which consists in surrounding a solid body with the powder of other substances, and heating the whole to a degree not sufficient to cause fusion, the physical properties of the body being changed by chemical combination with powder; thus iron becomes steel by cementation with charcoal, and green glass becomes porcelain by cementation with sand.,
C as in Cementatory (a.) Having the quality of cementing or uniting firmly.,
C as in Cementer (n.) A person or thing that cements.,
C as in Cementitious (n.) Of the nature of cement.,
C as in Cemeterial (a.) Of or pertaining to a cemetery.,
C as in Cemeteries (pl. ) of Cemetery,
C as in Cemetery (n.) A place or ground set apart for the burial of the dead; a graveyard; a churchyard; a necropolis.,
C as in Cenanthy (n.) The absence or suppression of the essential organs (stamens and pistil) in a flower.,
C as in Cenation (n.) Meal-taking; dining or supping.,
C as in Cenatory (a.) Of or pertaining to dinner or supper.,
C as in Cenobite (n.) One of a religious order, dwelling in a convent, or a community, in opposition to an anchoret, or hermit, who lives in solitude.,
C as in Cenobitic (a.) Alt. of Cenobitical,
C as in Cenobitical (a.) Of or pertaining to a cenobite.,
C as in Cenobitism (n.) The state of being a cenobite; the belief or practice of a cenobite.,
C as in Cenogamy (n.) The state of a community which permits promiscuous sexual intercourse among its members, as in certain societies practicing communism.,
C as in Cenotaph (n.) An empty tomb or a monument erected in honor of a person who is buried elsewhere.,
C as in Cenotaphy (n.) A cenotaph.,
C as in Cenozoic (a.) Belonging to the most recent division of geological time, including the tertiary, or Age of mammals, and the Quaternary, or Age of man. [Written also caenozoic, cainozoic, kainozoic.] See Geology.,
C as in Cense (n.) A census; -- also, a public rate or tax.,
C as in Cense (n.) Condition; rank.,
C as in Censed (imp. & p. p.) of Cense,
C as in Censing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cense,
C as in Cense (v. t.) To perfume with odors from burning gums and spices.,
C as in Cense (v. i.) To burn or scatter incense.,
C as in Censer (n.) A vessel for perfumes; esp. one in which incense is burned.,
C as in Censor (n.) One of two magistrates of Rome who took a register of the number and property of citizens, and who also exercised the office of inspector of morals and conduct.,
C as in Censor (n.) One who is empowered to examine manuscripts before they are committed to the press, and to forbid their publication if they contain anything obnoxious; -- an official in some European countries.,
C as in Censor (n.) One given to fault-finding; a censurer.,
C as in Censor (n.) A critic; a reviewer.,
C as in Censorial (a.) Belonging to a censor, or to the correction of public morals.,
C as in Censorial (a.) Full of censure; censorious.,
C as in Censorian (a.) Censorial.,
C as in Censorious (a.) Addicted to censure; apt to blame or condemn; severe in making remarks on others, or on their writings or manners.,
C as in Censorious (a.) Implying or expressing censure; as, censorious remarks.,
C as in Censorship (n.) The office or power of a censor; as, to stand for a censorship.,
C as in Censual (a.) Relating to, or containing, a census.,
C as in Censurable (a.) Deserving of censure; blamable; culpable; reprehensible; as, a censurable person, or censurable conduct.,
C as in Censure (n.) Judgment either favorable or unfavorable; opinion.,
C as in Censure (n.) The act of blaming or finding fault with and condemning as wrong; reprehension; blame.,
C as in Censure (n.) Judicial or ecclesiastical sentence or reprimand; condemnatory judgment.,
C as in Censured (imp. & p. p.) of Censure,
C as in Censuring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Censure,
C as in Censure (v. i.) To form or express a judgment in regard to; to estimate; to judge.,
C as in Censure (v. i.) To find fault with and condemn as wrong; to blame; to express disapprobation of.,
C as in Censure (v. i.) To condemn or reprimand by a judicial or ecclesiastical sentence.,
C as in Censure (v. i.) To judge.,
C as in Censurer (n.) One who censures.,
C as in Census (n.) A numbering of the people, and valuation of their estate, for the purpose of imposing taxes, etc.; -- usually made once in five years.,
C as in Census (n.) An official registration of the number of the people, the value of their estates, and other general statistics of a country.,
C as in Cent (n.) A hundred; as, ten per cent, the proportion of ten parts in a hundred.,
C as in Cent (n.) A United States coin, the hundredth part of a dollar, formerly made of copper, now of copper, tin, and zinc.,
C as in Cent (n.) An old game at cards, supposed to be like piquet; -- so called because 100 points won the game.,
C as in Centage (n.) Rate by the hundred; percentage.,
C as in Cental (n.) A weight of one hundred pounds avoirdupois; -- called in many parts of the United States a Hundredweight.,
C as in Cental (n.) Relating to a hundred.,
C as in Centare (n.) A measure of area, the hundredth part of an are; one square meter, or about 1/ square yards.,
C as in Centaur (n.) A fabulous being, represented as half man and half horse.,
C as in Centaur (n.) A constellation in the southern heavens between Hydra and the Southern Cross.,
C as in Centaurea (n.) A large genus of composite plants, related to the thistles and including the cornflower or bluebottle (Centaurea Cyanus) and the star thistle (C. Calcitrapa).,
C as in Centaury (n.) A gentianaceous plant not fully identified. The name is usually given to the Erytheraea Centaurium and the Chlora perfoliata of Europe, but is also extended to the whole genus Sabbatia, and even to the unrelated Centaurea.,
C as in Centenarian (a.) Of or relating to a hundred years.,
C as in Centenarian (n.) A person a hundred years old.,
C as in Centenary (a.) Relating to, or consisting of, a hundred.,
C as in Centenary (a.) Occurring once in every hundred years; centennial.,
C as in Centenaries (pl. ) of Centenary,
C as in Centenary (n.) The aggregate of a hundred single things; specifically, a century.,
C as in Centenary (n.) A commemoration or celebration of an event which occurred a hundred years before.,
C as in Centennial (a.) Relating to, or associated with, the commemoration of an event that happened a hundred years before; as, a centennial ode.,
C as in Centennial (a.) Happening once in a hundred years; as, centennial jubilee; a centennial celebration.,
C as in Centennial (a.) Lasting or aged a hundred years.,
C as in Centennial (n.) The celebration of the hundredth anniversary of any event; a centenary.,
C as in Centennially (adv.) Once in a hundred years.,
C as in Center (n.) A point equally distant from the extremities of a line, figure, or body, or from all parts of the circumference of a circle; the middle point or place.,
C as in Center (n.) The middle or central portion of anything.,
C as in Center (n.) A principal or important point of concentration; the nucleus around which things are gathered or to which they tend; an object of attention, action, or force; as, a center of attaction.,
C as in Center (n.) The earth.,
C as in Center (n.) Those members of a legislative assembly (as in France) who support the existing government. They sit in the middle of the legislative chamber, opposite the presiding officer, between the conservatives or monarchists, who sit on the right of the speaker, and the radicals or advanced republicans who occupy the seats on his left, See Right, and Left.,
C as in Center (n.) A temporary structure upon which the materials of a vault or arch are supported in position until the work becomes self-supporting.,
C as in Center (n.) One of the two conical steel pins, in a lathe, etc., upon which the work is held, and about which it revolves.,
C as in Center (n.) A conical recess, or indentation, in the end of a shaft or other work, to receive the point of a center, on which the work can turn, as in a lathe.,
C as in Centered (imp. & p. p.) of Centre,
C as in Centred () of Centre,
C as in Centering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Centre,
C as in Centring () of Centre,
C as in Center (v. i.) Alt. of Centre,
C as in Centre (v. i.) To be placed in a center; to be central.,
C as in Centre (v. i.) To be collected to a point; to be concentrated; to rest on, or gather about, as a center.,
C as in Center (v. t.) Alt. of Centre,
C as in Centre (v. t.) To place or fix in the center or on a central point.,
C as in Centre (v. t.) To collect to a point; to concentrate.,
C as in Centre (v. t.) To form a recess or indentation for the reception of a center.,
C as in Centerbit (n.) Alt. of Centrebit,
C as in Centrebit (n.) An instrument turning on a center, for boring holes. See Bit, n., 3.,
C as in Centerboard (n.) Alt. of Centreboard,
C as in Centreboard (n.) A movable or sliding keel formed of a broad board or slab of wood or metal which may be raised into a water-tight case amidships, when in shallow water, or may be lowered to increase the area of lateral resistance and prevent leeway when the vessel is beating to windward. It is used in vessels of all sizes along the coast of the United States,
C as in Centerfire cartridge () See under Cartridge.,
C as in Centering (n.) Same as Center, n., 6.,
C as in Centerpiece (n.) Alt. of Centrepiece,
C as in Centrepiece (n.) An ornament to be placed in the center, as of a table, ceiling, atc.; a central article or figure.,
C as in Centesimal (a.) Hundredth.,
C as in Centesimal (n.) A hundredth part.,
C as in Centesimation (n.) The infliction of the death penalty upon one person in every hundred, as in cases of mutiny.,
C as in Centesm (n.) Hundredth.,
C as in -mi (pl. ) of Centesimo,
C as in Centesimo (n.) A copper coin of Italy and Spain equivalent to a centime.,
C as in Centiare (n.) See centare.,
C as in Centicipitous (a.) Hundred-headed.,
C as in Centifidous (a.) Divided into a hundred parts.,
C as in Centifolious (a.) Having a hundred leaves.,
C as in Centigrade (a.) Consisting of a hundred degrees; graduated into a hundred divisions or equal parts.,
C as in Centigrade (a.) Of or pertaining to the centigrade thermometer; as, 10 centigrade (or 10 C.).,
C as in Centigram (n.) Alt. of Centigramme,
C as in Centigramme (n.) The hundredth part of a gram; a weight equal to .15432 of a grain. See Gram.,
C as in Centiliter (n.) Alt. of Centilitre,
C as in Centilitre (n.) The hundredth part of a liter; a measure of volume or capacity equal to a little more than six tenths (0.6102) of a cubic inch, or one third (0.338) of a fluid ounce.,
C as in Centiloquy (n.) A work divided into a hundred parts.,
C as in Centime (n.) The hundredth part of a franc; a small French copper coin and money of account.,
C as in Centimeter (n.) Alt. of Centimetre,
C as in Centimetre (n.) The hundredth part of a meter; a measure of length equal to rather more than thirty-nine hundredths (0.3937) of an inch. See Meter.,
C as in Centinel (n.) Sentinel.,
C as in Centinody (n.) A weed with a stem of many joints (Illecebrum verticillatum); also, the Polygonum aviculare or knotgrass.,
C as in Centiped (n.) A species of the Myriapoda; esp. the large, flattened, venomous kinds of the order Chilopoda, found in tropical climates. they are many-jointed, and have a great number of feet.,
C as in Centistere (n.) The hundredth part of a stere, equal to .353 cubic feet.,
C as in Centner (n.) A weight divisible first into a hundred parts, and then into smaller parts.,
C as in Centner (n.) The commercial hundredweight in several of the continental countries, varying in different places from 100 to about 112 pounds.,
C as in Centos (pl. ) of Cento,
C as in Cento (n.) A literary or a musical composition formed by selections from different authors disposed in a new order.,
C as in Centonism (n.) The composition of a cento; the act or practice of composing a cento or centos.,
C as in Central (a.) Relating to the center; situated in or near the center or middle; containing the center; of or pertaining to the parts near the center; equidistant or equally accessible from certain points.,
C as in Central (n.) Alt. of Centrale,
C as in Centrale (n.) The central, or one of the central, bones of the carpus or or tarsus. In the tarsus of man it is represented by the navicular.,
C as in Centralism (n.) The state or condition of being central; the combination of several parts into one whole; centralization.,
C as in Centralism (n.) The system by which power is centralized, as in a government.,
C as in Centralities (pl. ) of Centrality,
C as in Centrality (n.) The state of being central; tendency towards a center.,
C as in Centralization (n.) The act or process of centralizing, or the state of being centralized; the act or process of combining or reducing several parts into a whole; as, the centralization of power in the general government; the centralization of commerce in a city.,
C as in Centralized (imp. & p. p.) of Centralize,
C as in Centralizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Centralize,
C as in Centralize (v. t.) To draw or bring to a center point; to gather into or about a center; to bring into one system, or under one control.,
C as in Centrally (adv.) In a central manner or situation.,
C as in Centre (n. & v.) See Center.,
C as in Centric (a.) Alt. of Centrical,
C as in Centrical (a.) Placed in the center or middle; central.,
C as in Centricity (n.) The state or quality of being centric; centricalness.,
C as in Centrifugal (a.) Tending, or causing, to recede from the center.,
C as in Centrifugal (a.) Expanding first at the summit, and later at the base, as a flower cluster.,
C as in Centrifugal (a.) Having the radicle turned toward the sides of the fruit, as some embryos.,
C as in Centrifugal (n.) A centrifugal machine.,
C as in Centrifugence (n.) The property or quality of being centrifugal.,
C as in Centring (n.) See Centring.,
C as in Centripetal (a.) Tending, or causing, to approach the center.,
C as in Centripetal (a.) Expanding first at the base of the inflorescence, and proceeding in order towards the summit.,
C as in Centripetal (a.) Having the radicle turned toward the axis of the fruit, as some embryos.,
C as in Centripetal (a.) Progressing by changes from the exterior of a thing toward its center; as, the centripetal calcification of a bone.,
C as in Centripetence (n.) Centripetency.,
C as in Centripetency (n.) Tendency toward the center.,
C as in Centriscoid (a.) Allied to, or resembling, the genus Centriscus, of which the bellows fish is an example.,
C as in Centrobaric (a.) Relating to the center of gravity, or to the process of finding it.,
C as in Centrode (n.) In two figures having relative motion, one of the two curves which are the loci of the instantaneous center.,
C as in Centroid (n.) The center of mass, inertia, or gravity of a body or system of bodies.,
C as in Centrolecithal (a.) Having the food yolk placed at the center of the ovum, segmentation being either regular or unequal.,
C as in Centrolinead (n.) An instrument for drawing lines through a point, or lines converging to a center.,
C as in Centrolineal (a.) Converging to a center; -- applied to lines drawn so as to meet in a point or center.,
C as in Centrosome (n.) A peculiar rounded body lying near the nucleus of a cell. It is regarded as the dynamic element by means of which the machinery of cell division is organized.,
C as in Centrostaltic (a.) A term applied to the action of nerve force in the spinal center.,
C as in Centrums (pl. ) of Centrum,
C as in Centra (pl. ) of Centrum,
C as in Centrum (n.) The body, or axis, of a vertebra. See Vertebra.,
C as in Centry (n.) See Sentry.,
C as in Centumviri (pl. ) of Centumvir,
C as in Centumvir (n.) One of a court of about one hundred judges chosen to try civil suits. Under the empire the court was increased to 180, and met usually in four sections.,
C as in Centumviral (a.) Of or pertaining to the centumviri, or to a centumvir.,
C as in Centumvirate (n.) The office of a centumvir, or of the centumviri.,
C as in Centuple (a.) Hundredfold.,
C as in Centuple (v. t.) To increase a hundredfold.,
C as in Centuplicated (imp. & p. p.) of Centuplicate,
C as in Centuplicating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Centuplicate,
C as in Centuplicate (a.) To make a hundredfold; to repeat a hundred times.,
C as in Centurial (a.) Of or pertaining to a century; as, a centurial sermon.,
C as in Centuriate (a.) Pertaining to, or divided into, centuries or hundreds.,
C as in Centuriate (v. t.) To divide into hundreds.,
C as in Centuriator (n.) Alt. of Centurist,
C as in Centurist (n.) An historian who distinguishes time by centuries, esp. one of those who wrote the "Magdeburg Centuries." See under Century.,
C as in Centurion (n.) A military officer who commanded a minor division of the Roman army; a captain of a century.,
C as in Centuries (pl. ) of Century,
C as in Century (n.) A hundred; as, a century of sonnets; an aggregate of a hundred things.,
C as in Century (n.) A period of a hundred years; as, this event took place over two centuries ago.,
C as in Century (n.) A division of the Roman people formed according to their property, for the purpose of voting for civil officers.,
C as in Century (n.) One of sixty companies into which a legion of the army was divided. It was Commanded by a centurion.,
C as in Cepevorous (a.) Feeding upon onions.,
C as in Cephalad (adv.) Forwards; towards the head or anterior extremity of the body; opposed to caudad.,
C as in Cephalalgia (n.) Alt. of Cephalalgy,
C as in Cephalalgy (n.) Pain in the head; headache.,
C as in Cephalalgic (a.) Relating to, or affected with, headache.,
C as in Cephalalgic (n.) A remedy for the headache.,
C as in Cephalanthium (n.) Same as Anthodium.,
C as in Cephalaspis (n.) A genus of fossil ganoid fishes found in the old red sandstone or Devonian formation. The head is large, and protected by a broad shield-shaped helmet prolonged behind into two lateral points.,
C as in Cephalata (n. pl.) A large division of Mollusca, including all except the bivalves; -- so called because the head is distinctly developed. See Illustration in Appendix.,
C as in Cephalate (a.) Having a head.,
C as in Cephalic (a.) Of or pertaining to the head. See the Note under Anterior.,
C as in Cephalic (n.) A medicine for headache, or other disorder in the head.,
C as in Cephalitis (n.) Same as Phrenitis.,
C as in Cephalization (n.) Domination of the head in animal life as expressed in the physical structure; localization of important organs or parts in or near the head, in animal development.,
C as in Cephalo () A combining form denoting the head, of the head, connected with the head; as, cephalosome, cephalopod.,
C as in Cephalocercal (a.) Relating to the long axis of the body.,
C as in Cephaloid (a.) Shaped like the head.,
C as in Cephalology (n.) The science which treats of the head.,
C as in Cephalomere (n.) One of the somites (arthromeres) which make up the head of arthropods.,
C as in Cephalometer (n.) An instrument measuring the dimensions of the head of a fetus during delivery.,
C as in Cephalon (n.) The head.,
C as in Cephalophora (n. pl.) The cephalata.,
C as in Cephalopod (n.) Alt. of Cephalopode,
C as in Cephalopode (n.) One of the Cephalopoda.,
C as in Cephalopoda (n. pl.) The highest class of Mollusca.,
C as in Cephalopodic (a.) Alt. of Cephalopodous,
C as in Cephalopodous (a.) Belonging to, or resembling, the cephalopods.,
C as in Cephaloptera (n.) One of the generic names of the gigantic ray (Manta birostris), known as devilfish and sea devil. It is common on the coasts of South Carolina, Florida, and farther south. Some of them grow to enormous size, becoming twenty feet of more across the body, and weighing more than a ton.,
C as in Cephalosome (n.) The anterior region or head of insects and other arthropods.,
C as in Cephalostyle (n.) The anterior end of the notochord and its bony sheath in the base of cartilaginous crania.,
C as in Cephalothorax (n.) The anterior portion of any one of the Arachnida and higher Crustacea, consisting of the united head and thorax.,
C as in Cephalotome (n.) An instrument for cutting into the fetal head, to facilitate delivery.,
C as in Cephalotomy (n.) Dissection or opening of the head.,
C as in Cephalotomy (n.) Craniotomy; -- usually applied to bisection of the fetal head with a saw.,
C as in Cephalotribe (n.) An obstetrical instrument for performing cephalotripsy.,
C as in Cephalotripsy (n.) The act or operation of crushing the head of a fetus in the womb in order to effect delivery.,
C as in Cephalotrocha (n.) A kind of annelid larva with a circle of cilia around the head.,
C as in Cephalous (a.) Having a head; -- applied chiefly to the Cephalata, a division of mollusks.,
C as in Cepheus (n.) A northern constellation near the pole. Its head, which is in the Milky Way, is marked by a triangle formed by three stars of the fourth magnitude. See Cassiopeia.,
C as in Ceraceous (a.) Having the texture and color of new wax; like wax; waxy.,
C as in Cerago (n.) Beebread.,
C as in Ceramic (a.) Of or pertaining to pottery; relating to the art of making earthenware; as, ceramic products; ceramic ornaments for ceilings.,
C as in Ceramics (n.) The art of making things of baked clay; as pottery, tiles, etc.,
C as in Ceramics (n.) Work formed of clay in whole or in part, and baked; as, vases, urns, etc.,
C as in Cerargyrite (n.) Native silver chloride, a mineral of a white to pale yellow or gray color, darkening on exposure to the light. It may be cut by a knife, like lead or horn (hence called horn silver).,
C as in Cerasin (n.) A white amorphous substance, the insoluble part of cherry gum; -- called also meta-arabinic acid.,
C as in Cerasin (n.) A gummy mucilaginous substance; -- called also bassorin, tragacanthin, etc.,
C as in Cerasinous (a.) Pertaining to, or containing, cerasin.,
C as in Cerasinous (a.) Of a cherry color.,
C as in Cerastes (n.) A genus of poisonous African serpents, with a horny scale over each eye; the horned viper.,
C as in Cerate (n.) An unctuous preparation for external application, of a consistence intermediate between that of an ointment and a plaster, so that it can be spread upon cloth without the use of heat, but does not melt when applied to the skin.,
C as in Cerated (p. a.) Covered with wax.,
C as in Ceratine (a.) Sophistical.,
C as in Ceratobranchia (n. pl.) A group of nudibranchiate Mollusca having on the back papilliform or branched organs serving as gills.,
C as in Ceratobranchial (a.) Pertaining to the bone, or cartilage, below the epibranchial in a branchial arch.,
C as in Ceratobranchial (n.) A ceratobranchial bone, or cartilage.,
C as in Ceratodus (n.) A genus of ganoid fishes, of the order Dipnoi, first known as Mesozoic fossil fishes; but recently two living species have been discovered in Australian rivers. They have lungs so well developed that they can leave the water and breathe in air. In Australia they are called salmon and baramunda. See Dipnoi, and Archipterygium.,
C as in Ceratohyal (a.) Pertaining to the bone, or cartilage, below the epihyal in the hyoid arch.,
C as in Ceratohyal (n.) A ceratohyal bone, or cartilage, which, in man, forms one of the small horns of the hyoid.,
C as in Ceratosaurus (n.) A carnivorous American Jurassic dinosaur allied to the European Megalosaurus. The animal was nearly twenty feet in length, and the skull bears a bony horn core on the united nasal bones. See Illustration in Appendix.,
C as in Ceratospongiae (n. pl.) An order of sponges in which the skeleton consists of horny fibers. It includes all the commercial sponges.,
C as in Ceraunics (n.) That branch of physics which treats of heat and electricity.,
C as in Ceraunoscope (n.) An instrument or apparatus employed in the ancient mysteries to imitate thunder and lightning.,
C as in Cerberean (a.) Of or pertaining to, or resembling, Cerberus.,
C as in Cerberus (n.) A monster, in the shape of a three-headed dog, guarding the entrance into the infernal regions, Hence: Any vigilant custodian or guardian, esp. if surly.,
C as in Cerberus (n.) A genus of East Indian serpents, allied to the pythons; the bokadam.,
C as in Cercal (a.) Of or pertaining to the tail.,
C as in Cercarle (pl. ) of Cercaria,
C as in Cercaria (n.) The larval form of a trematode worm having the shape of a tadpole, with its body terminated by a tail-like appendage.,
C as in Cercarian (a.) Of, like, or pertaining to, the Cercariae.,
C as in Cercarian (n.) One of the Cercariae.,
C as in Cercopod (n.) One of the jointed antenniform appendages of the posterior somites of certain insects.,
C as in Cerci (pl. ) of Cercus,
C as in Cercus (n.) See Cercopod.,
C as in Cere (n.) The soft naked sheath at the base of the beak of birds of prey, parrots, and some other birds. See Beak.,
C as in Cered (imp. & p. p.) of Cere,
C as in Cering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cere,
C as in Cere (v. t.) To wax; to cover or close with wax.,
C as in Cereal (a.) Of or pertaining to the grasses which are cultivated for their edible seeds (as wheat, maize, rice, etc.), or to their seeds or grain.,
C as in Cereal (n.) Any grass cultivated for its edible grain, or the grain itself; -- usually in the plural.,
C as in Cerealia (n. pl.) Public festivals in honor of Ceres.,
C as in Cerealia (n. pl.) The cereals.,
C as in Cerealin (n.) A nitrogenous substance closely resembling diastase, obtained from bran, and possessing the power of converting starch into dextrin, sugar, and lactic acid.,
C as in Cerebel (n.) The cerebellum.,
C as in Cerebellar (a.) Alt. of Cerebellous,
C as in Cerebellous (a.) Pertaining to the cerebellum.,
C as in Cerebellums (pl. ) of Cerebellum,
C as in Cerebella (pl. ) of Cerebellum,
C as in Cerebellum (n.) The large lobe of the hind brain in front of and above the medulla; the little brain. It controls combined muscular action. See Brain.,
C as in Cerebral (a.) Of or pertaining to the cerebrum.,
C as in Cerebral (n.) One of a class of lingual consonants in the East Indian languages. See Lingual, n.,
C as in Cerebralism (n.) The doctrine or theory that psychical phenomena are functions or products of the brain only.,
C as in Cerebralist (n.) One who accepts cerebralism.,
C as in Cerebrate (v. i.) To exhibit mental activity; to have the brain in action.,
C as in Cerebration (n.) Action of the brain, whether conscious or unconscious.,
C as in Cerebric (a.) Of, pertaining to, or derived from, the brain.,
C as in Cerebricity (n.) Brain power.,
C as in Cerebriform (a.) Like the brain in form or substance.,
C as in Cerebrifugal (a.) Applied to those nerve fibers which go from the brain to the spinal cord, and so transfer cerebral impulses (centrifugal impressions) outwards.,
C as in Cerebrin (n.) A nonphosphorized, nitrogenous substance, obtained from brain and nerve tissue by extraction with boiling alcohol. It is uncertain whether it exists as such in nerve tissue, or is a product of the decomposition of some more complex substance.,
C as in Cerebripetal (a.) Applied to those nerve fibers which go from the spinal cord to the brain and so transfer sensations (centripetal impressions) from the exterior inwards.,
C as in Cerebritis (n.) Inflammation of the cerebrum.,
C as in Cerebroid (a.) Resembling, or analogous to, the cerebrum or brain.,
C as in Cerebrology (n.) The science which treats of the cerebrum or brain.,
C as in Cerebropathy (n.) A hypochondriacal condition verging upon insanity, occurring in those whose brains have been unduly taxed; -- called also brain fag.,
C as in Cerebroscopy (n.) Examination of the brain for the diagnosis of disease; esp., the act or process of diagnosticating the condition of the brain by examination of the interior of the eye (as with an ophthalmoscope).,
C as in Cerebrose (n.) A sugarlike body obtained by the decomposition of the nitrogenous non-phosphorized principles of the brain.,
C as in Cerebro-spinal (a.) Of or pertaining to the central nervous system consisting of the brain and spinal cord.,
C as in Cerebrums (pl. ) of Cerebrum,
C as in Cerebra (pl. ) of Cerebrum,
C as in Cerebrum (n.) The anterior, and in man the larger, division of the brain; the seat of the reasoning faculties and the will. See Brain.,
C as in Cerecloth (n.) A cloth smeared with melted wax, or with some gummy or glutinous matter.,
C as in Cerement (n.) A cerecloth used for the special purpose of enveloping a dead body when embalmed.,
C as in Cerement (n.) Any shroud or wrapping for the dead.,
C as in Ceremonial (a.) Relating to ceremony, or external rite; ritual; according to the forms of established rites.,
C as in Ceremonial (a.) Observant of forms; ceremonious. [In this sense ceremonious is now preferred.],
C as in Ceremonial (n.) A system of rules and ceremonies, enjoined by law, or established by custom, in religious worship, social intercourse, or the courts of princes; outward form.,
C as in Ceremonial (n.) The order for rites and forms in the Roman Catholic church, or the book containing the rules prescribed to be observed on solemn occasions.,
C as in Ceremonialism (n.) Adherence to external rites; fondness for ceremony.,
C as in Ceremonially (adv.) According to rites and ceremonies; as, a person ceremonially unclean.,
C as in Ceremonialness (n.) Quality of being ceremonial.,
C as in Ceremonious (a.) Consisting of outward forms and rites; ceremonial. [In this sense ceremonial is now preferred.],
C as in Ceremonious (a.) According to prescribed or customary rules and forms; devoted to forms and ceremonies; formally respectful; punctilious.,
C as in Ceremoniously (adv.) In a ceremonious way.,
C as in Ceremoniousness (n.) The quality, or practice, of being ceremonious.,
C as in Ceremonies (pl. ) of Ceremony,
C as in Ceremony (n.) Ar act or series of acts, often of a symbolical character, prescribed by law, custom, or authority, in the conduct of important matters, as in the performance of religious duties, the transaction of affairs of state, and the celebration of notable events; as, the ceremony of crowning a sovereign; the ceremonies observed in consecrating a church; marriage and baptismal ceremonies.,
C as in Ceremony (n.) Behavior regulated by strict etiquette; a formal method of performing acts of civility; forms of civility prescribed by custom or authority.,
C as in Ceremony (n.) A ceremonial symbols; an emblem, as a crown, scepter, garland, etc.,
C as in Ceremony (n.) A sign or prodigy; a portent.,
C as in Cereous (a.) Waxen; like wax.,
C as in Ceres (n.) The daughter of Saturn and Ops or Rhea, the goddess of corn and tillage.,
C as in Ceres (n.) The first discovered asteroid.,
C as in Ceresin (n.) A white wax, made by bleaching and purifying ozocerite, and used as a substitute for beeswax.,
C as in Cereus (n.) A genus of plants of the Cactus family. They are natives of America, from California to Chili.,
C as in Cerial (a.) Same as Cerrial.,
C as in Ceriferous (a.) Producing wax.,
C as in Cerin (n.) A waxy substance extracted by alcohol or ether from cork; sometimes applied also to the portion of beeswax which is soluble in alcohol.,
C as in Cerin (n.) A variety of the mineral allanite.,
C as in Cerinthian (n.) One of an ancient religious sect, so called from Cerinthus, a Jew, who attempted to unite the doctrines of Christ with the opinions of the Jews and Gnostics.,
C as in Ceriph (n.) One of the fine lines of a letter, esp. one of the fine cross strokes at the top and bottom of letters.,
C as in Cerise (a.) Cherry-colored; a light bright red; -- applied to textile fabrics, especially silk.,
C as in Cerite (n.) A gastropod shell belonging to the family Cerithiidae; -- so called from its hornlike form.,
C as in Cerite (n.) A mineral of a brownish of cherry-red color, commonly massive. It is a hydrous silicate of cerium and allied metals.,
C as in Cerium (n.) A rare metallic element, occurring in the minerals cerite, allanite, monazite, etc. Symbol Ce. Atomic weight 141.5. It resembles iron in color and luster, but is soft, and both malleable and ductile. It tarnishes readily in the air.,
C as in Cernuous (a.) Inclining or nodding downward; pendulous; drooping; -- said of a bud, flower, fruit, or the capsule of a moss.,
C as in Cero (n.) A large and valuable fish of the Mackerel family, of the genus Scomberomorus. Two species are found in the West Indies and less commonly on the Atlantic coast of the United States, -- the common cero (Scomberomorus caballa), called also kingfish, and spotted, or king, cero (S. regalis).,
C as in Cerograph (n.) A writing on wax.,
C as in Cerographic (a.) Alt. of Cerographical,
C as in Cerographical (a.) Of or pertaining to cerography.,
C as in Cerographist (n.) One who practices cerography.,
C as in Cerography (n.) The art of making characters or designs in, or with, wax.,
C as in Cerography (n.) A method of making stereotype plates from inscribed sheets of wax.,
C as in Cerolite (n.) A hydrous silicate of magnesium, allied to serpentine, occurring in waxlike masses of a yellow or greenish color.,
C as in Ceroma (n.) The unguent (a composition of oil and wax) with which wrestlers were anointed among the ancient Romans.,
C as in Ceroma (n.) That part of the baths and gymnasia in which bathers and wrestlers anointed themselves.,
C as in Ceroma (n.) The cere of birds.,
C as in Ceromancy (n.) Divination by dropping melted wax in water.,
C as in Ceroon (n.) A bale or package. covered with hide, or with wood bound with hide; as, a ceroon of indigo, cochineal, etc.,
C as in Ceroplastic (a.) Relating to the art of modeling in wax.,
C as in Ceroplastic (a.) Modeled in wax; as, a ceroplastic figure.,
C as in Ceroplastics (n.) Alt. of Ceroplasty,
C as in Ceroplasty (n.) The art of modeling in wax.,
C as in Cerosin (n.) A waxy substance obtained from the bark of the sugar cane, and crystallizing in delicate white laminae.,
C as in Cerote (n.) See Cerate.,
C as in Cerotene (n.) A white waxy solid obtained from Chinese wax, and by the distillation of cerotin.,
C as in Cerotic (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, beeswax or Chinese wax; as, cerotic acid or alcohol.,
C as in Cerotin (n.) A white crystalline substance, C27H55.OH, obtained from Chinese wax, and regarded as an alcohol of the marsh gas series; -- called also cerotic alcohol, ceryl alcohol.,
C as in Cerrial (a.) Of or pertaining to the cerris.,
C as in Cerris (n.) A species of oak (Quercus cerris) native in the Orient and southern Europe; -- called also bitter oak and Turkey oak.,
C as in Certain (a.) Assured in mind; having no doubts; free from suspicions concerning.,
C as in Certain (a.) Determined; resolved; -- used with an infinitive.,
C as in Certain (a.) Not to be doubted or denied; established as a fact.,
C as in Certain (a.) Actually existing; sure to happen; inevitable.,
C as in Certain (a.) Unfailing; infallible.,
C as in Certain (a.) Fixed or stated; regular; determinate.,
C as in Certain (a.) Not specifically named; indeterminate; indefinite; one or some; -- sometimes used independenty as a noun, and meaning certain persons.,
C as in Certain (n.) Certainty.,
C as in Certain (n.) A certain number or quantity.,
C as in Certain (adv.) Certainly.,
C as in Certainly (adv.) Without doubt or question; unquestionably.,
C as in Certainness (n.) Certainty.,
C as in Certainties (pl. ) of Certainty,
C as in Certainty (n.) The quality, state, or condition, of being certain.,
C as in Certainty (n.) A fact or truth unquestionable established.,
C as in Certainty (n.) Clearness; freedom from ambiguity; lucidity.,
C as in Certes (adv.) Certainly; in truth; verily.,
C as in Certificate (n.) A written testimony to the truth of any fact; as, certificate of good behavior.,
C as in Certificate (n.) A written declaration legally authenticated.,
C as in Certificated (imp. & p. p.) of Certificate,
C as in Certificating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Certificate,
C as in Certificate (v. t.) To verify or vouch for by certificate.,
C as in Certificate (v. t.) To furnish with a certificate; as, to certificate the captain of a vessel; a certificated teacher.,
C as in Certification (n.) The act of certifying.,
C as in Certifier (n.) One who certifies or assures.,
C as in Certified (imp. & p. p.) of Certify,
C as in Certifying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Certify,
C as in Certify (v. t.) To give cetain information to; to assure; to make certain.,
C as in Certify (v. t.) To give certain information of; to make certain, as a fact; to verify.,
C as in Certify (v. t.) To testify to in writing; to make a declaration concerning, in writing, under hand, or hand and seal.,
C as in Certiorari (n.) A writ issuing out of chancery, or a superior court, to call up the records of a inferior court, or remove a cause there depending, in order that the party may have more sure and speedy justice, or that errors and irregularities may be corrected. It is obtained upon complaint of a party that he has not received justice, or can not have an impartial trial in the inferior court.,
C as in Certitude (n.) Freedom from doubt; assurance; certainty.,
C as in Cerule (a.) Blue; cerulean.,
C as in Cerulean (a.) Sky-colored; blue; azure.,
C as in Ceruleous (a.) Cerulean.,
C as in Cerulific (a.) Producing a blue or sky color.,
C as in Cerumen (n.) The yellow, waxlike secretion from the glands of the external ear; the earwax.,
C as in Ceruminous (a.) Pertaining to, or secreting, cerumen; as, the ceruminous glands.,
C as in Ceruse (n.) White lead, used as a pigment. See White lead, under White.,
C as in Ceruse (n.) A cosmetic containing white lead.,
C as in Ceruse (n.) The native carbonate of lead.,
C as in Cerused (a.) Washed with a preparation of white lead; as, cerused face.,
C as in Cerusite (n.) Alt. of Cerussite,
C as in Cerussite (n.) Native lead carbonate; a mineral occurring in colorless, white, or yellowish transparent crystals, with an adamantine, also massive and compact.,
C as in Cervantite (n.) See under Antimony.,
C as in Cervelat (n.) An ancient wind instrument, resembling the bassoon in tone.,
C as in Cervical (a.) Of or pertaining to the neck; as, the cervical vertebrae.,
C as in Cervicide (n.) The act of killing deer; deer-slaying.,
C as in Cervine (a.) Of or pertaining to the deer, or to the family Cervidae.,
C as in Cervixes (pl. ) of Cervix,
C as in Cervices (pl. ) of Cervix,
C as in Cervix (n.) The neck; also, the necklike portion of any part, as of the womb. See Illust. of Bird.,
C as in Cervus (n.) A genus of ruminants, including the red deer and other allied species.,
C as in Ceryl (n.) A radical, C27H55 supposed to exist in several compounds obtained from Chinese wax, beeswax, etc.,
C as in Cesarean (a.) Alt. of Cesarian,
C as in Cesarian (a.) Same as Caesarean, Caesarian.,
C as in Cesarism (n.) See Caesarism.,
C as in Cespitine (n.) An oil obtained by distillation of peat, and containing various members of the pyridine series.,
C as in Cespititious (a.) Same as Cespitious.,
C as in Cespitose (a.) Having the form a piece of turf, i. e., many stems from one rootstock or from many entangled rootstocks or roots.,
C as in Cespitous (a.) Pertaining to, consisting, of resembling, turf; turfy.,
C as in Cess (n.) A rate or tax.,
C as in Cess (n.) Bound; measure.,
C as in Cessed (imp. & p. p.) of Cess,
C as in Cessing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cess,
C as in Cess (v. t.) To rate; to tax; to assess.,
C as in Cess (v. i.) To cease; to neglect.,
C as in Cessant (a.) Inactive; dormant,
C as in Cessation (n.) A ceasing or discontinuance, as of action, whether temporary or final; a stop; as, a cessation of the war.,
C as in Cessavit (n.) A writ given by statute to recover lands when the tenant has for two years failed to perform the conditions of his tenure.,
C as in Cesser (v. i.) a neglect of a tenant to perform services, or make payment, for two years.,
C as in Cessible (a.) Giving way; yielding.,
C as in Cession (n.) A yielding to physical force.,
C as in Cession (n.) Concession; compliance.,
C as in Cession (n.) A yielding, or surrender, as of property or rights, to another person; the act of ceding.,
C as in Cession (n.) The giving up or vacating a benefice by accepting another without a proper dispensation.,
C as in Cession (n.) The voluntary surrender of a person's effects to his creditors to avoid imprisonment.,
C as in Cessionary (a.) Having surrendered the effects; as, a cessionary bankrupt.,
C as in Cessment (v. t.) An assessment or tax.,
C as in Cessor (v. i.) One who neglects, for two years, to perform the service by which he holds lands, so that he incurs the danger of the writ of cessavit. See Cessavit.,
C as in Cessor (v. t.) An assessor.,
C as in Cesspipe (n.) A pipe for carrying off waste water, etc., from a sink or cesspool.,
C as in Cesspool (n.) A cistern in the course, or the termination, of a drain, to collect sedimentary or superfluous matter; a privy vault; any receptacle of filth.,
C as in Cest (n.) A woman's girdle; a cestus.,
C as in Cestode (a.) Of or pertaining to the Cestoidea.,
C as in Cestode (n.) One of the Cestoidea.,
C as in Cestoid (a.) Of or pertaining to the Cestoidea.,
C as in Cestoid (n.) One of the Cestoidea.,
C as in Cestoidea (n. pl.) A class of parasitic worms (Platelminthes) of which the tapeworms are the most common examples. The body is flattened, and usually but not always long, and composed of numerous joints or segments, each of which may contain a complete set of male and female reproductive organs. They have neither mouth nor intestine. See Tapeworm.,
C as in Cestoldean (n.) One of the Cestoidea.,
C as in Cestraciont (n.) A shark of the genus Cestracion, and of related genera. The posterior teeth form a pavement of bony plates for crushing shellfish. Most of the species are extinct. The Port Jackson shark and a similar one found in California are living examples.,
C as in Cestraciont (a.) Pertaining to, or characteristic of, the genus Cestracion.,
C as in Cestus (n.) A girdle; particularly that of Aphrodite (or Venus) which gave the wearer the power of exciting love.,
C as in Cestus (n.) A genus of Ctenophora. The typical species (Cestus Veneris) is remarkable for its brilliant iridescent colors, and its long, girdlelike form.,
C as in Cestus (n.) A covering for the hands of boxers, made of leather bands, and often loaded with lead or iron.,
C as in Cestuy (pron.) Alt. of Cestui,
C as in Cestui (pron.) He; the one.,
C as in Cesura (n.) See Caesura.,
C as in Cesural (a.) See Caesural.,
C as in Cetacea (n. pl.) An order of marine mammals, including the whales. Like ordinary mammals they breathe by means of lungs, and bring forth living young which they suckle for some time. The anterior limbs are changed to paddles; the tail flukes are horizontal. There are two living suborders:,
C as in Cetacean (n.) One of the Cetacea.,
C as in Cetaceous (a.) Of or pertaining to the Cetacea.,
C as in Cete (n.) One of the Cetacea, or collectively, the Cetacea.,
C as in Cetene (n.) An oily hydrocarbon, C16H32, of the ethylene series, obtained from spermaceti.,
C as in Ceterach (n.) A species of fern with fronds (Asplenium Ceterach).,
C as in Cetewale (n.) Same as Zedoary.,
C as in Cetic (a.) Of or pertaining to a whale.,
C as in Cetin (n.) A white, waxy substance, forming the essential part of spermaceti.,
C as in Cetological (a.) Of or pertaining to cetology.,
C as in Cetologist (a.) One versed in cetology.,
C as in Cetology (n.) The description or natural history of cetaceous animals.,
C as in Cetraric (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, the lichen, Iceland moss (Cetaria Islandica).,
C as in Cetrarin (n.) A white substance extracted from the lichen, Iceland moss (Cetraria Islandica). It consists of several ingredients, among which is cetraric acid, a white, crystalline, bitter substance.,
C as in Cetyl (n.) A radical, C16H33, not yet isolated, but supposed to exist in a series of compounds homologous with the ethyl compounds, and derived from spermaceti.,
C as in Cetylic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or derived from, spermaceti.,
C as in Ceylanite (n.) A dingy blue, or grayish black, variety of spinel. It is also called pleonaste.,
C as in Ceylonese (a.) Of or pertaining to Ceylon.,
C as in Ceylonese (n. sing. & pl.) A native or natives of Ceylon.,
C as in C. G. S. () An abbreviation for Centimeter, Gram, Second. -- applied to a system of units much employed in physical science, based upon the centimeter as the unit of length, the gram as the unit of weight or mass, and the second as the unit of time.,
C as in Chab (n.) The red-bellied wood pecker (Melanerpes Carolinus).,
C as in Chabasite (n.) Alt. of Cabazite,
C as in Cabazite (n.) A mineral occuring in glassy rhombohedral crystals, varying, in color from white to yellow or red. It is essentially a hydrous silicate of alumina and lime. Called also chabasie.,
C as in Chablis (n.) A white wine made near Chablis, a town in France.,
C as in Chablis (n.) a white wine resembling Chablis{1}, but made elsewhere, as in California.,
C as in Chabouk (n.) Alt. of Chabuk,
C as in Chabuk (n.) A long whip, such as is used in the East in the infliction of punishment.,
C as in Chace (n.) See 3d Chase, n., 3.,
C as in Chace (v. t.) To pursue. See Chase v. t.,
C as in Chachalaca (n.) The Texan guan (Ortalis vetula).,
C as in Chak (v. i.) To toss up the head frequently, as a horse to avoid the restraint of the bridle.,
C as in Chacma (n.) A large species of African baboon (Cynocephalus porcarius); -- called also ursine baboon. [See Illust. of Baboon.],
C as in Chaconne (n.) An old Spanish dance in moderate three-four measure, like the Passacaglia, which is slower. Both are used by classical composers as themes for variations.,
C as in Chad (n.) See Shad.,
C as in Chaetetes (n.) A genus of fossil corals, common in the lower Silurian limestones.,
C as in Chaetiferous (a.) Bearing setae.,
C as in Chaetodont (n.) A marine fish of the family Chaetodontidae. The chaetodonts have broad, compressed bodies, and usually bright colors.,
C as in Chaetodont (a.) Of or pertaining to the Chaetodonts or the family Chaetodontidae.,
C as in Chaetognath (a.) Of or pertaining to the Chaetognatha.,
C as in Chaetognatha (n. pl.) An order of free-swimming marine worms, of which the genus Sagitta is the type. They have groups of curved spines on each side of the head.,
C as in Chaetopod (a.) Pertaining to the Chaetopoda.,
C as in Chaetopod (n.) One of the Chaetopoda.,
C as in Chaetopoda (n. pl.) A very extensive order of Annelida, characterized by the presence of lateral setae, or spines, on most or all of the segments. They are divided into two principal groups: Oligochaeta, including the earthworms and allied forms, and Polychaeta, including most of the marine species.,
C as in Chaetotaxy (n.) The arrangement of bristles on an insect.,
C as in Chafed (imp. & p. p.) of Chafe,
C as in Chafing (p pr. & vb. n.) of Chafe,
C as in Chafe (v. t.) To excite heat in by friction; to rub in order to stimulate and make warm.,
C as in Chafe (v. t.) To excite passion or anger in; to fret; to irritate.,
C as in Chafe (v. t.) To fret and wear by rubbing; as, to chafe a cable.,
C as in Chafe (v. i.) To rub; to come together so as to wear by rubbing; to wear by friction.,
C as in Chafe (v. i.) To be worn by rubbing; as, a cable chafes.,
C as in Chafe (v. i.) To have a feeling of vexation; to be vexed; to fret; to be irritated.,
C as in Chafe (n.) Heat excited by friction.,
C as in Chafe (n.) Injury or wear caused by friction.,
C as in Chafe (n.) Vexation; irritation of mind; rage.,
C as in Chafer (n.) One who chafes.,
C as in Chafer (n.) A vessel for heating water; -- hence, a dish or pan.,
C as in Chafer (n.) A kind of beetle; the cockchafer. The name is also applied to other species; as, the rose chafer.,
C as in Chafery (v. t.) An open furnace or forge, in which blooms are heated before being wrought into bars.,
C as in Chafewax (n.) Alt. of Chaffwax,
C as in Chaffwax (n.) Formerly a chancery officer who fitted wax for sealing writs and other documents.,
C as in Chafeweed (n.) The cudweed (Gnaphalium), used to prevent or cure chafing.,
C as in Chaff (n.) The glumes or husks of grains and grasses separated from the seed by threshing and winnowing, etc.,
C as in Chaff (n.) Anything of a comparatively light and worthless character; the refuse part of anything.,
C as in Chaff (n.) Straw or hay cut up fine for the food of cattle.,
C as in Chaff (n.) Light jesting talk; banter; raillery.,
C as in Chaff (n.) The scales or bracts on the receptacle, which subtend each flower in the heads of many Compositae, as the sunflower.,
C as in Chaffed (imp. & p. p.) of Chaff,
C as in Chaffing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chaff,
C as in Chaff (v. i.) To use light, idle language by way of fun or ridicule; to banter.,
C as in Chaff (v. t.) To make fun of; to turn into ridicule by addressing in ironical or bantering language; to quiz.,
C as in Chaffer (n.) One who chaffs.,
C as in Chaffer (n.) Bargaining; merchandise.,
C as in Chaffered (imp. & p. p.) of Chaffer,
C as in Chaffering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chaffer,
C as in Chaffer (n.) To treat or dispute about a purchase; to bargain; to haggle or higgle; to negotiate.,
C as in Chaffer (n.) To talk much and idly; to chatter.,
C as in Chaffer (v. t.) To buy or sell; to trade in.,
C as in Chaffer (v. t.) To exchange; to bandy, as words.,
C as in Chafferer (n.) One who chaffers; a bargainer.,
C as in Chaffern (v. t.) A vessel for heating water.,
C as in Chaffery (n.) Traffic; bargaining.,
C as in Chaffinch (n.) A bird of Europe (Fringilla coelebs), having a variety of very sweet songs, and highly valued as a cage bird; -- called also copper finch.,
C as in Chaffing (n.) The use of light, frivolous language by way of fun or ridicule; raillery; banter.,
C as in Chaffless (a.) Without chaff.,
C as in Chaffy (a.) Abounding in, or resembling, chaff.,
C as in Chaffy (a.) Light or worthless as chaff.,
C as in Chaffy (a.) Resembling chaff; composed of light dry scales.,
C as in Chaffy (a.) Bearing or covered with dry scales, as the under surface of certain ferns, or the disk of some composite flowers.,
C as in Chafing (v. t.) The act of rubbing, or wearing by friction; making by rubbing.,
C as in Chagreen (n.) See Shagreen.,
C as in Chagrin (n.) Vexation; mortification.,
C as in Chagrined (imp. & p. p.) of Chagrin,
C as in Chargrining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chagrin,
C as in Chagrin (n.) To excite ill-humor in; to vex; to mortify; as, he was not a little chagrined.,
C as in Chagrin (v. i.) To be vexed or annoyed.,
C as in Chagrin (a.) Chagrined.,
C as in Chain (n.) A series of links or rings, usually of metal, connected, or fitted into one another, used for various purposes, as of support, of restraint, of ornament, of the exertion and transmission of mechanical power, etc.,
C as in Chain (n.) That which confines, fetters, or secures, as a chain; a bond; as, the chains of habit.,
C as in Chain (n.) A series of things linked together; or a series of things connected and following each other in succession; as, a chain of mountains; a chain of events or ideas.,
C as in Chain (n.) An instrument which consists of links and is used in measuring land.,
C as in Chain (n.) Iron links bolted to the side of a vessel to bold the dead-eyes connected with the shrouds; also, the channels.,
C as in Chain (n.) The warp threads of a web.,
C as in Chained (imp. p. p.) of Chain,
C as in Chaining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chain,
C as in Chain (v. t.) To fasten, bind, or connect with a chain; to fasten or bind securely, as with a chain; as, to chain a bulldog.,
C as in Chain (v. t.) To keep in slavery; to enslave.,
C as in Chain (v. t.) To unite closely and strongly.,
C as in Chain (v. t.) To measure with the chain.,
C as in Chain (v. t.) To protect by drawing a chain across, as a harbor.,
C as in Chainless (a.) Having no chain; not restrained or fettered.,
C as in Chainlet (n.) A small chain.,
C as in Chain pump () A pump consisting of an endless chain, running over a drum or wheel by which it is moved, and dipping below the water to be raised. The chain has at intervals disks or lifts which fit the tube through which the ascending part passes and carry the water to the point of discharge.,
C as in Chain stitch () An ornamental stitch like the links of a chain; -- used in crocheting, sewing, and embroidery.,
C as in Chain stitch () A stitch in which the looping of the thread or threads forms a chain on the under side of the work; the loop stitch, as distinguished from the lock stitch. See Stitch.,
C as in Chain wheel () A chain pulley, or sprocket wheel.,
C as in Chain wheel () An inversion of the chain pump, by which it becomes a motor driven by water.,
C as in Chainwork (n.) Work looped or linked after the manner of a chain; chain stitch work.,
C as in Chair (n.) A movable single seat with a back.,
C as in Chair (n.) An official seat, as of a chief magistrate or a judge, but esp. that of a professor; hence, the office itself.,
C as in Chair (n.) The presiding officer of an assembly; a chairman; as, to address the chair.,
C as in Chair (n.) A vehicle for one person; either a sedan borne upon poles, or two-wheeled carriage, drawn by one horse; a gig.,
C as in Chair (n.) An iron block used on railways to support the rails and secure them to the sleepers.,
C as in Chaired (imp. & p. pr.) of Chair,
C as in Chairing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chair,
C as in Chair (v. t.) To place in a chair.,
C as in Chair (v. t.) To carry publicly in a chair in triumph.,
C as in Chairmen (pl. ) of Chairman,
C as in Chairman (n.) The presiding officer of a committee, or of a public or private meeting, or of any organized body.,
C as in Chairman (n.) One whose business it is to cary a chair or sedan.,
C as in Chairmanship (n.) The office of a chairman of a meeting or organized body.,
C as in Chaise (n.) A two-wheeled carriage for two persons, with a calash top, and the body hung on leather straps, or thorough-braces. It is usually drawn by one horse.,
C as in Chaise (n.) a carriage in general.,
C as in Chaja (n.) The crested screamer of Brazil (Palamedea, / Chauna, chavaria), so called in imitation of its notes; -- called also chauna, and faithful kamichi. It is often domesticated and is useful in guarding other poultry. See Kamichi.,
C as in Chalazas (pl. ) of Chalaza,
C as in Chalazae (pl. ) of Chalaza,
C as in Chalaza (n.) The place on an ovule, or seed, where its outer coats cohere with each other and the nucleus.,
C as in Chalaza (n.) A spiral band of thickened albuminous substance which exists in the white of the bird's egg, and serves to maintain the yolk in its position; the treadle.,
C as in Chalazal (a.) Of or pertaining to the chalaza.,
C as in Chalaze (n.) Same as Chalaza.,
C as in Chalaziferous (a.) Having or bearing chalazas.,
C as in Chalazion (n.) A small circumscribed tumor of the eyelid caused by retention of secretion, and by inflammation of the Melbomian glands.,
C as in Chalcanthite (n.) Native blue vitriol. See Blue vitriol, under Blue.,
C as in Chalcedonic (a.) Of or pertaining to chalcedony.,
C as in Chalcedonies (pl. ) of Chalcedony,
C as in Chalcedony (n.) A cryptocrystalline, translucent variety of quartz, having usually a whitish color, and a luster nearly like wax.,
C as in Chalchihuitl (n.) The Mexican name for turquoise. See Turquoise.,
C as in Chalcid fly () One of a numerous family of hymenopterous insects (Chalcididae. Many are gallflies, others are parasitic on insects.,
C as in Chalcidian (n.) One of a tropical family of snakelike lizards (Chalcidae), having four small or rudimentary legs.,
C as in Chalcocite (n.) Native copper sulphide, called also copper glance, and vitreous copper; a mineral of a black color and metallic luster.,
C as in Chalcographer (n.) Alt. of Chalcographist,
C as in Chalcographist (n.) An engraver on copper or brass; hence, an engraver of copper plates for printing upon paper.,
C as in Chalcography (n.) The act or art of engraving on copper or brass, especially of engraving for printing.,
C as in Chalcopyrite (n.) Copper pyrites, or yellow copper ore; a common ore of copper, containing copper, iron, and sulphur. It occurs massive and in tetragonal crystals of a bright brass yellow color.,
C as in Chaldaic (a.) Of or pertaining to Chaldea.,
C as in Chaldaic (n.) The language or dialect of the Chaldeans; Chaldee.,
C as in Chaldaism (n.) An idiom or peculiarity in the Chaldee dialect.,
C as in Chaldean (a.) Of or pertaining to Chaldea.,
C as in Chaldean (n.) A native or inhabitant of Chaldea.,
C as in Chaldean (n.) A learned man, esp. an astrologer; -- so called among the Eastern nations, because astrology and the kindred arts were much cultivated by the Chaldeans.,
C as in Chaldean (n.) Nestorian.,
C as in Chaldee (a.) Of or pertaining to Chaldea.,
C as in Chaldee (n.) The language or dialect of the Chaldeans; eastern Aramaic, or the Aramaic used in Chaldea.,
C as in Chaldrich (n.) Alt. of Chalder,
C as in Chalder (n.) A kind of bird; the oyster catcher.,
C as in Chaldron (n.) An English dry measure, being, at London, 36 bushels heaped up, or its equivalent weight, and more than twice as much at Newcastle. Now used exclusively for coal and coke.,
C as in Chalet (n.) A herdsman's hut in the mountains of Switzerland.,
C as in Chalet (n.) A summer cottage or country house in the Swiss mountains; any country house built in the style of the Swiss cottages.,
C as in Chalice (n.) A cup or bowl; especially, the cup used in the sacrament of the Lord's Supper.,
C as in Chaliced (a.) Having a calyx or cup; cup-shaped.,
C as in Chalk (n.) A soft, earthy substance, of a white, grayish, or yellowish white color, consisting of calcium carbonate, and having the same composition as common limestone.,
C as in Chalk (n.) Finely prepared chalk, used as a drawing implement; also, by extension, a compound, as of clay and black lead, or the like, used in the same manner. See Crayon.,
C as in Chalked (imp. & p. p.) of Chalk,
C as in Chalking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chalk,
C as in Chalk (v. t.) To rub or mark with chalk.,
C as in Chalk (v. t.) To manure with chalk, as land.,
C as in Chalk (v. t.) To make white, as with chalk; to make pale; to bleach.,
C as in Chalkcutter (n.) A man who digs chalk.,
C as in Chalkiness (n.) The state of being chalky.,
C as in Chalkstone (n.) A mass of chalk.,
C as in Chalkstone (n.) A chalklike concretion, consisting mainly of urate of sodium, found in and about the small joints, in the external ear, and in other situations, in those affected with gout; a tophus.,
C as in Chalky (a.) Consisting of, or resembling, chalk; containing chalk; as, a chalky cliff; a chalky taste.,
C as in Challenge (n.) An invitation to engage in a contest or controversy of any kind; a defiance; specifically, a summons to fight a duel; also, the letter or message conveying the summons.,
C as in Challenge (n.) The act of a sentry in halting any one who appears at his post, and demanding the countersign.,
C as in Challenge (n.) A claim or demand.,
C as in Challenge (n.) The opening and crying of hounds at first finding the scent of their game.,
C as in Challenge (n.) An exception to a juror or to a member of a court martial, coupled with a demand that he should be held incompetent to act; the claim of a party that a certain person or persons shall not sit in trial upon him or his cause.,
C as in Challenge (n.) An exception to a person as not legally qualified to vote. The challenge must be made when the ballot is offered.,
C as in Challenged (imp. & p. p.) of Challenge,
C as in Challenging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Challenge,
C as in Challenge (n.) To call to a contest of any kind; to call to answer; to defy.,
C as in Challenge (n.) To call, invite, or summon to answer for an offense by personal combat.,
C as in Challenge (n.) To claim as due; to demand as a right.,
C as in Challenge (n.) To censure; to blame.,
C as in Challenge (n.) To question or demand the countersign from (one who attempts to pass the lines); as, the sentinel challenged us, with "Who comes there?",
C as in Challenge (n.) To take exception to; question; as, to challenge the accuracy of a statement or of a quotation.,
C as in Challenge (n.) To object to or take exception to, as to a juror, or member of a court.,
C as in Challenge (n.) To object to the reception of the vote of, as on the ground that the person in not qualified as a voter.,
C as in Challenge (v. i.) To assert a right; to claim a place.,
C as in Challengeable (a.) That may be challenged.,
C as in Challenger (n.) One who challenges.,
C as in Challis (n.) A soft and delicate woolen, or woolen and silk, fabric, for ladies' dresses.,
C as in Chalon (n.) A bed blanket.,
C as in Chalybean (a.) Of or pertaining to the Chalybes, an ancient people of Pontus in Asia Minor, celebrated for working in iron and steel.,
C as in Chalybean (a.) Of superior quality and temper; -- applied to steel.,
C as in Chalybeate (a.) Impregnated with salts of iron; having a taste like iron; as, chalybeate springs.,
C as in Chalybeate (n.) Any water, liquid, or medicine, into which iron enters as an ingredient.,
C as in Chalybeous (a.) Steel blue; of the color of tempered steel.,
C as in Chalybite (n.) Native iron carbonate; -- usually called siderite.,
C as in Cham (v. t.) To chew.,
C as in Cham (n.) The sovereign prince of Tartary; -- now usually written khan.,
C as in Chamade (n.) A signal made for a parley by beat of a drum.,
C as in Chamal (n.) The Angora goat. See Angora goat, under Angora.,
C as in Chamber (n.) A retired room, esp. an upper room used for sleeping; a bedroom; as, the house had four chambers.,
C as in Chamber (n.) Apartments in a lodging house.,
C as in Chamber (n.) A hall, as where a king gives audience, or a deliberative body or assembly meets; as, presence chamber; senate chamber.,
C as in Chamber (n.) A legislative or judicial body; an assembly; a society or association; as, the Chamber of Deputies; the Chamber of Commerce.,
C as in Chamber (n.) A compartment or cell; an inclosed space or cavity; as, the chamber of a canal lock; the chamber of a furnace; the chamber of the eye.,
C as in Chamber (n.) A room or rooms where a lawyer transacts business; a room or rooms where a judge transacts such official business as may be done out of court.,
C as in Chamber (n.) A chamber pot.,
C as in Chamber (n.) That part of the bore of a piece of ordnance which holds the charge, esp. when of different diameter from the rest of the bore; -- formerly, in guns, made smaller than the bore, but now larger, esp. in breech-loading guns.,
C as in Chamber (n.) A cavity in a mine, usually of a cubical form, to contain the powder.,
C as in Chamber (n.) A short piece of ordnance or cannon, which stood on its breech, without any carriage, formerly used chiefly for rejoicings and theatrical cannonades.,
C as in Chambered (imp. & p. p.) of Chamber,
C as in Chambering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chamber,
C as in Chamber (v. i.) To reside in or occupy a chamber or chambers.,
C as in Chamber (v. i.) To be lascivious.,
C as in Chamber (v. t.) To shut up, as in a chamber.,
C as in Chamber (v. t.) To furnish with a chamber; as, to chamber a gun.,
C as in Chambered (a.) Having a chamber or chambers; as, a chambered shell; a chambered gun.,
C as in Chamberer (n.) One who attends in a chamber; a chambermaid.,
C as in Chamberer (n.) A civilian; a carpetmonger.,
C as in Chambering (n.) Lewdness.,
C as in Chamberlain (n.) An officer or servant who has charge of a chamber or chambers.,
C as in Chamberlain (n.) An upper servant of an inn.,
C as in Chamberlain (n.) An officer having the direction and management of the private chambers of a nobleman or monarch; hence, in Europe, one of the high officers of a court.,
C as in Chamberlain (n.) A treasurer or receiver of public money; as, the chamberlain of London, of North Wales, etc.,
C as in Chamberlainship (n.) Office of a chamberlain.,
C as in Chambermaid (n.) A maidservant who has the care of chambers, making the beds, sweeping, cleaning the rooms, etc.,
C as in Chambermaid (n.) A lady's maid.,
C as in Chambertin (n.) A red wine from Chambertin near Dijon, in Burgundy.,
C as in Chambrel (n.) Same as Gambrel.,
C as in Chameck (n.) A kind of spider monkey (Ateles chameck), having the thumbs rudimentary and without a nail.,
C as in Chameleon (n.) A lizardlike reptile of the genus Chamaeleo, of several species, found in Africa, Asia, and Europe. The skin is covered with fine granulations; the tail is prehensile, and the body is much compressed laterally, giving it a high back.,
C as in Chameleonize (v. t.) To change into various colors.,
C as in Chamfer (n.) The surface formed by cutting away the arris, or angle, formed by two faces of a piece of timber, stone, etc.,
C as in Chamfered (imp. & p. p.) of Chamfer,
C as in Chamfering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chamfer,
C as in Chamfer (v. t.) To cut a furrow in, as in a column; to groove; to channel; to flute.,
C as in Chamfer (v. t.) To make a chamfer on.,
C as in Chamfret (n.) A small gutter; a furrow; a groove.,
C as in Chamfret (n.) A chamfer.,
C as in Chamfron (n.) The frontlet, or head armor, of a horse.,
C as in Chamlet (n.) See Camlet.,
C as in Chamois (n.) A small species of antelope (Rupicapra tragus), living on the loftiest mountain ridges of Europe, as the Alps, Pyrenees, etc. It possesses remarkable agility, and is a favorite object of chase.,
C as in Chamois (n.) A soft leather made from the skin of the chamois, or from sheepskin, etc.; -- called also chamois leather, and chammy or shammy leather. See Shammy.,
C as in Chamomile (n.) See Camomile.,
C as in Champed (imp. & p. p.) of Champ,
C as in Champing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Champ,
C as in Champ (v. t.) To bite with repeated action of the teeth so as to be heard.,
C as in Champ (v. t.) To bite into small pieces; to crunch.,
C as in Champ (v. i.) To bite or chew impatiently.,
C as in Champ (n.) Alt. of Champe,
C as in Champe (n.) The field or ground on which carving appears in relief.,
C as in Champagne (n.) A light wine, of several kinds, originally made in the province of Champagne, in France.,
C as in Champaign (n.) A flat, open country.,
C as in Champaign (a.) Flat; open; level.,
C as in Champer (n.) One who champs, or bites.,
C as in Champertor (n.) One guilty of champerty; one who purchases a suit, or the right of suing, and carries it on at his own expense, in order to obtain a share of the gain.,
C as in Champerty (n.) Partnership in power; equal share of authority.,
C as in Champerty (n.) The prosecution or defense of a suit, whether by furnishing money or personal services, by one who has no legitimate concern therein, in consideration of an agreement that he shall receive, in the event of success, a share of the matter in suit; maintenance with the addition of an agreement to divide the thing in suit. See Maintenance.,
C as in Champignon (n.) An edible species of mushroom (Agaricus campestris).,
C as in Chappion (n.) One who engages in any contest; esp. one who in ancient times contended in single combat in behalf of another's honor or rights; or one who acts or speaks in behalf of a person or a cause; a defender; an advocate; a hero.,
C as in Chappion (n.) One who by defeating all rivals, has obtained an acknowledged supremacy in any branch of athetics or game of skill, and is ready to contend with any rival; as, the champion of England.,
C as in Championed (imp. & p. p.) of Champion,
C as in Championing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Champion,
C as in Champion (v. t.) To furnish with a champion; to attend or defend as champion; to support or maintain; to protect.,
C as in Championness (n.) A female champion.,
C as in Championship (n.) State of being champion; leadership; supremacy.,
C as in Champlain period () A subdivision of the Quaternary age immediately following the Glacial period; -- so named from beds near Lake Champlain.,
C as in Chamsin (n.) See Kamsin.,
C as in Chance (n.) A supposed material or psychical agent or mode of activity other than a force, law, or purpose; fortune; fate; -- in this sense often personified.,
C as in Chance (n.) The operation or activity of such agent.,
C as in Chance (n.) The supposed effect of such an agent; something that befalls, as the result of unknown or unconsidered forces; the issue of uncertain conditions; an event not calculated upon; an unexpected occurrence; a happening; accident; fortuity; casualty.,
C as in Chance (n.) A possibility; a likelihood; an opportunity; -- with reference to a doubtful result; as, a chance to escape; a chance for life; the chances are all against him.,
C as in Chance (n.) Probability.,
C as in Chanced (imp. & p. p.) of Chance,
C as in Chancing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chance,
C as in Chance (v. i.) To happen, come, or arrive, without design or expectation.,
C as in Chance (v. t.) To take the chances of; to venture upon; -- usually with it as object.,
C as in Chance (v. t.) To befall; to happen to.,
C as in Chance (a.) Happening by chance; casual.,
C as in Chance (adv.) By chance; perchance.,
C as in Chanceable (a.) Fortuitous; casual.,
C as in Chanceably (adv.) By chance.,
C as in Chanceful (a.) Hazardous.,
C as in Chancel (v. t.) That part of a church, reserved for the use of the clergy, where the altar, or communion table, is placed.,
C as in Chancel (v. t.) All that part of a cruciform church which is beyond the line of the transept farthest from the main front.,
C as in Chancellery (n.) Chancellorship.,
C as in Chancellor (n.) A judicial court of chancery, which in England and in the United States is distinctively a court with equity jurisdiction.,
C as in Chancellorship (n.) The office of a chancellor; the time during which one is chancellor.,
C as in Chance-medley (n.) The killing of another in self-defense upon a sudden and unpremeditated encounter. See Chaud-Medley.,
C as in Chance-medley (n.) Luck; chance; accident.,
C as in Chancery (n.) In England, formerly, the highest court of judicature next to the Parliament, exercising jurisdiction at law, but chiefly in equity; but under the jurisdiction act of 1873 it became the chancery division of the High Court of Justice, and now exercises jurisdiction only in equity.,
C as in Chancery (n.) In the Unites States, a court of equity; equity; proceeding in equity.,
C as in Chancre (n.) A venereal sore or ulcer; specifically, the initial lesion of true syphilis, whether forming a distinct ulcer or not; -- called also hard chancre, indurated chancre, and Hunterian chancre.,
C as in Chancroid (n.) A venereal sore, resembling a chancre in its seat and some external characters, but differing from it in being the starting point of a purely local process and never of a systemic disease; -- called also soft chancre.,
C as in Chancrous (a.) Of the nature of a chancre; having chancre.,
C as in Chandelier (n.) A candlestick, lamp, stand, gas fixture, or the like, having several branches; esp., one hanging from the ceiling.,
C as in Chandelier (n.) A movable parapet, serving to support fascines to cover pioneers.,
C as in Chandler (n.) A maker or seller of candles.,
C as in Chandler (n.) A dealer in other commodities, which are indicated by a word prefixed; as, ship chandler, corn chandler.,
C as in Chandlerly (a.) Like a chandler; in a petty way.,
C as in Chandlery (n.) Commodities sold by a chandler.,
C as in Chandoo (n.) An extract or preparation of opium, used in China and India for smoking.,
C as in Chandry (n.) Chandlery.,
C as in Chanfrin (n.) The fore part of a horse's head.,
C as in Changed (imp. & p. p.) of Change,
C as in Changing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Change,
C as in Change (v. t.) To alter; to make different; to cause to pass from one state to another; as, to change the position, character, or appearance of a thing; to change the countenance.,
C as in Change (v. t.) To alter by substituting something else for, or by giving up for something else; as, to change the clothes; to change one's occupation; to change one's intention.,
C as in Change (v. t.) To give and take reciprocally; to exchange; -- followed by with; as, to change place, or hats, or money, with another.,
C as in Change (v. t.) Specifically: To give, or receive, smaller denominations of money (technically called change) for; as, to change a gold coin or a bank bill.,
C as in Change (v. i.) To be altered; to undergo variation; as, men sometimes change for the better.,
C as in Change (v. i.) To pass from one phase to another; as, the moon changes to-morrow night.,
C as in Change (v. t.) Any variation or alteration; a passing from one state or form to another; as, a change of countenance; a change of habits or principles.,
C as in Change (v. t.) A succesion or substitution of one thing in the place of another; a difference; novelty; variety; as, a change of seasons.,
C as in Change (v. t.) A passing from one phase to another; as, a change of the moon.,
C as in Change (v. t.) Alteration in the order of a series; permutation.,
C as in Change (v. t.) That which makes a variety, or may be substituted for another.,
C as in Change (v. t.) Small money; the money by means of which the larger coins and bank bills are made available in small dealings; hence, the balance returned when payment is tendered by a coin or note exceeding the sum due.,
C as in Change (v. t.) A place where merchants and others meet to transact business; a building appropriated for mercantile transactions.,
C as in Change (v. t.) A public house; an alehouse.,
C as in Change (v. t.) Any order in which a number of bells are struck, other than that of the diatonic scale.,
C as in Changeability (n.) Changeableness.,
C as in Changeable (a.) Capable of change; subject to alteration; mutable; variable; fickle; inconstant; as, a changeable humor.,
C as in Changeable (a.) Appearing different, as in color, in different lights, or under different circumstances; as, changeable silk.,
C as in Changeableness (n.) The quality of being changeable; fickleness; inconstancy; mutability.,
C as in Changeably (adv.) In a changeable manner.,
C as in Changeful (a.) Full of change; mutable; inconstant; fickle; uncertain.,
C as in Changeless (a.) That can not be changed; constant; as, a changeless purpose.,
C as in Changeling (n.) One who, or that which, is left or taken in the place of another, as a child exchanged by fairies.,
C as in Changeling (n.) A simpleton; an idiot.,
C as in Changeling (n.) One apt to change; a waverer.,
C as in Changeling (a.) Taken or left in place of another; changed.,
C as in Changeling (a.) Given to change; inconstant.,
C as in Changer (n.) One who changes or alters the form of anything.,
C as in Changer (n.) One who deals in or changes money.,
C as in Changer (n.) One apt to change; an inconstant person.,
C as in Chank (n.) The East Indian name for the large spiral shell of several species of sea conch much used in making bangles, esp. Turbinella pyrum. Called also chank chell.,
C as in Channel (n.) The hollow bed where a stream of water runs or may run.,
C as in Channel (n.) The deeper part of a river, harbor, strait, etc., where the main current flows, or which affords the best and safest passage for vessels.,
C as in Channel (n.) A strait, or narrow sea, between two portions of lands; as, the British Channel.,
C as in Channel (n.) That through which anything passes; means of passing, conveying, or transmitting; as, the news was conveyed to us by different channels.,
C as in Channel (n.) A gutter; a groove, as in a fluted column.,
C as in Channel (n.) Flat ledges of heavy plank bolted edgewise to the outside of a vessel, to increase the spread of the shrouds and carry them clear of the bulwarks.,
C as in Channeled (imp. & p. p.) of Channel,
C as in Channelled () of Channel,
C as in Channeling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Channel,
C as in Channelling () of Channel,
C as in Channel (v. t.) To form a channel in; to cut or wear a channel or channels in; to groove.,
C as in Channel (v. t.) To course through or over, as in a channel.,
C as in Channeling (n.) The act or process of forming a channel or channels.,
C as in Channeling (n.) A channel or a system of channels; a groove.,
C as in Chanson (n.) A song.,
C as in Chansonnettes (pl. ) of Chansonnette,
C as in Chansonnette (n.) A little song.,
C as in Chanted (imp. & p. p.) of Chant,
C as in Chanting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chant,
C as in Chant (v. t.) To utter with a melodious voice; to sing.,
C as in Chant (v. t.) To celebrate in song.,
C as in Chant (v. t.) To sing or recite after the manner of a chant, or to a tune called a chant.,
C as in Chant (v. i.) To make melody with the voice; to sing.,
C as in Chant (v. i.) To sing, as in reciting a chant.,
C as in Chant (v. t.) Song; melody.,
C as in Chant (v. t.) A short and simple melody, divided into two parts by double bars, to which unmetrical psalms, etc., are sung or recited. It is the most ancient form of choral music.,
C as in Chant (v. t.) A psalm, etc., arranged for chanting.,
C as in Chant (v. t.) Twang; manner of speaking; a canting tone.,
C as in Chantant (a.) Composed in a melodious and singing style.,
C as in Chanter (n.) One who chants; a singer or songster.,
C as in Chanter (n.) The chief singer of the chantry.,
C as in Chanter (n.) The flute or finger pipe in a bagpipe. See Bagpipe.,
C as in Chanter (n.) The hedge sparrow.,
C as in Chanterelle (n.) A name for several species of mushroom, of which one (Cantharellus cibrius) is edible, the others reputed poisonous.,
C as in Chanticleer (n.) A cock, so called from the clearness or loudness of his voice in crowing.,
C as in Chanting (n.) Singing, esp. as a chant is sung.,
C as in Chantor (n.) A chanter.,
C as in Chantress (n.) A female chanter or singer.,
C as in Chantries (pl. ) of Chantry,
C as in Chantry (n.) An endowment or foundation for the chanting of masses and offering of prayers, commonly for the founder.,
C as in Chantry (n.) A chapel or altar so endowed.,
C as in Chaomancy (n.) Divination by means of appearances in the air.,
C as in Chaos (n.) An empty, immeasurable space; a yawning chasm.,
C as in Chaos (n.) The confused, unorganized condition or mass of matter before the creation of distinct and orderly forms.,
C as in Chaos (n.) Any confused or disordered collection or state of things; a confused mixture; confusion; disorder.,
C as in Chaotic (a.) Resembling chaos; confused.,
C as in Chaotically (adv.) In a chaotic manner.,
C as in Chapped (imp. & p. p.) of Chap,
C as in Chapping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chap,
C as in Chap (v. t.) To cause to open in slits or chinks; to split; to cause the skin of to crack or become rough.,
C as in Chap (v. t.) To strike; to beat.,
C as in Chap (v. i.) To crack or open in slits; as, the earth chaps; the hands chap.,
C as in Chap (v. i.) To strike; to knock; to rap.,
C as in Chap (n.) A cleft, crack, or chink, as in the surface of the earth, or in the skin.,
C as in Chap (n.) A division; a breach, as in a party.,
C as in Chap (n.) A blow; a rap.,
C as in Chap (n.) One of the jaws or the fleshy covering of a jaw; -- commonly in the plural, and used of animals, and colloquially of human beings.,
C as in Chap (n.) One of the jaws or cheeks of a vise, etc.,
C as in Chap (n.) A buyer; a chapman.,
C as in Chap (n.) A man or boy; a youth; a fellow.,
C as in Chap (v. i.) To bargain; to buy.,
C as in Chaparral (n.) A thicket of low evergreen oaks.,
C as in Chaparral (n.) An almost impenetrable thicket or succession of thickets of thorny shrubs and brambles.,
C as in Chapbook (n.) Any small book carried about for sale by chapmen or hawkers. Hence, any small book; a toy book.,
C as in Chape (n.) The piece by which an object is attached to something, as the frog of a scabbard or the metal loop at the back of a buckle by which it is fastened to a strap.,
C as in Chape (n.) The transverse guard of a sword or dagger.,
C as in Chape (n.) The metal plate or tip which protects the end of a scabbard, belt, etc.,
C as in Chapeux (pl. ) of Chapeau,
C as in Chapeau (n.) A hat or covering for the head.,
C as in Chapeau (n.) A cap of maintenance. See Maintenance.,
C as in Chaped (p. p. / a.) Furnished with a chape or chapes.,
C as in Chapel (n.) A subordinate place of worship,
C as in Chapel (n.) a small church, often a private foundation, as for a memorial,
C as in Chapel (n.) a small building attached to a church,
C as in Chapel (n.) a room or recess in a church, containing an altar.,
C as in Chapel (n.) A place of worship not connected with a church; as, the chapel of a palace, hospital, or prison.,
C as in Chapel (n.) In England, a place of worship used by dissenters from the Established Church; a meetinghouse.,
C as in Chapel (n.) A choir of singers, or an orchestra, attached to the court of a prince or nobleman.,
C as in Chapel (n.) A printing office, said to be so called because printing was first carried on in England in a chapel near Westminster Abbey.,
C as in Chapel (n.) An association of workmen in a printing office.,
C as in Chapel (v. t.) To deposit or inter in a chapel; to enshrine.,
C as in Chapel (v. t.) To cause (a ship taken aback in a light breeze) so to turn or make a circuit as to recover, without bracing the yards, the same tack on which she had been sailing.,
C as in Chapeless (a.) Without a chape.,
C as in Chapelet (n.) A pair of straps, with stirrups, joined at the top and fastened to the pommel or the frame of the saddle, after they have been adjusted to the convenience of the rider.,
C as in Chapelet (n.) A kind of chain pump, or dredging machine.,
C as in Chapellanies (pl. ) of Chapellany,
C as in Chapellany (n.) A chapel within the jurisdiction of a church; a subordinate ecclesiastical foundation.,
C as in Chapelry (n.) The territorial district legally assigned to a chapel.,
C as in Chaperon (n.) A hood; especially, an ornamental or an official hood.,
C as in Chaperon (n.) A device placed on the foreheads of horses which draw the hearse in pompous funerals.,
C as in Chaperon (n.) A matron who accompanies a young lady in public, for propriety, or as a guide and protector.,
C as in Chaperoned (imp. & p. p.) of Chaperon,
C as in Chaperoning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chaperon,
C as in Chaperon (v. t.) To attend in public places as a guide and protector; to matronize.,
C as in Chaperonage (n.) Attendance of a chaperon on a lady in public; protection afforded by a chaperon.,
C as in Chapfallen (a.) Having the lower chap or jaw drooping, -- an indication of humiliation and dejection; crestfallen; discouraged. See Chopfallen.,
C as in Chapiter (n.) A capital [Obs.] See Chapital.,
C as in Chapiter (n.) A summary in writing of such matters as are to be inquired of or presented before justices in eyre, or justices of assize, or of the peace, in their sessions; -- also called articles.,
C as in Chaplain (n.) An ecclesiastic who has a chapel, or who performs religious service in a chapel.,
C as in Chaplain (n.) A clergyman who is officially attached to the army or navy, to some public institution, or to a family or court, for the purpose of performing divine service.,
C as in Chaplain (n.) Any person (clergyman or layman) chosen to conduct religious exercises for a society, etc.; as, a chaplain of a Masonic or a temperance lodge.,
C as in Chaplaincy (n.) The office, position, or station of a chaplain.,
C as in Chaplainship (n.) The office or business of a chaplain.,
C as in Chaplainship (n.) The possession or revenue of a chapel.,
C as in Chapless (a.) Having no lower jaw; hence, fleshless.,
C as in Chaplet (n.) A garland or wreath to be worn on the head.,
C as in Chaplet (n.) A string of beads, or part of a string, used by Roman Catholic in praying; a third of a rosary, or fifty beads.,
C as in Chaplet (n.) A small molding, carved into beads, pearls, olives, etc.,
C as in Chaplet (n.) A chapelet. See Chapelet, 1.,
C as in Chaplet (n.) A bent piece of sheet iron, or a pin with thin plates on its ends, for holding a core in place in the mold.,
C as in Chaplet (n.) A tuft of feathers on a peacock's head.,
C as in Chaplet (n.) A small chapel or shrine.,
C as in Chapleted (imp. & p. p.) of Chaplet,
C as in Chaplet (v. t.) To adorn with a chaplet or with flowers.,
C as in Chapmen (pl. ) of Chapman,
C as in Chapman (n.) One who buys and sells; a merchant; a buyer or a seller.,
C as in Chapman (n.) A peddler; a hawker.,
C as in Chappy () Full of chaps; cleft; gaping; open.,
C as in Chaps (n. pl.) The jaws, or the fleshy parts about them. See Chap.,
C as in Chapter (n.) A division of a book or treatise; as, Genesis has fifty chapters.,
C as in Chapter (n.) An assembly of monks, or of the prebends and other clergymen connected with a cathedral, conventual, or collegiate church, or of a diocese, usually presided over by the dean.,
C as in Chapter (n.) A community of canons or canonesses.,
C as in Chapter (n.) A bishop's council.,
C as in Chapter (n.) A business meeting of any religious community.,
C as in Chapter (n.) An organized branch of some society or fraternity as of the Freemasons.,
C as in Chapter (n.) A meeting of certain organized societies or orders.,
C as in Chapter (n.) A chapter house.,
C as in Chapter (n.) A decretal epistle.,
C as in Chapter (n.) A location or compartment.,
C as in Chapter (v. t.) To divide into chapters, as a book.,
C as in Chapter (v. t.) To correct; to bring to book, i. e., to demand chapter and verse.,
C as in Chaptrel (n.) An impost.,
C as in Char (n.) Alt. of Charr,
C as in Charr (n.) One of the several species of fishes of the genus Salvelinus, allied to the spotted trout and salmon, inhabiting deep lakes in mountainous regions in Europe. In the United States, the brook trout (Salvelinus fontinalis) is sometimes called a char.,
C as in Char (n.) A car; a chariot.,
C as in Char (n.) Work done by the day; a single job, or task; a chore.,
C as in Char (v. t.) Alt. of Chare,
C as in Chare (v. t.) To perform; to do; to finish.,
C as in Chare (v. t.) To work or hew, as stone.,
C as in Char (v. i.) Alt. of Chare,
C as in Chare (v. i.) To work by the day, without being a regularly hired servant; to do small jobs.,
C as in Charred (imp. & p. p.) of Char,
C as in Charring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Char,
C as in Char (n.) To reduce to coal or carbon by exposure to heat; to reduce to charcoal; to burn to a cinder.,
C as in Char (n.) To burn slightly or partially; as, to char wood.,
C as in Chara (n.) A genus of flowerless plants, having articulated stems and whorled branches. They flourish in wet places.,
C as in Chars-a-banc (pl. ) of Char-a-bancs,
C as in Char-a-bancs (n.) A long, light, open vehicle, with benches or seats running lengthwise.,
C as in Charact (n.) A distinctive mark; a character; a letter or sign. [Obs.] See Character.,
C as in Character (n.) A distinctive mark; a letter, figure, or symbol.,
C as in Character (n.) Style of writing or printing; handwriting; the peculiar form of letters used by a particular person or people; as, an inscription in the Runic character.,
C as in Character (n.) The peculiar quality, or the sum of qualities, by which a person or a thing is distinguished from others; the stamp impressed by nature, education, or habit; that which a person or thing really is; nature; disposition.,
C as in Character (n.) Strength of mind; resolution; independence; individuality; as, he has a great deal of character.,
C as in Character (n.) Moral quality; the principles and motives that control the life; as, a man of character; his character saves him from suspicion.,
C as in Character (n.) Quality, position, rank, or capacity; quality or conduct with respect to a certain office or duty; as, in the miserable character of a slave; in his character as a magistrate; her character as a daughter.,
C as in Character (n.) The estimate, individual or general, put upon a person or thing; reputation; as, a man's character for truth and veracity; to give one a bad character.,
C as in Character (n.) A written statement as to behavior, competency, etc., given to a servant.,
C as in Character (n.) A unique or extraordinary individuality; a person characterized by peculiar or notable traits; a person who illustrates certain phases of character; as, Randolph was a character; Caesar is a great historical character.,
C as in Character (n.) One of the persons of a drama or novel.,
C as in Charactered (imp. & p. p.) of Character,
C as in Character (v. t.) To engrave; to inscribe.,
C as in Character (v. t.) To distinguish by particular marks or traits; to describe; to characterize.,
C as in Characterism (n.) A distinction of character; a characteristic.,
C as in Characteristic (a.) Pertaining to, or serving to constitute, the character; showing the character, or distinctive qualities or traits, of a person or thing; peculiar; distinctive.,
C as in Characteristic (n.) A distinguishing trait, quality, or property; an element of character; that which characterized.,
C as in Characteristic (n.) The integral part (whether positive or negative) of a logarithm.,
C as in Characteristical (a.) Characteristic.,
C as in Characteristically (adv.) In a characteristic manner; in a way that characterizes.,
C as in Characterization (n.) The act or process of characterizing.,
C as in Characterized (imp. & p. p.) of Characterize,
C as in Characterizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Characterize,
C as in Characterize (v. t.) To make distinct and recognizable by peculiar marks or traits; to make with distinctive features.,
C as in Characterize (v. t.) To engrave or imprint.,
C as in Characterize (v. t.) To indicate the character of; to describe.,
C as in Characterize (v. t.) To be a characteristic of; to make, or express the character of.,
C as in Characterless (a.) Destitute of any distinguishing quality; without character or force.,
C as in Charactery (n.) The art or means of characterizing; a system of signs or characters; symbolism; distinctive mark.,
C as in Charactery (n.) That which is charactered; the meaning.,
C as in Charade (n.) A verbal or acted enigma based upon a word which has two or more significant syllables or parts, each of which, as well as the word itself, is to be guessed from the descriptions or representations.,
C as in Charbocle (n.) Carbuncle.,
C as in Charbon (n.) A small black spot or mark remaining in the cavity of the corner tooth of a horse after the large spot or mark has become obliterated.,
C as in Charbon (n.) A very contagious and fatal disease of sheep, horses, and cattle. See Maligmant pustule.,
C as in Charcoal (v. t.) Impure carbon prepared from vegetable or animal substances; esp., coal made by charring wood in a kiln, retort, etc., from which air is excluded. It is used for fuel and in various mechanical, artistic, and chemical processes.,
C as in Charcoal (v. t.) Finely prepared charcoal in small sticks, used as a drawing implement.,
C as in Chard (n.) The tender leaves or leafstalks of the artichoke, white beet, etc., blanched for table use.,
C as in Chard (n.) A variety of the white beet, which produces large, succulent leaves and leafstalks.,
C as in Chare (n.) A narrow street.,
C as in Chare (n. & v.) A chore; to chore; to do. See Char.,
C as in Charged (imp. & p. p.) of Charge,
C as in Charging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Charge,
C as in Charge (v. t.) To lay on or impose, as a load, tax, or burden; to load; to fill.,
C as in Charge (v. t.) To lay on or impose, as a task, duty, or trust; to command, instruct, or exhort with authority; to enjoin; to urge earnestly; as, to charge a jury; to charge the clergy of a diocese; to charge an agent.,
C as in Charge (v. t.) To lay on, impose, or make subject to or liable for.,
C as in Charge (v. t.) To fix or demand as a price; as, he charges two dollars a barrel for apples.,
C as in Charge (v. t.) To place something to the account of as a debt; to debit, as, to charge one with goods. Also, to enter upon the debit side of an account; as, to charge a sum to one.,
C as in Charge (v. t.) To impute or ascribe; to lay to one's charge.,
C as in Charge (v. t.) To accuse; to make a charge or assertion against (a person or thing); to lay the responsibility (for something said or done) at the door of.,
C as in Charge (v. t.) To place within or upon any firearm, piece of apparatus or machinery, the quantity it is intended and fitted to hold or bear; to load; to fill; as, to charge a gun; to charge an electrical machine, etc.,
C as in Charge (v. t.) To ornament with or cause to bear; as, to charge an architectural member with a molding.,
C as in Charge (v. t.) To assume as a bearing; as, he charges three roses or; to add to or represent on; as, he charges his shield with three roses or.,
C as in Charge (v. t.) To call to account; to challenge.,
C as in Charge (v. t.) To bear down upon; to rush upon; to attack.,
C as in Charge (v. i.) To make an onset or rush; as, to charge with fixed bayonets.,
C as in Charge (v. i.) To demand a price; as, to charge high for goods.,
C as in Charge (v. i.) To debit on an account; as, to charge for purchases.,
C as in Charge (v. i.) To squat on its belly and be still; -- a command given by a sportsman to a dog.,
C as in Charge (v. t.) A load or burder laid upon a person or thing.,
C as in Charge (v. t.) A person or thing commited or intrusted to the care, custody, or management of another; a trust.,
C as in Charge (v. t.) Custody or care of any person, thing, or place; office; responsibility; oversight; obigation; duty.,
C as in Charge (v. t.) Heed; care; anxiety; trouble.,
C as in Charge (v. t.) Harm.,
C as in Charge (v. t.) An order; a mandate or command; an injunction.,
C as in Charge (v. t.) An address (esp. an earnest or impressive address) containing instruction or exhortation; as, the charge of a judge to a jury; the charge of a bishop to his clergy.,
C as in Charge (v. t.) An accusation of a wrong of offense; allegation; indictment; specification of something alleged.,
C as in Charge (v. t.) Whatever constitutes a burden on property, as rents, taxes, lines, etc.; costs; expense incurred; -- usually in the plural.,
C as in Charge (v. t.) The price demanded for a thing or service.,
C as in Charge (v. t.) An entry or a account of that which is due from one party to another; that which is debited in a business transaction; as, a charge in an account book.,
C as in Charge (v. t.) That quantity, as of ammunition, electricity, ore, fuel, etc., which any apparatus, as a gun, battery, furnace, machine, etc., is intended to receive and fitted to hold, or which is actually in it at one time,
C as in Charge (v. t.) The act of rushing upon, or towards, an enemy; a sudden onset or attack, as of troops, esp. cavalry; hence, the signal for attack; as, to sound the charge.,
C as in Charge (v. t.) A position (of a weapon) fitted for attack; as, to bring a weapon to the charge.,
C as in Charge (v. t.) A soft of plaster or ointment.,
C as in Charge (v. t.) A bearing. See Bearing, n., 8.,
C as in Charge (n.) Thirty-six pigs of lead, each pig weighing about seventy pounds; -- called also charre.,
C as in Charge (n.) Weight; import; value.,
C as in Chargeable (a.) That may be charged, laid, imposed, or imputes; as, a duty chargeable on iron; a fault chargeable on a man.,
C as in Chargeable (a.) Subject to be charge or accused; liable or responsible; as, revenues chargeable with a claim; a man chargeable with murder.,
C as in Chargeable (a.) Serving to create expense; costly; burdensome.,
C as in Chargeableness (n.) The quality of being chargeable or expensive.,
C as in Chargeably (adv.) At great cost; expensively.,
C as in Chargeant (a.) Burdensome; troublesome.,
C as in Charges d'affaires (pl. ) of Charge d'affaires,
C as in Charge d'affaires (n.) A diplomatic representative, or minister of an inferior grade, accredited by the government of one state to the minister of foreign affairs of another; also, a substitute, ad interim, for an ambassador or minister plenipotentiary.,
C as in Chargeful (a.) Costly; expensive.,
C as in Chargehouse (n.) A schoolhouse.,
C as in Chargeless (a.) Free from, or with little, charge.,
C as in Chargeous (a.) Burdensome.,
C as in Charger (n.) One who, or that which charges.,
C as in Charger (n.) An instrument for measuring or inserting a charge.,
C as in Charger (n.) A large dish.,
C as in Charger (n.) A horse for battle or parade.,
C as in Chargeship (n.) The office of a charge d'affaires.,
C as in Charily (adv.) In a chary manner; carefully; cautiously; frugally.,
C as in Chariness (n.) The quality of being chary.,
C as in Chariot (n.) A two-wheeled car or vehicle for war, racing, state processions, etc.,
C as in Chariot (n.) A four-wheeled pleasure or state carriage, having one seat.,
C as in Charioted (imp. & p. p.) of Chariot,
C as in Charioting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chariot,
C as in Chariot (v. t.) To convey in a chariot.,
C as in Chariotee (n.) A light, covered, four-wheeled pleasure carriage with two seats.,
C as in Charioteer (n.) One who drives a chariot.,
C as in Charioteer (n.) A constellation. See Auriga, and Wagones.,
C as in Charism (n.) A miraculously given power, as of healing, speaking foreign languages without instruction, etc., attributed to some of the early Christians.,
C as in Charismatic (a.) Of or pertaining to a charism.,
C as in Charitable (a.) Full of love and good will; benevolent; kind.,
C as in Charitable (a.) Liberal in judging of others; disposed to look on the best side, and to avoid harsh judgment.,
C as in Charitable (a.) Liberal in benefactions to the poor; giving freely; generous; beneficent.,
C as in Charitable (a.) Of or pertaining to charity; springing from, or intended for, charity; relating to almsgiving; eleemosynary; as, a charitable institution.,
C as in Charitable (a.) Dictated by kindness; favorable; lenient.,
C as in Charitableness (n.) The quality of being charitable; the exercise of charity.,
C as in Charitably (adv.) In a charitable manner.,
C as in Charities (pl. ) of Charity,
C as in Charity (n.) Love; universal benevolence; good will.,
C as in Charity (n.) Liberality in judging of men and their actions; a disposition which inclines men to put the best construction on the words and actions of others.,
C as in Charity (n.) Liberality to the poor and the suffering, to benevolent institutions, or to worthy causes; generosity.,
C as in Charity (n.) Whatever is bestowed gratuitously on the needy or suffering for their relief; alms; any act of kindness.,
C as in Charity (n.) A charitable institution, or a gift to create and support such an institution; as, Lady Margaret's charity.,
C as in Charity (n.) Eleemosynary appointments [grants or devises] including relief of the poor or friendless, education, religious culture, and public institutions.,
C as in Charivari (n.) A mock serenade of discordant noises, made with kettles, tin horns, etc., designed to annoy and insult.,
C as in Chark (n.) Charcoal; a cinder.,
C as in Charked (imp. & p. p.) of Chark,
C as in Chark (v. t.) To burn to a coal; to char.,
C as in Charlatan (n.) One who prates much in his own favor, and makes unwarrantable pretensions; a quack; an impostor; an empiric; a mountebank.,
C as in Charlatanic (a.) Alt. of Charlatanical,
C as in Charlatanical (a.) Of or like a charlatan; making undue pretension; empirical; pretentious; quackish.,
C as in Charlatanism (n.) Charlatanry.,
C as in Charlatanry (n.) Undue pretensions to skill; quackery; wheedling; empiricism.,
C as in Charles's Wain () The group of seven stars, commonly called the Dipper, in the constellation Ursa Major, or Great Bear. See Ursa major, under Ursa.,
C as in Charlock (n.) A cruciferous plant (Brassica sinapistrum) with yellow flowers; wild mustard. It is troublesome in grain fields. Called also chardock, chardlock, chedlock, and kedlock.,
C as in Charlotte (n.) A kind of pie or pudding made by lining a dish with slices of bread, and filling it with bread soaked in milk, and baked.,
C as in Charm (n.) A melody; a song.,
C as in Charm (n.) A word or combination of words sung or spoken in the practice of magic; a magical combination of words, characters, etc.; an incantation.,
C as in Charm (n.) That which exerts an irresistible power to please and attract; that which fascinates; any alluring quality.,
C as in Charm (n.) Anything worn for its supposed efficacy to the wearer in averting ill or securing good fortune.,
C as in Charm (n.) Any small decorative object worn on the person, as a seal, a key, a silver whistle, or the like. Bunches of charms are often worn at the watch chain.,
C as in Charmed (imp. & p. p.) of Charm,
C as in Charming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Charm,
C as in Charm (n.) To make music upon; to tune.,
C as in Charm (n.) To subdue, control, or summon by incantation or supernatural influence; to affect by magic.,
C as in Charm (n.) To subdue or overcome by some secret power, or by that which gives pleasure; to allay; to soothe.,
C as in Charm (n.) To attract irresistibly; to delight exceedingly; to enchant; to fascinate.,
C as in Charm (n.) To protect with, or make invulnerable by, spells, charms, or supernatural influences; as, a charmed life.,
C as in Charm (v. i.) To use magic arts or occult power; to make use of charms.,
C as in Charm (v. i.) To act as, or produce the effect of, a charm; to please greatly; to be fascinating.,
C as in Charm (v. i.) To make a musical sound.,
C as in Charmel (n.) A fruitful field.,
C as in Charmer (n.) One who charms, or has power to charm; one who uses the power of enchantment; a magician.,
C as in Charmer (n.) One who delights and attracts the affections.,
C as in Charmeress (n.) An enchantress.,
C as in Charmful (a.) Abounding with charms.,
C as in Charming (a.) Pleasing the mind or senses in a high degree; delighting; fascinating; attractive.,
C as in Charmless (a.) Destitute of charms.,
C as in Charneco (n.) Alt. of Charnico,
C as in Charnico (n.) A sort of sweet wine.,
C as in Charnel (a.) Containing the bodies of the dead.,
C as in Charnel (n.) A charnel house; a grave; a cemetery.,
C as in Charon (n.) The son of Erebus and Nox, whose office it was to ferry the souls of the dead over the Styx, a river of the infernal regions.,
C as in Charpie (n.) Straight threads obtained by unraveling old linen cloth; -- used for surgical dressings.,
C as in Charqui (n.) Jerked beef; beef cut into long strips and dried in the wind and sun.,
C as in Charr (n.) See 1st Char.,
C as in Charras (n.) The gum resin of the hemp plant (Cannabis sativa). Same as Churrus.,
C as in Charre (n.) See Charge, n., 17.,
C as in Charry (a.) Pertaining to charcoal, or partaking of its qualities.,
C as in Chart (n.) A sheet of paper, pasteboard, or the like, on which information is exhibited, esp. when the information is arranged in tabular form; as, an historical chart.,
C as in Chart (n.) A map; esp., a hydrographic or marine map; a map on which is projected a portion of water and the land which it surrounds, or by which it is surrounded, intended especially for the use of seamen; as, the United States Coast Survey charts; the English Admiralty charts.,
C as in Chart (n.) A written deed; a charter.,
C as in Charted (imp. & p. p.) of Chart,
C as in Chart (v. t.) To lay down in a chart; to map; to delineate; as, to chart a coast.,
C as in Charta (n.) Material on which instruments, books, etc., are written; parchment or paper.,
C as in Charta (n.) A charter or deed; a writing by which a grant is made. See Magna Charta.,
C as in Chartaceous (a.) Resembling paper or parchment; of paper-like texture; papery.,
C as in Charte (n.) The constitution, or fundamental law, of the French monarchy, as established on the restoration of Louis XVIII., in 1814.,
C as in Charter (n.) A written evidence in due form of things done or granted, contracts made, etc., between man and man; a deed, or conveyance.,
C as in Charter (n.) An instrument in writing, from the sovereign power of a state or country, executed in due form, bestowing rights, franchises, or privileges.,
C as in Charter (n.) An act of a legislative body creating a municipal or other corporation and defining its powers and privileges. Also, an instrument in writing from the constituted authorities of an order or society (as the Freemasons), creating a lodge and defining its powers.,
C as in Charter (n.) A special privilege, immunity, or exemption.,
C as in Charter (n.) The letting or hiring a vessel by special contract, or the contract or instrument whereby a vessel is hired or let; as, a ship is offered for sale or charter. See Charter party, below.,
C as in Chartered (imp. & p. p.) of Charter,
C as in Chartering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Charter,
C as in Charter (v. t.) To establish by charter.,
C as in Charter (v. t.) To hire or let by charter, as a ship. See Charter party, under Charter, n.,
C as in Chartered (a.) Granted or established by charter; having, or existing under, a charter; having a privilege by charter.,
C as in Chartered (a.) Hired or let by charter, as a ship.,
C as in Charterer (n.) One who charters; esp. one who hires a ship for a voyage.,
C as in Charterhouse (n.) A well known public school and charitable foundation in the building once used as a Carthusian monastery (Chartreuse) in London.,
C as in Charterist (n.) Same as Chartist.,
C as in Chartism (n.) The principles of a political party in England (1838-48), which contended for universal suffrage, the vote by ballot, annual parliaments, equal electoral districts, and other radical reforms, as set forth in a document called the People's Charter.,
C as in Chartist (n.) A supporter or partisan of chartism.,
C as in Chartless (a.) Without a chart; having no guide.,
C as in Chartless (a.) Not mapped; uncharted; vague.,
C as in Chartographer (n.) Alt. of Chartography,
C as in Chartographic (n.) Alt. of Chartography,
C as in Chartography (n.) Same as Cartographer, Cartographic, Cartography, etc.,
C as in Chartomancy (n.) Divination by written paper or by cards.,
C as in Chartometer (n.) An instrument for measuring charts or maps.,
C as in Chartreuse (n.) A Carthusian monastery; esp. La Grande Chartreuse, mother house of the order, in the mountains near Grenoble, France.,
C as in Chartreuse (n.) An alcoholic cordial, distilled from aromatic herbs; -- made at La Grande Chartreuse.,
C as in Chartreux (n.) A Carthusian.,
C as in Chartulary (n.) See Cartulary.,
C as in Charwomen (pl. ) of Charwoman,
C as in Charwoman (n.) A woman hired for odd work or for single days.,
C as in Chary (a.) Careful; wary; cautious; not rash, reckless, or spendthrift; saving; frugal.,
C as in Charybdis (n.) A dangerous whirlpool on the coast of Sicily opposite Scylla on the Italian coast. It is personified as a female monster. See Scylla.,
C as in Chasable (a.) Capable of being chased; fit for hunting.,
C as in Chased (imp. & p. p.) of Chase,
C as in Chasing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chase,
C as in Chase (v. t.) To pursue for the purpose of killing or taking, as an enemy, or game; to hunt.,
C as in Chase (v. t.) To follow as if to catch; to pursue; to compel to move on; to drive by following; to cause to fly; -- often with away or off; as, to chase the hens away.,
C as in Chase (v. t.) To pursue eagerly, as hunters pursue game.,
C as in Chase (v. i.) To give chase; to hunt; as, to chase around after a doctor.,
C as in Chase (v.) Vehement pursuit for the purpose of killing or capturing, as of an enemy, or game; an earnest seeking after any object greatly desired; the act or habit of hunting; a hunt.,
C as in Chase (v.) That which is pursued or hunted.,
C as in Chase (v.) An open hunting ground to which game resorts, and which is private properly, thus differing from a forest, which is not private property, and from a park, which is inclosed. Sometimes written chace.,
C as in Chase (v.) A division of the floor of a gallery, marked by a figure or otherwise; the spot where a ball falls, and between which and the dedans the adversary must drive his ball in order to gain a point.,
C as in Chase (n.) A rectangular iron frame in which pages or columns of type are imposed.,
C as in Chase (n.) The part of a cannon from the reenforce or the trunnions to the swell of the muzzle. See Cannon.,
C as in Chase (n.) A groove, or channel, as in the face of a wall; a trench, as for the reception of drain tile.,
C as in Chase (n.) A kind of joint by which an overlap joint is changed to a flush joint, by means of a gradually deepening rabbet, as at the ends of clinker-built boats.,
C as in Chase (v. t.) To ornament (a surface of metal) by embossing, cutting away parts, and the like.,
C as in Chase (v. t.) To cut, so as to make a screw thread.,
C as in Chaser (n.) One who or that which chases; a pursuer; a driver; a hunter.,
C as in Chaser (n.) Same as Chase gun, esp. in terms bow chaser and stern chaser. See under Bow, Stern.,
C as in Chaser (n.) One who chases or engraves. See 5th Chase, and Enchase.,
C as in Chaser (n.) A tool with several points, used for cutting or finishing screw threads, either external or internal, on work revolving in a lathe.,
C as in Chasible (n.) See Chasuble.,
C as in Chasing (n.) The art of ornamenting metal by means of chasing tools; also, a piece of ornamental work produced in this way.,
C as in Chasm (n.) A deep opening made by disruption, as a breach in the earth or a rock; a yawning abyss; a cleft; a fissure.,
C as in Chasm (n.) A void space; a gap or break, as in ranks of men.,
C as in Chasmed (a.) Having gaps or a chasm.,
C as in Chasmy (a.) Of or pertaining to a chasm; abounding in chasms.,
C as in Chasse (n.) A movement in dancing, as across or to the right or left.,
C as in Chasse (v. i.) To make the movement called chasse; as, all chasse; chasse to the right or left.,
C as in Chasselas (n.) A white grape, esteemed for the table.,
C as in Chassepot (n.) A kind of breechloading, center-fire rifle, or improved needle gun.,
C as in Chasseur (n.) One of a body of light troops, cavalry or infantry, trained for rapid movements.,
C as in Chasseur (n.) An attendant upon persons of rank or wealth, wearing a plume and sword.,
C as in Chassis (n.) A traversing base frame, or movable railway, along which the carriage of a barbette or casemate gun moves backward and forward. [See Gun carriage.],
C as in Chast (v. t.) to chasten.,
C as in Chaste (a.) Pure from unlawful sexual intercourse; virtuous; continent.,
C as in Chaste (a.) Pure in thought and act; innocent; free from lewdness and obscenity, or indecency in act or speech; modest; as, a chaste mind; chaste eyes.,
C as in Chaste (a.) Pure in design and expression; correct; free from barbarisms or vulgarisms; refined; simple; as, a chaste style in composition or art.,
C as in Chaste (a.) Unmarried.,
C as in Chastely (adv.) In a chaste manner; with purity.,
C as in Chastened (imp. & p. p.) of Chasten,
C as in Chastening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chasten,
C as in Chasten (v. t.) To correct by punishment; to inflict pain upon the purpose of reclaiming; to discipline; as, to chasten a son with a rod.,
C as in Chasten (v. t.) To purify from errors or faults; to refine.,
C as in Chastened (a.) Corrected; disciplined; refined; purified; toned down.,
C as in Chastener (n.) One who chastens.,
C as in Chasteness (n.) Chastity; purity.,
C as in Chasteness (n.) Freedom from all that is meretricious, gaudy, or affected; as, chasteness of design.,
C as in Chastisable (a.) Capable or deserving of chastisement; punishable.,
C as in Chastised (imp. & p. p.) of Chastise,
C as in Chastising (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chastise,
C as in Chastise (v. t.) To inflict pain upon, by means of stripes, or in any other manner, for the purpose of punishment or reformation; to punish, as with stripes.,
C as in Chastise (v. t.) To reduce to order or obedience; to correct or purify; to free from faults or excesses.,
C as in Chastisement (n.) The act of chastising; pain inflicted for punishment and correction; discipline; punishment.,
C as in Chastiser (n.) One who chastises; a punisher; a corrector.,
C as in Chastity (n.) The state of being chaste; purity of body; freedom from unlawful sexual intercourse.,
C as in Chastity (n.) Moral purity.,
C as in Chastity (n.) The unmarried life; celibacy.,
C as in Chastity (n.) Chasteness.,
C as in Chasuble (n.) The outer vestment worn by the priest in saying Mass, consisting, in the Roman Catholic Church, of a broad, flat, back piece, and a narrower front piece, the two connected over the shoulders only. The back has usually a large cross, the front an upright bar or pillar, designed to be emblematical of Christ's sufferings. In the Greek Church the chasuble is a large round mantle.,
C as in Chatted (imp. & p. p.) of Chat,
C as in Chatting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chat,
C as in Chat (v. i.) To talk in a light and familiar manner; to converse without form or ceremony; to gossip.,
C as in Chat (v. t.) To talk of.,
C as in Chat (n.) Light, familiar talk; conversation; gossip.,
C as in Chat (n.) A bird of the genus Icteria, allied to the warblers, in America. The best known species are the yellow-breasted chat (I. viridis), and the long-tailed chat (I. longicauda). In Europe the name is given to several birds of the family Saxicolidae, as the stonechat, and whinchat.,
C as in Chat (n.) A twig, cone, or little branch. See Chit.,
C as in Chat (n.) Small stones with ore.,
C as in Chateux (pl. ) of Chateau,
C as in Chateau (n.) A castle or a fortress in France.,
C as in Chateau (n.) A manor house or residence of the lord of the manor; a gentleman's country seat; also, particularly, a royal residence; as, the chateau of the Louvre; the chateau of the Luxembourg.,
C as in Chatelaine (n.) An ornamental hook, or brooch worn by a lady at her waist, and having a short chain or chains attached for a watch, keys, trinkets, etc. Also used adjectively; as, a chatelaine chain.,
C as in Chatelet (n.) A little castle.,
C as in Chatellany (n.) Same as Castellany.,
C as in Chati (n.) A small South American species of tiger cat (Felis mitis).,
C as in Chatoyant (a.) Having a changeable, varying luster, or color, like that of a changeable silk, or oa a cat's eye in the dark.,
C as in Chatoyant (n.) A hard stone, as the cat's-eye, which presents on a polished surface, and in the interior, an undulating or wary light.,
C as in Chatoyment (n.) Changeableness of color, as in a mineral; play of colors.,
C as in Chattel (n.) Any item of movable or immovable property except the freehold, or the things which are parcel of it. It is a more extensive term than goods or effects.,
C as in Chattelism (n.) The act or condition of holding chattels; the state of being a chattel.,
C as in Chattered (imp. & p. p.) of Chatter,
C as in Chattering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chatter,
C as in Chatter (v. i.) To utter sounds which somewhat resemble language, but are inarticulate and indistinct.,
C as in Chatter (v. i.) To talk idly, carelessly, or with undue rapidity; to jabber; to prate.,
C as in Chatter (v. i.) To make a noise by rapid collisions.,
C as in Chatter (v. t.) To utter rapidly, idly, or indistinctly.,
C as in Chatter (n.) Sounds like those of a magpie or monkey; idle talk; rapid, thoughtless talk; jabber; prattle.,
C as in Chatter (n.) Noise made by collision of the teeth, as in shivering.,
C as in Chatteration (n.) The act or habit of chattering.,
C as in Chatterer (n.) A prater; an idle talker.,
C as in Chatterer (n.) A bird of the family Ampelidae -- so called from its monotonous note. The Bohemion chatterer (Ampelis garrulus) inhabits the arctic regions of both continents. In America the cedar bird is a more common species. See Bohemian chatterer, and Cedar bird.,
C as in Chattering (n.) The act or habit of talking idly or rapidly, or of making inarticulate sounds; the sounds so made; noise made by the collision of the teeth; chatter.,
C as in Chattiness (n.) The quality of being chatty, or of talking easily and pleasantly.,
C as in Chatty (a.) Given to light, familiar talk; talkative.,
C as in Chatty (n.) A porous earthen pot used in India for cooling water, etc.,
C as in Chatwood (n.) Little sticks; twigs for burning; fuel.,
C as in Chaud-medley (n.) The killing of a person in an affray, in the heat of blood, and while under the influence of passion, thus distinguished from chance-medley or killing in self-defense, or in a casual affray.,
C as in Chaudron (n.) See Chawdron.,
C as in Chauffer (n.) A table stove or small furnace, usually a cylindrical box of sheet iron, with a grate at the bottom, and an open top.,
C as in Chauldron (n.) See Chawdron.,
C as in Chaun (n.) A gap.,
C as in Chaun (v. t. & i.) To open; to yawn.,
C as in Chaunt (n. & v.) See Chant.,
C as in Chaunter (n.) A street seller of ballads and other broadsides.,
C as in Chaunter (n.) A deceitful, tricky dealer or horse jockey.,
C as in Chaunter (n.) The flute of a bagpipe. See Chanter, n., 3.,
C as in Chaunterie (n.) See Chantry.,
C as in Chaus (n.) a lynxlike animal of Asia and Africa (Lynx Lybicus).,
C as in Chausses (n. pl.) The garment for the legs and feet and for the body below the waist, worn in Europe throughout the Middle Ages; applied also to the armor for the same parts, when fixible, as of chain mail.,
C as in Chaussure (n.) A foot covering of any kind.,
C as in Chauvinism (n.) Blind and absurd devotion to a fallen leader or an obsolete cause; hence, absurdly vainglorious or exaggerated patriotism.,
C as in Chavender (n.) The chub.,
C as in Chawed (imp. & p. p.) of Chaw,
C as in Chawing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chaw,
C as in Chaw (v. t.) To grind with the teeth; to masticate, as food in eating; to chew, as the cud; to champ, as the bit.,
C as in Chaw (v. t.) To ruminate in thought; to consider; to keep the mind working upon; to brood over.,
C as in Chaw (v. t.) As much as is put in the mouth at once; a chew; a quid.,
C as in Chaw (v. t.) The jaw.,
C as in Chawdron (n.) Entrails.,
C as in Chay root () The root of the Oldenlandia umbellata, native in India, which yieds a durable red dyestuff.,
C as in Chazy epoch () An epoch at the close of the Canadian period of the American Lower Silurian system; -- so named from a township in Clinton Co., New York. See the Diagram under Geology.,
C as in Cheap (n.) A bargain; a purchase; cheapness.,
C as in Cheap (n.) Having a low price in market; of small cost or price, as compared with the usual price or the real value.,
C as in Cheap (n.) Of comparatively small value; common; mean.,
C as in Cheap (adv.) Cheaply.,
C as in Cheap (v. i.) To buy; to bargain.,
C as in Cheapened (imp. & p. p.) of Cheapen,
C as in Cheapening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cheapen,
C as in Cheapen (v. t.) To ask the price of; to bid, bargain, or chaffer for.,
C as in Cheapen (a.) To beat down the price of; to lessen the value of; to depreciate.,
C as in Cheapener (n.) One who cheapens.,
C as in Cheap-jack (n.) Alt. of Cheap-john,
C as in Cheap-john (n.) A seller of low-priced or second goods; a hawker.,
C as in Cheaply (adv.) At a small price; at a low value; in a common or inferior manner.,
C as in Cheapness (n.) Lowness in price, considering the usual price, or real value.,
C as in Chear (n. & v.) See Cheer.,
C as in Cheat (n.) An act of deception or fraud; that which is the means of fraud or deception; a fraud; a trick; imposition; imposture.,
C as in Cheat (n.) One who cheats or deceives; an impostor; a deceiver; a cheater.,
C as in Cheat (n.) A troublesome grass, growing as a weed in grain fields; -- called also chess. See Chess.,
C as in Cheat (n.) The obtaining of property from another by an intentional active distortion of the truth.,
C as in Cheated (imp. & p. p.) of Cheat,
C as in Cheating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cheat,
C as in Cheat (n.) To deceive and defraud; to impose upon; to trick; to swindle.,
C as in Cheat (n.) To beguile.,
C as in Cheat (v. i.) To practice fraud or trickery; as, to cheat at cards.,
C as in Cheat (n.) Wheat, or bread made from wheat.,
C as in Cheatable (a.) Capable of being cheated.,
C as in Cheatableness (n.) Capability of being cheated.,
C as in Cheater (n.) One who cheats.,
C as in Cheater (n.) An escheator.,
C as in Chebacco (n.) A narrow-sterned boat formerly much used in the Newfoundland fisheries; -- called also pinkstern and chebec.,
C as in Chebec (n.) See Chebacco.,
C as in Chebec (n.) A small American bird (Empidonax minimus); the least flycatcher.,
C as in Check (n.) A word of warning denoting that the king is in danger; such a menace of a player's king by an adversary's move as would, if it were any other piece, expose it to immediate capture. A king so menaced is said to be in check, and must be made safe at the next move.,
C as in Check (n.) A condition of interrupted or impeded progress; arrest; stop; delay; as, to hold an enemy in check.,
C as in Check (n.) Whatever arrests progress, or limits action; an obstacle, guard, restraint, or rebuff.,
C as in Check (n.) A mark, certificate, or token, by which, errors may be prevented, or a thing or person may be identified; as, checks placed against items in an account; a check given for baggage; a return check on a railroad.,
C as in Check (n.) A written order directing a bank or banker to pay money as therein stated. See Bank check, below.,
C as in Check (n.) A woven or painted design in squares resembling the patten of a checkerboard; one of the squares of such a design; also, cloth having such a figure.,
C as in Check (n.) The forsaking by a hawk of its proper game to follow other birds.,
C as in Check (n.) Small chick or crack.,
C as in Checked (imp. & p. p.) of Check,
C as in Checking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Check,
C as in Check (v. t.) To make a move which puts an adversary's piece, esp. his king, in check; to put in check.,
C as in Check (v. t.) To put a sudden restraint upon; to stop temporarily; to hinder; to repress; to curb.,
C as in Check (v. t.) To verify, to guard, to make secure, by means of a mark, token, or other check; to distinguish by a check; to put a mark against (an item) after comparing with an original or a counterpart in order to secure accuracy; as, to check an account; to check baggage.,
C as in Check (v. t.) To chide, rebuke, or reprove.,
C as in Check (v. t.) To slack or ease off, as a brace which is too stiffly extended.,
C as in Check (v. t.) To make checks or chinks in; to cause to crack; as, the sun checks timber.,
C as in Check (v. i.) To make a stop; to pause; -- with at.,
C as in Check (v. i.) To clash or interfere.,
C as in Check (v. i.) To act as a curb or restraint.,
C as in Check (v. i.) To crack or gape open, as wood in drying; or to crack in small checks, as varnish, paint, etc.,
C as in Check (v. i.) To turn, when in pursuit of proper game, and fly after other birds.,
C as in Check (a.) Checkered; designed in checks.,
C as in Checkage (n.) The act of checking; as, the checkage of a name or of an item in a list.,
C as in Checkage (n.) The items, or the amount, to which attention is called by a check or checks.,
C as in Checker (v. t.) One who checks.,
C as in Checkered (imp. & p. p.) of Checker,
C as in Checkering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Checker,
C as in Checker (n.) To mark with small squares like a checkerboard, as by crossing stripes of different colors.,
C as in Checker (n.) To variegate or diversify with different qualities, colors, scenes, or events; esp., to subject to frequent alternations of prosperity and adversity.,
C as in Checker (v. t.) A piece in the game of draughts or checkers.,
C as in Checker (v. t.) A pattern in checks; a single check.,
C as in Checker (v. t.) Checkerwork.,
C as in Checkerberries (pl. ) of Checkerberry,
C as in Checkerberry (n.) A spicy plant and its bright red berry; the wintergreen (Gaultheria procumbens). Also incorrectly applied to the partridge berry (Mitchella repens).,
C as in Checkerboard (n.) A board with sixty-four squares of alternate color, used for playing checkers or draughts.,
C as in Checkered (a.) Marked with alternate squares or checks of different color or material.,
C as in Checkered (a.) Diversified or variegated in a marked manner, as in appearance, character, circumstances, etc.,
C as in Checkers (v.) A game, called also daughts, played on a checkerboard by two persons, each having twelve men (counters or checkers) which are moved diagonally. The game is ended when either of the players has lost all his men, or can not move them.,
C as in Checkerwork (n.) Work consisting of or showing checkers varied alternately as to colors or materials.,
C as in Checkerwork (n.) Any aggregate of varied vicissitudes.,
C as in Checklaton (n.) Ciclatoun.,
C as in Checklaton (n.) Gilded leather.,
C as in Checkless (a.) That can not be checked or restrained.,
C as in Checkmate (n.) The position in the game of chess when a king is in check and cannot be released, -- which ends the game.,
C as in Checkmate (n.) A complete check; utter defeat or overthrow.,
C as in Checkmated (imp. & p. p.) of Checkmate,
C as in Checkmating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Checkmate,
C as in Checkmate (v. t.) To check (an adversary's king) in such a manner that escape in impossible; to defeat (an adversary) by putting his king in check from which there is no escape.,
C as in Checkmate (v. t.) To defeat completely; to terminate; to thwart.,
C as in Checkrein (n.) A short rein looped over the check hook to prevent a horse from lowering his head; -- called also a bearing rein.,
C as in Checkrein (n.) A branch rein connecting the driving rein of one horse of a span or pair with the bit of the other horse.,
C as in Checkroll (n.) A list of servants in a household; -- called also chequer roll.,
C as in Checkstring (n.) A cord by which a person in a carriage or horse car may signal to the driver.,
C as in Checkwork (n.) Anything made so as to form alternate squares like those of a checkerboard.,
C as in Checky (a.) Divided into small alternating squares of two tinctures; -- said of the field or of an armorial bearing.,
C as in Cheddar (a.) Of or pertaining to, or made at, Cheddar, in England; as, Cheddar cheese.,
C as in Cheek (n.) The side of the face below the eye.,
C as in Cheek (n.) The cheek bone.,
C as in Cheek (n.) Those pieces of a machine, or of any timber, or stone work, which form corresponding sides, or which are similar and in pair; as, the cheeks (jaws) of a vise; the cheeks of a gun carriage, etc.,
C as in Cheek (n.) The branches of a bridle bit.,
C as in Cheek (n.) A section of a flask, so made that it can be moved laterally, to permit the removal of the pattern from the mold; the middle part of a flask.,
C as in Cheek (n.) Cool confidence; assurance; impudence.,
C as in Cheek (v. t.) To be impudent or saucy to.,
C as in Cheeked (a.) Having a cheek; -- used in composition.,
C as in Cheeky () a Brazen-faced; impudent; bold.,
C as in Cheeped (imp. & p. p.) of Cheep,
C as in Cheep (v. i.) To chirp, as a young bird.,
C as in Cheep (v. t.) To give expression to in a chirping tone.,
C as in Cheep (n.) A chirp, peep, or squeak, as of a young bird or mouse.,
C as in Cheer (n.) The face; the countenance or its expression.,
C as in Cheer (n.) Feeling; spirit; state of mind or heart.,
C as in Cheer (n.) Gayety; mirth; cheerfulness; animation.,
C as in Cheer (n.) That which promotes good spirits or cheerfulness; provisions prepared for a feast; entertainment; as, a table loaded with good cheer.,
C as in Cheer (n.) A shout, hurrah, or acclamation, expressing joy enthusiasm, applause, favor, etc.,
C as in Cheered (imp. & p. p.) of Cheer,
C as in Cheering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cheer,
C as in Cheer (v. t.) To cause to rejoice; to gladden; to make cheerful; -- often with up.,
C as in Cheer (v. t.) To infuse life, courage, animation, or hope, into; to inspirit; to solace or comfort.,
C as in Cheer (v. t.) To salute or applaud with cheers; to urge on by cheers; as, to cheer hounds in a chase.,
C as in Cheer (v. i.) To grow cheerful; to become gladsome or joyous; -- usually with up.,
C as in Cheer (v. i.) To be in any state or temper of mind.,
C as in Cheer (v. i.) To utter a shout or shouts of applause, triumph, etc.,
C as in Cheerer (n.) One who cheers; one who, or that which, gladdens.,
C as in Cheerful (a.) Having or showing good spirits or joy; cheering; cheery; contented; happy; joyful; lively; animated; willing.,
C as in Cheerfully (adv.) In a cheerful manner, gladly.,
C as in Cheerfulness (n.) Good spirits; a state of moderate joy or gayety; alacrity.,
C as in Cheerily (adv.) In a cheery manner.,
C as in Cheeriness (n.) The state of being cheery.,
C as in Cheeringly (adv.) In a manner to cheer or encourage.,
C as in Cheerisness (n.) Cheerfulness.,
C as in Cheerless (a.) Without joy, gladness, or comfort.,
C as in Cheerly (a.) Gay; cheerful.,
C as in Cheerly (adv.) Cheerily.,
C as in Cheerry (a.) Cheerful; lively; gay; bright; pleasant; as, a cheery person.,
C as in Cheese (n.) The curd of milk, coagulated usually with rennet, separated from the whey, and pressed into a solid mass in a hoop or mold.,
C as in Cheese (n.) A mass of pomace, or ground apples, pressed together in the form of a cheese.,
C as in Cheese (n.) The flat, circular, mucilaginous fruit of the dwarf mallow (Malva rotundifolia).,
C as in Cheese (n.) A low courtesy; -- so called on account of the cheese form assumed by a woman's dress when she stoops after extending the skirts by a rapid gyration.,
C as in Cheeselep (n.) A bag in which rennet is kept.,
C as in Cheesemonger (n.) One who deals in cheese.,
C as in Cheeseparing (n.) A thin portion of the rind of a cheese.,
C as in Cheeseparing (a.) Scrimping; mean; as, cheeseparing economy.,
C as in Cheesiness (n.) The quality of being cheesy.,
C as in Cheesy (a.) Having the nature, qualities, taste, form, consistency, or appearance of cheese.,
C as in Cheetah (n.) A species of leopard (Cynaelurus jubatus) tamed and used for hunting in India. The woolly cheetah of South Africa is C. laneus.,
C as in Chef (n.) A chief of head person.,
C as in Chef (n.) The head cook of large establishment, as a club, a family, etc.,
C as in Chef (n.) Same as Chief.,
C as in Chefs-d'oeuvre (pl. ) of Chef-d'oeuvre,
C as in Chef-d'oeuvre (n.) A masterpiece; a capital work in art, literature, etc.,
C as in Chegoe (n.) Alt. of Chegre,
C as in Chegre (n.) See Chigoe.,
C as in Cheiloplasty (n.) The process of forming an artificial tip or part of a lip, by using for the purpose a piece of healthy tissue taken from some neighboring part.,
C as in Cheilopoda (n.) See Ch/lopoda.,
C as in Cheirepter (n.) One of the Cheiroptera.,
C as in Cheiroptera (n. pl.) An order of mammalia, including the bats, having four toes of each of the anterior limbs elongated and connected by a web, so that they can be used like wings in flying. See Bat.,
C as in Cheiropterous (a.) Belonging to the Cheiroptera, or Bat family.,
C as in Cheiropterygia (pl. ) of Cheiropterygium,
C as in Cheiropterygium (n.) The typical pentadactyloid limb of the higher vertebrates.,
C as in Cheirosophy (n.) The art of reading character as it is delineated in the hand.,
C as in Cheirotherium (n.) A genus of extinct animals, so named from fossil footprints rudely resembling impressions of the human hand, and believed to have been made by labyrinthodont reptiles. See Illustration in Appendix.,
C as in Chekelatoun (n.) See Ciclatoun.,
C as in Chekmak (n.) A turkish fabric of silk and cotton, with gold thread interwoven.,
C as in Chelae (pl. ) of Chela,
C as in Chela (n.) The pincherlike claw of Crustacea and Arachnida.,
C as in Chelate (a.) Same as Cheliferous.,
C as in Chelerythrine (n.) An alkaloidal principle obtained from the celandine, and named from the red color of its salts. It is a colorless crystalline substance, and acts as an acrid narcotic poison. It is identical with sanguinarine.,
C as in Chelicerae (pl. ) of Chelicera,
C as in Chelicera (n.) One of the anterior pair of mouth organs, terminated by a pincherlike claw, in scorpions and allied Arachnida. They are homologous with the falcers of spiders, and probably with the mandibles of insects.,
C as in Chelidon (n.) The hollow at the flexure of the arm.,
C as in Chelidonic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or derived from, the celandine.,
C as in Chelidonius (n.) A small stone taken from the gizzard of a young swallow. -- anciently worn as a medicinal charm.,
C as in Chelifer (n.) See Book scorpion, under Book.,
C as in Cheliferous (a.) Having cheliform claws, like a crab.,
C as in Cheliform (a.) Having a movable joint or finger closing against a preceding joint or a projecting part of it, so that the whole may be used for grasping, as the claw of a crab; pincherlike.,
C as in Chelone (n.) A genus of hardy perennial flowering plants, of the order Scrophulariaceae, natives of North America; -- called also snakehead, turtlehead, shellflower, etc.,
C as in Chelonia (n. pl.) An order of reptiles, including the tortoises and turtles, peculiar in having a part of the vertebrae, ribs, and sternum united with the dermal plates so as to form a firm shell. The jaws are covered by a horny beak. See Reptilia; also, Illust. in Appendix.,
C as in Chelonian (a.) Of or pertaining to animals of the tortoise kind.,
C as in Chelonian (n.) One of the Chelonia.,
C as in Chelura (n.) A genus of marine amphipod crustacea, which bore into and sometimes destroy timber.,
C as in Chely (n.) A claw. See Chela.,
C as in Chemic (n.) A chemist; an alchemist.,
C as in Chemic (n.) A solution of chloride of lime.,
C as in Chemic (a.) Chemical.,
C as in Chemical (a.) Pertaining to chemistry; characterized or produced by the forces and operations of chemistry; employed in the processes of chemistry; as, chemical changes; chemical combinations.,
C as in Chemical (n.) A substance used for producing a chemical effect; a reagent.,
C as in Chemically (adv.) According to chemical principles; by chemical process or operation.,
C as in Chemiglyphic (a.) Engraved by a voltaic battery.,
C as in Chemiloon (n.) A garment for women, consisting of chemise and drawers united in one.,
C as in Chemise (n.) A shift, or undergarment, worn by women.,
C as in Chemise (n.) A wall that lines the face of a bank or earthwork.,
C as in Chemisette (n.) An under-garment, worn by women, usually covering the neck, shoulders, and breast.,
C as in Chemism (n.) The force exerted between the atoms of elementary substance whereby they unite to form chemical compounds; chemical attaction; affinity; -- sometimes used as a general expression for chemical activity or relationship.,
C as in Chemist (n.) A person versed in chemistry or given to chemical investigation; an analyst; a maker or seller of chemicals or drugs.,
C as in Chemistry (n.) That branch of science which treats of the composition of substances, and of the changes which they undergo in consequence of alterations in the constitution of the molecules, which depend upon variations of the number, kind, or mode of arrangement, of the constituent atoms. These atoms are not assumed to be indivisible, but merely the finest grade of subdivision hitherto attained. Chemistry deals with the changes in the composition and constitution of molecules. See Atom, Molecule.,
C as in Chemistry (n.) An application of chemical theory and method to the consideration of some particular subject; as, the chemistry of iron; the chemistry of indigo.,
C as in Chemistry (n.) A treatise on chemistry.,
C as in Chemitype (n.) One of a number of processes by which an impression from an engraved plate is obtained in relief, to be used for printing on an ordinary printing press.,
C as in Chemolysis (n.) A term sometimes applied to the decomposition of organic substance into more simple bodies, by the use of chemical agents alone.,
C as in Chemosmosis (n.) Chemical action taking place through an intervening membrane.,
C as in Chemosmotic (a.) Pertaining to, or produced by, chemosmosis.,
C as in Chemung period () A subdivision in the upper part of the Devonian system in America, so named from the Chemung River, along which the rocks are well developed. It includes the Portage and Chemung groups or epochs. See the Diagram under Geology.,
C as in Cheng (n.) A chinese reed instrument, with tubes, blown by the mouth.,
C as in Chenille (n.) Tufted cord, of silk or worsted, for the trimming of ladies' dresses, for embroidery and fringes, and for the weft of Chenille rugs.,
C as in Chenomorphae (n. pl.) An order of birds, including the swans, ducks, geese, flamingoes and screamers.,
C as in Chepster (n.) The European starling.,
C as in Cheque (n.) See Check.,
C as in Chequer (n. & v.) Same as Checker.,
C as in Chequing (n.) A coin. See Sequin.,
C as in Chequy (n.) Same as Checky.,
C as in Cherif (n.) See Cherif.,
C as in Cherimoyer (n.) A small downy-leaved tree (Anona Cherimolia), with fragrant flowers. It is a native of Peru.,
C as in Cherimoyer (n.) Its delicious fruit, which is succulent, dark purple, and similar to the custard apple of the West Indies.,
C as in Cherished (imp. & p. p.) of Cherish,
C as in Cherising (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cherish,
C as in Cherish (v. t.) To treat with tenderness and affection; to nurture with care; to protect and aid.,
C as in Cherish (v. t.) To hold dear; to embrace with interest; to indulge; to encourage; to foster; to promote; as, to cherish religious principle.,
C as in Cherisher (n.) One who cherishes.,
C as in Cherishment (n.) Encouragement; comfort.,
C as in Chermes (n.) See Kermes.,
C as in Cherogril (n.) See Cony.,
C as in Cherokees (n. pl.) An Appalachian tribe of Indians, formerly inhabiting the region about the head waters of the Tennessee River. They are now mostly settled in the Indian Territory, and have become one of the most civilized of the Indian Tribes.,
C as in Cheroot (n.) A kind of cigar, originally brought from Mania, in the Philippine Islands; now often made of inferior or adulterated tobacco.,
C as in Cherry (n.) A tree or shrub of the genus Prunus (Which also includes the plum) bearing a fleshy drupe with a bony stone;,
C as in Cherry (n.) The common garden cherry (Prunus Cerasus), of which several hundred varieties are cultivated for the fruit, some of which are, the begarreau, blackheart, black Tartarian, oxheart, morelle or morello, May-duke (corrupted from Medoc in France).,
C as in Cherry (n.) The wild cherry; as, Prunus serotina (wild black cherry), valued for its timber; P. Virginiana (choke cherry), an American shrub which bears astringent fruit; P. avium and P. Padus, European trees (bird cherry).,
C as in Cherry (n.) The fruit of the cherry tree, a drupe of various colors and flavors.,
C as in Cherry (n.) The timber of the cherry tree, esp. of the black cherry, used in cabinetmaking, etc.,
C as in Cherry (n.) A peculiar shade of red, like that of a cherry.,
C as in Cherry (a.) Like a red cherry in color; ruddy; blooming; as, a cherry lip; cherry cheeks.,
C as in Chersonese (n.) A peninsula; a tract of land nearly surrounded by water, but united to a larger tract by a neck of land or isthmus; as, the Cimbric Chersonese, or Jutland; the Tauric Chersonese, or Crimea.,
C as in Chert (n.) An impure, massive, flintlike quartz or hornstone, of a dull color.,
C as in Cherty (a.) Like chert; containing chert; flinty.,
C as in Cherubs (pl. ) of Cherub,
C as in Cherubim (pl. ) of Cherub,
C as in Cherub (n.) A mysterious composite being, the winged footstool and chariot of the Almighty, described in Ezekiel i. and x.,
C as in Cherub (n.) A symbolical winged figure of unknown form used in connection with the mercy seat of the Jewish Ark and Temple.,
C as in Cherub (n.) One of a order of angels, variously represented in art. In European painting the cherubim have been shown as blue, to denote knowledge, as distinguished from the seraphim (see Seraph), and in later art the children's heads with wings are generally called cherubs.,
C as in Cherub (n.) A beautiful child; -- so called because artists have represented cherubs as beautiful children.,
C as in Cherubic (a.) Alt. of Cherubical,
C as in Cherubical (a.) Of or pertaining to cherubs; angelic.,
C as in Cherubim (n.) The Hebrew plural of Cherub.. Cf. Seraphim.,
C as in Cherubin (a.) Cherubic; angelic.,
C as in Cherubin (n.) A cherub.,
C as in Cherup (v. i.) To make a short, shrill, cheerful sound; to chirp. See Chirrup.,
C as in Cherup (v. t.) To excite or urge on by making a short, shrill, cheerful sound; to cherup to. See Chirrup.,
C as in Cherup (n.) A short, sharp, cheerful noise; a chirp; a chirrup; as, the cherup of a cricket.,
C as in Chervil (n.) A plant (Anthriscus cerefolium) with pinnately divided aromatic leaves, of which several curled varieties are used in soups and salads.,
C as in Ches () pret. of Chese.,
C as in Chese (v. t.) To choose,
C as in Chesible (n.) See Chasuble.,
C as in Cheslip (n.) The wood louse.,
C as in Chess (n.) A game played on a chessboard, by two persons, with two differently colored sets of men, sixteen in each set. Each player has a king, a queen, two bishops, two knights, two castles or rooks, and eight pawns.,
C as in Chess (n.) A species of brome grass (Bromus secalinus) which is a troublesome weed in wheat fields, and is often erroneously regarded as degenerate or changed wheat; it bears a very slight resemblance to oats, and if reaped and ground up with wheat, so as to be used for food, is said to produce narcotic effects; -- called also cheat and Willard's bromus.,
C as in Chess-apple (n.) The wild service of Europe (Purus torminalis).,
C as in Chessboard (n.) The board used in the game of chess, having eight rows of alternate light and dark squares, eight in each row. See Checkerboard.,
C as in Chessel (n.) The wooden mold in which cheese is pressed.,
C as in Chesses (n. pl.) The platforms, consisting of two or more planks doweled together, for the flooring of a temporary military bridge.,
C as in Chessil (n.) Gravel or pebbles.,
C as in Chessmen (pl. ) of Chessman,
C as in Chessman (n.) A piece used in the game of chess.,
C as in Chessom (n.) Mellow earth; mold.,
C as in Chesstree (n.) A piece of oak bolted perpendicularly on the side of a vessel, to aid in drawing down and securing the clew of the mainsail.,
C as in Chessy copper () The mineral azurite, found in fine crystallization at Chessy, near Lyons; called also chessylite.,
C as in Chest (n.) A large box of wood, or other material, having, like a trunk, a lid, but no covering of skin, leather, or cloth.,
C as in Chest (n.) A coffin.,
C as in Chest (n.) The part of the body inclosed by the ribs and breastbone; the thorax.,
C as in Chest (n.) A case in which certain goods, as tea, opium, etc., are transported; hence, the quantity which such a case contains.,
C as in Chest (n.) A tight receptacle or box, usually for holding gas, steam, liquids, etc.; as, the steam chest of an engine; the wind chest of an organ.,
C as in Chested (imp. & p. p.) of Chest,
C as in Chest (v. i.) To deposit in a chest; to hoard.,
C as in Chest (v. i.) To place in a coffin.,
C as in Chest (n.) Strife; contention; controversy.,
C as in Chested (a.) Having (such) a chest; -- in composition; as, broad-chested; narrow-chested.,
C as in Chesterlite (n.) A variety of feldspar found in crystals in the county of Chester, Pennsylvania.,
C as in Chesteyn (n.) The chestnut tree.,
C as in Chest founder () A rheumatic affection of the muscles of the breast and fore legs of a horse, affecting motion and respiration.,
C as in Chestnut (n.) The edible nut of a forest tree (Castanea vesca) of Europe and America. Commonly two or more of the nuts grow in a prickly bur.,
C as in Chestnut (n.) The tree itself, or its light, coarse-grained timber, used for ornamental work, furniture, etc.,
C as in Chestnut (n.) A bright brown color, like that of the nut.,
C as in Chestnut (n.) The horse chestnut (often so used in England).,
C as in Chestnut (n.) One of the round, or oval, horny plates on the inner sides of the legs of the horse, and allied animals.,
C as in Chestnut (n.) An old joke or story.,
C as in Chestnut (a.) Of the color of a chestnut; of a reddish brown color; as, chestnut curls.,
C as in Chetah (n.) See Cheetah.,
C as in Chetvert (n.) A measure of grain equal to 0.7218 of an imperial quarter, or 5.95 Winchester bushels.,
C as in Chevachie (n.) See Chivachie.,
C as in Chevage (n.) See Chiefage.,
C as in Chevaux (pl. ) of Cheval,
C as in Cheval (n.) A horse; hence, a support or frame.,
C as in Chevaux-de-frise (pl. ) of Cheval-de-frise,
C as in Cheval-de-frise (n.) A piece of timber or an iron barrel traversed with iron-pointed spikes or spears, five or six feet long, used to defend a passage, stop a breach, or impede the advance of cavalry, etc.,
C as in Chevalier (n.) A horseman; a knight; a gallant young man.,
C as in Chevalier (n.) A member of certain orders of knighthood.,
C as in Chevaux (n. pl.) See Cheval.,
C as in Cheve (v. i.) To come to an issue; to turn out; to succeed; as, to cheve well in a enterprise.,
C as in Chevelure (n.) A hairlike envelope.,
C as in Cheven (n.) A river fish; the chub.,
C as in Cheventein (n.) A variant of Chieftain.,
C as in Cheveril (v. i.) Soft leather made of kid skin. Fig.: Used as a symbol of flexibility.,
C as in Cheveril (a.) Made of cheveril; pliant.,
C as in Cheverliize (v. i.) To make as pliable as kid leather.,
C as in Chevet (n.) The extreme end of the chancel or choir; properly the round or polygonal part.,
C as in Cheviot (n.) A valuable breed of mountain sheep in Scotland, which takes its name from the Cheviot hills.,
C as in Cheviot (n.) A woolen fabric, for men's clothing.,
C as in Chevisance (n.) Achievement; deed; performance.,
C as in Chevisance (n.) A bargain; profit; gain.,
C as in Chevisance (n.) A making of contracts.,
C as in Chevisance (n.) A bargain or contract; an agreement about a matter in dispute, such as a debt; a business compact.,
C as in Chevisance (n.) An unlawful agreement or contract.,
C as in Chevrette (n.) A machine for raising guns or mortar into their carriages.,
C as in Chevron (n.) One of the nine honorable ordinaries, consisting of two broad bands of the width of the bar, issuing, respectively from the dexter and sinister bases of the field and conjoined at its center.,
C as in Chevron (n.) A distinguishing mark, above the elbow, on the sleeve of a non-commissioned officer's coat.,
C as in Chevron (n.) A zigzag molding, or group of moldings, common in Norman architecture.,
C as in Chevroned (p. a.) Having a chevron; decorated with an ornamental figure of a zigzag from.,
C as in Chevronel (n.) A bearing like a chevron, but of only half its width.,
C as in Chevronwise (adv.) In the manner of a chevron; as, the field may be divided chevronwise.,
C as in Chevrotain (n.) A small ruminant of the family Tragulidae a allied to the musk deer. It inhabits Africa and the East Indies. See Kanchil.,
C as in Chevy (v. t.) See Chivy, v. t.,
C as in Chewed (imp. & p. p.) of Chew,
C as in Chewing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chew,
C as in Chew (v. t.) To bite and grind with the teeth; to masticate.,
C as in Chew (v. t.) To ruminate mentally; to meditate on.,
C as in Chew (v. i.) To perform the action of biting and grinding with the teeth; to ruminate; to meditate.,
C as in Chew (n.) That which is chewed; that which is held in the mouth at once; a cud.,
C as in Chewer (n.) One who chews.,
C as in Chewet (n.) A kind of meat pie.,
C as in Chewink (n.) An american bird (Pipilo erythrophthalmus) of the Finch family, so called from its note; -- called also towhee bunting and ground robin.,
C as in Cheyennes (n. pl.) A warlike tribe of indians, related to the blackfeet, formerly inhabiting the region of Wyoming, but now mostly on reservations in the Indian Territory. They are noted for their horsemanship.,
C as in Chian (a.) Of or pertaining to Chios, an island in the Aegean Sea.,
C as in Chiaroscurist (n.) A painter who cares for and studies light and shade rather than color.,
C as in Chiaroscuro (n.) Alt. of Chiaro-oscuro,
C as in Chiaro-oscuro (n.) The arrangement of light and dark parts in a work of art, such as a drawing or painting, whether in monochrome or in color.,
C as in Chiaro-oscuro (n.) The art or practice of so arranging the light and dark parts as to produce a harmonious effect. Cf. Clair-obscur.,
C as in Chiasm (n.) Alt. of Chiasma,
C as in Chiasma (n.) A commissure; especially, the optic commissure, or crucial union of the optic nerves.,
C as in Chiasmus (n.) An inversion of the order of words or phrases, when repeated or subsequently referred to in a sentence,
C as in Chiastolite (n.) A variety of andalusite; -- called also macle. The tessellated appearance of a cross section is due to the symmetrical arrangement of impurities in the crystal.,
C as in Chibbal (n.) See Cibol.,
C as in Chibouque (n.) Alt. of Chibouk,
C as in Chibouk (n.) A Turkish pipe, usually with a mouthpiece of amber, a stem, four or five feet long and not pliant, of some valuable wood, and a bowl of baked clay.,
C as in Chic (n.) Good form; style.,
C as in Chica (n.) A red coloring matter. extracted from the Bignonia Chica, used by some tribes of South American Indians to stain the skin.,
C as in Chica (n.) A fermented liquor or beer made in South American from a decoction of maize.,
C as in Chica (n.) A popular Moorish, Spanish, and South American dance, said to be the original of the fandango, etc.,
C as in Chicane (n.) The use of artful subterfuge, designed to draw away attention from the merits of a case or question; -- specifically applied to legal proceedings; trickery; chicanery; caviling; sophistry.,
C as in Chicane (n.) To use shifts, cavils, or artifices.,
C as in Chicaner (n.) One who uses chicanery.,
C as in Chicanery (n.) Mean or unfair artifice to perplex a cause and obscure the truth; stratagem; sharp practice; sophistry.,
C as in Chiccory (n.) See Chicory.,
C as in Chiches (pl. ) of Chich,
C as in Chich (n.) The chick-pea.,
C as in Chicha (n.) See Chica.,
C as in Chichevache (n.) A fabulous cow of enormous size, whose food was patient wives, and which was therefore in very lean condition.,
C as in Chichling (n.) Alt. of Chichling vetch,
C as in Chichling vetch (n.) A leguminous plant (Lathyrus sativus), with broad flattened seeds which are sometimes used for food.,
C as in Chick (v. i.) To sprout, as seed in the ground; to vegetate.,
C as in Chick (n.) A chicken.,
C as in Chick (n.) A child or young person; -- a term of endearment.,
C as in Chickabiddy (n.) A chicken; a fowl; also, a trivial term of endearment for a child.,
C as in Chickadee (n.) A small bird, the blackcap titmouse (Parus atricapillus), of North America; -- named from its note.,
C as in Chickaree (n.) The American red squirrel (Sciurus Hudsonius); -- so called from its cry.,
C as in Chickasaws (n. pl.) A tribe of North American Indians (Southern Appalachian) allied to the Choctaws. They formerly occupied the northern part of Alabama and Mississippi, but now live in the Indian Territory.,
C as in Chicken (n.) A young bird or fowl, esp. a young barnyard fowl.,
C as in Chicken (n.) A young person; a child; esp. a young woman; a maiden.,
C as in Chicken-breasted (a.) Having a narrow, projecting chest, caused by forward curvature of the vertebral column.,
C as in Chicken-hearted (a.) Timid; fearful; cowardly.,
C as in Chicken pox () A mild, eruptive disease, generally attacking children only; varicella.,
C as in Chickling (n.) A small chick or chicken.,
C as in Chick-pea (n.) A Small leguminous plant (Cicer arietinum) of Asia, Africa, and the south of Europe; the chich; the dwarf pea; the gram.,
C as in Chick-pea (n.) Its nutritious seed, used in cookery, and especially, when roasted (parched pulse), as food for travelers in the Eastern deserts.,
C as in Chickweed (n.) The name of several caryophyllaceous weeds, especially Stellaria media, the seeds and flower buds of which are a favorite food of small birds.,
C as in Chicky (n.) A chicken; -- used as a diminutive or pet name, especially in calling fowls.,
C as in Chicory (n.) A branching perennial plant (Cichorium Intybus) with bright blue flowers, growing wild in Europe, Asia, and America; also cultivated for its roots and as a salad plant; succory; wild endive. See Endive.,
C as in Chicory (n.) The root, which is roasted for mixing with coffee.,
C as in Chide (p. pr. & vb. n.) To rebuke; to reprove; to scold; to find fault with.,
C as in Chide (p. pr. & vb. n.) Fig.: To be noisy about; to chafe against.,
C as in Chide (v. i.) To utter words of disapprobation and displeasure; to find fault; to contend angrily.,
C as in Chide (v. i.) To make a clamorous noise; to chafe.,
C as in Chide (n.) A continuous noise or murmur.,
C as in Chider (n.) One who chides or quarrels.,
C as in Chideress (n.) She who chides.,
C as in Chidester (n.) A female scold.,
C as in Chidingly (adv.) In a chiding or reproving manner.,
C as in Chief (n.) The head or leader of any body of men; a commander, as of an army; a head man, as of a tribe, clan, or family; a person in authority who directs the work of others; the principal actor or agent.,
C as in Chief (n.) The principal part; the most valuable portion.,
C as in Chief (n.) The upper third part of the field. It is supposed to be composed of the dexter, sinister, and middle chiefs.,
C as in Chief (a.) Highest in office or rank; principal; head.,
C as in Chief (a.) Principal or most eminent in any quality or action; most distinguished; having most influence; taking the lead; most important; as, the chief topic of conversation; the chief interest of man.,
C as in Chief (a.) Very intimate, near, or close.,
C as in Chiefage (n.) A tribute by the head; a capitation tax.,
C as in Chief baron () The presiding judge of the court of exchequer.,
C as in Chiefest (a.) First or foremost; chief; principal.,
C as in Chief hare () A small rodent (Lagamys princeps) inhabiting the summits of the Rocky Mountains; -- also called crying hare, calling hare, cony, American pika, and little chief hare.,
C as in Chief justice () The presiding justice, or principal judge, of a court.,
C as in Chief-justiceship (n.) The office of chief justice.,
C as in Chiefless (a.) Without a chief or leader.,
C as in Chiefly (adv.) In the first place; principally; preeminently; above; especially.,
C as in Chiefly (adv.) For the most part; mostly.,
C as in Chiefrie (n.) A small rent paid to the lord paramount.,
C as in Chieftain (n.) A captain, leader, or commander; a chief; the head of a troop, army, or clan.,
C as in Chieftaincy (n.) Alt. of Chieftainship,
C as in Chieftainship (n.) The rank, dignity, or office of a chieftain.,
C as in Chierte (n.) Love; tender regard.,
C as in Chievance (n.) An unlawful bargain; traffic in which money is exported as discount.,
C as in Chieve (v. i.) See Cheve, v. i.,
C as in Chiff-chaff (n.) A species of European warbler (Sylvia hippolais); -- called also chip-chap, and pettychaps.,
C as in Chiffonier (n.) Alt. of niere,
C as in Chiffo (n.) Alt. of niere,
C as in niere (n.) One who gathers rags and odds and ends; a ragpicker.,
C as in niere (n.) A receptacle for rags or shreds.,
C as in niere (n.) A movable and ornamental closet or piece of furniture with shelves or drawers.,
C as in Chignon (n.) A knot, boss, or mass of hair, natural or artificial, worn by a woman at the back of the head.,
C as in Chigoe (n.) Alt. of Chigre,
C as in Chigre (n.) A species of flea (Pulex penetrans), common in the West Indies and South America, which often attacks the feet or any exposed part of the human body, and burrowing beneath the skin produces great irritation. When the female is allowed to remain and breed, troublesome sores result, which are sometimes dangerous. See Jigger.,
C as in Chikara (n.) The goat antelope (Tragops Bennettii) of India.,
C as in Chikara (n.) The Indian four-horned antelope (Tetraceros quadricornis).,
C as in Chilblain (n.) A blain, sore, or inflammatory swelling, produced by exposure of the feet or hands to cold, and attended by itching, pain, and sometimes ulceration.,
C as in Chilblain (v. t.) To produce chilblains upon.,
C as in Children (pl. ) of Child,
C as in Child (n.) A son or a daughter; a male or female descendant, in the first degree; the immediate progeny of human parents; -- in law, legitimate offspring. Used also of animals and plants.,
C as in Child (n.) A descendant, however remote; -- used esp. in the plural; as, the children of Israel; the children of Edom.,
C as in Child (n.) One who, by character of practice, shows signs of relationship to, or of the influence of, another; one closely connected with a place, occupation, character, etc.; as, a child of God; a child of the devil; a child of disobedience; a child of toil; a child of the people.,
C as in Child (n.) A noble youth. See Childe.,
C as in Child (n.) A young person of either sex. esp. one between infancy and youth; hence, one who exhibits the characteristics of a very young person, as innocence, obedience, trustfulness, limited understanding, etc.,
C as in Child (n.) A female infant.,
C as in Childed (imp. & p. p.) of Child,
C as in Childing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Child,
C as in Child (v. i.) To give birth; to produce young.,
C as in Childbearing (n.) The act of producing or bringing forth children; parturition.,
C as in Childbed (n.) The state of a woman bringing forth a child, or being in labor; parturition.,
C as in Childbirth (n.) The act of bringing forth a child; travail; labor.,
C as in Childcrowing (n.) The crowing noise made by children affected with spasm of the laryngeal muscles; false croup.,
C as in Childe (n.) A cognomen formerly prefixed to his name by the oldest son, until he succeeded to his ancestral titles, or was knighted; as, Childe Roland.,
C as in Childed (a.) Furnished with a child.,
C as in Childermas day () A day (December 28) observed by mass or festival in commemoration of the children slain by Herod at Bethlehem; -- called also Holy Innocent's Day.,
C as in Childhood (n.) The state of being a child; the time in which persons are children; the condition or time from infancy to puberty.,
C as in Childhood (n.) Children, taken collectively.,
C as in Childhood (n.) The commencement; the first period.,
C as in Childing (v. i.) Bearing Children; (Fig.) productive; fruitful.,
C as in Childish (a.) Of, pertaining to, befitting, or resembling, a child.,
C as in Childish (a.) Puerile; trifling; weak.,
C as in Childishly (adv.) In the manner of a child; in a trifling way; in a weak or foolish manner.,
C as in Childishness (n.) The state or quality of being childish; simplicity; harmlessness; weakness of intellect.,
C as in Childlessness (n.) The state of being childless.,
C as in Childlike (a.) Resembling a child, or that which belongs to children; becoming a child; meek; submissive; dutiful.,
C as in Childly (a.) Having the character of a child; belonging, or appropriate, to a child.,
C as in Childly (adv.) Like a child.,
C as in Childness (n.) The manner characteristic of a child.,
C as in Children (n.) pl. of Child.,
C as in Childship (n.) The state or relation of being a child.,
C as in Chili (n.) A kind of red pepper. See Capsicum,
C as in Chiliad (n.) A thousand; the aggregate of a thousand things; especially, a period of a thousand years.,
C as in Chiliagon (n.) A plane figure of a thousand angles and sides.,
C as in Chiliahedron (n.) A figure bounded by a thousand plane surfaces,
C as in Chilian (a.) Of or pertaining to Chili.,
C as in Chilian (n.) A native or citizen of Chili.,
C as in Chilian (n.) Alt. of Chiliarch,
C as in Chiliarch (n.) The commander or chief of a thousand men.,
C as in Chiliarchy (n.) A body consisting of a thousand men.,
C as in Chiliasm (n.) The millennium.,
C as in Chiliasm (n.) The doctrine of the personal reign of Christ on earth during the millennium.,
C as in Chiliast (n.) One who believes in the second coming of Christ to reign on earth a thousand years; a milllenarian.,
C as in Chiliastic (a.) Millenarian.,
C as in Chill (n.) A moderate but disagreeable degree of cold; a disagreeable sensation of coolness, accompanied with shivering.,
C as in Chill (n.) A sensation of cold with convulsive shaking of the body, pinched face, pale skin, and blue lips, caused by undue cooling of the body or by nervous excitement, or forming the precursor of some constitutional disturbance, as of a fever.,
C as in Chill (n.) A check to enthusiasm or warmth of feeling; discouragement; as, a chill comes over an assembly.,
C as in Chill (n.) An iron mold or portion of a mold, serving to cool rapidly, and so to harden, the surface of molten iron brought in contact with it.,
C as in Chill (n.) The hardened part of a casting, as the tread of a car wheel.,
C as in Chill (a.) Moderately cold; tending to cause shivering; chilly; raw.,
C as in Chill (a.) Affected by cold.,
C as in Chill (a.) Characterized by coolness of manner, feeling, etc.; lacking enthusiasm or warmth; formal; distant; as, a chill reception.,
C as in Chill (a.) Discouraging; depressing; dispiriting.,
C as in Chilled (imp. & p. p.) of Chill,
C as in Chilling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chill,
C as in Chill (v. t.) To strike with a chill; to make chilly; to cause to shiver; to affect with cold.,
C as in Chill (v. t.) To check enthusiasm or warmth of feeling of; to depress; to discourage.,
C as in Chill (v. t.) To produce, by sudden cooling, a change of crystallization at or near the surface of, so as to increase the hardness; said of cast iron.,
C as in Chill (v. i.) To become surface-hardened by sudden cooling while solidifying; as, some kinds of cast iron chill to a greater depth than others.,
C as in Chilled (a.) Hardened on the surface or edge by chilling; as, chilled iron; a chilled wheel.,
C as in Chilled (a.) Having that cloudiness or dimness of surface that is called "blooming.",
C as in Chilli (n.) See Chili.,
C as in Chilliness (n.) A state or sensation of being chilly; a disagreeable sensation of coldness.,
C as in Chilliness (n.) A moderate degree of coldness; disagreeable coldness or rawness; as, the chilliness of the air.,
C as in Chilliness (n.) Formality; lack of warmth.,
C as in Chilling (a.) Making chilly or cold; depressing; discouraging; cold; distant; as, a chilling breeze; a chilling manner.,
C as in Chillness (n.) Coolness; coldness; a chill.,
C as in Chilly (a.) Moderately cold; cold and raw or damp so as to cause shivering; causing or feeling a disagreeable sensation of cold, or a shivering.,
C as in Chilognath (n.) A myriapod of the order Chilognatha.,
C as in Chilognatha (n. pl.) One of the two principal orders of myriapods. They have numerous segments, each bearing two pairs of small, slender legs, which are attached ventrally, near together.,
C as in Chiloma (n.) The tumid upper lip of certain mammals, as of a camel.,
C as in Chilopod (n.) A myriapod of the order Chilopoda.,
C as in Chilopoda (n. pl.) One of the orders of myriapods, including the centipeds. They have a single pair of elongated legs attached laterally to each segment; well developed jaws; and a pair of thoracic legs converted into poison fangs. They are insectivorous, very active, and some species grow to the length of a foot.,
C as in Chilostoma (n. pl.) Alt. of Chilostomata,
C as in Chilostomata (n. pl.) An extensive suborder of marine Bryozoa, mostly with calcareous shells. They have a movable lip and a lid to close the aperture of the cells.,
C as in Chilostomatous (a.) Of or pertaining to the Chilostoma.,
C as in Chiltern Hundreds () A tract of crown land in Buckinghamshire and Oxfordshire, England, to which is attached the nominal office of steward. As members of Parliament cannot resign, when they wish to go out they accept this stewardship, which legally vacates their seats.,
C as in Chimaera (n.) A cartilaginous fish of several species, belonging to the order Holocephali. The teeth are few and large. The head is furnished with appendages, and the tail terminates in a point.,
C as in Chimaeroid (a.) Related to, or like, the chimaera.,
C as in Chimango () A south American carrion buzzard (Milvago chimango). See Caracara.,
C as in Chimb (n.) The edge of a cask, etc; a chine. See Chine, n., 3.,
C as in Chimb (v. i.) Chime.,
C as in Chime (n.) See Chine, n., 3.,
C as in Chime (n.) The harmonious sound of bells, or of musical instruments.,
C as in Chime (n.) A set of bells musically tuned to each other; specif., in the pl., the music performed on such a set of bells by hand, or produced by mechanism to accompany the striking of the hours or their divisions.,
C as in Chime (n.) Pleasing correspondence of proportion, relation, or sound.,
C as in Chimed (imp. & p. p.) of Chime,
C as in Chiming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chime,
C as in Chime (n.) To sound in harmonious accord, as bells.,
C as in Chime (n.) To be in harmony; to agree; to suit; to harmonize; to correspond; to fall in with.,
C as in Chime (n.) To join in a conversation; to express assent; -- followed by in or in with.,
C as in Chime (n.) To make a rude correspondence of sounds; to jingle, as in rhyming.,
C as in Chime (v. i.) To cause to sound in harmony; to play a tune, as upon a set of bells; to move or strike in harmony.,
C as in Chime (v. i.) To utter harmoniously; to recite rhythmically.,
C as in Chimer (n.) One who chimes.,
C as in Chimeras (pl. ) of Chimera,
C as in Chimera (n.) A monster represented as vomiting flames, and as having the head of a lion, the body of a goat, and the tail of a dragon.,
C as in Chimera (n.) A vain, foolish, or incongruous fancy, or creature of the imagination; as, the chimera of an author.,
C as in Chimere (n.) The upper robe worn by a bishop, to which lawn sleeves are usually attached.,
C as in Chimeric (a.) Chimerical.,
C as in Chimerical (a.) Merely imaginary; fanciful; fantastic; wildly or vainly conceived; having, or capable of having, no existence except in thought; as, chimerical projects.,
C as in Chimerically (adv.) Wildy; vainly; fancifully.,
C as in Chiminage (n.) A toll for passage through a forest.,
C as in Chimneys (pl. ) of Chimney,
C as in Chimney (n.) A fireplace or hearth.,
C as in Chimney (n.) That part of a building which contains the smoke flues; esp. an upright tube or flue of brick or stone, in most cases extending through or above the roof of the building. Often used instead of chimney shaft.,
C as in Chimney (n.) A tube usually of glass, placed around a flame, as of a lamp, to create a draft, and promote combustion.,
C as in Chimney (n.) A body of ore, usually of elongated form, extending downward in a vein.,
C as in Chimney-breast (n.) The horizontal projection of a chimney from the wall in which it is built; -- commonly applied to its projection in the inside of a building only.,
C as in Chimney-piece (n.) A decorative construction around the opening of a fireplace.,
C as in Chimpanzee (n.) An african ape (Anthropithecus troglodytes or Troglodytes niger) which approaches more nearly to man, in most respects, than any other ape. When full grown, it is from three to four feet high.,
C as in Chin (n.) The lower extremity of the face below the mouth; the point of the under jaw.,
C as in Chin (n.) The exterior or under surface embraced between the branches of the lower jaw bone, in birds.,
C as in China (n.) A country in Eastern Asia.,
C as in China (n.) China ware, which is the modern popular term for porcelain. See Porcelain.,
C as in Chinaldine (n.) See Quinaldine.,
C as in Chinamen (pl. ) of Chinaman,
C as in Chinaman (n.) A native of China; a Chinese.,
C as in Chincapin (n.) See Chinquapin.,
C as in Chinch (n.) The bedbug (Cimex lectularius).,
C as in Chinch (n.) A bug (Blissus leucopterus), which, in the United States, is very destructive to grass, wheat, and other grains; -- also called chiniz, chinch bug, chink bug. It resembles the bedbug in its disgusting odor.,
C as in Chincha (n.) A south American rodent of the genus Lagotis.,
C as in Chinche (a.) Parsimonious; niggardly.,
C as in Chincherie (n.) Penuriousness.,
C as in Chinchilla (n.) A small rodent (Chinchilla lanigera), of the size of a large squirrel, remarkable for its fine fur, which is very soft and of a pearly gray color. It is a native of Peru and Chili.,
C as in Chinchilla (n.) The fur of the chinchilla.,
C as in Chinchilla (n.) A heavy, long-napped, tufted woolen cloth.,
C as in Chinchona () Alt. of Chincona,
C as in Chincona () See Cinchona.,
C as in Chin cough () Whooping cough.,
C as in Chine (n.) A chink or cleft; a narrow and deep ravine; as, Shanklin Chine in the Isle of Wight, a quarter of a mile long and 230 feet deep.,
C as in Chine (n.) The backbone or spine of an animal; the back.,
C as in Chine (n.) A piece of the backbone of an animal, with the adjoining parts, cut for cooking. [See Illust. of Beef.],
C as in Chine (n.) The edge or rim of a cask, etc., formed by the projecting ends of the staves; the chamfered end of a stave.,
C as in Chined (imp. & p. p.) of Chine,
C as in Chine (v. t.) To cut through the backbone of; to cut into chine pieces.,
C as in Chine (v. t.) Too chamfer the ends of a stave and form the chine..,
C as in Chined (a.) Pertaining to, or having, a chine, or backbone; -- used in composition.,
C as in Chined (a.) Broken in the back.,
C as in Chinese (a.) Of or pertaining to China; peculiar to China.,
C as in Chinese (n. sing. & pl.) A native or natives of China, or one of that yellow race with oblique eyelids who live principally in China.,
C as in Chinese (n. sing. & pl.) The language of China, which is monosyllabic.,
C as in Chink (n.) A small cleft, rent, or fissure, of greater length than breadth; a gap or crack; as, the chinks of wall.,
C as in Chinked (imp. & p. p.) of Chink,
C as in Chinking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chink,
C as in Chink (v. i.) To crack; to open.,
C as in Chink (v. t.) To cause to open in cracks or fissures.,
C as in Chink (v. t.) To fill up the chinks of; as, to chink a wall.,
C as in Chink (n.) A short, sharp sound, as of metal struck with a slight degree of violence.,
C as in Chink (n.) Money; cash.,
C as in Chink (v. t.) To cause to make a sharp metallic sound, as coins, small pieces of metal, etc., by bringing them into collision with each other.,
C as in Chink (v. i.) To make a slight, sharp, metallic sound, as by the collision of little pieces of money, or other small sonorous bodies.,
C as in Chinky (a.) Full of chinks or fissures; gaping; opening in narrow clefts.,
C as in Chinned (a.) Having a chin; -- used chiefly in compounds; as, short-chinned.,
C as in Chinoidine (n.) See Quinodine.,
C as in Chinoline (n.) See Quinoline.,
C as in Chinone (n.) See Quinone.,
C as in Chinook (n.) One of a tribe of North American Indians now living in the state of Washington, noted for the custom of flattening their skulls. Chinooks also called Flathead Indians.,
C as in Chinook (n.) A warm westerly wind from the country of the Chinooks, sometimes experienced on the slope of the Rocky Mountains, in Montana and the adjacent territory.,
C as in Chinook (n.) A jargon of words from various languages (the largest proportion of which is from that of the Chinooks) generally understood by all the Indian tribes of the northwestern territories of the United States.,
C as in Chinquapin (n.) A branching, nut-bearing tree or shrub (Castanea pumila) of North America, from six to twenty feet high, allied to the chestnut. Also, its small, sweet, edible nat.,
C as in Chinsed (imp. & p. p.) of Chinse,
C as in Chinsing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chinse,
C as in Chinse (v. t. & i.) To thrust oakum into (seams or chinks) with a chisel , the point of a knife, or a chinsing iron; to calk slightly.,
C as in Chintzes (pl. ) of Chintz,
C as in Chintz (n.) Cotton cloth, printed with flowers and other devices, in a number of different colors, and often glazed.,
C as in Chioppine (n.) Same as Chopine, n.,
C as in Chipped (imp. & p. p.) of Chip,
C as in Chipping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chip,
C as in Chip (v. t.) To cut small pieces from; to diminish or reduce to shape, by cutting away a little at a time; to hew.,
C as in Chip (v. t.) To break or crack, or crack off a portion of, as of an eggshell in hatching, or a piece of crockery.,
C as in Chip (v. t.) To bet, as with chips in the game of poker.,
C as in Chip (v. i.) To break or fly off in small pieces.,
C as in Chip (n.) A piece of wood, stone, or other substance, separated by an ax, chisel, or cutting instrument.,
C as in Chip (n.) A fragment or piece broken off; a small piece.,
C as in Chip (n.) Wood or Cuban palm leaf split into slips, or straw plaited in a special manner, for making hats or bonnets.,
C as in Chip (n.) Anything dried up, withered, or without flavor; -- used contemptuously.,
C as in Chip (n.) One of the counters used in poker and other games.,
C as in Chip (n.) The triangular piece of wood attached to the log line.,
C as in Chipmunk (n.) A squirrel-like animal of the genus Tamias, sometimes called the striped squirrel, chipping squirrel, ground squirrel, hackee. The common species of the United States is the Tamias striatus.,
C as in Chipper (v. i.) To chirp or chirrup.,
C as in Chipper (a.) Lively; cheerful; talkative.,
C as in Chippeways (n. pl.) A tribe of Indians formerly inhabiting the northern and western shores of Lake Superior; -- called also Objibways.,
C as in Chipping (n.) A chip; a piece separated by a cutting or graving instrument; a fragment.,
C as in Chipping (n.) The act or process of cutting or breaking off small pieces, as in dressing iron with a chisel, or reducing a timber or block of stone to shape.,
C as in Chipping (n.) The breaking off in small pieces of the edges of potter's ware, porcelain, etc.,
C as in Chipping bird () The chippy.,
C as in Chipping squirrel () See Chipmunk.,
C as in Chippy (a.) Abounding in, or resembling, chips; dry and tasteless.,
C as in Chippy (n.) A small American sparrow (Spizella socialis), very common near dwelling; -- also called chipping bird and chipping sparrow, from its simple note.,
C as in Chips (n.) A ship's carpenter.,
C as in Chiragra (n.) Gout in the hand.,
C as in Chiragrical (a.) Having the gout in the hand, or subject to that disease.,
C as in Chiretta (n.) A plant (Agathotes Chirayta) found in Northern India, having medicinal properties to the gentian, and esteemed as a tonic and febrifuge.,
C as in Chirk (v. i.) To shriek; to gnash; to utter harsh or shrill cries.,
C as in Chirk (v. i.) To chirp like a bird.,
C as in Chirk (v. t.) To cheer; to enliven; as, to chirk one up.,
C as in Chirk (v. i.) Lively; cheerful; in good spirits.,
C as in Chirm (v. i.) To chirp or to make a mournful cry, as a bird.,
C as in Chirognomy (n.) The art of judging character by the shape and appearance of the hand.,
C as in Chirograph (n.) A writing which, requiring a counterpart, was engrossed twice on the same piece of parchment, with a space between, in which was written the word chirographum, through which the parchment was cut, and one part given to each party. It answered to what is now called a charter party.,
C as in Chirograph (n.) The last part of a fine of land, commonly called the foot of the fine.,
C as in Chirographer (n.) One who practice the art or business of writing or engrossing.,
C as in Chirographer (n.) See chirographist, 2.,
C as in Chirographic (a.) Alt. of Chirographical,
C as in Chirographical (a.) Of or pertaining to chirography.,
C as in Chirographist (n.) A chirographer; a writer or engrosser.,
C as in Chirographist (n.) One who tells fortunes by examining the hand.,
C as in Chirography (n.) The art of writing or engrossing; handwriting; as, skilled in chirography.,
C as in Chirography (n.) The art of telling fortunes by examining the hand.,
C as in Chirogymnast (n.) A mechanical contrivance for exercising the fingers of a pianist.,
C as in Chirological (a.) Relating to chirology.,
C as in Chirologist (n.) One who communicates thoughts by signs made with the hands and fingers.,
C as in Chirology (n.) The art or practice of using the manual alphabet or of communicating thoughts by sings made by the hands and fingers; a substitute for spoken or written language in intercourse with the deaf and dumb. See Dactylalogy.,
C as in Chiromancer (n.) One who practices chiromancy.,
C as in Chiromancy (n.) The art or practice of foretelling events, or of telling the fortunes or the disposition of persons by inspecting the hand; palmistry.,
C as in Chiromanist (n.) Alt. of Chiromantist,
C as in Chiromantist (n.) A chiromancer.,
C as in Chiromantic (a.) Alt. of Chiromantical,
C as in Chiromantical (a.) Of or pertaining to chiromancy.,
C as in Chiromonic (a.) Relating to chironomy.,
C as in Chironomy (n.) The art of moving the hands in oratory or in pantomime; gesture,
C as in Chiroplast (n.) An instrument to guid the hands and fingers of pupils in playing on the piano, etc.,
C as in Chiropodist (n.) One who treats diseases of the hands and feet; especially, one who removes corns and bunions.,
C as in Chiropody (n.) The art of treating diseases of the hands and feet.,
C as in Chirosophist (n.) A fortune teller.,
C as in Chirped (imp. & p. p.) of Chirp,
C as in Chirping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chirp,
C as in Chirp (v. i.) To make a shop, sharp, cheerful, as of small birds or crickets.,
C as in Chirp (n.) A short, sharp note, as of a bird or insect.,
C as in Chirper (n.) One who chirps, or is cheerful.,
C as in Chirping (a.) Cheering; enlivening.,
C as in Chirpingly (adv.) In a chirping manner.,
C as in Chirre (v. i.) To coo, as a pigeon.,
C as in Chirruped (imp. & p. p.) of Chirrup,
C as in Chirruping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chirrup,
C as in Chirrup (v. t.) To quicken or animate by chirping; to cherup.,
C as in Chirrup (v. i.) To chirp.,
C as in Chirrup (n.) The act of chirping; a chirp.,
C as in Chirrupy (a.) Cheerful; joyous; chatty.,
C as in Chirurgeon (n.) A surgeon.,
C as in Chirurgeonly (adv.) Surgically.,
C as in Chirurgery (n.) Surgery.,
C as in Chirurgic (a.) Alt. of Chirurgical,
C as in Chirurgical (a.) Surgical,
C as in Chisel (n.) A tool with a cutting edge on one end of a metal blade, used in dressing, shaping, or working in timber, stone, metal, etc.; -- usually driven by a mallet or hammer.,
C as in Chiseled (imp. & p. p.) of Chisel,
C as in Chiselled () of Chisel,
C as in Chiseling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chisel,
C as in Chiselling () of Chisel,
C as in Chisel (v. t.) To cut, pare, gouge, or engrave with a chisel; as, to chisel a block of marble into a statue.,
C as in Chisel (v. t.) To cut close, as in a bargain; to cheat.,
C as in Chisleu (n.) The ninth month of the Jewish ecclesiastical year, answering to a part of November with a part of December.,
C as in Chisley (a.) Having a large admixture of small pebbles or gravel; -- said of a soil.,
C as in Chit (n.) The embryo or the growing bud of a plant; a shoot; a sprout; as, the chits of Indian corn or of potatoes.,
C as in Chit (n.) A child or babe; as, a forward chit; also, a young, small, or insignificant person or animal.,
C as in Chit (n.) An excrescence on the body, as a wart.,
C as in Chit (n.) A small tool used in cleaving laths.,
C as in Chit (v. i.) To shoot out; to sprout.,
C as in Chit (3d sing.) Chideth.,
C as in Chitchat (n.) Familiar or trifling talk; prattle.,
C as in Chitin (n.) A white amorphous horny substance forming the harder part of the outer integument of insects, crustacea, and various other invertebrates; entomolin.,
C as in Chitinization (n.) The process of becoming chitinous.,
C as in Chitinous (a.) Having the nature of chitin; consisting of, or containing, chitin.,
C as in Chiton (n.) An under garment among the ancient Greeks, nearly representing the modern shirt.,
C as in Chiton (n.) One of a group of gastropod mollusks, with a shell composed of eight movable dorsal plates. See Polyplacophora.,
C as in Chitter (v. i.) To chirp in a tremulous manner, as a bird.,
C as in Chitter (v. i.) To shiver or chatter with cold.,
C as in Chitterling (n.) The frill to the breast of a shirt, which when ironed out resembled the small entrails. See Chitterlings.,
C as in Chitterlings (n. pl.) The smaller intestines of swine, etc., fried for food.,
C as in Chittra (n.) The axis deer of India.,
C as in Chitty (a.) Full of chits or sprouts.,
C as in Chitty (a.) Childish; like a babe.,
C as in Chivachie (n.) A cavalry raid; hence, a military expedition.,
C as in Chivalric (a.) Relating to chivalry; knightly; chivalrous.,
C as in Chivalrous (a.) Pertaining to chivalry or knight-errantry; warlike; heroic; gallant; high-spirited; high-minded; magnanimous.,
C as in Chivalrously (adv.) In a chivalrous manner; gallantly; magnanimously.,
C as in Chivalry (n.) A body or order of cavaliers or knights serving on horseback; illustrious warriors, collectively; cavalry.,
C as in Chivalry (n.) The dignity or system of knighthood; the spirit, usages, or manners of knighthood; the practice of knight-errantry.,
C as in Chivalry (n.) The qualifications or character of knights, as valor, dexterity in arms, courtesy, etc.,
C as in Chivalry (n.) A tenure of lands by knight's service; that is, by the condition of a knight's performing service on horseback, or of performing some noble or military service to his lord.,
C as in Chivalry (n.) Exploit.,
C as in Chive (n.) A filament of a stamen.,
C as in Chive (n.) A perennial plant (Allium Schoenoprasum), allied to the onion. The young leaves are used in omelets, etc.,
C as in Chivied (imp. & p. p.) of Chivy,
C as in Chivying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chivy,
C as in Chivy (v. t.) To goad, drive, hunt, throw, or pitch.,
C as in Chlamydate (a.) Having a mantle; -- applied to certain gastropods.,
C as in Chlamyphore (n.) A small South American edentate (Chlamyphorus truncatus, and C. retusus) allied to the armadillo. It is covered with a leathery shell or coat of mail, like a cloak, attached along the spine.,
C as in Chlamyses (pl. ) of Chlamys,
C as in Chlamydes (pl. ) of Chlamys,
C as in Chlamys (n.) A loose and flowing outer garment, worn by the ancient Greeks; a kind of cloak.,
C as in Chloasma (n.) A cutaneous affection characterized by yellow or yellowish brown pigmented spots.,
C as in Chloral (n.) A colorless oily liquid, CCl3.CHO, of a pungent odor and harsh taste, obtained by the action of chlorine upon ordinary or ethyl alcohol.,
C as in Chloral (n.) Chloral hydrate.,
C as in Chloralamide (n.) A compound of chloral and formic amide used to produce sleep.,
C as in Chloralism (n.) A morbid condition of the system resulting from excessive use of chloral.,
C as in Chloralum (n.) An impure aqueous solution of chloride of aluminium, used as an antiseptic and disinfectant.,
C as in Chloranil (n.) A yellow crystalline substance, C6Cl4.O2, regarded as a derivative of quinone, obtained by the action of chlorine on certain benzene derivatives, as aniline.,
C as in Chlorate (n.) A salt of chloric acid; as, chlorate of potassium.,
C as in Chloraurate (n.) See Aurochloride.,
C as in Chlorhydric (a.) Same as Hydrochloric.,
C as in Chlorhydrin (n.) One of a class of compounds formed from certain polybasic alcohols (and especially glycerin) by the substitution of chlorine for one or more hydroxyl groups.,
C as in Chloric (a.) Pertaining to, or obtained from, chlorine; -- said of those compounds of chlorine in which this element has a valence of five, or the next to its highest; as, chloric acid, HClO3.,
C as in Chloridate (v. t.) To treat or prepare with a chloride, as a plate with chloride of silver, for the purposes of photography.,
C as in Chloride (n.) A binary compound of chlorine with another element or radical; as, chloride of sodium (common salt).,
C as in Chloridic (a.) Of or pertaining to a chloride; containing a chloride.,
C as in Chloridize (v. t.) See Chloridate.,
C as in Chlorimetry (n.) See Chlorometry.,
C as in Chlorinated (imp. & p. p.) of Chlorinate,
C as in Chlorinating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chlorinate,
C as in Chlorinate (v. t.) To treat, or cause to combine, with chlorine.,
C as in Chlorination (n.) The act or process of subjecting anything to the action of chlorine; especially, a process for the extraction of gold by exposure of the auriferous material to chlorine gas.,
C as in Chlorine (n.) One of the elementary substances, commonly isolated as a greenish yellow gas, two and one half times as heavy as air, of an intensely disagreeable suffocating odor, and exceedingly poisonous. It is abundant in nature, the most important compound being common salt. It is powerful oxidizing, bleaching, and disinfecting agent. Symbol Cl. Atomic weight, 35.4.,
C as in Chloriodic (a.) Compounded of chlorine and iodine; containing chlorine and iodine.,
C as in Chloriodine (n.) A compound of chlorine and iodine.,
C as in Chlorite (n.) The name of a group of minerals, usually of a green color and micaceous to granular in structure. They are hydrous silicates of alumina, iron, and magnesia.,
C as in Chlorite (n.) Any salt of chlorous acid; as, chlorite of sodium.,
C as in Chloritic (a.) Pertaining to, or containing, chlorite; as, chloritic sand.,
C as in Chlormethane (n.) A colorless gas, CH3Cl, of a sweet odor, easily condensed to a liquid; -- called also methyl chloride.,
C as in Chloro- () A prefix denoting that chlorine is an ingredient in the substance named.,
C as in Chlorocruorin (n.) A green substance, supposed to be the cause of the green color of the blood in some species of worms.,
C as in Chlorodyne (n.) A patent anodyne medicine, containing opium, chloroform, Indian hemp, etc.,
C as in Chloroform (n.) A colorless volatile liquid, CHCl3, having an ethereal odor and a sweetish taste, formed by treating alcohol with chlorine and an alkali. It is a powerful solvent of wax, resin, etc., and is extensively used to produce anaesthesia in surgical operations; also externally, to alleviate pain.,
C as in Chloroformed (imp. & p. p.) of Chloroform,
C as in Chloroforming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chloroform,
C as in Chloroform (v. t.) To treat with chloroform, or to place under its influence.,
C as in Chloroleucite (n.) Same as Chloroplastid.,
C as in Chlorometer (n.) An instrument to test the decoloring or bleaching power of chloride of lime.,
C as in Chlorometry (n.) The process of testing the bleaching power of any combination of chlorine.,
C as in Chloropal (n.) A massive mineral, greenish in color, and opal-like in appearance. It is essentially a hydrous silicate of iron.,
C as in Chloropeptic (a.) Of or pertaining to an acid more generally called pepsin-hydrochloric acid.,
C as in Chlorophane (n.) A variety of fluor spar, which, when heated, gives a beautiful emerald green light.,
C as in Chlorophane (n.) The yellowish green pigment in the inner segment of the cones of the retina. See Chromophane.,
C as in Chlorophyll (n.) Literally, leaf green; a green granular matter formed in the cells of the leaves (and other parts exposed to light) of plants, to which they owe their green color, and through which all ordinary assimilation of plant food takes place. Similar chlorophyll granules have been found in the tissues of the lower animals.,
C as in Chloroplastid (n.) A granule of chlorophyll; -- also called chloroleucite.,
C as in Chloroplatinic (a.) See Platinichloric.,
C as in Chlorosis (n.) The green sickness; an anaemic disease of young women, characterized by a greenish or grayish yellow hue of the skin, weakness, palpitation, etc.,
C as in Chlorosis (n.) A disease in plants, causing the flowers to turn green or the leaves to lose their normal green color.,
C as in Chlorotic (a.) Pertaining to, or affected by, chlorosis.,
C as in Chlorous (a.) Of, pertaining to, or derived from, chlorine; -- said of those compounds of chlorine in which this element has a valence of three, the next lower than in chloric compounds; as, chlorous acid, HClO2.,
C as in Chlorous (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, the electro-negative character of chlorine; hence, electro-negative; -- opposed to basylous or zincous.,
C as in Chlorpicrin (n.) A heavy, colorless liquid, CCl3.NO2, of a strong pungent odor, obtained by subjecting picric acid to the action of chlorine.,
C as in Chloruret (n.) A chloride.,
C as in Choak (v. t. & i.) See Choke.,
C as in Choanoid (a.) Funnel-shaped; -- applied particularly to a hollow muscle attached to the ball of the eye in many reptiles and mammals.,
C as in Chocard (n.) The chough.,
C as in Chocked (imp. & p. p.) of Chock,
C as in Chocking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chock,
C as in Chock (v. t.) To stop or fasten, as with a wedge, or block; to scotch; as, to chock a wheel or cask.,
C as in Chock (v. i.) To fill up, as a cavity.,
C as in Chock (n.) A wedge, or block made to fit in any space which it is desired to fill, esp. something to steady a cask or other body, or prevent it from moving, by fitting into the space around or beneath it.,
C as in Chock (n.) A heavy casting of metal, usually fixed near the gunwale. It has two short horn-shaped arms curving inward, between which ropes or hawsers may pass for towing, mooring, etc.,
C as in Chock (adv.) Entirely; quite; as, chock home; chock aft.,
C as in Chock (v. t.) To encounter.,
C as in Chock (n.) An encounter.,
C as in Chockablock (a.) Hoisted as high as the tackle will admit; brought close together, as the two blocks of a tackle in hoisting.,
C as in Chock-full (a.) Quite full; choke-full.,
C as in Chocolate (n.) A paste or cake composed of the roasted seeds of the Theobroma Cacao ground and mixed with other ingredients, usually sugar, and cinnamon or vanilla.,
C as in Chocolate (n.) The beverage made by dissolving a portion of the paste or cake in boiling water or milk.,
C as in Choctaws (n. pl.) A tribe of North American Indians (Southern Appalachian), in early times noted for their pursuit of agriculture, and for living at peace with the white settlers. They are now one of the civilized tribes of the Indian Territory.,
C as in Chode () the old imp. of chide. See Chide.,
C as in Chogset (n.) See Cunner.,
C as in Choice (n.) Act of choosing; the voluntary act of selecting or separating from two or more things that which is preferred; the determination of the mind in preferring one thing to another; election.,
C as in Choice (n.) The power or opportunity of choosing; option.,
C as in Choice (n.) Care in selecting; judgment or skill in distinguishing what is to be preferred, and in giving a preference; discrimination.,
C as in Choice (n.) A sufficient number to choose among.,
C as in Choice (n.) The thing or person chosen; that which is approved and selected in preference to others; selection.,
C as in Choice (n.) The best part; that which is preferable.,
C as in Choice (superl.) Worthly of being chosen or preferred; select; superior; precious; valuable.,
C as in Choice (superl.) Preserving or using with care, as valuable; frugal; -- used with of; as, to be choice of time, or of money.,
C as in Choice (superl.) Selected with care, and due attention to preference; deliberately chosen.,
C as in Choiceful (a.) Making choices; fickle.,
C as in Choicely (adv.) With care in choosing; with nice regard to preference.,
C as in Choicely (adv.) In a preferable or excellent manner; excellently; eminently.,
C as in Choiceness (n.) The quality of being of particular value or worth; nicely; excellence.,
C as in Choir (n.) A band or organized company of singers, especially in church service.,
C as in Choir (n.) That part of a church appropriated to the singers.,
C as in Choir (n.) The chancel.,
C as in Choked (imp. & p. p.) of Choke,
C as in Choking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Choke,
C as in Choke (v. t.) To render unable to breathe by filling, pressing upon, or squeezing the windpipe; to stifle; to suffocate; to strangle.,
C as in Choke (v. t.) To obstruct by filling up or clogging any passage; to block up.,
C as in Choke (v. t.) To hinder or check, as growth, expansion, progress, etc.; to stifle.,
C as in Choke (v. t.) To affect with a sense of strangulation by passion or strong feeling.,
C as in Choke (v. t.) To make a choke, as in a cartridge, or in the bore of the barrel of a shotgun.,
C as in Choke (v. i.) To have the windpipe stopped; to have a spasm of the throat, caused by stoppage or irritation of the windpipe; to be strangled.,
C as in Choke (v. i.) To be checked, as if by choking; to stick.,
C as in Choke (n.) A stoppage or irritation of the windpipe, producing the feeling of strangulation.,
C as in Choke (n.) The tied end of a cartridge.,
C as in Choke (n.) A constriction in the bore of a shotgun, case of a rocket, etc.,
C as in Chokeberry (n.) The small apple-shaped or pear-shaped fruit of an American shrub (Pyrus arbutifolia) growing in damp thickets; also, the shrub.,
C as in Chokecherry (n.) The astringent fruit of a species of wild cherry (Prunus Virginiana); also, the bush or tree which bears such fruit.,
C as in Choke damp () See Carbonic acid, under Carbonic.,
C as in Chokedar (n.) A watchman; an officer of customs or police.,
C as in Choke-full (a.) Full to the brim; quite full; chock-full.,
C as in Choke pear () A kind of pear that has a rough, astringent taste, and is swallowed with difficulty, or which contracts the mucous membrane of the mouth.,
C as in Choke pear () A sarcasm by which one is put to silence; anything that can not be answered.,
C as in Choker (n.) One who, or that which, chokes.,
C as in Choker (n.) A stiff wide cravat; a stock.,
C as in Choke-strap (n.) A strap leading from the bellyband to the lower part of the collar, to keep the collar in place.,
C as in Choking (a.) That chokes; producing the feeling of strangulation.,
C as in Choking (a.) Indistinct in utterance, as the voice of a person affected with strong emotion.,
C as in Choky Chokey (a.) Tending to choke or suffocate, or having power to suffocate.,
C as in Choky Chokey (a.) Inclined to choke, as a person affected with strong emotion.,
C as in Cholaemaa (n.) A disease characterized by severe nervous symptoms, dependent upon the presence of the constituents of the bile in the blood.,
C as in Cholagogue (a.) Promoting the discharge of bile from the system.,
C as in Cholagogue (n.) An agent which promotes the discharge of bile from the system.,
C as in Cholate (n.) A salt of cholic acid; as, sodium cholate.,
C as in Cholecystis (n.) The gall bladder.,
C as in Cholecystotomy (n.) The operation of making an opening in the gall bladder, as for the removal of a gallstone.,
C as in Choledology (n.) A treatise on the bile and bilary organs.,
C as in Choleic (a.) Pertaining to, or obtained from, bile; as, choleic acid.,
C as in Choler (n.) The bile; -- formerly supposed to be the seat and cause of irascibility.,
C as in Choler (n.) Irritation of the passions; anger; wrath.,
C as in Cholera (n.) One of several diseases affecting the digestive and intestinal tract and more or less dangerous to life, esp. the one commonly called Asiatic cholera.,
C as in Choleraic (a.) Relating to, or resulting from, or resembling, cholera.,
C as in Choleric (a.) Abounding with, or producing choler, or bile.,
C as in Choleric (a.) Easily irritated; irascible; inclined to anger.,
C as in Choleric (a.) Angry; indicating anger; excited by anger.,
C as in Cholericly (adv.) In a choleric manner; angrily.,
C as in Choleriform (a.) Resembling cholera.,
C as in Cholerine (n.) The precursory symptoms of cholera.,
C as in Cholerine (n.) The first stage of epidemic cholera.,
C as in Cholerine (n.) A mild form of cholera.,
C as in Choleroid (a.) Choleriform.,
C as in Cholesteric (a.) Pertaining to cholesterin, or obtained from it; as, cholesteric acid.,
C as in Cholesterin (n.) A white, fatty, crystalline substance, tasteless and odorless, found in animal and plant products and tissue, and especially in nerve tissue, in the bile, and in gallstones.,
C as in Choliamb (n.) Alt. of Choliambic,
C as in Choliambic (n.) A verse having an iambus in the fifth place, and a spondee in the sixth or last.,
C as in Cholic (a.) Alt. of Cholinic,
C as in Cholinic (a.) Pertaining to, or obtained from, the bile.,
C as in Choline (n.) See Neurine.,
C as in Cholochrome (n.) See Bilirubin.,
C as in Cholophaein (n.) See Bilirubin.,
C as in Choltry (n.) A Hindoo caravansary.,
C as in Chomp (v. i.) To chew loudly and greedily; to champ.,
C as in Chondrification (n.) Formation of, or conversion into, cartilage.,
C as in Chondrify (v. t. & i.) To convert, or be converted, into cartilage.,
C as in Chondrigen (n.) The chemical basis of cartilage, converted by long boiling in water into a gelatinous body called chondrin.,
C as in Chondrigenous (a.) Affording chondrin.,
C as in Chondrin (n.) A colorless, amorphous, nitrogenous substance, tasteless and odorless, formed from cartilaginous tissue by long-continued action of boiling water. It is similar to gelatin, and is a large ingredient of commercial gelatin.,
C as in Chondrite (n.) A meteoric stone characterized by the presence of chondrules.,
C as in Chondritic (a.) Granular; pertaining to, or having the granular structure characteristic of, the class of meteorites called chondrites.,
C as in Chondritis (n.) An inflammation of cartilage.,
C as in Chondro- () A combining form meaning a grain, granular, granular cartilage, cartilaginous; as, the chondrocranium, the cartilaginous skull of the lower vertebrates and of embryos.,
C as in Chondrodite (n.) A fluosilicate of magnesia and iron, yellow to red in color, often occurring in granular form in a crystalline limestone.,
C as in Chondroganoidea (n.) An order of ganoid fishes, including the sturgeons; -- so called on account of their cartilaginous skeleton.,
C as in Chondrogen (n.) Same as Chondrigen.,
C as in Chondrogenesis (n.) The development of cartilage.,
C as in Chondroid (a.) Resembling cartilage.,
C as in Chondrology (n.) The science which treats of cartilages.,
C as in Chondromata (pl. ) of Chondroma,
C as in Chondroma (n.) A cartilaginous tumor or growth.,
C as in Chondrometer (n.) A steelyard for weighting grain.,
C as in Chondropterygian (a.) Having a cartilaginous skeleton.,
C as in Chondropterygian (n.) One of the Chondropterygii.,
C as in Chondropterygii (n. pl.) A group of fishes, characterized by cartilaginous fins and skeleton. It includes both ganoids (sturgeons, etc.) and selachians (sharks), but is now often restricted to the latter.,
C as in Chondrostei (n. pl.) An order of fishes, including the sturgeons; -- so named because the skeleton is cartilaginous.,
C as in Chondrotomy (n.) The dissection of cartilages.,
C as in Chondrule (n.) A peculiar rounded granule of some mineral, usually enstatite or chrysolite, found imbedded more or less abundantly in the mass of many meteoric stones, which are hence called chondrites.,
C as in Chose (imp.) of Choose,
C as in Chosen (p. p.) of Choose,
C as in Chose () of Choose,
C as in Choosing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Choose,
C as in Choose (v. t.) To make choice of; to select; to take by way of preference from two or more objects offered; to elect; as, to choose the least of two evils.,
C as in Choose (v. t.) To wish; to desire; to prefer.,
C as in Choose (v. i.) To make a selection; to decide.,
C as in Choose (v. i.) To do otherwise.,
C as in Chooser (n.) One who chooses; one who has the power or right of choosing; an elector.,
C as in Chopped (imp. & p. p.) of Chop,
C as in Chopping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chop,
C as in Chop (v. t.) To cut by striking repeatedly with a sharp instrument; to cut into pieces; to mince; -- often with up.,
C as in Chop (v. t.) To sever or separate by one more blows of a sharp instrument; to divide; -- usually with off or down.,
C as in Chop (v. t.) To seize or devour greedily; -- with up.,
C as in Chop (v. i.) To make a quick strike, or repeated strokes, with an ax or other sharp instrument.,
C as in Chop (v. i.) To do something suddenly with an unexpected motion; to catch or attempt to seize.,
C as in Chop (v. i.) To interrupt; -- with in or out.,
C as in Chop (v. i.) To barter or truck.,
C as in Chop (v. i.) To exchange; substitute one thing for another.,
C as in Chop (v. i.) To purchase by way of truck.,
C as in Chop (v. i.) To vary or shift suddenly; as, the wind chops about.,
C as in Chop (v. i.) To wrangle; to altercate; to bandy words.,
C as in Chop (n.) A change; a vicissitude.,
C as in Chop (v. t. & i.) To crack. See Chap, v. t. & i.,
C as in Chop (n.) The act of chopping; a stroke.,
C as in Chop (n.) A piece chopped off; a slice or small piece, especially of meat; as, a mutton chop.,
C as in Chop (n.) A crack or cleft. See Chap.,
C as in Chop (n.) A jaw of an animal; -- commonly in the pl. See Chops.,
C as in Chop (n.) A movable jaw or cheek, as of a wooden vise.,
C as in Chop (n.) The land at each side of the mouth of a river, harbor, or channel; as, East Chop or West Chop. See Chops.,
C as in Chop (n.) Quality; brand; as, silk of the first chop.,
C as in Chop (n.) A permit or clearance.,
C as in Chopboat (n.) A licensed lighter employed in the transportation of goods to and from vessels.,
C as in Chopchurch (n.) An exchanger or an exchange of benefices.,
C as in Chopfallen (a.) Having the lower chop or jaw depressed; hence, crestfallen; dejected; dispirited; downcast. See Chapfallen.,
C as in Chophouse (n.) A house where chops, etc., are sold; an eating house.,
C as in Chophouse (n.) A customhouse where transit duties are levied.,
C as in Chopin (n.) A liquid measure formerly used in France and Great Britain, varying from half a pint to a wine quart.,
C as in Chopin (n.) See Chopine.,
C as in Chopine (n.) A clog, or patten, having a very thick sole, or in some cases raised upon a stilt to a height of a foot or more.,
C as in Chop-logic (n.) One who bandies words or is very argumentative.,
C as in Chopness (n.) A kind of spade.,
C as in Chopper (n.) One who, or that which, chops.,
C as in Chopping (a.) Stout or plump; large.,
C as in Chopping (a.) Shifting or changing suddenly, as the wind; also, having tumbling waves dashing against each other; as, a chopping sea.,
C as in Chopping (n.) Act of cutting by strokes.,
C as in Choppy (a.) Full of cracks.,
C as in Choppy (a.) Rough, with short, tumultuous waves; as, a choppy sea.,
C as in Chops (n. pl.) The jaws; also, the fleshy parts about the mouth.,
C as in Chops (n. pl.) The sides or capes at the mouth of a river, channel, harbor, or bay; as, the chops of the English Channel.,
C as in Chopstick (n.) One of two small sticks of wood, ivory, etc., used by the Chinese and Japanese to convey food to the mouth.,
C as in Choragic (a.) Of or pertaining to a choragus.,
C as in Choragi (pl. ) of Choragus,
C as in Choragus (n.) A chorus leader; esp. one who provided at his own expense and under his own supervision one of the choruses for the musical contents at Athens.,
C as in Choral (a.) Of or pertaining to a choir or chorus; singing, sung, or adapted to be sung, in chorus or harmony.,
C as in Choral (n.) A hymn tune; a simple sacred tune, sung in unison by the congregation; as, the Lutheran chorals.,
C as in Choralist (n.) A singer or composer of chorals.,
C as in Chorally (adv.) In the manner of a chorus; adapted to be sung by a choir; in harmony.,
C as in Chord (n.) The string of a musical instrument.,
C as in Chord (n.) A combination of tones simultaneously performed, producing more or less perfect harmony, as, the common chord.,
C as in Chord (n.) A right line uniting the extremities of the arc of a circle or curve.,
C as in Chord (n.) A cord. See Cord, n., 4.,
C as in Chord (n.) The upper or lower part of a truss, usually horizontal, resisting compression or tension.,
C as in Chorded (imp. & p. p.) of Chord,
C as in Chording (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chord,
C as in Chord (v. t.) To provide with musical chords or strings; to string; to tune.,
C as in Chord (v. i.) To accord; to harmonize together; as, this note chords with that.,
C as in Chorda (n.) A cord.,
C as in Chordal (a.) Of or pertaining to a chord.,
C as in Chordata (n. pl.) A comprehensive division of animals including all Vertebrata together with the Tunicata, or all those having a dorsal nervous cord.,
C as in Chordee (n.) A painful erection of the penis, usually with downward curvature, occurring in gonorrhea.,
C as in Chore (n.) A small job; in the pl., the regular or daily light work of a household or farm, either within or without doors.,
C as in Chored (imp. & p. p.) of Chore,
C as in Choring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chore,
C as in Chore (v. i.) To do chores.,
C as in Chore (n.) A choir or chorus.,
C as in Chorea (n.) St. Vitus's dance; a disease attended with convulsive twitchings and other involuntary movements of the muscles or limbs.,
C as in Choree (n.) See Choreus.,
C as in Choregraphic (a.) Alt. of Choregraphical,
C as in Choregraphical (a.) Pertaining to choregraphy.,
C as in Choregraphy (n.) The art of representing dancing by signs, as music is represented by notes.,
C as in Choreic (a.) Of the nature of, or pertaining to, chorea; convulsive.,
C as in Chorepiscopal (a.) Pertaining to a chorepiscopus or his change or authority.,
C as in Chorepiscopi (pl. ) of Chorepiscopus,
C as in Chorepiscopus (n.) A "country" or suffragan bishop, appointed in the ancient church by a diocesan bishop to exercise episcopal jurisdiction in a rural district.,
C as in Choreus (n.) Alt. of Choree,
C as in Choree (n.) a trochee.,
C as in Choree (n.) A tribrach.,
C as in Choriambs (pl. ) of Choriamb,
C as in Choriamb (n.) Same as Choriambus.,
C as in Choriambic (a.) Pertaining to a choriamb.,
C as in Choriambic (n.) A choriamb.,
C as in Choriambi (pl. ) of Choriambus,
C as in Choriambuses (pl. ) of Choriambus,
C as in Choriambus (n.) A foot consisting of four syllables, of which the first and last are long, and the other short (- ~ ~ -); that is, a choreus, or trochee, and an iambus united.,
C as in Choric (a.) Of or pertaining to a chorus.,
C as in Chorion (n.) The outer membrane which invests the fetus in the womb; also, the similar membrane investing many ova at certain stages of development.,
C as in Chorion (n.) The true skin, or cutis.,
C as in Chorion (n.) The outer membrane of seeds of plants.,
C as in Chorisis (n.) The separation of a leaf or floral organ into two more parts.,
C as in Chorist (n.) A singer in a choir; a chorister.,
C as in Chorister (n.) One of a choir; a singer in a chorus.,
C as in Chorister (n.) One who leads a choir in church music.,
C as in Choristic (a.) Choric; choral.,
C as in Chorograph (n.) An instrument for constructing triangles in marine surveying, etc.,
C as in Chorographer (n.) One who describes or makes a map of a district or region.,
C as in Chorographer (n.) A geographical antiquary; one who investigates the locality of ancient places.,
C as in Chorographical (a.) Pertaining to chorography.,
C as in Chorography (n.) the mapping or description of a region or district.,
C as in Choroid (a.) resembling the chorion; as, the choroid plexuses of the ventricles of the brain, and the choroid coat of the eyeball.,
C as in Choroid (n.) The choroid coat of the eye. See Eye.,
C as in Choroidal (a.) Pertaining to the choroid coat.,
C as in Chorology (n.) The science which treats of the laws of distribution of living organisms over the earth's surface as to latitude, altitude, locality, etc.,
C as in Chorometry (n.) The art of surveying a region or district.,
C as in Choruses (pl. ) of Chorus,
C as in Chorus (n.) A band of singers and dancers.,
C as in Chorus (n.) A company of persons supposed to behold what passed in the acts of a tragedy, and to sing the sentiments which the events suggested in couplets or verses between the acts; also, that which was thus sung by the chorus.,
C as in Chorus (n.) An interpreter in a dumb show or play.,
C as in Chorus (n.) A company of singers singing in concert.,
C as in Chorus (n.) A composition of two or more parts, each of which is intended to be sung by a number of voices.,
C as in Chorus (n.) Parts of a song or hymn recurring at intervals, as at the end of stanzas; also, a company of singers who join with the singer or choir in singer or choir in singing such parts.,
C as in Chorus (n.) The simultaneous of a company in any noisy demonstration; as, a Chorus of shouts and catcalls.,
C as in Chorused (imp. & p. p.) of Chorus,
C as in Chorusing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chorus,
C as in Chorus (v. i.) To sing in chorus; to exclaim simultaneously.,
C as in Choses (pl. ) of Chose,
C as in Chose (n.) A thing; personal property.,
C as in Chose () imp. & p. p. of Choose.,
C as in Chosen (p. p.) Selected from a number; picked out; choice.,
C as in Chosen (n.) One who, or that which is the object of choice or special favor.,
C as in Chouan (n.) One of the royalist insurgents in western France (Brittany, etc.), during and after the French revolution.,
C as in Chough (n.) A bird of the Crow family (Fregilus graculus) of Europe. It is of a black color, with a long, slender, curved bill and red legs; -- also called chauk, chauk-daw, chocard, Cornish chough, red-legged crow. The name is also applied to several allied birds, as the Alpine chough.,
C as in Chouicha (n.) The salmon of the Columbia River or California. See Quinnat.,
C as in Chouka (n.) The Indian four-horned antelope; the chikara.,
C as in Choule (n.) See Jowl.,
C as in Choultry (n.) See Choltry.,
C as in Choused (imp. & p. p.) of Chouse,
C as in Chousing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chouse,
C as in Chouse (v. t.) To cheat, trick, defraud; -- followed by of, or out of; as, to chouse one out of his money.,
C as in Chouse (n.) One who is easily cheated; a tool; a simpleton; a gull.,
C as in Chouse (n.) A trick; sham; imposition.,
C as in Chouse (n.) A swindler.,
C as in Chout (n.) An assessment equal to a fourth part of the revenue.,
C as in Chowchow (a.) Consisting of several kinds mingled together; mixed; as, chowchow sweetmeats (preserved fruits put together).,
C as in Chowchow (n.) A kind of mixed pickles.,
C as in Chowder (n.) A dish made of fresh fish or clams, biscuit, onions, etc., stewed together.,
C as in Chowder (n.) A seller of fish.,
C as in Chowder (v. t.) To make a chowder of.,
C as in Chowry (n.) A whisk to keep off files, used in the East Indies.,
C as in Chowter (v. t.) To grumble or mutter like a froward child.,
C as in Choy root () See Chay root.,
C as in Chrematistics (n.) The science of wealth; the science, or a branch of the science, of political economy.,
C as in Chreotechnics (n.) The science of the useful arts, esp. agriculture, manufactures, and commerce.,
C as in Chrestomathic (a.) Teaching what is useful.,
C as in Chrestomathy (n.) A selection of passages, with notes, etc., to be used in acquiring a language; as, a Hebrew chrestomathy.,
C as in Chrism (n.) Olive oil mixed with balm and spices, consecrated by the bishop on Maundy Thursday, and used in the administration of baptism, confirmation, ordination, etc.,
C as in Chrism (n.) The same as Chrisom.,
C as in Chrismal (a.) Of or pertaining to or used in chrism.,
C as in Chrismation (n.) The act of applying the chrism, or consecrated oil.,
C as in Chrismatory (n.) A cruet or vessel in which chrism is kept.,
C as in Chrisom (n.) A white cloth, anointed with chrism, or a white mantle thrown over a child when baptized or christened.,
C as in Chrisom (n.) A child which died within a month after its baptism; -- so called from the chrisom cloth which was used as a shroud for it.,
C as in Christ (n.) The Anointed; an appellation given to Jesus, the Savior. It is synonymous with the Hebrew Messiah.,
C as in Christcross (n.) The mark of the cross, as cut, painted, written, or stamped on certain objects, -- sometimes as the sign of 12 o'clock on a dial.,
C as in Christcross (n.) The beginning and the ending.,
C as in Christcross-row () The alphabet; -- formerly so called, either from the cross usually set before it, or from a superstitious custom, sometimes practiced, of writing it in the form of a cross, by way of a charm.,
C as in Christened (imp. & p. p.) of Christen,
C as in Christening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Christen,
C as in Christen (v. t.) To baptize and give a Christian name to.,
C as in Christen (v. t.) To give a name; to denominate.,
C as in Christen (v. t.) To Christianize.,
C as in Christen (v. t.) To use for the first time.,
C as in Christendom (n.) The profession of faith in Christ by baptism; hence, the Christian religion, or the adoption of it.,
C as in Christendom (n.) The name received at baptism; or, more generally, any name or appelation.,
C as in Christendom (n.) That portion of the world in which Christianity prevails, or which is governed under Christian institutions, in distinction from heathen or Mohammedan lands.,
C as in Christendom (n.) The whole body of Christians.,
C as in Christian (n.) One who believes, or professes or is assumed to believe, in Jesus Christ, and the truth as taught by Him; especially, one whose inward and outward life is conformed to the doctrines of Christ.,
C as in Christian (n.) One born in a Christian country or of Christian parents, and who has not definitely becomes an adherent of an opposing system.,
C as in Christian (n.) One of a Christian denomination which rejects human creeds as bases of fellowship, and sectarian names. They are congregational in church government, and baptize by immersion. They are also called Disciples of Christ, and Campbellites.,
C as in Christian (n.) One of a sect (called Christian Connection) of open-communion immersionists. The Bible is their only authoritative rule of faith and practice.,
C as in Christian (a.) Pertaining to Christ or his religion; as, Christian people.,
C as in Christian (a.) Pertaining to the church; ecclesiastical; as, a Christian court.,
C as in Christian (a.) Characteristic of Christian people; civilized; kind; kindly; gentle; beneficent.,
C as in Christianism (n.) The Christian religion.,
C as in Christianism (n.) The Christian world; Christendom.,
C as in Christianite (n.) Same as Anorthite.,
C as in Christianite (n.) See Phillipsite.,
C as in Christianity (n.) The religion of Christians; the system of doctrines and precepts taught by Christ.,
C as in Christianity (n.) Practical conformity of one's inward and outward life to the spirit of the Christian religion,
C as in Christianity (n.) The body of Christian believers.,
C as in Christianization (n.) The act or process of converting or being converted to a true Christianity.,
C as in Christianized (imp. & p. p.) of Christianize,
C as in Christianizing (p. pr. vb. n.) of Christianize,
C as in Christianize (v. t.) To make Christian; to convert to Christianity; as, to Christianize pagans.,
C as in Christianize (v. t.) To imbue with or adapt to Christian principles.,
C as in Christianize (v. i.) To adopt the character or belief of a Christian; to become Christian.,
C as in Christianlike (a.) Becoming to a Christian.,
C as in Christianly (adv.) In a manner becoming the principles of the Christian religion.,
C as in Christianly (a.) Christianlike.,
C as in Christianness (n.) Consonance with the doctrines of Christianity.,
C as in Christless (a.) Without faith in Christ; unchristian.,
C as in Christlike (a.) Resembling Christ in character, actions, etc.,
C as in Christly (a.) Christlike.,
C as in Christmas (n.) An annual church festival (December 25) and in some States a legal holiday, in memory of the birth of Christ, often celebrated by a particular church service, and also by special gifts, greetings, and hospitality.,
C as in Christmastide (n.) The season of Christmas.,
C as in Christocentric (a.) Making Christ the center, about whom all things are grouped, as in religion or history; tending toward Christ, as the central object of thought or emotion.,
C as in Christology (n.) A treatise on Christ; that department of theology which treats of the personality, attributes, or life of Christ.,
C as in Christom (n.) See Chrisom.,
C as in Christophany (n.) An appearance of Christ, as to his disciples after the crucifixion.,
C as in Christ's-thorn (n.) One of several prickly or thorny shrubs found in Palestine, especially the Paliurus aculeatus, Zizyphus Spina-Christi, and Z. vulgaris. The last bears the fruit called jujube, and may be considered to have been the most readily obtainable for the Crown of Thorns.,
C as in Chromascope (n.) An instrument for showing the optical effects of color.,
C as in Chromate (n.) A salt of chromic acid.,
C as in Chromatic (a.) Relating to color, or to colors.,
C as in Chromatic (a.) Proceeding by the smaller intervals (half steps or semitones) of the scale, instead of the regular intervals of the diatonic scale.,
C as in Chromatical (a.) Chromatic.,
C as in Chromatically (adv.) In a chromatic manner.,
C as in Chromatics (n.) The science of colors; that part of optics which treats of the properties of colors.,
C as in Chromatin (n.) Tissue which is capable of being stained by dyes.,
C as in Chromatism (n.) The state of being colored, as in the case of images formed by a lens.,
C as in Chromatism (n.) An abnormal coloring of plants.,
C as in Chromatogenous (a.) Producing color.,
C as in Chromatography (n.) A treatise on colors,
C as in Chromatology (n.) A treatise on colors.,
C as in Chromatophore (n.) A contractile cell or vesicle containing liquid pigment and capable of changing its form or size, thus causing changes of color in the translucent skin of such animals as possess them. They are highly developed and numerous in the cephalopods.,
C as in Chromatophore (n.) One of the granules of protoplasm, which in mass give color to the part of the plant containing them.,
C as in Chromatoscope (n.) A reflecting telescope, part of which is made to rotate eccentrically, so as to produce a ringlike image of a star, instead of a point; -- used in studying the scintillation of the stars.,
C as in Chromatosphere (n.) A chromosphere.,
C as in Chromatrope (n.) An instrument for exhibiting certain chromatic effects of light (depending upon the persistence of vision and mixture of colors) by means of rapidly rotating disks variously colored.,
C as in Chromatrope (n.) A device in a magic lantern or stereopticon to produce kaleidoscopic effects.,
C as in Chromatype (n.) A colored photographic picture taken upon paper made sensitive with potassium bichromate or some other salt of chromium.,
C as in Chromatype (n.) The process by which such picture is made.,
C as in Chrome (n.) Same as Chromium.,
C as in Chromic (a.) Pertaining to, or obtained from, chromium; -- said of the compounds of chromium in which it has its higher valence.,
C as in Chromid (n.) One of the Chromidae, a family of fresh-water fishes abundant in the tropical parts of America and Africa. Some are valuable food fishes, as the bulti of the Nile.,
C as in Chromidrosis (n.) Secretion of abnormally colored perspiration.,
C as in Chromism (n.) Same as Chromatism.,
C as in Chromite (n.) A black submetallic mineral consisting of oxide of chromium and iron; -- called also chromic iron.,
C as in Chromite (n.) A compound or salt of chromous hydroxide regarded as an acid.,
C as in Chromium (n.) A comparatively rare element occurring most abundantly in the mineral chromite. Atomic weight 52.5. Symbol Cr. When isolated it is a hard, brittle, grayish white metal, fusible with difficulty. Its chief commercial importance is for its compounds, as potassium chromate, lead chromate, etc., which are brilliantly colored and are used dyeing and calico printing. Called also chrome.,
C as in Chromos (pl. ) of Chromo,
C as in Chromo (n.) A chromolithograph.,
C as in Chromoblast (n.) An embryonic cell which develops into a pigment cell.,
C as in Chromogen () Vegetable coloring matter other than green; chromule.,
C as in Chromogen () Any colored compound, supposed to contain one or more chromophores.,
C as in Chromogenic (a.) Containing, or capable of forming, chromogen; as, chromogenic bacteria.,
C as in Chromograph (n.) An apparatus by which a number of copies of written matter, maps, plans, etc., can be made; -- called also hectograph.,
C as in Chromoleucite (n.) A chromoplastid.,
C as in Chromolithograph (n.) A picture printed in tints and colors by repeated impressions from a series of stones prepared by the lithographic process.,
C as in Chromolithographer (n.) One who is engaged in chromolithography.,
C as in Chromolithographic (a.) Pertaining to, or made by, chromolithography.,
C as in Chromolithography (n.) Lithography adapted to printing in inks of various colors.,
C as in Chromophane (n.) A general name for the several coloring matters, red, green, yellow, etc., present in the inner segments in the cones of the retina, held in solution by fats, and slowly decolorized by light; distinct from the photochemical pigments of the rods of the retina.,
C as in Chromophore (n.) Any chemical group or residue (as NO2; N2; or O2) which imparts some decided color to the compound of which it is an ingredient.,
C as in Chromophotography (n.) The art of producing photographs in colors.,
C as in Chromophotolithograph (n.) A photolithograph printed in colors.,
C as in Chromoplastid (n.) A protoplasmic granule of some other color than green; -- also called chromoleucite.,
C as in Chromosome (n.) One of the minute bodies into which the chromatin of the nucleus is resolved during mitotic cell division; the idant of Weismann.,
C as in Chromosphere (n.) An atmosphere of rare matter, composed principally of incandescent hydrogen gas, surrounding the sun and enveloping the photosphere. Portions of the chromosphere are here and there thrown up into enormous tongues of flame.,
C as in Chromospheric (a.) Of or pertaining to the chromosphere.,
C as in Chromotype (n.) A sheet printed in colors by any process, as a chromolithograph. See Chromolithograph.,
C as in Chromotype (n.) A photographic picture in the natural colors.,
C as in Chromous (a.) Of, pertaining to, or derived from, chromium, when this element has a valence lower than that in chromic compounds.,
C as in Chromule (n.) A general name for coloring matter of plants other than chlorophyll, especially that of petals.,
C as in Chronic (a.) Relating to time; according to time.,
C as in Chronic (a.) Continuing for a long time; lingering; habitual.,
C as in Chronical (a.) Chronic.,
C as in Chronicle (n.) An historical register or account of facts or events disposed in the order of time.,
C as in Chronicle (n.) A narrative of events; a history; a record.,
C as in Chronicle (n.) The two canonical books of the Old Testament in which immediately follow 2 Kings.,
C as in Chronicled (imp. & p. p.) of Chronicle,
C as in Chronicling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chronicle,
C as in Chronicle (v. t.) To record in a history or chronicle; to record; to register.,
C as in Chronicler (n.) A writer of a chronicle; a recorder of events in the order of time; an historian.,
C as in Chronique (n.) A chronicle.,
C as in Chronogram (n.) An inscription in which certain numeral letters, made to appear specially conspicuous, on being added together, express a particular date or epoch, as in the motto of a medal struck by Gustavus Adolphus in 1632: ChrIstVs DVX; ergo trIVMphVs.- the capitals of which give, when added as numerals, the sum 1632.,
C as in Chronogram (n.) The record or inscription made by a chronograph.,
C as in Chronogrammatic (a.) Alt. of Chronogrammatical,
C as in Chronogrammatical (a.) Belonging to a chronogram, or containing one.,
C as in Chronogrammatist (n.) A writer of chronograms.,
C as in Chronograph (n.) An instrument for measuring or recording intervals of time, upon a revolving drum or strip of paper moved by clockwork. The action of the stylus or pen is controlled by electricity.,
C as in Chronograph (n.) Same as Chronogram, 1.,
C as in Chronograph (n.) A chronoscope.,
C as in Chronographer (n.) One who writes a chronography; a chronologer.,
C as in Chronographic (a.) Of or pertaining to a chronograph.,
C as in Chronography (n.) A description or record of past time; history.,
C as in Chronologer (n.) Same as Chronologist.,
C as in Chronologic (a.) Alt. of Chronological,
C as in Chronological (a.) Relating to chronology; containing an account of events in the order of time; according to the order of time; as, chronological tables.,
C as in Chronologist (n.) Alt. of Chronologer,
C as in Chronologer (n.) A person who investigates dates of events and transactions; one skilled in chronology.,
C as in Chronologies (pl. ) of Chronology,
C as in Chronology (n.) The science which treats of measuring time by regular divisions or periods, and which assigns to events or transactions their proper dates.,
C as in Chronometer (n.) An instrument for measuring time; a timekeeper.,
C as in Chronometer (n.) A portable timekeeper, with a heavy compensation balance, and usually beating half seconds; -- intended to keep time with great accuracy for use an astronomical observations, in determining longitude, etc.,
C as in Chronometer (n.) A metronome.,
C as in Chronometric (a.) Alt. of Chronometrical,
C as in Chronometrical (a.) Pertaining to a chronometer; measured by a chronometer.,
C as in Chronometry (n.) The art of measuring time; the measuring of time by periods or divisions.,
C as in Chronopher (n.) An instrument signaling the correct time to distant points by electricity.,
C as in Chronoscope (n.) An instrument for measuring minute intervals of time; used in determining the velocity of projectiles, the duration of short-lived luminous phenomena, etc.,
C as in Chrysalid (a.) Pertaining to a chrysalis; resembling a chrysalis.,
C as in Chrysalids (pl. ) of Chrysalid,
C as in Chrysalid (n.) See Chrysalis.,
C as in Chrysalides (pl. ) of Chrysalis,
C as in Chrysalis (n.) The pupa state of certain insects, esp. of butterflies, from which the perfect insect emerges. See Pupa, and Aurelia (a).,
C as in Chrysaniline (n.) A yellow substance obtained as a by-product in the manufacture of rosaniline. It dyes silk a fine golden-yellow color.,
C as in Chrysanthemum (n.) A genus of composite plants, mostly perennial, and of many species including the many varieties of garden chrysanthemums (annual and perennial), and also the feverfew and the oxeye daisy.,
C as in Chrysarobin (n.) A bitter, yellow substance forming the essential constituent of Goa powder, and yielding chrysophanic acid proper; hence formerly called also chrysphanic acid.,
C as in Chrysaurin (n.) An orange-colored dyestuff, of artificial production.,
C as in Chryselephantine (a.) Composed of, or adorned with, gold and ivory.,
C as in Chrysene (n.) One of the higher aromatic hydrocarbons of coal tar, allied to naphthalene and anthracene. It is a white crystalline substance, C18H12, of strong blue fluorescence, but generally colored yellow by impurities.,
C as in Chrysoberyl (n.) A mineral, found in crystals, of a yellow to green or brown color, and consisting of aluminia and glucina. It is very hard, and is often used as a gem.,
C as in Chrysochlore (n.) A South African mole of the genus Chrysochloris; the golden mole, the fur of which reflects brilliant metallic hues of green and gold.,
C as in Chrysocolla (n.) A hydrous silicate of copper, occurring massive, of a blue or greenish blue color.,
C as in Chrysogen (n.) A yellow crystalline substance extracted from crude anthracene.,
C as in Chrysography (n.) The art of writing in letters of gold.,
C as in Chrysography (n.) A writing executed in letters of gold.,
C as in Chrysoidine (n.) An artificial, yellow, crystalline dye, C6H5N2.C6H3(NH2)2. Also, one of a group of dyestuffs resembling chrysoidine proper.,
C as in Chrysolite (n.) A mineral, composed of silica, magnesia, and iron, of a yellow to green color. It is common in certain volcanic rocks; -- called also olivine and peridot. Sometimes used as a gem. The name was also early used for yellow varieties of tourmaline and topaz.,
C as in Chrysology (n.) That branch of political economy which relates to the production of wealth.,
C as in Chrysopa (n.) A genus of neuropterous insects. See Lacewing.,
C as in Chrysophane (n.) A glucoside extracted from rhubarb as a bitter, yellow, crystalline powder, and yielding chrysophanic acid on decomposition.,
C as in Chrysophanic (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, or resembling, chrysophane.,
C as in Chrysoprase (n.) An apple-green variety of chalcedony, colored by nickel. It has a dull flinty luster, and is sometimes used in jewelry.,
C as in Chrysoprasus (n.) See Chrysoprase.,
C as in Chrysosperm (n.) The seed of gold; a means of creating gold.,
C as in Chrysotype (n.) A photographic picture taken upon paper prepared by the use of a sensitive salt of iron and developed by the application of chloride of gold.,
C as in Chrysotype (n.) 2process, invented by Sir J.Herschel.,
C as in Chthonic (a.) Pertaining to the earth; earthy; as, chthonic religions.,
C as in Chthonophagia (n.) Alt. of Chthonophagy,
C as in Chthonophagy (n.) A disease characterized by an irresistible desire to eat earth, observed in some parts of the southern United States, the West Indies, etc.,
C as in Chub (n.) A species to fresh-water fish of the Cyprinidae or Carp family. The common European species is Leuciscus cephalus; the cheven. In America the name is applied to various fishes of the same family, of the genera Semotilus, Squalius, Ceratichthys, etc., and locally to several very different fishes, as the tautog, black bass, etc.,
C as in Chubbed (a.) Chubby.,
C as in Chubbedness (n.) The state of being chubby.,
C as in Chubby (a.) Like a chub; plump, short, and thick.,
C as in Chub-faced (a.) Having a plump, short face.,
C as in Chucked (imp. & p. p.) of Chuck,
C as in Chucking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chuck,
C as in Chuck (v. i.) To make a noise resembling that of a hen when she calls her chickens; to cluck.,
C as in Chuck (v. i.) To chuckle; to laugh.,
C as in Chuck (v. t.) To call, as a hen her chickens.,
C as in Chuck (n.) The chuck or call of a hen.,
C as in Chuck (n.) A sudden, small noise.,
C as in Chuck (n.) A word of endearment; -- corrupted from chick.,
C as in Chucked (imp. & p. p.) of Chuck,
C as in Chucking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chuck,
C as in Chuck (v. t.) To strike gently; to give a gentle blow to.,
C as in Chuck (v. t.) To toss or throw smartly out of the hand; to pitch.,
C as in Chuck (v. t.) To place in a chuck, or hold by means of a chuck, as in turning; to bore or turn (a hole) in a revolving piece held in a chuck.,
C as in Chuck (n.) A slight blow or pat under the chin.,
C as in Chuck (n.) A short throw; a toss.,
C as in Chuck (n.) A contrivance or machine fixed to the mandrel of a lathe, for holding a tool or the material to be operated upon.,
C as in Chuck (n.) A small pebble; -- called also chuckstone and chuckiestone.,
C as in Chuck (n.) A game played with chucks, in which one or more are tossed up and caught; jackstones.,
C as in Chuck (n.) A piece of the backbone of an animal, from between the neck and the collar bone, with the adjoining parts, cut for cooking; as, a chuck steak; a chuck roast.,
C as in Chuckled (imp. & p. p.) of Chuckle,
C as in Chuckling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chuckle,
C as in Chuckle (v. t.) To call, as a hen her chickens; to cluck.,
C as in Chuckle (v. t.) To fondle; to cocker.,
C as in Chuckle (n.) A short, suppressed laugh; the expression of satisfaction, exultation, or derision.,
C as in Chuckle (v. i.) To laugh in a suppressed or broken manner, as expressing inward satisfaction, exultation, or derision.,
C as in Chucklehead (n.) A person with a large head; a numskull; a dunce.,
C as in Chuckleheaded (a.) Having a large head; thickheaded; dull; stupid.,
C as in Chuck-Will's-widow (n.) A species of goatsucker (Antrostomus Carolinensis), of the southern United States; -- so called from its note.,
C as in Chud (v. t.) To champ; to bite.,
C as in Chuet (n.) Minced meat.,
C as in Chufa (n.) A sedgelike plant (Cyperus esculentus) producing edible tubers, native about the Mediterranean, now cultivated in many regions; the earth almond.,
C as in Chuff (n.) A coarse or stupid fellow.,
C as in Chuff (a.) Stupid; churlish.,
C as in Chuffily (adv.) Clownishly; surlily.,
C as in Chuffiness (n.) The quality of being chuffy.,
C as in Chuffy (a.) Fat or puffed out in the cheeks.,
C as in Chuffy (a.) Rough; clownish; surly.,
C as in Chulan (n.) The fragrant flowers of the Chloranthus inconspicuus, used in China for perfuming tea.,
C as in Chum (n.) A roommate, especially in a college or university; an old and intimate friend.,
C as in Chummed (imp. p. p.) of Chum,
C as in Chumming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Chum,
C as in Chum (v. i.) To occupy a chamber with another; as, to chum together at college.,
C as in Chum (n.) Chopped pieces of fish used as bait.,
C as in Chump (n.) A short, thick, heavy piece of wood.,
C as in Chunam (n.) Quicklime; also, plaster or mortar.,
C as in Chunk (n.) A short, thick piece of anything.,
C as in Chunky (a.) Short and thick.,
C as in Church (n.) A building set apart for Christian worship.,
C as in Church (n.) A Jewish or heathen temple.,
C as in Church (n.) A formally organized body of Christian believers worshiping together.,
C as in Church (n.) A body of Christian believers, holding the same creed, observing the same rites, and acknowledging the same ecclesiastical authority; a denomination; as, the Roman Catholic church; the Presbyterian church.,
C as in Church (n.) The collective body of Christians.,
C as in Church (n.) Any body of worshipers; as, the Jewish church; the church of Brahm.,
C as in Church (n.) The aggregate of religious influences in a community; ecclesiastical influence, authority, etc.; as, to array the power of the church against some moral evil.,
C as in Churched (imp. & p. p.) of Church,
C as in Churching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Church,
C as in Church (v. t.) To bless according to a prescribed form, or to unite with in publicly returning thanks in church, as after deliverance from the dangers of childbirth; as, the churching of women.,
C as in Church-ale (n.) A church or parish festival (as in commemoration of the dedication of a church), at which much ale was used.,
C as in Church-bench (n.) A seat in the porch of a church.,
C as in Churchdom (n.) The institution, government, or authority of a church.,
C as in Churchgoer (n.) One who attends church.,
C as in Churchgoing (a.) Habitually attending church.,
C as in Churchgoing (a.) Summoning to church.,
C as in Church-haw (n.) Churchyard.,
C as in Churchism (n.) Strict adherence to the forms or principles of some church organization; sectarianism.,
C as in Churchless (a.) Without a church.,
C as in Churchlike (a.) Befitting a church or a churchman; becoming to a clergyman.,
C as in Churchliness (n.) Regard for the church.,
C as in Churchly (a.) Pertaining to, or suitable for, the church; ecclesiastical.,
C as in Churchmen (pl. ) of Churchman,
C as in Churchman (n.) An ecclesiastic or clergyman.,
C as in Churchman (n.) An Episcopalian, or a member of the Established Church of England.,
C as in Churchman (n.) One was is attached to, or attends, church.,
C as in Churchmanly (a.) Pertaining to, or becoming, a churchman.,
C as in Churchmanship (n.) The state or quality of being a churchman; attachment to the church.,
C as in Church modes () The modes or scales used in ancient church music. See Gregorian.,
C as in Churchship (n.) State of being a church.,
C as in Churchwarden (n.) One of the officers (usually two) in an Episcopal church, whose duties vary in different dioceses, but always include the provision of what is necessary for the communion service.,
C as in Churchwarden (n.) A clay tobacco pipe, with a long tube.,
C as in Churchwardenship (n.) The office of a churchwarden.,
C as in Churchy (a.) Relating to a church; unduly fond of church forms.,
C as in Churchyard (n.) The ground adjoining a church, in which the dead are buried; a cemetery.,
C as in Churl (n.) A rustic; a countryman or laborer.,
C as in Churl (n.) A rough, surly, ill-bred man; a boor.,
C as in Churl (n.) A selfish miser; an illiberal person; a niggard.,
C as in Churl (a.) Churlish; rough; selfish.,
C as in Churlish (a.) Like a churl; rude; cross-grained; ungracious; surly; illiberal; niggardly.,
C as in Churlish (a.) Wanting pliancy; unmanageable; unyielding; not easily wrought; as, a churlish soil; the churlish and intractable nature of some minerals.,
C as in Churlishly (adv.) In a churlish manner.,
C as in Churlishness (n.) Rudeness of manners or temper; lack of kindness or courtesy.,
C as in Churly (a.) Rude; churlish; violent.,
C as in Churme (n.) Alt. of Chirm,
C as in Chirm (n.) Clamor, or confused noise; buzzing.,
C as in Churn (v. t.) A vessel in which milk or cream is stirred, beaten, or otherwise agitated (as by a plunging or revolving dasher) in order to separate the oily globules from the other parts, and obtain butter.,
C as in Churned (imp. & p. p.) of Churn,
C as in Churning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Churn,
C as in Churn (v. t.) To stir, beat, or agitate, as milk or cream in a churn, in order to make butter.,
C as in Churn (v. t.) To shake or agitate with violence.,
C as in Churn (v. i.) To perform the operation of churning.,
C as in Churning (n.) The act of one who churns.,
C as in Churning (n.) The quantity of butter made at one operation.,
C as in Churrus (n.) A powerfully narcotic and intoxicating gum resin which exudes from the flower heads, seeds, etc., of Indian hemp.,
C as in Churrworm (n.) An insect that turns about nimbly; the mole cricket; -- called also fan cricket.,
C as in Chuse (v. t.) See Choose.,
C as in Chute (n.) A framework, trough, or tube, upon or through which objects are made to slide from a higher to a lower level, or through which water passes to a wheel.,
C as in Chute (n.) See Shoot.,
C as in Chutney (n.) Alt. of Chutnee,
C as in Chutnee (n.) A warm or spicy condiment or pickle made in India, compounded of various vegetable substances, sweets, acids, etc.,
C as in Chylaceous (a.) Possessed of the properties of chyle; consisting of chyle.,
C as in Chylaqueous (a.) Consisting of chyle much diluted with water; -- said of a liquid which forms the circulating fluid of some inferior animals.,
C as in Chyle (n.) A milky fluid containing the fatty matter of the food in a state of emulsion, or fine mechanical division; formed from chyme by the action of the intestinal juices. It is absorbed by the lacteals, and conveyed into the blood by the thoracic duct.,
C as in Chylifaction (n.) The act or process by which chyle is formed from food in animal bodies; chylification, -- a digestive process.,
C as in Chylifactive (a.) Producing, or converting into, chyle; having the power to form chyle.,
C as in Chyliferous (a.) Transmitting or conveying chyle; as, chyliferous vessels.,
C as in Chylific (a.) Chylifactive.,
C as in Chylification (n.) The formation of chyle. See Chylifaction.,
C as in Chylificatory (a.) Chylifactive.,
C as in Chylify (v. t. & i.) To make chyle of; to be converted into chyle.,
C as in Chylopoetic (a.) Concerned in the formation of chyle; as, the chylopoetic organs.,
C as in Chylous (a.) Consisting of, or similar to, chyle.,
C as in Chyluria (n.) A morbid condition in which the urine contains chyle or fatty matter, giving it a milky appearance.,
C as in Chyme (n.) The pulpy mass of semi-digested food in the small intestines just after its passage from the stomach. It is separated in the intestines into chyle and excrement. See Chyle.,
C as in Chymic () Alt. of Chymistry,
C as in Chymist () Alt. of Chymistry,
C as in Chymistry () See Chemic, Chemist, Chemistry.,
C as in Chymiferous (a.) Bearing or containing chyme.,
C as in Chymification (n.) The conversion of food into chyme by the digestive action of gastric juice.,
C as in Chymify (v. t.) To form into chyme.,
C as in Chymous (a.) Of or pertaining to chyme.,
C as in Chyometer (n.) An instrument for measuring liquids. It consists of a piston moving in a tube in which is contained the liquid, the quantity expelled being indicated by the graduation upon the piston rod.,
C as in Cibarious (a.) Pertaining to food; edible.,
C as in Cibation (n.) The act of taking food.,
C as in Cibation (n.) The process or operation of feeding the contents of the crucible with fresh material.,
C as in Cibol (n.) A perennial alliaceous plant (Allium fistulosum), sometimes called Welsh onion. Its fistular leaves areused in cookery.,
C as in Ciboria (pl. ) of Ciborium,
C as in Ciborium (n.) A canopy usually standing free and supported on four columns, covering the high altar, or, very rarely, a secondary altar.,
C as in Ciborium (n.) The coffer or case in which the host is kept; the pyx.,
C as in Cicadas (pl. ) of Cicada,
C as in Cicadae (pl. ) of Cicada,
C as in Cicada (n.) Any species of the genus Cicada. They are large hemipterous insects, with nearly transparent wings. The male makes a shrill sound by peculiar organs in the under side of the abdomen, consisting of a pair of stretched membranes, acted upon by powerful muscles. A noted American species (C. septendecim) is called the seventeen year locust. Another common species is the dogday cicada.,
C as in Cicala (n.) A cicada. See Cicada.,
C as in Cicatrice (n.) A cicatrix.,
C as in Cicatricial (a.) Relating to, or having the character of, a cicatrix.,
C as in Cicatricle (n.) The germinating point in the embryo of a seed; the point in the yolk of an egg at which development begins.,
C as in Cicatrisive (a.) Tending to promote the formation of a cicatrix; good for healing of a wound.,
C as in Cicatrices (pl. ) of Cicatrix,
C as in Cicatrix (n.) The pellicle which forms over a wound or breach of continuity and completes the process of healing in the latter, and which subsequently contracts and becomes white, forming the scar.,
C as in Cicatrizant (n.) A medicine or application that promotes the healing of a sore or wound, or the formation of a cicatrix.,
C as in Cicatrization (n.) The process of forming a cicatrix, or the state of being cicatrized.,
C as in Cicatrized (imp. & p. p.) of Cicatrize,
C as in Cicatrizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cicatrize,
C as in Cicatrize (v. t.) To heal or induce the formation of a cicatrix in, as in wounded or ulcerated flesh.,
C as in Cicatrize (v. i.) To heal; to have a new skin.,
C as in Cicatrose (a.) Full of scars.,
C as in Cicely (n.) Any one of several umbelliferous plants, of the genera Myrrhis, Osmorrhiza, etc.,
C as in Cicero (n.) Pica type; -- so called by French printers.,
C as in Ciceroni (pl. ) of Cicerone,
C as in Cicerones (pl. ) of Cicerone,
C as in Cicerone (n.) One who shows strangers the curiosities of a place; a guide.,
C as in Ciceronian (a.) Resembling Cicero in style or action; eloquent.,
C as in Ciceronianism (n.) Imitation of, or resemblance to, the style or action Cicero; a Ciceronian phrase or expression.,
C as in Cichoraceous (a.) Belonging to, or resembling, a suborder of composite plants of which the chicory (Cichorium) is the type.,
C as in Cich-pea (n.) The chick-pea.,
C as in Cicisbeism (n.) The state or conduct of a cicisbeo.,
C as in Cicisbei (pl. ) of Cicisbeo,
C as in Cicisbeo (n.) A professed admirer of a married woman; a dangler about women.,
C as in Cicisbeo (n.) A knot of silk or ribbon attached to a fan, walking stick, etc.,
C as in Ciclatoun (n.) A costly cloth, of uncertain material, used in the Middle Ages.,
C as in Cicurate (v. t.) To tame.,
C as in Cicuration (n.) The act of taming.,
C as in Cicuta (n.) a genus of poisonous umbelliferous plants, of which the water hemlock or cowbane is best known.,
C as in Cicutoxin (n.) The active principle of the water hemlock (Cicuta) extracted as a poisonous gummy substance.,
C as in Cid (n.) Chief or commander; in Spanish literature, a title of Ruy Diaz, Count of Bivar, a champion of Christianity and of the old Spanish royalty, in the 11th century.,
C as in Cid (n.) An epic poem, which celebrates the exploits of the Spanish national hero, Ruy Diaz.,
C as in Cider (n.) The expressed juice of apples. It is used as a beverage, for making vinegar, and for other purposes.,
C as in Ciderist (n.) A maker of cider.,
C as in Ciderkin (n.) A kind of weak cider made by steeping the refuse pomace in water.,
C as in Ci-devant (a.) Former; previous; of times gone by; as, a ci-devant governor.,
C as in Cierge (n.) A wax candle used in religous rites.,
C as in Cigar (n.) A small roll of tobacco, used for smoking.,
C as in Cigarette (n.) A little cigar; a little fine tobacco rolled in paper for smoking.,
C as in Cilia (n. pl.) The eyelashes.,
C as in Cilia (n. pl.) Small, generally microscopic, vibrating appendages lining certain organs, as the air passages of the higher animals, and in the lower animals often covering also the whole or a part of the exterior. They are also found on some vegetable organisms. In the Infusoria, and many larval forms, they are locomotive organs.,
C as in Cilia (n. pl.) Hairlike processes, commonly marginal and forming a fringe like the eyelash.,
C as in Cilia (n. pl.) Small, vibratory, swimming organs, somewhat resembling true cilia, as those of Ctenophora.,
C as in Ciliary (a.) Pertaining to the cilia, or eyelashes. Also applied to special parts of the eye itself; as, the ciliary processes of the choroid coat; the ciliary muscle, etc.,
C as in Ciliary (a.) Pertaining to or connected with the cilia in animal or vegetable organisms; as, ciliary motion.,
C as in Ciliata (n. pl.) One of the orders of Infusoria, characterized by having cilia. In some species the cilia cover the body generally, in others they form a band around the mouth.,
C as in Ciliate (a.) Alt. of Ciliated,
C as in Ciliated (a.) Provided with, or surrounded by, cilia; as, a ciliate leaf; endowed with vibratory motion; as, the ciliated epithelium of the windpipe.,
C as in Cilice (n.) A kind of haircloth undergarment.,
C as in Cilician (a.) Of or pertaining to Cilicia in Asia Minor.,
C as in Cilician (n.) A native or inhabitant of Cilicia.,
C as in Cilicious (a.) Made, or consisting, of hair.,
C as in Ciliform (a.) Alt. of Ciliiform,
C as in Ciliiform (a.) Having the form of cilia; very fine or slender.,
C as in Ciliograde (a.) Moving by means of cilia, or cilialike organs; as, the ciliograde Medusae.,
C as in Cilium (n.) See Cilia.,
C as in Cill (n.) See Sill., n. a foundation.,
C as in Cillosis (n.) A spasmodic trembling of the upper eyelid.,
C as in Cima (n.) A kind of molding. See Cyma.,
C as in Cimar (n.) See Simar.,
C as in Cimbal (n.) A kind of confectionery or cake.,
C as in Cimbia (n.) A fillet or band placed around the shaft of a column as if to strengthen it.,
C as in Cimbrian (a.) Of or pertaining to the Cimbri.,
C as in Cimbrian (n.) One of the Cimbri. See Cimbric.,
C as in Cimbric (a.) Pertaining to the Cimbri, an ancient tribe inhabiting Northern Germany.,
C as in Cimbric (n.) The language of the Cimbri.,
C as in Cimeliarch (n.) A superintendent or keeper of a church's valuables; a churchwarden.,
C as in Cimeter (n.) See Scimiter.,
C as in Cimices (pl. ) of Cimex,
C as in Cimex (n.) A genus of hemipterous insects of which the bedbug is the best known example. See Bedbug.,
C as in Cimia (n.) See Cimbia.,
C as in Cimiss (n.) The bedbug.,
C as in Cimmerian (a.) Pertaining to the Cimmerii, a fabulous people, said to have lived, in very ancient times, in profound and perpetual darkness.,
C as in Cimmerian (a.) Without any light; intensely dark.,
C as in Cimolite (n.) A soft, earthy, clayey mineral, of whitish or grayish color.,
C as in Cinch (n.) A strong saddle girth, as of canvas.,
C as in Cinch (n.) A tight grip.,
C as in Cinchona (n.) A genus of trees growing naturally on the Andes in Peru and adjacent countries, but now cultivated in the East Indies, producing a medicinal bark of great value.,
C as in Cinchona (n.) The bark of any species of Cinchona containing three per cent. or more of bitter febrifuge alkaloids; Peruvian bark; Jesuits' bark.,
C as in Cinchonaceous (a.) Allied or pertaining to cinchona, or to the plants that produce it.,
C as in Cinchonic (a.) Belonging to, or obtained from, cinchona.,
C as in Cinchonidine (n.) One of the quinine group of alkaloids, found especially in red cinchona bark. It is a white crystalline substance, C19H22N2O, with a bitter taste and qualities similar to, but weaker than, quinine; -- sometimes called also cinchonidia.,
C as in Cinchonine (n.) One of the quinine group of alkaloids isomeric with and resembling cinchonidine; -- called also cinchonia.,
C as in Cinchonism (n.) A condition produced by the excessive or long-continued use of quinine, and marked by deafness, roaring in the ears, vertigo, etc.,
C as in Cinchonize (v. t.) To produce cinchonism in; to poison with quinine or with cinchona.,
C as in Cincinnati epoch () An epoch at the close of the American lower Silurian system. The rocks are well developed near Cincinnati, Ohio. The group includes the Hudson River and Lorraine shales of New York.,
C as in Cincture (n.) A belt, a girdle, or something worn round the body, -- as by an ecclesiastic for confining the alb.,
C as in Cincture (n.) That which encompasses or incloses; an inclosure.,
C as in Cincture (n.) The fillet, listel, or band next to the apophyge at the extremity of the shaft of a column.,
C as in Cinctured (n.) Having or wearing a cincture or girdle.,
C as in Cinder (n.) Partly burned or vitrified coal, or other combustible, in which fire is extinct.,
C as in Cinder (n.) A hot coal without flame; an ember.,
C as in Cinder (n.) A scale thrown off in forging metal.,
C as in Cinder (n.) The slag of a furnace, or scoriaceous lava from a volcano.,
C as in Cindery (a.) Resembling, or composed of, cinders; full of cinders.,
C as in Cinefaction (n.) Cineration; reduction to ashes.,
C as in Cinematic (a.) Alt. of Cinematical,
C as in Cinematical (a.) See Kinematic.,
C as in Cinematics (n. sing.) See Kinematics.,
C as in Cineraceous (a.) Like ashes; ash-colored; cinereous.,
C as in Cineraria (n.) A Linnaean genus of free-flowering composite plants, mostly from South Africa. Several species are cultivated for ornament.,
C as in Cinerary (a.) Pertaining to ashes; containing ashes.,
C as in Cineration (n.) The reducing of anything to ashes by combustion; cinefaction.,
C as in Cinereous (a.) Like ashes; ash-colored; grayish.,
C as in Cinerescent (a.) Somewhat cinereous; of a color somewhat resembling that of wood ashes.,
C as in Cineritious (a.) Like ashes; having the color of ashes, -- as the cortical substance of the brain.,
C as in Cinerulent (a.) Full of ashes.,
C as in Cingalese (n. sing. & pl.) A native or natives of Ceylon descended from its primitive inhabitants,
C as in Cingalese (n. sing. & pl.) the language of the Cingalese.,
C as in Cingalese (a.) Of or pertaining to the Cingalese.,
C as in Cingle (n.) A girth.,
C as in Cingulum (n.) A distinct girdle or band of color; a raised spiral line as seen on certain univalve shells.,
C as in Cingulum (n.) The clitellus of earthworms.,
C as in Cingulum (n.) The base of the crown of a tooth.,
C as in Cinnabar (n.) Red sulphide of mercury, occurring in brilliant red crystals, and also in red or brown amorphous masses. It is used in medicine.,
C as in Cinnabar (n.) The artificial red sulphide of mercury used as a pigment; vermilion.,
C as in Cinnabarine (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, cinnabar; consisting of cinnabar, or containing it; as, cinnabarine sand.,
C as in Cinnamene (n.) Styrene (which was formerly called cinnamene because obtained from cinnamic acid). See Styrene.,
C as in Cinnamic (a.) Pertaining to, or obtained from, cinnamon.,
C as in Cinnamomic (a.) See Cinnamic.,
C as in Cinnamon (n.) The inner bark of the shoots of Cinnamomum Zeylanicum, a tree growing in Ceylon. It is aromatic, of a moderately pungent taste, and is one of the best cordial, carminative, and restorative spices.,
C as in Cinnamon (n.) Cassia.,
C as in Cinnamone (n.) A yellow crystalline substance, (C6H5.C2H2)2CO, the ketone of cinnamic acid.,
C as in Cinnamyl (n.) The hypothetical radical, (C6H5.C2H2)2C, of cinnamic compounds.,
C as in Cinnoline (n.) A nitrogenous organic base, C8H6N2, analogous to quinoline, obtained from certain complex diazo compounds.,
C as in Cinque (n.) Five; the number five in dice or cards.,
C as in Cinquecento (n. & a.) The sixteenth century, when applied to Italian art or literature; as, the sculpture of the Cinquecento; Cinquecento style.,
C as in Cinquefoil (n.) The name of several different species of the genus Potentilla; -- also called five-finger, because of the resemblance of its leaves to the fingers of the hand.,
C as in Cinquefoil (n.) An ornamental foliation having five points or cups, used in windows, panels, etc.,
C as in Cinque-pace (n.) A lively dance (called also galliard), the steps of which were regulated by the number five.,
C as in Cinque Ports () Five English ports, to which peculiar privileges were anciently accorded; -- viz., Hastings, Romney, Hythe, Dover, and Sandwich; afterwards increased by the addition of Winchelsea, Rye, and some minor places.,
C as in Cinque-spotted (a.) Five-spotted.,
C as in Cinter (n.) See Center.,
C as in Cinura (n. pl.) The group of Thysanura which includes Lepisma and allied forms; the bristletails. See Bristletail, and Lepisma.,
C as in Cion (n.) See Scion.,
C as in Cipher (n.) A character [0] which, standing by itself, expresses nothing, but when placed at the right hand of a whole number, increases its value tenfold.,
C as in Cipher (n.) One who, or that which, has no weight or influence.,
C as in Cipher (n.) A character in general, as a figure or letter.,
C as in Cipher (n.) A combination or interweaving of letters, as the initials of a name; a device; a monogram; as, a painter's cipher, an engraver's cipher, etc. The cut represents the initials N. W.,
C as in Cipher (n.) A private alphabet, system of characters, or other mode of writing, contrived for the safe transmission of secrets; also, a writing in such characters.,
C as in Cipher (a.) Of the nature of a cipher; of no weight or influence.,
C as in Ciphered (imp. & p. p.) of Cipher,
C as in Ciphering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cipher,
C as in Cipher (v. i.) To use figures in a mathematical process; to do sums in arithmetic.,
C as in Cipher (v. t.) To write in occult characters.,
C as in Cipher (v. t.) To get by ciphering; as, to cipher out the answer.,
C as in Cipher (v. t.) To decipher.,
C as in Cipher (v. t.) To designate by characters.,
C as in Cipherer (n.) One who ciphers.,
C as in Cipherhood (n.) Nothingness.,
C as in Cipolin (n.) A whitish marble, from Rome, containiing pale greenish zones. It consists of calcium carbonate, with zones and cloudings of talc.,
C as in Cippi (pl. ) of Cippus,
C as in Cippus (n.) A small, low pillar, square or round, commonly having an inscription, used by the ancients for various purposes, as for indicating the distances of places, for a landmark, for sepulchral inscriptions, etc.,
C as in Circ (n.) An amphitheatrical circle for sports; a circus.,
C as in Circar (n.) A district, or part of a province. See Sircar.,
C as in Circassian (a.) Of or pertaining to Circassia, in Asia.,
C as in Circassian (n.) A native or inhabitant of Circassia.,
C as in Circean (a.) Having the characteristics of Circe, daughter of Sol and Perseis, a mythological enchantress, who first charmed her victims and then changed them to the forms of beasts; pleasing, but noxious; as, a Circean draught.,
C as in Circensial (a.) Alt. of Circensian,
C as in Circensian (a.) Of or pertaining to, or held in, the Circus, In Rome.,
C as in Circinal (a.) Circinate.,
C as in Circinate (a.) Rolled together downward, the tip occupying the center; -- a term used in reference to foliation or leafing, as in ferns.,
C as in Circinate (v. t.) To make a circle around; to encompass.,
C as in Circination (n.) An orbicular motion.,
C as in Circination (n.) A circle; a concentric layer.,
C as in Circle (n.) A plane figure, bounded by a single curve line called its circumference, every part of which is equally distant from a point within it, called the center.,
C as in Circle (n.) The line that bounds such a figure; a circumference; a ring.,
C as in Circle (n.) An instrument of observation, the graduated limb of which consists of an entire circle.,
C as in Circle (n.) A round body; a sphere; an orb.,
C as in Circle (n.) Compass; circuit; inclosure.,
C as in Circle (n.) A company assembled, or conceived to assemble, about a central point of interest, or bound by a common tie; a class or division of society; a coterie; a set.,
C as in Circle (n.) A circular group of persons; a ring.,
C as in Circle (n.) A series ending where it begins, and repeating itself.,
C as in Circle (n.) A form of argument in which two or more unproved statements are used to prove each other; inconclusive reasoning.,
C as in Circle (n.) Indirect form of words; circumlocution.,
C as in Circle (n.) A territorial division or district.,
C as in Circled (imp. & p. p.) of Circle,
C as in Circling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Circle,
C as in Circle (n.) To move around; to revolve around.,
C as in Circle (n.) To encompass, as by a circle; to surround; to inclose; to encircle.,
C as in Circle (v. i.) To move circularly; to form a circle; to circulate.,
C as in Circled (a.) Having the form of a circle; round.,
C as in Circler (n.) A mean or inferior poet, perhaps from his habit of wandering around as a stroller; an itinerant poet. Also, a name given to the cyclic poets. See under Cyclic, a.,
C as in Circlet (n.) A little circle; esp., an ornament for the person, having the form of a circle; that which encircles, as a ring, a bracelet, or a headband.,
C as in Circlet (n.) A round body; an orb.,
C as in Circlet (n.) A circular piece of wood put under a dish at table.,
C as in Circocele (n.) See Cirsocele.,
C as in Circuit (n.) The act of moving or revolving around, or as in a circle or orbit; a revolution; as, the periodical circuit of the earth round the sun.,
C as in Circuit (n.) The circumference of, or distance round, any space; the measure of a line round an area.,
C as in Circuit (n.) That which encircles anything, as a ring or crown.,
C as in Circuit (n.) The space inclosed within a circle, or within limits.,
C as in Circuit (n.) A regular or appointed journeying from place to place in the exercise of one's calling, as of a judge, or a preacher.,
C as in Circuit (n.) A certain division of a state or country, established by law for a judge or judges to visit, for the administration of justice.,
C as in Circuit (n.) A district in which an itinerant preacher labors.,
C as in Circuit (n.) Circumlocution.,
C as in Circuit (v. i.) To move in a circle; to go round; to circulate.,
C as in Circuit (v. t.) To travel around.,
C as in Circuiteer (n.) A circuiter.,
C as in Circuiter (n.) One who travels a circuit, as a circuit judge.,
C as in Circuition (n.) The act of going round; circumlocution.,
C as in Circuitous (a.) Going round in a circuit; roundabout; indirect; as, a circuitous road; a circuitous manner of accomplishing an end.,
C as in Circuity (n.) A going round in a circle; a course not direct; a roundabout way of proceeding.,
C as in Circulable (a.) That may be circulated.,
C as in Circular (a.) In the form of, or bounded by, a circle; round.,
C as in Circular (a.) repeating itself; ending in itself; reverting to the point of beginning; hence, illogical; inconclusive; as, circular reasoning.,
C as in Circular (a.) Adhering to a fixed circle of legends; cyclic; hence, mean; inferior. See Cyclic poets, under Cyclic.,
C as in Circular (a.) Addressed to a circle, or to a number of persons having a common interest; circulated, or intended for circulation; as, a circular letter.,
C as in Circular (a.) Perfect; complete.,
C as in Circular (a.) A circular letter, or paper, usually printed, copies of which are addressed or given to various persons; as, a business circular.,
C as in Circular (a.) A sleeveless cloak, cut in circular form.,
C as in Circularity (n.) The quality or state of being circular; a circular form.,
C as in Circularly (adv.) In a circular manner.,
C as in Circulary (a.) Circular; illogical.,
C as in Ciorculated (imp. & p. p.) of Circulate,
C as in Circulating (P. pr. & vb. n.) of Circulate,
C as in Circulate (v. i.) To move in a circle or circuitously; to move round and return to the same point; as, the blood circulates in the body.,
C as in Circulate (v. i.) To pass from place to place, from person to person, or from hand to hand; to be diffused; as, money circulates; a story circulates.,
C as in Circulate (v. t.) To cause to pass from place to place, or from person to person; to spread; as, to circulate a report; to circulate bills of credit.,
C as in Circulation (n.) The act of moving in a circle, or in a course which brings the moving body to the place where its motion began.,
C as in Circulation (n.) The act of passing from place to place or person to person; free diffusion; transmission.,
C as in Circulation (n.) Currency; circulating coin; notes, bills, etc., current for coin.,
C as in Circulation (n.) The extent to which anything circulates or is circulated; the measure of diffusion; as, the circulation of a newspaper.,
C as in Circulation (n.) The movement of the blood in the blood-vascular system, by which it is brought into close relations with almost every living elementary constituent. Also, the movement of the sap in the vessels and tissues of plants.,
C as in Circulative (a.) Promoting circulation; circulating.,
C as in Circulator (n.) One who, or that which, circulates.,
C as in Circulatorious (a.) Travelling from house to house or from town to town; itinerant.,
C as in Circulatory (a.) Circular; as, a circulatory letter.,
C as in Circulatory (a.) Circulating, or going round.,
C as in Circulatory (a.) Subserving the purposes of circulation; as, circulatory organs; of or pertaining to the organs of circulation; as, circulatory diseases.,
C as in Circulatory (n.) A chemical vessel consisting of two portions unequally exposed to the heat of the fire, and with connecting pipes or passages, through which the fluid rises from the overheated portion, and descends from the relatively colder, maintaining a circulation.,
C as in Circulet (n.) A circlet.,
C as in Circuline (a.) Proceeding in a circle; circular.,
C as in Circum- () A Latin preposition, used as a prefix in many English words, and signifying around or about.,
C as in Circumagitate (v. t.) To agitate on all sides.,
C as in Circumambage (n.) A roundabout or indirect course; indirectness.,
C as in Circumambiency (n.) The act of surrounding or encompassing.,
C as in Circumambient (a.) Surrounding; inclosing or being on all sides; encompassing.,
C as in Circumambulate (v. t.) To walk round about.,
C as in Circumbendibus (n.) A roundabout or indirect way.,
C as in Circumcenter (n.) The center of a circle that circumscribes a triangle.,
C as in Circumcised (imp. & p. p.) of Circumcise,
C as in Circumcising (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Circumcise,
C as in Circumcise (v. t.) To cut off the prepuce of foreskin of, in the case of males, and the internal labia of, in the case of females.,
C as in Circumcise (v. t.) To purify spiritually.,
C as in Circumciser (n.) One who performs circumcision.,
C as in Circumcision (n.) The act of cutting off the prepuce or foreskin of males, or the internal labia of females.,
C as in Circumcision (n.) The Jews, as a circumcised people.,
C as in Circumcision (n.) Rejection of the sins of the flesh; spiritual purification, and acceptance of the Christian faith.,
C as in Circumclusion (n.) Act of inclosing on all sides.,
C as in Circumcursation (n.) The act of running about; also, rambling language.,
C as in Circumdenudation (n.) Denudation around or in the neighborhood of an object.,
C as in Circumduce (v. t.) To declare elapsed, as the time allowed for introducing evidence.,
C as in Circumduct (v. t.) To lead about; to lead astray.,
C as in Circumduct (v. t.) To contravene; to nullify; as, to circumduct acts of judicature.,
C as in Circumduction (n.) A leading about; circumlocution.,
C as in Circumduction (n.) An annulling; cancellation.,
C as in Circumduction (n.) The rotation of a limb round an imaginary axis, so as to describe a concial surface.,
C as in Circumesophagal (a.) Surrounding the esophagus; -- in Zool. said of the nerve commissures and ganglia of arthropods and mollusks.,
C as in Circumesophageal (a.) Circumesophagal.,
C as in Circumfer (v. t.) To bear or carry round.,
C as in Circumference (n.) The line that goes round or encompasses a circular figure; a periphery.,
C as in Circumference (n.) A circle; anything circular.,
C as in Circumference (n.) The external surface of a sphere, or of any orbicular body.,
C as in Circumference (v. t.) To include in a circular space; to bound.,
C as in Circumferential (a.) Pertaining to the circumference; encompassing; encircling; circuitous.,
C as in Circumferentially (adv.) So as to surround or encircle.,
C as in Circumferentor (n.) A surveying instrument, for taking horizontal angles and bearings; a surveyor's compass. It consists of a compass whose needle plays over a circle graduated to 360, and of a horizontal brass bar at the ends of which are standards with narrow slits for sighting, supported on a tripod by a ball and socket joint.,
C as in Circumferentor (n.) A graduated wheel for measuring tires; a tire circle.,
C as in Circumflant (a.) Blowing around.,
C as in Circumflected (imp. & p. p.) of Circumflect,
C as in Circumflecting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Circumflect,
C as in Circumflect (v. t.) To bend around.,
C as in Circumflect (v. t.) To mark with the circumflex accent, as a vowel.,
C as in Circumflection (n.) See Circumflexion.,
C as in Circumflex (n.) A wave of the voice embracing both a rise and fall or a fall and a rise on the same a syllable.,
C as in Circumflex (n.) A character, or accent, denoting in Greek a rise and of the voice on the same long syllable, marked thus [~ or /]; and in Latin and some other languages, denoting a long and contracted syllable, marked [/ or ^]. See Accent, n., 2.,
C as in Circumflexed (imp. & p. p.) of Circumflex,
C as in Circumflexing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Circumflex,
C as in Circumflex (v. t.) To mark or pronounce with a circumflex.,
C as in Circumflex (a.) Moving or turning round; circuitous.,
C as in Circumflex (a.) Curved circularly; -- applied to several arteries of the hip and thigh, to arteries, veins, and a nerve of the shoulder, and to other parts.,
C as in Circumflexion (n.) The act of bending, or causing to assume a curved form.,
C as in Circumflexion (n.) A winding about; a turning; a circuity; a fold.,
C as in Circumfluence (n.) A flowing round on all sides; an inclosing with a fluid.,
C as in Circumfluent (a.) Alt. of Circumfluous,
C as in Circumfluous (a.) Flowing round; surrounding in the manner of a fluid.,
C as in Circumforanean (a.) Alt. of Circumforaneous,
C as in Circumforaneous (a.) Going about or abroad; walking or wandering from house to house.,
C as in Circumfulgent (a.) Shining around or about.,
C as in Circumfuse (v. t.) To pour round; to spread round.,
C as in Circumfusile (a.) Capable of being poured or spread round.,
C as in Circumfusion (n.) The act of pouring or spreading round; the state of being spread round.,
C as in Circumgestation (n.) The act or process of carrying about.,
C as in Circumgyrate (v. t. & i.) To roll or turn round; to cause to perform a rotary or circular motion.,
C as in Circumgyration (n.) The act of turning, rolling, or whirling round.,
C as in Circumgyratory (a.) Moving in a circle; turning round.,
C as in Circumgyre (v. i.) To circumgyrate.,
C as in Circumincession (n.) The reciprocal existence in each other of the three persons of the Trinity.,
C as in Circumjacence (n.) Condition of being circumjacent, or of bordering on every side.,
C as in Circumjacent (a.) Lying round; bordering on every side.,
C as in Circumjovial (n.) One of the moons or satellites of the planet Jupiter.,
C as in Circumlittoral (a.) Adjointing the shore.,
C as in Circumlocution (n.) The use of many words to express an idea that might be expressed by few; indirect or roundabout language; a periphrase.,
C as in Circumlocutional (a.) Relating to, or consisting of, circumlocutions; periphrastic; circuitous.,
C as in Circumlocutory (a.) Characterised by circumlocution; periphrastic.,
C as in Circummeridian (a.) About, or near, the meridian.,
C as in Circummure (v. t.) To encompass with a wall.,
C as in Circumnavigable (a.) Capable of being sailed round.,
C as in Circumnavigated (imp. & p. p.) of Circumnavigate,
C as in Circumnavigating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Circumnavigate,
C as in Circumnavigate (v. t.) To sail completely round.,
C as in Circumnavigation (n.) The act of circumnavigating, or sailing round.,
C as in Circumnavigator (n.) One who sails round.,
C as in Circumnutate (v. i.) To pass through the stages of circumnutation.,
C as in Circumnutation (n.) The successive bowing or bending in different directions of the growing tip of the stems of many plants, especially seen in climbing plants.,
C as in Circumpolar (a.) About the pole; -- applied to stars that revolve around the pole without setting; as, circumpolar stars.,
C as in Circumposition (n.) The act of placing in a circle, or round about, or the state of being so placed.,
C as in Circumrotary (a.) Alt. of Circumrotatory,
C as in Circumrotatory (a.) turning, rolling, or whirling round.,
C as in Circumrotate (v. t. & i.) To rotate about.,
C as in Circumrotation (n.) The act of rolling or revolving round, as a wheel; circumvolution; the state of being whirled round.,
C as in Circumscissile (a.) Dehiscing or opening by a transverse fissure extending around (a capsule or pod). See Illust. of Pyxidium.,
C as in Circumscribable (a.) Capable of being circumscribed.,
C as in Circumscribed (imp. & p. p.) of Circumscribe,
C as in Circumscribing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Circumscribe,
C as in Circumscribe (v. t.) to write or engrave around.,
C as in Circumscribe (v. t.) To inclose within a certain limit; to hem in; to surround; to bound; to confine; to restrain.,
C as in Circumscribe (v. t.) To draw a line around so as to touch at certain points without cutting. See Inscribe, 5.,
C as in Circumscriber (n.) One who, or that which, circumscribes.,
C as in Circumscriptible (a.) Capable of being circumscribed or limited by bounds.,
C as in Circumscription (n.) An inscription written around anything.,
C as in Circumscription (n.) The exterior line which determines the form or magnitude of a body; outline; periphery.,
C as in Circumscription (n.) The act of limiting, or the state of being limited, by conditions or restraints; bound; confinement; limit.,
C as in Circumscriptive (a.) Circumscribing or tending to circumscribe; marcing the limits or form of.,
C as in Circumscriptively (adv.) In a limited manner.,
C as in Circumscriptly (adv.) In a literal, limited, or narrow manner.,
C as in Circumspect (a.) Attentive to all the circumstances of a case or the probable consequences of an action; cautious; prudent; wary.,
C as in Circumspection (n.) Attention to all the facts and circumstances of a case; caution; watchfulness.,
C as in Circumspective (a.) Looking around every way; cautious; careful of consequences; watchful of danger.,
C as in Circumspectively (adv.) Circumspectly.,
C as in Circumspectly (adv.) In a circumspect manner; cautiously; warily.,
C as in Circumspectness (n.) Vigilance in guarding against evil from every quarter; caution.,
C as in Circumstance (n.) That which attends, or relates to, or in some way affects, a fact or event; an attendant thing or state of things.,
C as in Circumstance (n.) An event; a fact; a particular incident.,
C as in Circumstance (n.) Circumlocution; detail.,
C as in Circumstance (n.) Condition in regard to worldly estate; state of property; situation; surroundings.,
C as in Circumstance (v. t.) To place in a particular situation; to supply relative incidents.,
C as in Circumstanced (p. a.) Placed in a particular position or condition; situated.,
C as in Circumstanced (p. a.) Governed by events or circumstances.,
C as in Circumstant (a.) Standing or placed around; surrounding.,
C as in Circumstantiable (a.) Capable of being circumstantiated.,
C as in Circumstantial (a.) Consisting in, or pertaining to, circumstances or particular incidents.,
C as in Circumstantial (a.) Incidental; relating to, but not essential.,
C as in Circumstantial (a.) Abounding with circumstances; detailing or exhibiting all the circumstances; minute; particular.,
C as in Circumstantial (n.) Something incidental to the main subject, but of less importance; opposed to an essential; -- generally in the plural; as, the circumstantials of religion.,
C as in Circumstantiality (n.) The state, characteristic, or quality of being circumstantial; particularity or minuteness of detail.,
C as in Circumstantially (adv.) In respect to circumstances; not essentially; accidentally.,
C as in Circumstantially (adv.) In every circumstance or particular; minutely.,
C as in Circumstantiated (imp. & p. p.) of Circumstantiate,
C as in Circumstantiating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Circumstantiate,
C as in Circumstantiate (v. t.) To place in particular circumstances; to invest with particular accidents or adjuncts.,
C as in Circumstantiate (v. t.) To prove or confirm by circumstances; to enter into details concerning.,
C as in Circumterraneous (a.) Being or dwelling around the earth.,
C as in Circumundulate (v. t.) To flow round, as waves.,
C as in Circumvallate (v. t.) To surround with a rampart or wall.,
C as in Circumvallate (a.) Surrounded with a wall; inclosed with a rampart.,
C as in Circumvallate (a.) Surrounded by a ridge or elevation; as, the circumvallate papillae, near the base of the tongue.,
C as in Circumvallation (n.) The act of surrounding with a wall or rampart.,
C as in Circumvallation (n.) A line of field works made around a besieged place and the besieging army, to protect the camp of the besiegers against the attack of an enemy from without.,
C as in Circumvection (n.) The act of carrying anything around, or the state of being so carried.,
C as in Circumvented (imp. & p. p.) of Circumvent,
C as in Circumventing (p. pr. vb. n.) of Circumvent,
C as in Circumvent (v. t.) To gain advantage over by arts, stratagem, or deception; to decieve; to delude; to get around.,
C as in Circumvention (n.) The act of prevailing over another by arts, address, or fraud; deception; fraud; imposture; delusion.,
C as in Circumventive (a.) Tending to circumvent; deceiving by artifices; deluding.,
C as in Circumventor (n.) One who circumvents; one who gains his purpose by cunning.,
C as in Circumvest (v. t.) To cover round, as with a garment; to invest.,
C as in Circumvolant (a.) Flying around.,
C as in Circumvolation (n.) The act of flying round.,
C as in Circumvolution (n.) The act of rolling round; the state of being rolled.,
C as in Circumvolution (n.) A thing rolled round another.,
C as in Circumvolution (n.) A roundabout procedure; a circumlocution.,
C as in Circumvolved (imp. & p. p.) of Circumvolve,
C as in Circumvolving (p. pr. vb. n.) of Circumvolve,
C as in Circumvolve (v. t.) To roll round; to cause to revolve; to put into a circular motion.,
C as in Circumvolve (v. i.) To roll round; to revolve.,
C as in Circuses (pl. ) of Circus,
C as in Circus (n.) A level oblong space surrounded on three sides by seats of wood, earth, or stone, rising in tiers one above another, and divided lengthwise through the middle by a barrier around which the track or course was laid out. It was used for chariot races, games, and public shows.,
C as in Circus (n.) A circular inclosure for the exhibition of feats of horsemanship, acrobatic displays, etc. Also, the company of performers, with their equipage.,
C as in Circus (n.) Circuit; space; inclosure.,
C as in Cirl bunting () A European bunting (Emberiza cirlus).,
C as in Cirque (n.) A circle; a circus; a circular erection or arrangement of objects.,
C as in Cirque (n.) A kind of circular valley in the side of a mountain, walled around by precipices of great height.,
C as in Cirrate (a.) Having cirri along the margin of a part or organ.,
C as in Cirrhiferous (a.) See Cirriferous.,
C as in Cirrhose (a.) Same as Cirrose.,
C as in Cirrhosis (n.) A disease of the liver in which it usually becomes smaller in size and more dense and fibrous in consistence; hence sometimes applied to similar changes in other organs, caused by increase in the fibrous framework and decrease in the proper substance of the organ.,
C as in Cirrhotic (a.) Pertaining to, caused by, or affected with, cirrhosis; as, cirrhotic degeneration; a cirrhotic liver.,
C as in Cirrhous (a.) See Cirrose.,
C as in Cirrhus (n.) Same as Cirrus.,
C as in Cirri (n. pl.) See Cirrus.,
C as in Cirriferous (a.) Bearing cirri, as many plants and animals.,
C as in Cirriform (a.) Formed like a cirrus or tendril; -- said of appendages of both animals and plants.,
C as in Cirrigerous (a.) Having curled locks of hair; supporting cirri, or hairlike appendages.,
C as in Cirrigrade (a.) Moving or moved by cirri, or hairlike appendages.,
C as in Cirriped (n.) One of the Cirripedia.,
C as in Cirripedia (n. pl.) An order of Crustacea including the barnacles. When adult, they have a calcareous shell composed of several pieces. From the opening of the shell the animal throws out a group of curved legs, looking like a delicate curl, whence the name of the group. See Anatifa.,
C as in Cirrobranchiata (n. pl.) A division of Mollusca having slender, cirriform appendages near the mouth; the Scaphopoda.,
C as in Cirro-cumulus (n.) See under Cloud.,
C as in Cirrose (a.) Bearing a tendril or tendrils; as, a cirrose leaf.,
C as in Cirrose (a.) Resembling a tendril or cirrus.,
C as in Cirrostomi (n. pl.) The lowest group of vertebrates; -- so called from the cirri around the mouth; the Leptocardia. See Amphioxus.,
C as in Cirro-stratus (n.) See under Cloud.,
C as in Cirrous (a.) Cirrose.,
C as in Cirrous (a.) Tufted; -- said of certain feathers of birds.,
C as in Cirri (pl. ) of Cirrus,
C as in Cirrus (n.) A tendril or clasper.,
C as in Cirrus (n.) A soft tactile appendage of the mantle of many Mollusca, and of the parapodia of Annelida. Those near the head of annelids are Tentacular cirri; those of the last segment are caudal cirri.,
C as in Cirrus (n.) The jointed, leglike organs of Cirripedia. See Annelida, and Polychaeta.,
C as in Cirrus (n.) The external male organ of trematodes and some other worms, and of certain Mollusca.,
C as in Cirrus (n.) See under Cloud.,
C as in Cirsocele (n.) The varicose dilatation of the spermatic vein.,
C as in Cirsoid (a.) Varicose.,
C as in Cirsotomy (n.) Any operation for the removal of varices by incision.,
C as in Cis- () A Latin preposition, sometimes used as a prefix in English words, and signifying on this side.,
C as in Cisalpine (a.) On the hither side of the Alps with reference to Rome, that is, on the south side of the Alps; -- opposed to transalpine.,
C as in Cisatlantic (a.) On this side of the Atlantic Ocean; -- used of the eastern or the western side, according to the standpoint of the writer.,
C as in Cisco (n.) The Lake herring (Coregonus Artedi), valuable food fish of the Great Lakes of North America. The name is also applied to C. Hoyi, a related species of Lake Michigan.,
C as in Ciselure (n.) The process of chasing on metals; also, the work thus chased.,
C as in Cisleithan (a.) On the Austrian side of the river Leitha; Austrian.,
C as in Cismontane (a.) On this side of the mountains. See under Ultramontane.,
C as in Cispadane (a.) On the hither side of the river Po with reference to Rome; that is, on the south side.,
C as in Cissoid (n.) A curve invented by Diocles, for the purpose of solving two celebrated problems of the higher geometry; viz., to trisect a plane angle, and to construct two geometrical means between two given straight lines.,
C as in Cist (n.) A box or chest. Specifically: (a) A bronze receptacle, round or oval, frequently decorated with engravings on the sides and cover, and with feet, handles, etc., of decorative castings. (b) A cinerary urn. See Illustration in Appendix.,
C as in Cist (n.) See Cyst.,
C as in Cisted (a.) Inclosed in a cyst. See Cysted.,
C as in Cistercian (n.) A monk of the prolific branch of the Benedictine Order, established in 1098 at Citeaux, in France, by Robert, abbot of Molesme. For two hundred years the Cistercians followed the rule of St. Benedict in all its rigor.,
C as in Cistercian (a.) Of or pertaining to the Cistercians.,
C as in Cistern (n.) An artificial reservoir or tank for holding water, beer, or other liquids.,
C as in Cistern (n.) A natural reservoir; a hollow place containing water.,
C as in Cistic (a.) See Cystic.,
C as in Cit (n.) A citizen; an inhabitant of a city; a pert townsman; -- used contemptuously.,
C as in Citable (a.) Capable of being cited.,
C as in Citadel (n.) A fortress in or near a fortified city, commanding the city and fortifications, and intended as a final point of defense.,
C as in Cital (n.) Summons to appear, as before a judge.,
C as in Cital (n.) Citation; quotation,
C as in Citation (n.) An official summons or notice given to a person to appear; the paper containing such summons or notice.,
C as in Citation (n.) The act of citing a passage from a book, or from another person, in his own words; also, the passage or words quoted; quotation.,
C as in Citation (n.) Enumeration; mention; as, a citation of facts.,
C as in Citation (n.) A reference to decided cases, or books of authority, to prove a point in law.,
C as in Citator (n.) One who cites.,
C as in Citatory (a.) Having the power or form of a citation; as, letters citatory.,
C as in Cited (imp. & p. p.) of Cite,
C as in Citing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cite,
C as in Cite (v. t.) To call upon officially or authoritatively to appear, as before a court; to summon.,
C as in Cite (v. t.) To urge; to enjoin.,
C as in Cite (v. t.) To quote; to repeat, as a passage from a book, or the words of another.,
C as in Cite (v. t.) To refer to or specify, as for support, proof, illustration, or confirmation.,
C as in Cite (v. t.) To bespeak; to indicate.,
C as in Cite (v. t.) To notify of a proceeding in court.,
C as in Citer (n.) One who cites.,
C as in Citess (n.) A city woman,
C as in Cithara (n.) An ancient instrument resembling the harp.,
C as in Citharistic (a.) Pertaining, or adapted, to the cithara.,
C as in Cithern (n.) See Cittern.,
C as in Citicism (n.) The manners of a cit or citizen.,
C as in Citied (a.) Belonging to, or resembling, a city.,
C as in Citied (a.) Containing, or covered with, cities.,
C as in Citified (a.) Aping, or having, the manners of a city.,
C as in Citigradae (n. pl.) A suborder of Arachnoidea, including the European tarantula and the wolf spiders (Lycosidae) and their allies, which capture their prey by rapidly running and jumping. See Wolf spider.,
C as in Citigrade (a.) Pertaining to the Citigradae.,
C as in Citigrade (n.) One of the Citigradae.,
C as in Citiner (n.) One who is born or bred in a city; a citizen.,
C as in Citizen (n.) One who enjoys the freedom and privileges of a city; a freeman of a city, as distinguished from a foreigner, or one not entitled to its franchises.,
C as in Citizen (n.) An inhabitant of a city; a townsman.,
C as in Citizen (n.) A person, native or naturalized, of either sex, who owes allegiance to a government, and is entitled to reciprocal protection from it.,
C as in Citizen (n.) One who is domiciled in a country, and who is a citizen, though neither native nor naturalized, in such a sense that he takes his legal status from such country.,
C as in Citizen (a.) Having the condition or qualities of a citizen, or of citizens; as, a citizen soldiery.,
C as in Citizen (a.) Of or pertaining to the inhabitants of a city; characteristic of citizens; effeminate; luxurious.,
C as in Citizeness (n.) A female citizen.,
C as in Citizenship (n.) The state of being a citizen; the status of a citizen.,
C as in Citole (n.) A musical instrument; a kind of dulcimer.,
C as in Citraconic (a.) Pertaining to, derived from, or having certain characteristics of, citric and aconitic acids.,
C as in Citrate (n.) A salt of citric acid.,
C as in Citric (a.) Of, pertaining to, or derived from, the citron or lemon; as, citric acid.,
C as in Citrination (n.) The process by which anything becomes of the color of a lemon; esp., in alchemy, the state of perfection in the philosopher's stone indicated by its assuming a deep yellow color.,
C as in Citrine (a.) Like a citron or lemon; of a lemon color; greenish yellow.,
C as in Citrine (n.) A yellow, pellucid variety of quartz.,
C as in Citron (n.) A fruit resembling a lemon, but larger, and pleasantly aromatic. The thick rind, when candied, is the citron of commerce.,
C as in Citron (n.) A citron tree.,
C as in Citron (n.) A citron melon.,
C as in Citrus (n.) A genus of trees including the orange, lemon, citron, etc., originally natives of southern Asia.,
C as in Cittern (n.) An instrument shaped like a lute, but strung with wire and played with a quill or plectrum.,
C as in Cittern-head (n.) Blockhead; dunce; -- so called because the handle of a cittern usually ended with a carved head.,
C as in Cities (pl. ) of City,
C as in City (n.) A large town.,
C as in City (n.) A corporate town; in the United States, a town or collective body of inhabitants, incorporated and governed by a mayor and aldermen or a city council consisting of a board of aldermen and a common council; in Great Britain, a town corporate, which is or has been the seat of a bishop, or the capital of his see.,
C as in City (n.) The collective body of citizens, or inhabitants of a city.,
C as in City (a.) Of or pertaining to a city.,
C as in Cive (n.) Same as Chive.,
C as in Civet (n.) A substance, of the consistence of butter or honey, taken from glands in the anal pouch of the civet (Viverra civetta). It is of clear yellowish or brownish color, of a strong, musky odor, offensive when undiluted, but agreeable when a small portion is mixed with another substance. It is used as a perfume.,
C as in Civet (n.) The animal that produces civet (Viverra civetta); -- called also civet cat. It is carnivorous, from two to three feet long, and of a brownish gray color, with transverse black bands and spots on the body and tail. It is a native of northern Africa and of Asia. The name is also applied to other species.,
C as in Civet (v. t.) To scent or perfume with civet.,
C as in Civic (a.) Relating to, or derived from, a city or citizen; relating to man as a member of society, or to civil affairs.,
C as in Civicism (n.) The principle of civil government.,
C as in Civics (n.) The science of civil government.,
C as in Civil (a.) Pertaining to a city or state, or to a citizen in his relations to his fellow citizens or to the state; within the city or state.,
C as in Civil (a.) Subject to government; reduced to order; civilized; not barbarous; -- said of the community.,
C as in Civil (a.) Performing the duties of a citizen; obedient to government; -- said of an individual.,
C as in Civil (a.) Having the manners of one dwelling in a city, as opposed to those of savages or rustics; polite; courteous; complaisant; affable.,
C as in Civil (a.) Pertaining to civic life and affairs, in distinction from military, ecclesiastical, or official state.,
C as in Civil (a.) Relating to rights and remedies sought by action or suit distinct from criminal proceedings.,
C as in Civilian (n.) One skilled in the civil law.,
C as in Civilian (n.) A student of the civil law at a university or college.,
C as in Civilian (n.) One whose pursuits are those of civil life, not military or clerical.,
C as in Civilist (n.) A civilian.,
C as in Civilities (pl. ) of Civillty,
C as in Civillty (n.) The state of society in which the relations and duties of a citizen are recognized and obeyed; a state of civilization.,
C as in Civillty (n.) A civil office, or a civil process,
C as in Civillty (n.) Courtesy; politeness; kind attention; good breeding; a polite act or expression.,
C as in Civilizable (a.) Capable of being civilized.,
C as in Civilization (n.) The act of civilizing, or the state of being civilized; national culture; refinement.,
C as in Civilization (n.) Rendering a criminal process civil.,
C as in Civilized (imp. & p. p.) of Civilize,
C as in Civilizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Civilize,
C as in Civilize (v. t.) To reclaim from a savage state; to instruct in the rules and customs of civilization; to educate; to refine.,
C as in Civilize (v. t.) To admit as suitable to a civilized state.,
C as in Civilized (a.) Reclaimed from savage life and manners; instructed in arts, learning, and civil manners; refined; cultivated.,
C as in Civilizer (n.) One who, or that which, civilizes or tends to civilize.,
C as in Civily (adv.) In a civil manner; as regards civil rights and privileges; politely; courteously; in a well bred manner.,
C as in Civism (n.) State of citizenship.,
C as in Cizar (v. i.) To clip with scissors.,
C as in Cizars (n. pl.) Scissors.,
C as in Cize (n.) Bulk; largeness. [Obs.] See Size.,
C as in Clabber (n.) Milk curdled so as to become thick.,
C as in Clabber (v. i.) To become clabber; to lopper.,
C as in Clachan (n.) A small village containing a church.,
C as in Clacked (imp. & p. p.) of Clack,
C as in Clacking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Clack,
C as in Clack (n.) To make a sudden, sharp noise, or a succesion of such noises, as by striking an object, or by collision of parts; to rattle; to click.,
C as in Clack (n.) To utter words rapidly and continually, or with abruptness; to let the tongue run.,
C as in Clack (v. t.) To cause to make a sudden, sharp noise, or succession of noises; to click.,
C as in Clack (v. t.) To utter rapidly and inconsiderately.,
C as in Clack (v. t.) A sharp, abrupt noise, or succession of noises, made by striking an object.,
C as in Clack (v. t.) Anything that causes a clacking noise, as the clapper of a mill, or a clack valve.,
C as in Clack (v. t.) Continual or importunate talk; prattle; prating.,
C as in Clacker (n.) One who clacks; that which clacks; especially, the clapper of a mill.,
C as in Clacker (n.) A claqueur. See Claqueur.,
C as in Clad (v.t) To clothe.,
C as in Clad () imp. & p. p. of Clothe.,
C as in Cladocera (n. pl.) An order of the Entomostraca.,
C as in Cladophyll (n.) A special branch, resembling a leaf, as in the apparent foliage of the broom (Ruscus) and of the common cultivated smilax (Myrsiphillum).,
C as in Claggy (a.) Adhesive; -- said of a roof in a mine to which coal clings.,
C as in Claik (n.) See Clake.,
C as in Claimed (imp. & p. p.) of Claim,
C as in Claiming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Claim,
C as in Claim (v./.) To ask for, or seek to obtain, by virtue of authority, right, or supposed right; to challenge as a right; to demand as due.,
C as in Claim (v./.) To proclaim.,
C as in Claim (v./.) To call or name.,
C as in Claim (v./.) To assert; to maintain.,
C as in Claim (v. i.) To be entitled to anything; to deduce a right or title; to have a claim.,
C as in Claim (n.) A demand of a right or supposed right; a calling on another for something due or supposed to be due; an assertion of a right or fact.,
C as in Claim (n.) A right to claim or demand something; a title to any debt, privilege, or other thing in possession of another; also, a title to anything which another should give or concede to, or confer on, the claimant.,
C as in Claim (n.) The thing claimed or demanded; that (as land) to which any one intends to establish a right; as a settler's claim; a miner's claim.,
C as in Claim (n.) A loud call.,
C as in Claimable (a.) Capable of being claimed.,
C as in Claimant (n.) One who claims; one who asserts a right or title; a claimer.,
C as in Claimer (n.) One who claims; a claimant.,
C as in Claimless (a.) Having no claim.,
C as in Clair-obscur (n.) See Chiaroscuro.,
C as in Clairvoyance (n.) A power, attributed to some persons while in a mesmeric state, of discering objects not perceptible by the senses in their normal condition.,
C as in Clairvoyant (a.) Pertaining to clairvoyance; discerning objects while in a mesmeric state which are not present to the senses.,
C as in Clairvoyant (n.) One who is able, when in a mesmeric state, to discern objects not present to the senses.,
C as in Clake (n.) Alt. of Claik,
C as in Claik (n.) The bernicle goose; -- called also clack goose.,
C as in Clam (v. t.) A bivalve mollusk of many kinds, especially those that are edible; as, the long clam (Mya arenaria), the quahog or round clam (Venus mercenaria), the sea clam or hen clam (Spisula solidissima), and other species of the United States. The name is said to have been given originally to the Tridacna gigas, a huge East Indian bivalve.,
C as in Clam (v. t.) Strong pinchers or forceps.,
C as in Clam (v. t.) A kind of vise, usually of wood.,
C as in Clammed (imp. & p. p.) of Clam,
C as in Clamming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Clam,
C as in Clam (v. t.) To clog, as with glutinous or viscous matter.,
C as in Clam (v. i.) To be moist or glutinous; to stick; to adhere.,
C as in Clam (n.) Claminess; moisture.,
C as in Clam (n.) A crash or clangor made by ringing all the bells of a chime at once.,
C as in Clam (v. t. & i.) To produce, in bell ringing, a clam or clangor; to cause to clang.,
C as in Clamant (a.) Crying earnestly, beseeching clamorously.,
C as in Clamation (n.) The act of crying out.,
C as in Clamatores (n. pl.) A division of passerine birds in which the vocal muscles are but little developed, so that they lack the power of singing.,
C as in Clamatorial (a.) Like or pertaining to the Clamatores.,
C as in Clambake (n.) The backing or steaming of clams on heated stones, between layers of seaweed; hence, a picnic party, gathered on such an occasion.,
C as in Clambered (imp. & p. p.) of Clamber,
C as in Clambering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Clamber,
C as in Clamber (v. i.) To climb with difficulty, or with hands and feet; -- also used figuratively.,
C as in Clamber (n.) The act of clambering.,
C as in Clamber (v. t.) To ascend by climbing with difficulty.,
C as in Clamjamphrie (n.) Low, worthless people; the rabble.,
C as in Clammily (adv.) In a clammy manner.,
C as in Clamminess (n.) State of being clammy or viscous.,
C as in Clammy (Compar.) Having the quality of being viscous or adhesive; soft and sticky; glutinous; damp and adhesive, as if covered with a cold perspiration.,
C as in Clamor (n.) A great outcry or vociferation; loud and continued shouting or exclamation.,
C as in Clamor (n.) Any loud and continued noise.,
C as in Clamor (n.) A continued expression of dissatisfaction or discontent; a popular outcry.,
C as in Clamored (imp. & p. p.) of Clamor,
C as in Clamoring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Clamor,
C as in Clamor (v. t.) To salute loudly.,
C as in Clamor (v. t.) To stun with noise.,
C as in Clamor (v. t.) To utter loudly or repeatedly; to shout.,
C as in Clamor (v. i.) To utter loud sounds or outcries; to vociferate; to complain; to make importunate demands.,
C as in Clamorer (n.) One who clamors.,
C as in Clamorous (a.) Speaking and repeating loud words; full of clamor; calling or demanding loudly or urgently; vociferous; noisy; bawling; loud; turbulent.,
C as in Clamp (n.) Something rigid that holds fast or binds things together; a piece of wood or metal, used to hold two or more pieces together.,
C as in Clamp (n.) An instrument with a screw or screws by which work is held in its place or two parts are temporarily held together.,
C as in Clamp (n.) A piece of wood placed across another, or inserted into another, to bind or strengthen.,
C as in Clamp (n.) One of a pair of movable pieces of lead, or other soft material, to cover the jaws of a vise and enable it to grasp without bruising.,
C as in Clamp (n.) A thick plank on the inner part of a ship's side, used to sustain the ends of beams.,
C as in Clamp (n.) A mass of bricks heaped up to be burned; or of ore for roasting, or of coal for coking.,
C as in Clamp (n.) A mollusk. See Clam.,
C as in Clamped (imp. & p. p.) of Clamp,
C as in Clamping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Clamp,
C as in Clamp (v. t.) To fasten with a clamp or clamps; to apply a clamp to; to place in a clamp.,
C as in Clamp (v. t.) To cover, as vegetables, with earth.,
C as in Clamp (n.) A heavy footstep; a tramp.,
C as in Clamp (v. i.) To tread heavily or clumsily; to clump.,
C as in Clamper (n.) An instrument of iron, with sharp prongs, attached to a boot or shoe to enable the wearer to walk securely upon ice; a creeper.,
C as in Clan (n.) A tribe or collection of families, united under a chieftain, regarded as having the same common ancestor, and bearing the same surname; as, the clan of Macdonald.,
C as in Clan (n.) A clique; a sect, society, or body of persons; esp., a body of persons united by some common interest or pursuit; -- sometimes used contemptuously.,
C as in Clancular (a.) Conducted with secrecy; clandestine; concealed.,
C as in Clancularly (adv.) privately; secretly.,
C as in Clandestine (a.) Conducted with secrecy; withdrawn from public notice, usually for an evil purpose; kept secret; hidden; private; underhand; as, a clandestine marriage.,
C as in Clandestinity (n.) Privacy or secrecy.,
C as in Clanged (imp. & p. p.) of Clang,
C as in Clanging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Clang,
C as in Clang (v. t.) To strike together so as to produce a ringing metallic sound.,
C as in Clang (v. i.) To give out a clang; to resound.,
C as in Clang (n.) A loud, ringing sound, like that made by metallic substances when clanged or struck together.,
C as in Clang (n.) Quality of tone.,
C as in Clangor (v. t.) A sharp, harsh, ringing sound.,
C as in Clangorous (a.) Making a clangor; having a ringing, metallic sound.,
C as in Clangous (a.) Making a clang, or a ringing metallic sound.,
C as in Clanjamfrie (n.) Same as Clamjamphrie.,
C as in Clank (n.) A sharp, brief, ringing sound, made by a collision of metallic or other sonorous bodies; -- usually expressing a duller or less resounding sound than clang, and a deeper and stronger sound than clink.,
C as in Clanked (imp. & p. p.) of Clank,
C as in Clanking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Clank,
C as in Clank (v. t.) To cause to sound with a clank; as, the prisoners clank their chains.,
C as in Clank (v. i.) To sound with a clank.,
C as in Clankless (a.) Without a clank.,
C as in Clannish (a.) Of or pertaining to a clan; closely united, like a clan; disposed to associate only with one's clan or clique; actuated by the traditions, prejudices, habits, etc., of a clan.,
C as in Clanship (n.) A state of being united together as in a clan; an association under a chieftain.,
C as in Clansmen (pl. ) of Clansman,
C as in Clansman (n.) One belonging to the same clan with another.,
C as in Clapped (imp. & p. p.) of Clap,
C as in Clapping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Clap,
C as in Clap (v. t.) To strike; to slap; to strike, or strike together, with a quick motion, so, as to make a sharp noise; as, to clap one's hands; a clapping of wings.,
C as in Clap (v. t.) To thrust, drive, put, or close, in a hasty or abrupt manner; -- often followed by to, into, on, or upon.,
C as in Clap (v. t.) To manifest approbation of, by striking the hands together; to applaud; as, to clap a performance.,
C as in Clap (v. t.) To express contempt or derision.,
C as in Clap (v. i.) To knock, as at a door.,
C as in Clap (v. i.) To strike the hands together in applause.,
C as in Clap (v. i.) To come together suddenly with noise.,
C as in Clap (v. i.) To enter with alacrity and briskness; -- with to or into.,
C as in Clap (v. i.) To talk noisily; to chatter loudly.,
C as in Clap (n.) A loud noise made by sudden collision; a bang.,
C as in Clap (n.) A burst of sound; a sudden explosion.,
C as in Clap (n.) A single, sudden act or motion; a stroke; a blow.,
C as in Clap (n.) A striking of hands to express approbation.,
C as in Clap (n.) Noisy talk; chatter.,
C as in Clap (n.) The nether part of the beak of a hawk.,
C as in Clap (n.) Gonorrhea.,
C as in Clapboard (n.) A narrow board, thicker at one edge than at the other; -- used for weatherboarding the outside of houses.,
C as in Clapboard (n.) A stave for a cask.,
C as in Clapboard (v. t.) To cover with clapboards; as, to clapboard the sides of a house.,
C as in Clapbread (n.) Alt. of Clapcake,
C as in Clapcake (n.) Oatmeal cake or bread clapped or beaten till it is thin.,
C as in Clape (n.) A bird; the flicker.,
C as in Clapper (n.) A person who claps.,
C as in Clapper (n.) That which strikes or claps, as the tongue of a bell, or the piece of wood that strikes a mill hopper, etc. See Illust. of Bell.,
C as in Clapper (n.) A rabbit burrow.,
C as in Clapperclaw (v. t.) To fight and scratch.,
C as in Clapperclaw (v. t.) To abuse with the tongue; to revile; to scold.,
C as in Claps (v. t.) Variant of Clasp,
C as in Claptrap (n.) A contrivance for clapping in theaters.,
C as in Claptrap (n.) A trick or device to gain applause; humbug.,
C as in Claptrap (a.) Contrived for the purpose of making a show, or gaining applause; deceptive; unreal.,
C as in Claque (n.) A collection of persons employed to applaud at a theatrical exhibition.,
C as in Claqueur (n.) One of the claque employed to applaud at a theater.,
C as in Clare (n.) A nun of the order of St. Clare.,
C as in Clarence (n.) A close four-wheeled carriage, with one seat inside, and a seat for the driver.,
C as in Clarenceux (n.) Alt. of Clarencieux,
C as in Clarencieux (n.) See King-at-arms.,
C as in Clarendon (n.) A style of type having a narrow and heave face. It is made in all sizes.,
C as in Clare-obscure (n.) See Chiaroscuro.,
C as in Claret (n.) The name first given in England to the red wines of Medoc, in France, and afterwards extended to all the red Bordeaux wines. The name is also given to similar wines made in the United States.,
C as in Claribella (n.) A soft, sweet stop, or set of open wood pipes in an organ.,
C as in Clarichord (n.) A musical instrument, formerly in use, in form of a spinet; -- called also manichord and clavichord.,
C as in Clarification (n.) The act or process of making clear or transparent, by freeing visible impurities; as, the clarification of wine.,
C as in Clarification (n.) The act of freeing from obscurities.,
C as in Clarifier (n.) That which clarifies.,
C as in Clarifier (n.) A vessel in which the process of clarification is conducted; as, the clarifier in sugar works.,
C as in Clarified (imp. & p. p.) of Clarify,
C as in Clarifying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Clarify,
C as in Clarify (v. t.) To make clear or bright by freeing from feculent matter; to defecate; to fine; -- said of liquids, as wine or sirup.,
C as in Clarify (v. t.) To make clear; to free from obscurities; to brighten or illuminate.,
C as in Clarify (v. t.) To glorify.,
C as in Clarify (v. i.) To grow or become clear or transparent; to become free from feculent impurities, as wine or other liquid under clarification.,
C as in Clarify (v. i.) To grow clear or bright; to clear up.,
C as in Clarigate (v. i.) To declare war with certain ceremonies.,
C as in Clarinet (n.) A wind instrument, blown by a single reed, of richer and fuller tone than the oboe, which has a double reed. It is the leading instrument in a military band.,
C as in Clarino (n.) A reed stop in an organ.,
C as in Clarion (n.) A kind of trumpet, whose note is clear and shrill.,
C as in Clarionet (n.) See Clarinet.,
C as in Clarisonus (a.) Having a clear sound.,
C as in Claritude (n.) Clearness; splendor.,
C as in Clarity (n.) Clearness; brightness; splendor.,
C as in Claro-obscuro (n.) See Chiaroscuro.,
C as in Clarre (n.) Wine with a mixture of honey and species.,
C as in Clart (v. t.) To daub, smear, or spread, as with mud, etc.,
C as in Clarty (a.) Sticky and foul; muddy; filthy; dirty.,
C as in Clary (v. i.) To make a loud or shrill noise.,
C as in Clary (n.) A plant (Salvia sclarea) of the Sage family, used in flavoring soups.,
C as in Clashed (imp. & p. p.) of Clash,
C as in Clashing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Clash,
C as in Clash (v. i.) To make a noise by striking against something; to dash noisily together.,
C as in Clash (v. i.) To meet in opposition; to act in a contrary direction; to come onto collision; to interfere.,
C as in Clash (v. t.) To strike noisily against or together.,
C as in Clash (n.) A loud noise resulting from collision; a noisy collision of bodies; a collision.,
C as in Clash (n.) Opposition; contradiction; as between differing or contending interests, views, purposes, etc.,
C as in Clashingly (adv.) With clashing.,
C as in Clasped (imp. & p. p.) of Clasp,
C as in Clasping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Clasp,
C as in Clasp (v. t.) To shut or fasten together with, or as with, a clasp; to shut or fasten (a clasp, or that which fastens with a clasp).,
C as in Clasp (v. t.) To inclose and hold in the hand or with the arms; to grasp; to embrace.,
C as in Clasp (v. t.) To surround and cling to; to entwine about.,
C as in Clasp (n.) An adjustable catch, bent plate, or hook, for holding together two objects or the parts of anything, as the ends of a belt, the covers of a book, etc.,
C as in Clasp (n.) A close embrace; a throwing of the arms around; a grasping, as with the hand.,
C as in Clasper (n.) One who, or that which, clasps, as a tendril.,
C as in Clasper (n.) One of a pair of organs used by the male for grasping the female among many of the Crustacea.,
C as in Clasper (n.) One of a pair of male copulatory organs, developed on the anterior side of the ventral fins of sharks and other elasmobranchs. See Illust. of Chimaera.,
C as in Claspered (a.) Furnished with tendrils.,
C as in Class (n.) A group of individuals ranked together as possessing common characteristics; as, the different classes of society; the educated class; the lower classes.,
C as in Class (n.) A number of students in a school or college, of the same standing, or pursuing the same studies.,
C as in Class (n.) A comprehensive division of animate or inanimate objects, grouped together on account of their common characteristics, in any classification in natural science, and subdivided into orders, families, tribes, genera, etc.,
C as in Class (n.) A set; a kind or description, species or variety.,
C as in Class (n.) One of the sections into which a church or congregation is divided, and which is under the supervision of a class leader.,
C as in Classed (imp. & p. p.) of Class,
C as in Classing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Class,
C as in Class (n.) To arrange in classes; to classify or refer to some class; as, to class words or passages.,
C as in Class (n.) To divide into classes, as students; to form into, or place in, a class or classes.,
C as in Class (v. i.) To grouped or classed.,
C as in Classible (a.) Capable of being classed.,
C as in Classic (n.) Alt. of Classical,
C as in Classical (n.) Of or relating to the first class or rank, especially in literature or art.,
C as in Classical (n.) Of or pertaining to the ancient Greeks and Romans, esp. to Greek or Roman authors of the highest rank, or of the period when their best literature was produced; of or pertaining to places inhabited by the ancient Greeks and Romans, or rendered famous by their deeds.,
C as in Classical (n.) Conforming to the best authority in literature and art; chaste; pure; refined; as, a classical style.,
C as in Classic (n.) A work of acknowledged excellence and authority, or its author; -- originally used of Greek and Latin works or authors, but now applied to authors and works of a like character in any language.,
C as in Classic (n.) One learned in the literature of Greece and Rome, or a student of classical literature.,
C as in Classicalism (n.) A classical idiom, style, or expression; a classicism.,
C as in Classicalism (n.) Adherence to what are supposed or assumed to be the classical canons of art.,
C as in Classicalist (n.) One who adheres to what he thinks the classical canons of art.,
C as in Classicality (n.) Alt. of Classicalness,
C as in Classicalness (n.) The quality of being classical.,
C as in Classically (adv.) In a classical manner; according to the manner of classical authors.,
C as in Classically (adv.) In the manner of classes; according to a regular order of classes or sets.,
C as in Classicism (n.) A classic idiom or expression; a classicalism.,
C as in Classicist (n.) One learned in the classics; an advocate for the classics.,
C as in Classifiable (a.) Capable of being classified.,
C as in Classific (a.) Characterizing a class or classes; relating to classification.,
C as in Classification (n.) The act of forming into a class or classes; a distibution into groups, as classes, orders, families, etc., according to some common relations or affinities.,
C as in Classificatory (a.) Pertaining to classification; admitting of classification.,
C as in Classifier (n.) One who classifies.,
C as in Classified (imp. & pp.) of Classify,
C as in Classifying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Classify,
C as in Classify (v. t.) To distribute into classes; to arrange according to a system; to arrange in sets according to some method founded on common properties or characters.,
C as in Classes (pl. ) of Classis,
C as in Classis (n.) A class or order; sort; kind.,
C as in Classis (n.) An ecclesiastical body or judicatory in certain churches, as the Reformed Dutch. It is intermediate between the consistory and the synod, and corresponds to the presbytery in the Presbyterian church.,
C as in Classmen (pl. ) of Classman,
C as in Classman (n.) A member of a class; a classmate.,
C as in Classman (n.) A candidate for graduation in arts who is placed in an honor class, as opposed to a passman, who is not classified.,
C as in Classmate (n.) One who is in the same class with another, as at school or college.,
C as in Clastic (a.) Pertaining to what may be taken apart; as, clastic anatomy (of models).,
C as in Clastic (a.) Fragmental; made up of brok/ fragments; as, sandstone is a clastic rock.,
C as in Clathrate (a.) Shaped like a lattice; cancellate.,
C as in Clathrate (a.) Having the surface marked with raised lines resembling a lattice, as many shells.,
C as in Clattered (imp. & p. p.) of Clatter,
C as in Clattering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Clatter,
C as in Clatter (v. i.) To make a rattling sound by striking hard bodies together; to make a succession of abrupt, rattling sounds.,
C as in Clatter (v. i.) To talk fast and noisily; to rattle with the tongue.,
C as in Clatter (v. t.) To make a rattling noise with.,
C as in Clatter (n.) A rattling noise, esp. that made by the collision of hard bodies; also, any loud, abrupt sound; a repetition of abrupt sounds.,
C as in Clatter (n.) Commotion; disturbance.,
C as in Clatter (n.) Rapid, noisy talk; babble; chatter.,
C as in Clatterer (n.) One who clatters.,
C as in Clatteringly (adv.) With clattering.,
C as in Claude Lorraine glass () A slightly convex mirror, commonly of black glass, used as a toy for viewing the reflected landscape.,
C as in Claudent (a.) Shutting; confining; drawing together; as, a claudent muscle.,
C as in Claudicant (a.) Limping.,
C as in Claudication (n.) A halting or limping.,
C as in Clause (n.) A separate portion of a written paper, paragraph, or sentence; an article, stipulation, or proviso, in a legal document.,
C as in Clause (n.) A subordinate portion or a subdivision of a sentence containing a subject and its predicate.,
C as in Clause (n.) See Letters clause / close, under Letter.,
C as in Claustral (a.) Cloistral.,
C as in Claustra (pl. ) of Claustrum,
C as in Claustrum (n.) A thin lamina of gray matter in each cerebral hemisphere of the brain of man.,
C as in Clausular (n.) Consisting of, or having, clauses.,
C as in Clausure (n.) The act of shutting up or confining; confinement.,
C as in Clavate (a.) Alt. of Clavated,
C as in Clavated (a.) Club-shaped; having the form of a club; growing gradually thicker toward the top. [See Illust. of Antennae.],
C as in Clave () imp. of Cleave.,
C as in Clavecin (n.) The harpsichord.,
C as in Clavel (n.) See Clevis.,
C as in Clavellate (a.) See Clavate.,
C as in Clavellated (a.) Said of potash, probably in reference to its having been obtained from billets of wood by burning.,
C as in Claver (n.) See Clover.,
C as in Claver (n.) Frivolous or nonsensical talk; prattle; chattering.,
C as in Clavichord (n.) A keyed stringed instrument, now superseded by the pianoforte. See Clarichord.,
C as in Clavicle (n.) The collar bone, which is joined at one end to the scapula, or shoulder blade, and at the other to the sternum, or breastbone. In man each clavicle is shaped like the letter /, and is situated just above the first rib on either side of the neck. In birds the two clavicles are united ventrally, forming the merrythought, or wishbone.,
C as in Clavicorn (a.) Having club-shaped antennae. See Antennae,
C as in Clavicorn (n.) One of the Clavicornes.,
C as in Clavicornes (n. pl.) A group of beetles having club-shaped antennae.,
C as in Clavicular (a.) Of or pertaining to the clavicle.,
C as in Clavier (n.) The keyboard of an organ, pianoforte, or harmonium.,
C as in Claviform (a.) Club-shaped; clavate.,
C as in Claviger (n.) One who carries the keys of any place.,
C as in Claviger (n.) One who carries a club; a club bearer.,
C as in Clavigerous (a.) Bearing a club or a key.,
C as in Claves (pl. ) of Clavis,
C as in Clavises (pl. ) of Clavis,
C as in Clavis (n.) A key; a glossary.,
C as in Clavus (n.) A callous growth, esp. one the foot; a corn.,
C as in Clavies (pl. ) of Clavy,
C as in Clavy (n.) A mantelpiece.,
C as in Claw (n.) A sharp, hooked nail, as of a beast or bird.,
C as in Claw (n.) The whole foot of an animal armed with hooked nails; the pinchers of a lobster, crab, etc.,
C as in Claw (n.) Anything resembling the claw of an animal, as the curved and forked end of a hammer for drawing nails.,
C as in Claw (n.) A slender appendage or process, formed like a claw, as the base of petals of the pink.,
C as in Clawed (imp. & p. p.) of Claw,
C as in Clawing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Claw,
C as in Claw (n.) To pull, tear, or scratch with, or as with, claws or nails.,
C as in Claw (n.) To relieve from some uneasy sensation, as by scratching; to tickle; hence, to flatter; to court.,
C as in Claw (n.) To rail at; to scold.,
C as in Claw (v. i.) To scrape, scratch, or dig with a claw, or with the hand as a claw.,
C as in Clawback (n.) A flatterer or sycophant.,
C as in Clawback (a.) Flattering; sycophantic.,
C as in Clawback (v. t.) To flatter.,
C as in Clawed (a.) Furnished with claws.,
C as in Clawless (a.) Destitute of claws.,
C as in Clay (n.) A soft earth, which is plastic, or may be molded with the hands, consisting of hydrous silicate of aluminium. It is the result of the wearing down and decomposition, in part, of rocks containing aluminous minerals, as granite. Lime, magnesia, oxide of iron, and other ingredients, are often present as impurities.,
C as in Clay (n.) Earth in general, as representing the elementary particles of the human body; hence, the human body as formed from such particles.,
C as in Clayed (imp. & p. p.) of Clay,
C as in Claying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Clay,
C as in Clay (v. t.) To cover or manure with clay.,
C as in Clay (v. t.) To clarify by filtering through clay, as sugar.,
C as in Clay-brained (a.) Stupid.,
C as in Clayes (n. pl.) Wattles, or hurdles, made with stakes interwoven with osiers, to cover lodgments.,
C as in Clayey (a.) Consisting of clay; abounding with clay; partaking of clay; like clay.,
C as in Clayish (a.) Partaking of the nature of clay, or containing particles of it.,
C as in Claymore (n.) A large two-handed sword used formerly by the Scottish Highlanders.,
C as in Claytonia (n.) An American genus of perennial herbs with delicate blossoms; -- sometimes called spring beauty.,
C as in Cleading (n.) A jacket or outer covering of wood, etc., to prevent radiation of heat, as from the boiler, cylinder. etc., of a steam engine.,
C as in Cleading (n.) The planking or boarding of a shaft, cofferdam, etc.,
C as in Clean (superl.) Free from dirt or filth; as, clean clothes.,
C as in Clean (superl.) Free from that which is useless or injurious; without defects; as, clean land; clean timber.,
C as in Clean (superl.) Free from awkwardness; not bungling; adroit; dexterous; as, aclean trick; a clean leap over a fence.,
C as in Clean (superl.) Free from errors and vulgarisms; as, a clean style.,
C as in Clean (superl.) Free from restraint or neglect; complete; entire.,
C as in Clean (superl.) Free from moral defilement; sinless; pure.,
C as in Clean (superl.) Free from ceremonial defilement.,
C as in Clean (superl.) Free from that which is corrupting to the morals; pure in tone; healthy.,
C as in Clean (superl.) Well-proportioned; shapely; as, clean limbs.,
C as in Clean (adv.) Without limitation or remainder; quite; perfectly; wholly; entirely.,
C as in Clean (adv.) Without miscarriage; not bunglingly; dexterously.,
C as in Cleaned (imp. & p. p.) of Clean,
C as in Cleaning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Clean,
C as in Clean (a.) To render clean; to free from whatever is foul, offensive, or extraneous; to purify; to cleanse.,
C as in Clean-cut (a.) See Clear-cut.,
C as in Cleaner (n.) One who, or that which, cleans.,
C as in Cleaning (n.) The act of making clean.,
C as in Cleaning (n.) The afterbirth of cows, ewes, etc.,
C as in Cleanlily (adv.) In a cleanly manner.,
C as in Clean-limbed (a.) With well-proportioned, unblemished limbs; as, a clean-limbed young fellow.,
C as in Cleanliness (n.) State of being cleanly; neatness of person or dress.,
C as in Cleanly (superl.) Habitually clean; pure; innocent.,
C as in Cleanly (superl.) Cleansing; fitted to remove moisture; dirt, etc.,
C as in Cleanly (superl.) Adroit; skillful; dexterous; artful.,
C as in Cleanly (adv.) In a clean manner; neatly.,
C as in Cleanly (adv.) Innocently; without stain.,
C as in Cleanly (adv.) Adroitly; dexterously.,
C as in Cleanness (n.) The state or quality of being clean.,
C as in Cleanness (n.) Purity of life or language; freedom from licentious courses.,
C as in Cleansable (a.) Capable of being cleansed.,
C as in Cleansed (imp. & p. p.) of Cleanse,
C as in Cleansing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cleanse,
C as in Cleanse (v. t.) To render clean; to free from fith, pollution, infection, guilt, etc.; to clean.,
C as in Cleanser (n.) One who, or that which, cleanses; a detergent.,
C as in Clean-timbered (a.) Well-proportioned; symmetrical.,
C as in Clear (superl.) Free from opaqueness; transparent; bright; light; luminous; unclouded.,
C as in Clear (superl.) Free from ambiguity or indistinctness; lucid; perspicuous; plain; evident; manifest; indubitable.,
C as in Clear (superl.) Able to perceive clearly; keen; acute; penetrating; discriminating; as, a clear intellect; a clear head.,
C as in Clear (superl.) Not clouded with passion; serene; cheerful.,
C as in Clear (superl.) Easily or distinctly heard; audible; canorous.,
C as in Clear (superl.) Without mixture; entirely pure; as, clear sand.,
C as in Clear (superl.) Without defect or blemish, such as freckles or knots; as, a clear complexion; clear lumber.,
C as in Clear (superl.) Free from guilt or stain; unblemished.,
C as in Clear (superl.) Without diminution; in full; net; as, clear profit.,
C as in Clear (superl.) Free from impediment or obstruction; unobstructed; as, a clear view; to keep clear of debt.,
C as in Clear (superl.) Free from embarrassment; detention, etc.,
C as in Clear (n.) Full extent; distance between extreme limits; especially; the distance between the nearest surfaces of two bodies, or the space between walls; as, a room ten feet square in the clear.,
C as in Clear (adv.) In a clear manner; plainly.,
C as in Clear (adv.) Without limitation; wholly; quite; entirely; as, to cut a piece clear off.,
C as in Cleared (imp. & p. p.) of Clear,
C as in Clearing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Clear,
C as in Clear (v. t.) To render bright, transparent, or undimmed; to free from clouds.,
C as in Clear (v. t.) To free from impurities; to clarify; to cleanse.,
C as in Clear (v. t.) To free from obscurity or ambiguity; to relive of perplexity; to make perspicuous.,
C as in Clear (v. t.) To render more quick or acute, as the understanding; to make perspicacious.,
C as in Clear (v. t.) To free from impediment or incumbrance, from defilement, or from anything injurious, useless, or offensive; as, to clear land of trees or brushwood, or from stones; to clear the sight or the voice; to clear one's self from debt; -- often used with of, off, away, or out.,
C as in Clear (v. t.) To free from the imputation of guilt; to justify, vindicate, or acquit; -- often used with from before the thing imputed.,
C as in Clear (v. t.) To leap or pass by, or over, without touching or failure; as, to clear a hedge; to clear a reef.,
C as in Clear (v. t.) To gain without deduction; to net.,
C as in Clear (v. i.) To become free from clouds or fog; to become fair; -- often followed by up, off, or away.,
C as in Clear (v. i.) To disengage one's self from incumbrances, distress, or entanglements; to become free.,
C as in Clear (v. i.) To make exchanges of checks and bills, and settle balances, as is done in a clearing house.,
C as in Clear (v. i.) To obtain a clearance; as, the steamer cleared for Liverpool to-day.,
C as in Clearage (n.) The act of removing anything; clearance.,
C as in Clearance (n.) The act of clearing; as, to make a thorough clearance.,
C as in Clearance (n.) A certificate that a ship or vessel has been cleared at the customhouse; permission to sail.,
C as in Clearance (n.) Clear or net profit.,
C as in Clearance (n.) The distance by which one object clears another, as the distance between the piston and cylinder head at the end of a stroke in a steam engine, or the least distance between the point of a cogwheel tooth and the bottom of a space between teeth of a wheel with which it engages.,
C as in Clear-cut (a.) Having a sharp, distinct outline, like that of a cameo.,
C as in Clear-cut (a.) Concisely and distinctly expressed.,
C as in Clearedness (n.) The quality of being cleared.,
C as in Clearer (n.) One who, or that which, clears.,
C as in Clearer (n.) A tool of which the hemp for lines and twines, used by sailmakers, is finished.,
C as in Clear-headed (a.) Having a clear understanding; quick of perception; intelligent.,
C as in Clearing (n.) The act or process of making clear.,
C as in Clearing (n.) A tract of land cleared of wood for cultivation.,
C as in Clearing (n.) A method adopted by banks and bankers for making an exchange of checks held by each against the others, and settling differences of accounts.,
C as in Clearing (n.) The gross amount of the balances adjusted in the clearing house.,
C as in Clearly (adv.) In a clear manner.,
C as in Clearness (n.) The quality or state of being clear.,
C as in Clear-seeing (a.) Having a clear physical or mental vision; having a clear understanding.,
C as in Clear-shining (a.) Shining brightly.,
C as in Clear-sighted (a.) Seeing with clearness; discerning; as, clear-sighted reason,
C as in Clear-sightedness (n.) Acute discernment.,
C as in Clearstarched (imp. & p. p.) of Clearstarch,
C as in Clearstraching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Clearstarch,
C as in Clearstarch (v. t.) To stiffen with starch, and then make clear by clapping with the hands; as, to clearstarch muslin.,
C as in Clearstarcher (n.) One who clearstarches.,
C as in Clearstory (n.) Alt. of Clerestory,
C as in Clerestory (n.) The upper story of the nave of a church, containing windows, and rising above the aisle roofs.,
C as in Clearwing (n.) A lepidopterous insect with partially transparent wings, of the family Aegeriadae, of which the currant and peach-tree borers are examples.,
C as in Cleat (n.) A strip of wood or iron fastened on transversely to something in order to give strength, prevent warping, hold position, etc.,
C as in Cleat (n.) A device made of wood or metal, having two arms, around which turns may be taken with a line or rope so as to hold securely and yet be readily released. It is bolted by the middle to a deck or mast, etc., or it may be lashed to a rope.,
C as in Cleat (v. t.) To strengthen with a cleat.,
C as in Cleavable (a.) Capable of cleaving or being divided.,
C as in Cleavage (n.) The act of cleaving or splitting.,
C as in Cleavage (n.) The quality possessed by many crystallized substances of splitting readily in one or more definite directions, in which the cohesive attraction is a minimum, affording more or less smooth surfaces; the direction of the dividing plane; a fragment obtained by cleaving, as of a diamond. See Parting.,
C as in Cleavage (n.) Division into laminae, like slate, with the lamination not necessarily parallel to the plane of deposition; -- usually produced by pressure.,
C as in Cleaved (imp.) of Cleave,
C as in Clave () of Cleave,
C as in Cleaved (p. p.) of Cleave,
C as in Cleaving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cleave,
C as in Cleave (v. i. ) To adhere closely; to stick; to hold fast; to cling.,
C as in Cleave (v. i. ) To unite or be united closely in interest or affection; to adhere with strong attachment.,
C as in Cleave (v. i. ) To fit; to be adapted; to assimilate.,
C as in Cleft (imp.) of Cleave,
C as in Clave () of Cleave,
C as in Clove () of Cleave,
C as in Cleft (p. p.) of Cleave,
C as in Cleaved () of Cleave,
C as in Cloven () of Cleave,
C as in Cleaving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cleave,
C as in Cleave (v. t.) To part or divide by force; to split or rive; to cut.,
C as in Cleave (v. t.) To part or open naturally; to divide.,
C as in Cleave (v. i.) To part; to open; to crack; to separate; as parts of bodies; as, the ground cleaves by frost.,
C as in Cleavelandite (n.) A variety of albite, white and lamellar in structure.,
C as in Cleaver (n.) One who cleaves, or that which cleaves; especially, a butcher's instrument for cutting animal bodies into joints or pieces.,
C as in Cleavers (n.) A species of Galium (G. Aparine), having a fruit set with hooked bristles, which adhere to whatever they come in contact with; -- called also, goose grass, catchweed, etc.,
C as in Cleche (a.) Charged with another bearing of the same figure, and of the color of the field, so large that only a narrow border of the first bearing remains visible; -- said of any heraldic bearing. Compare Voided.,
C as in Clechy (a.) See Cleche.,
C as in Cledge (n.) The upper stratum of fuller's earth.,
C as in Cledgy (a.) Stiff, stubborn, clayey, or tenacious; as, a cledgy soil.,
C as in Clee (n.) A claw.,
C as in Clee (n.) The redshank.,
C as in Clef (n.) A character used in musical notation to determine the position and pitch of the scale as represented on the staff.,
C as in Cleft () imp. & p. p. from Cleave.,
C as in Cleft (a.) Divided; split; partly divided or split.,
C as in Cleft (a.) Incised nearly to the midrib; as, a cleft leaf.,
C as in Cleft (n.) A space or opening made by splitting; a crack; a crevice; as, the cleft of a rock.,
C as in Cleft (n.) A piece made by splitting; as, a cleft of wood.,
C as in Cleft (n.) A disease in horses; a crack on the band of the pastern.,
C as in Cleft-footed (a.) Having a cloven foot.,
C as in Cleftgraft (v. t.) To ingraft by cleaving the stock and inserting a scion.,
C as in Cleg (n.) A small breeze or horsefly.,
C as in Cleistogamic (a.) Alt. of Cleistogamous,
C as in Cleistogamous (a.) Having, beside the usual flowers, other minute, closed flowers, without petals or with minute petals; -- said of certain species of plants which possess flowers of two or more kinds, the closed ones being so constituted as to insure self-fertilization.,
C as in Clem (v. t. & i.) To starve; to famish.,
C as in Clematis (n.) A genus of flowering plants, of many species, mostly climbers, having feathery styles, which greatly enlarge in the fruit; -- called also virgin's bower.,
C as in Clemence (n.) Clemency.,
C as in Clemencies (pl. ) of Clemency,
C as in Clemency (n.) Disposition to forgive and spare, as offenders; mildness of temper; gentleness; tenderness; mercy.,
C as in Clemency (n.) Mildness or softness of the elements; as, the clemency of the season.,
C as in Clement (a.) Mild in temper and disposition; merciful; compassionate.,
C as in Clementine (a.) Of or pertaining to Clement, esp. to St. Clement of Rome and the spurious homilies attributed to him, or to Pope Clement V. and his compilations of canon law.,
C as in Clench (n. & v. t.) See Clinch.,
C as in Cleped (imp. & p. p.) of Clepe,
C as in Cleping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Clepe,
C as in Ycleped () of Clepe,
C as in Clepe (v. t.) To call, or name.,
C as in Clepe (v. i.) To make appeal; to cry out.,
C as in Clepsine (n.) A genus of fresh-water leeches, furnished with a proboscis. They feed upon mollusks and worms.,
C as in Clepsydra (n.) A water clock; a contrivance for measuring time by the graduated flow of a liquid, as of water, through a small aperture. See Illust. in Appendix.,
C as in Cleptomania (n.) See Kleptomania.,
C as in Clerestory (n.) Same as Clearstory.,
C as in Clergeon (n.) A chorister boy.,
C as in Clergial (a.) Learned; erudite; clerical.,
C as in Clergical (a.) Of or pertaining to the clergy; clerical; clerkily; learned.,
C as in Clergy (n.) The body of men set apart, by due ordination, to the service of God, in the Christian church, in distinction from the laity; in England, usually restricted to the ministers of the Established Church.,
C as in Clergy (n.) Learning; also, a learned profession.,
C as in Clergy (n.) The privilege or benefit of clergy.,
C as in Clergyable (a.) Entitled to, or admitting, the benefit of clergy; as, a clergyable felony.,
C as in Clergymen (pl. ) of Clergyman,
C as in Clergyman (n.) An ordained minister; a man regularly authorized to preach the gospel, and administer its ordinances; in England usually restricted to a minister of the Established Church.,
C as in Cleric (n.) A clerk, a clergyman.,
C as in Cleric (a.) Same as Clerical.,
C as in Clerical (a.) Of or pertaining to the clergy; suitable for the clergy.,
C as in Clerical (a.) Of or relating to a clerk or copyist, or to writing.,
C as in Clericalism (n.) An excessive devotion to the interests of the sacerdotal order; undue influence of the clergy; sacerdotalism.,
C as in Clericity (n.) The state of being a clergyman.,
C as in Clerisy (n.) The literati, or well educated class.,
C as in Clerisy (n.) The clergy, or their opinions, as opposed to the laity.,
C as in Clerk (n.) A clergyman or ecclesiastic.,
C as in Clerk (n.) A man who could read; a scholar; a learned person; a man of letters.,
C as in Clerk (n.) A parish officer, being a layman who leads in reading the responses of the Episcopal church service, and otherwise assists in it.,
C as in Clerk (n.) One employed to keep records or accounts; a scribe; an accountant; as, the clerk of a court; a town clerk.,
C as in Clerk (n.) An assistant in a shop or store.,
C as in Clerk-ale (n.) A feast for the benefit of the parish clerk.,
C as in Clerkless (a.) Unlearned.,
C as in Clerklike (a.) Scholarlike.,
C as in Clerkliness (n.) Scholarship.,
C as in Clerkly (a.) Of or pertaining to a clerk.,
C as in Clerkly (adv.) In a scholarly manner.,
C as in Clerkship (n.) State, quality, or business of a clerk.,
C as in Cleromancy (n.) A divination by throwing dice or casting lots.,
C as in Cleronomy (n.) Inheritance; heritage.,
C as in Clerstory (n.) See Clearstory.,
C as in Clever (a.) Possessing quickness of intellect, skill, dexterity, talent, or adroitness; expert.,
C as in Clever (a.) Showing skill or adroitness in the doer or former; as, a clever speech; a clever trick.,
C as in Clever (a.) Having fitness, propriety, or suitableness.,
C as in Clever (a.) Well-shaped; handsome.,
C as in Clever (a.) Good-natured; obliging.,
C as in Cleverish (a.) Somewhat clever.,
C as in Cleverly (adv.) In a clever manner.,
C as in Cleverness (n.) The quality of being clever; skill; dexterity; adroitness.,
C as in Clevis (n.) A piece of metal bent in the form of an oxbow, with the two ends perforated to receive a pin, used on the end of the tongue of a plow, wagen, etc., to attach it to a draft chain, whiffletree, etc.; -- called also clavel, clevy.,
C as in Clew (n.) Alt. of Clue,
C as in Clue (n.) A ball of thread, yarn, or cord; also, The thread itself.,
C as in Clue (n.) That which guides or directs one in anything of a doubtful or intricate nature; that which gives a hint in the solution of a mystery.,
C as in Clue (n.) A lower corner of a square sail, or the after corner of a fore-and-aft sail.,
C as in Clue (n.) A loop and thimbles at the corner of a sail.,
C as in Clue (n.) A combination of lines or nettles by which a hammock is suspended.,
C as in Clewing (imp. & p. p. & vb. n.) of Clew,
C as in Clew (n.) To direct; to guide, as by a thread.,
C as in Clew (n.) To move of draw (a sail or yard) by means of the clew garnets, clew lines, etc.; esp. to draw up the clews of a square sail to the yard.,
C as in Cliche (n.) A stereotype plate or any similar reproduction of ornament, or lettering, in relief.,
C as in Clicked (imp. & p. p.) of Click,
C as in Clicking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Click,
C as in Click (v. i.) To make a slight, sharp noise (or a succession of such noises), as by gentle striking; to tick.,
C as in Click (v. t.) To move with the sound of a click.,
C as in Click (v. t.) To cause to make a clicking noise, as by striking together, or against something.,
C as in Click (n.) A slight sharp noise, such as is made by the cocking of a pistol.,
C as in Click (n.) A kind of articulation used by the natives of Southern Africa, consisting in a sudden withdrawal of the end or some other portion of the tongue from a part of the mouth with which it is in contact, whereby a sharp, clicking sound is produced. The sounds are four in number, and are called cerebral, palatal, dental, and lateral clicks or clucks, the latter being the noise ordinarily used in urging a horse forward.,
C as in Click (v. t.) To snatch.,
C as in Click (n.) A detent, pawl, or ratchet, as that which catches the cogs of a ratchet wheel to prevent backward motion. See Illust. of Ratched wheel.,
C as in Click (n.) The latch of a door.,
C as in Click beetle () See Elater.,
C as in Clicker (n.) One who stands before a shop door to invite people to buy.,
C as in Clicker (n.) One who as has charge of the work of a companionship.,
C as in Clicket (n.) The knocker of a door.,
C as in Clicket (n.) A latch key.,
C as in Clicky (a.) Resembling a click; abounding in clicks.,
C as in Clidastes (n.) A genus of extinct marine reptiles, allied to the Mosasaurus. See Illust. in Appendix.,
C as in Cliency (n.) State of being a client.,
C as in Client (n.) A citizen who put himself under the protection of a man of distinction and influence, who was called his patron.,
C as in Client (n.) A dependent; one under the protection of another.,
C as in Client (n.) One who consults a legal adviser, or submits his cause to his management.,
C as in Clientage (n.) State of being client.,
C as in Clientage (n.) A body of clients.,
C as in Cliental (a.) Of or pertaining to a client.,
C as in Cliented (a.) Supplied with clients.,
C as in Clientelage (n.) See Clientele, n., 2.,
C as in Clientele (n.) The condition or position of a client; clientship,
C as in Clientele (n.) The clients or dependents of a nobleman of patron.,
C as in Clientele (n.) The persons who make habitual use of the services of another person; one's clients, collectively; as, the clientele of a lawyer, doctor, notary, etc.,
C as in Clientship (n.) Condition of a client; state of being under the protection of a patron.,
C as in Cliff (n.) A high, steep rock; a precipice.,
C as in Cliff (n.) See Clef.,
C as in Cliff limestone () A series of limestone strata found in Ohio and farther west, presenting bluffs along the rivers and valleys, formerly supposed to be of one formation, but now known to be partly Silurian and partly Devonian.,
C as in Cliffy (a.) Having cliffs; broken; craggy.,
C as in Clift (n.) A cliff.,
C as in Clift (n.) A cleft of crack; a narrow opening.,
C as in Clift (n.) The fork of the legs; the crotch.,
C as in Clifted (a.) Broken; fissured.,
C as in Climacter (n.) See Climacteric, n.,
C as in Climacteric (a.) Relating to a climacteric; critical.,
C as in Climacteric (n.) A period in human life in which some great change is supposed to take place in the constitution. The critical periods are thought by some to be the years produced by multiplying 7 into the odd numbers 3, 5, 7, and 9; to which others add the 81st year.,
C as in Climacteric (n.) Any critical period.,
C as in Climacterical (a. & n.) See Climacteric.,
C as in Climatal (a.) Climatic.,
C as in Climatarchic (a.) Presiding over, or regulating, climates.,
C as in Climate (v. i.) One of thirty regions or zones, parallel to the equator, into which the surface of the earth from the equator to the pole was divided, according to the successive increase of the length of the midsummer day.,
C as in Climate (v. i.) The condition of a place in relation to various phenomena of the atmosphere, as temperature, moisture, etc., especially as they affect animal or vegetable life.,
C as in Climate (v. i.) To dwell.,
C as in Climatic (a.) Of or pertaining to a climate; depending on, or limited by, a climate.,
C as in Climatical (a.) Climatic.,
C as in Climatized (imp. & p. p.) of Climatize,
C as in Climatizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Climatize,
C as in Climatize (v. t. & i.) To acclimate or become acclimated.,
C as in Climatography (n.) A description of climates.,
C as in Climatological (a.) Of or pertaining to climatology.,
C as in Climatologist (n.) One versed in, or who studies, climatology.,
C as in Climatology (n.) The science which treats of climates and investigates their phenomena and causes.,
C as in Climature (n.) A climate.,
C as in Climax (v. i.) Upward movement; steady increase; gradation; ascent.,
C as in Climax (v. i.) A figure in which the parts of a sentence or paragraph are so arranged that each succeeding one rises above its predecessor in impressiveness.,
C as in Climax (v. i.) The highest point; the greatest degree.,
C as in Climbed (imp. & p. p.) of Climb,
C as in Clomb () of Climb,
C as in Climbing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Climb,
C as in Climb (v. i.) To ascend or mount laboriously, esp. by use of the hands and feet.,
C as in Climb (v. i.) To ascend as if with effort; to rise to a higher point.,
C as in Climb (v. i.) To ascend or creep upward by twining about a support, or by attaching itself by tendrils, rootlets, etc., to a support or upright surface.,
C as in Climb (v. t.) To ascend, as by means of the hands and feet, or laboriously or slowly; to mount.,
C as in Climb (n.) The act of one who climbs; ascent by climbing.,
C as in Climbable (a.) Capable of being climbed.,
C as in Climber (n.) One who, or that which, climbs,
C as in Climber (n.) A plant that climbs.,
C as in Climber (n.) A bird that climbs, as a woodpecker or a parrot.,
C as in Climber (v. i.) To climb; to mount with effort; to clamber.,
C as in Climbing () p. pr. & vb. n. of Climb.,
C as in Clime (n.) A climate; a tract or region of the earth. See Climate.,
C as in Clinanthium (n.) The receptacle of the flowers in a composite plant; -- also called clinium.,
C as in Clinched (imp. & p. p.) of Clinch,
C as in Clinching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Clinch,
C as in Clinch (v. t.) To hold firmly; to hold fast by grasping or embracing tightly.,
C as in Clinch (v. t.) To set closely together; to close tightly; as, to clinch the teeth or the first.,
C as in Clinch (v. t.) To bend or turn over the point of (something that has been driven through an object), so that it will hold fast; as, to clinch a nail.,
C as in Clinch (v. t.) To make conclusive; to confirm; to establish; as, to clinch an argument.,
C as in Clinch (v. i.) To hold fast; to grasp something firmly; to seize or grasp one another.,
C as in Clinch (n.) The act or process of holding fast; that which serves to hold fast; a grip; a grasp; a clamp; a holdfast; as, to get a good clinch of an antagonist, or of a weapon; to secure anything by a clinch.,
C as in Clinch (n.) A pun.,
C as in Clinch (n.) A hitch or bend by which a rope is made fast to the ring of an anchor, or the breeching of a ship's gun to the ringbolts.,
C as in Clincher (n.) One who, or that which, clinches; that which holds fast.,
C as in Clincher (n.) That which ends a dispute or controversy; a decisive argument.,
C as in Clincher-built (a.) See Clinker-built.,
C as in Clung (imp. & p. p.) of Cling,
C as in Clong () of Cling,
C as in Clinging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cling,
C as in Cling (v. i.) To adhere closely; to stick; to hold fast, especially by twining round or embracing; as, the tendril of a vine clings to its support; -- usually followed by to or together.,
C as in Cling (v. t.) To cause to adhere to, especially by twining round or embracing.,
C as in Cling (v. t.) To make to dry up or wither.,
C as in Cling (n.) Adherence; attachment; devotion.,
C as in Clingstone (a.) Having the flesh attached closely to the stone, as in some kinds of peaches.,
C as in Clingstone (n.) A fruit, as a peach, whose flesh adheres to the stone.,
C as in Clingy (a.) Apt to cling; adhesive.,
C as in Clinic (n.) One confined to the bed by sickness.,
C as in Clinic (n.) One who receives baptism on a sick bed.,
C as in Clinic (n.) A school, or a session of a school or class, in which medicine or surgery is taught by the examination and treatment of patients in the presence of the pupils.,
C as in Clinical (v. i.) Alt. of Clinic,
C as in Clinic (v. i.) Of or pertaining to a bed, especially, a sick bed.,
C as in Clinic (v. i.) Of or pertaining to a clinic, or to the study of disease in the living subject.,
C as in Clinically (adv.) In a clinical manner.,
C as in Clinique (n.) A clinic.,
C as in Clinium (n.) See Clinanthium.,
C as in Clinked (imp. & p. p.) of Clink,
C as in Clinking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Clink,
C as in Clink (v. i.) To cause to give out a slight, sharp, tinkling, sound, as by striking metallic or other sonorous bodies together.,
C as in Clink (v. i.) To give out a slight, sharp, tinkling sound.,
C as in Clink (v. i.) To rhyme. [Humorous].,
C as in Clink (n.) A slight, sharp, tinkling sound, made by the collision of sonorous bodies.,
C as in Clinkant (a.) See Clinquant.,
C as in Clinker (n.) A mass composed of several bricks run together by the action of the fire in the kiln.,
C as in Clinker (n.) Scoria or vitrified incombustible matter, formed in a grate or furnace where anthracite coal in used; vitrified or burnt matter ejected from a volcano; slag.,
C as in Clinker (n.) A scale of oxide of iron, formed in forging.,
C as in Clinker (n.) A kind of brick. See Dutch clinker, under Dutch.,
C as in Clinker-built (a.) Having the side planks (af a boat) so arranged that the lower edge of each overlaps the upper edge of the plank next below it like clapboards on a house. See Lapstreak.,
C as in Clinkstone (n.) An igneous rock of feldspathic composition, lamellar in structure, and clinking under the hammer. See Phonolite.,
C as in Clinodiagonal (n.) That diagonal or lateral axis in a monoclinic crystal which makes an oblique angle with the vertical axis. See Crystallization.,
C as in Clinodiagonal (a.) Pertaining to, or the direction of, the clinodiagonal.,
C as in Clinodome (n.) See under Dome.,
C as in Clinographic (a.) Pertaining to that mode of projection in drawing in which the rays of light are supposed to fall obliquely on the plane of projection.,
C as in Clinoid (a.) Like a bed; -- applied to several processes on the inner side of the sphenoid bone.,
C as in Clinometer (n.) An instrument for determining the dip of beds or strata, pr the slope of an embankment or cutting; a kind of plumb level.,
C as in Clinometric (a.) Pertaining to, or ascertained by, the clinometer.,
C as in Clinometric (a.) Pertaining to the oblique crystalline forms, or to solids which have oblique angles between the axes; as, the clinometric systems.,
C as in Clinometry (n.) That art or operation of measuring the inclination of strata.,
C as in Clinopinacoid (n.) The plane in crystals of the monoclinic system which is parallel to the vertical and the inclined lateral (clinidiagonal) axes.,
C as in Clinorhombic (a.) Possessing the qualities of a prism, obliquely inclined to a rhombic base; monoclinic.,
C as in Clinquant (a.) Glittering; dressed in, or overlaid with, tinsel finery.,
C as in Clinquant (n.) Tinsel; Dutch gold.,
C as in Clio (n.) The Muse who presided over history.,
C as in Clione (n.) A genus of naked pteropods. One species (Clione papilonacea), abundant in the Arctic Ocean, constitutes a part of the food of the Greenland whale. It is sometimes incorrectly called Clio.,
C as in Clipped (imp. & p. p.) of Clip,
C as in Clipping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Clip,
C as in Clip (v. t.) To embrace, hence; to encompass.,
C as in Clip (v. t.) To cut off; as with shears or scissors; as, to clip the hair; to clip coin.,
C as in Clip (v. t.) To curtail; to cut short.,
C as in Clip (v. i.) To move swiftly; -- usually with indefinite it.,
C as in Clip (n.) An embrace.,
C as in Clip (n.) A cutting; a shearing.,
C as in Clip (n.) The product of a single shearing of sheep; a season's crop of wool.,
C as in Clip (n.) A clasp or holder for letters, papers, etc.,
C as in Clip (n.) An embracing strap for holding parts together; the iron strap, with loop, at the ends of a whiffletree.,
C as in Clip (n.) A projecting flange on the upper edge of a horseshoe, turned up so as to embrace the lower part of the hoof; -- called also toe clip and beak.,
C as in Clip (n.) A blow or stroke with the hand; as, he hit him a clip.,
C as in Clipper (n.) One who clips; specifically, one who clips off the edges of coin.,
C as in Clipper (n.) A machine for clipping hair, esp. the hair of horses.,
C as in Clipper (n.) A vessel with a sharp bow, built and rigged for fast sailing.,
C as in Clipping (n.) The act of embracing.,
C as in Clipping (n.) The act of cutting off, curtailing, or diminishing; the practice of clipping the edges of coins.,
C as in Clipping (n.) That which is clipped off or out of something; a piece separated by clipping; as, newspaper clippings.,
C as in Clique (v. i.) A narrow circle of persons associated by common interests or for the accomplishment of a common purpose; -- generally used in a bad sense.,
C as in Clique (v. i.) To To associate together in a clannish way; to act with others secretly to gain a desired end; to plot; -- used with together.,
C as in Cliquish (a.) Of or pertaining to a clique; disposed to from cliques; exclusive in spirit.,
C as in Cliquism (n.) The tendency to associate in cliques; the spirit of cliques.,
C as in Clitellus (n.) A thickened glandular portion of the body of the adult earthworm, consisting of several united segments modified for reproductive purposes.,
C as in Clitoris (n.) A small organ at the upper part of the vulva, homologous to the penis in the male.,
C as in Clivers (n.) See Cleavers.,
C as in Clivities (pl. ) of Clivity,
C as in Clivity (n.) Inclination; ascent or descent; a gradient.,
C as in Cloacae (pl. ) of Cloaca,
C as in Cloaca (n.) A sewer; as, the Cloaca Maxima of Rome.,
C as in Cloaca (n.) A privy.,
C as in Cloaca (n.) The common chamber into which the intestinal, urinary, and generative canals discharge in birds, reptiles, amphibians, and many fishes.,
C as in Cloacal (a.) Of or pertaining to a cloaca.,
C as in Cloak (n.) A loose outer garment, extending from the neck downwards, and commonly without sleeves. It is longer than a cape, and is worn both by men and by women.,
C as in Cloak (n.) That which conceals; a disguise or pretext; an excuse; a fair pretense; a mask; a cover.,
C as in Cloaked (imp. & p. p.) of Cloak,
C as in Cloaking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cloak,
C as in Cloak (v. t.) To cover with, or as with, a cloak; hence, to hide or conceal.,
C as in Cloakedly (adv.) In a concealed manner.,
C as in Cloaking (n.) The act of covering with a cloak; the act of concealing anything.,
C as in Cloaking (n.) The material of which of which cloaks are made.,
C as in Cloakroom (n.) A room, attached to any place of public resort, where cloaks, overcoats, etc., may be deposited for a time.,
C as in Clock (n.) A machine for measuring time, indicating the hour and other divisions by means of hands moving on a dial plate. Its works are moved by a weight or a spring, and it is often so constructed as to tell the hour by the stroke of a hammer on a bell. It is not adapted, like the watch, to be carried on the person.,
C as in Clock (n.) A watch, esp. one that strikes.,
C as in Clock (n.) The striking of a clock.,
C as in Clock (n.) A figure or figured work on the ankle or side of a stocking.,
C as in Clock (v. t.) To ornament with figured work, as the side of a stocking.,
C as in Clock (v. t. & i.) To call, as a hen. See Cluck.,
C as in Clock (n.) A large beetle, esp. the European dung beetle (Scarabaeus stercorarius).,
C as in Clocklike (a.) Like a clock or like clockwork; mechanical.,
C as in Clockwork (n.) The machinery of a clock, or machinery resembling that of a clock; machinery which produces regularity of movement.,
C as in Clod (n.) A lump or mass, especially of earth, turf, or clay.,
C as in Clod (n.) The ground; the earth; a spot of earth or turf.,
C as in Clod (n.) That which is earthy and of little relative value, as the body of man in comparison with the soul.,
C as in Clod (n.) A dull, gross, stupid fellow; a dolt,
C as in Clod (n.) A part of the shoulder of a beef creature, or of the neck piece near the shoulder. See Illust. of Beef.,
C as in Clod (v.i) To collect into clods, or into a thick mass; to coagulate; to clot; as, clodded gore. See Clot.,
C as in Clod (v. t.) To pelt with clods.,
C as in Clod (v. t.) To throw violently; to hurl.,
C as in Cloddish (a.) Resembling clods; gross; low; stupid; boorish.,
C as in Cloddy (a.) Consisting of clods; full of clods.,
C as in Clodhopper (n.) A rude, rustic fellow.,
C as in Clodhopping (a.) Boorish; rude.,
C as in Clodpate (n.) A blockhead; a dolt.,
C as in Clodpated (a.) Stupid; dull; doltish.,
C as in Clodpoll (n.) A stupid fellow; a dolt.,
C as in Cloff (n.) Formerly an allowance of two pounds in every three hundred weight after the tare and tret are subtracted; now used only in a general sense, of small deductions from the original weight.,
C as in Clog (v.) That which hinders or impedes motion; hence, an encumbrance, restraint, or impediment, of any kind.,
C as in Clog (v.) A weight, as a log or block of wood, attached to a man or an animal to hinder motion.,
C as in Clog (v.) A shoe, or sandal, intended to protect the feet from wet, or to increase the apparent stature, and having, therefore, a very thick sole. Cf. Chopine.,
C as in Clogged (imp. & p. p.) of Clog,
C as in Clogging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Clog,
C as in Clog (v. t.) To encumber or load, especially with something that impedes motion; to hamper.,
C as in Clog (v. t.) To obstruct so as to hinder motion in or through; to choke up; as, to clog a tube or a channel.,
C as in Clog (v. t.) To burden; to trammel; to embarrass; to perplex.,
C as in Clog (v. i.) To become clogged; to become loaded or encumbered, as with extraneous matter.,
C as in Clog (v. i.) To coalesce or adhere; to unite in a mass.,
C as in Clogginess (n.) The state of being clogged.,
C as in Clogging (n.) Anything which clogs.,
C as in Cloggy (a.) Clogging, or having power to clog.,
C as in Cloisonne (a.) Inlaid between partitions: -- said of enamel when the lines which divide the different patches of fields are composed of a kind of metal wire secured to the ground; as distinguished from champleve enamel, in which the ground is engraved or scooped out to receive the enamel.,
C as in Cloister (v. t.) An inclosed place.,
C as in Cloister (v. t.) A covered passage or ambulatory on one side of a court;,
C as in Cloister (v. t.) the series of such passages on the different sides of any court, esp. that of a monastery or a college.,
C as in Cloister (v. t.) A monastic establishment; a place for retirement from the world for religious duties.,
C as in Cloistered (imp. & p. p.) of Cloister,
C as in Cloistering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cloister,
C as in Cloister (v. t.) To confine in, or as in, a cloister; to seclude from the world; to immure.,
C as in Cloisteral (a.) Cloistral.,
C as in Cloistered (a.) Dwelling in cloisters; solitary.,
C as in Cloistered (a.) Furnished with cloisters.,
C as in Cloisterer (n.) One belonging to, or living in, a cloister; a recluse.,
C as in Cloistral (a.) Of, pertaining to, or confined in, a cloister; recluse.,
C as in Cloistress (n.) A nun.,
C as in Cloke (n. & v.) See Cloak.,
C as in Clomb () Alt. of Clomben,
C as in Clomben () imp. & p. p. of Climb (for climbed).,
C as in Clomp (n.) See Clamp.,
C as in Clong () imp. of Cling.,
C as in Clonic (a.) Having an irregular, convulsive motion.,
C as in Cloom (v. t.) To close with glutinous matter.,
C as in Cloop (n.) The sound made when a cork is forcibly drawn from a bottle.,
C as in Closed (imp. & p. p.) of Close,
C as in Closing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Close,
C as in Close (n.) To stop, or fill up, as an opening; to shut; as, to close the eyes; to close a door.,
C as in Close (n.) To bring together the parts of; to consolidate; as, to close the ranks of an army; -- often used with up.,
C as in Close (n.) To bring to an end or period; to conclude; to complete; to finish; to end; to consummate; as, to close a bargain; to close a course of instruction.,
C as in Close (n.) To come or gather around; to inclose; to encompass; to confine.,
C as in Close (v. i.) To come together; to unite or coalesce, as the parts of a wound, or parts separated.,
C as in Close (v. i.) To end, terminate, or come to a period; as, the debate closed at six o'clock.,
C as in Close (v. i.) To grapple; to engage in hand-to-hand fight.,
C as in Close (n.) The manner of shutting; the union of parts; junction.,
C as in Close (n.) Conclusion; cessation; ending; end.,
C as in Close (n.) A grapple in wrestling.,
C as in Close (n.) The conclusion of a strain of music; cadence.,
C as in Close (n.) A double bar marking the end.,
C as in Close (v. t.) An inclosed place; especially, a small field or piece of land surrounded by a wall, hedge, or fence of any kind; -- specifically, the precinct of a cathedral or abbey.,
C as in Close (v. t.) A narrow passage leading from a street to a court, and the houses within.,
C as in Close (v. t.) The interest which one may have in a piece of ground, even though it is not inclosed.,
C as in Close (v. t.) Shut fast; closed; tight; as, a close box.,
C as in Close (v. t.) Narrow; confined; as, a close alley; close quarters.,
C as in Close (v. t.) Oppressive; without motion or ventilation; causing a feeling of lassitude; -- said of the air, weather, etc.,
C as in Close (v. t.) Strictly confined; carefully quarded; as, a close prisoner.,
C as in Close (v. t.) Out of the way observation; secluded; secret; hidden.,
C as in Close (v. t.) Disposed to keep secrets; secretive; reticent.,
C as in Close (v. t.) Having the parts near each other; dense; solid; compact; as applied to bodies; viscous; tenacious; not volatile, as applied to liquids.,
C as in Close (v. t.) Concise; to the point; as, close reasoning.,
C as in Close (v. t.) Adjoining; near; either in space; time, or thought; -- often followed by to.,
C as in Close (v. t.) Short; as, to cut grass or hair close.,
C as in Close (v. t.) Intimate; familiar; confidential.,
C as in Close (v. t.) Nearly equal; almost evenly balanced; as, a close vote.,
C as in Close (v. t.) Difficult to obtain; as, money is close.,
C as in Close (v. t.) Parsimonious; stingy.,
C as in Close (v. t.) Adhering strictly to a standard or original; exact; strict; as, a close translation.,
C as in Close (v. t.) Accurate; careful; precise; also, attentive; undeviating; strict; not wandering; as, a close observer.,
C as in Close (v. t.) Uttered with a relatively contracted opening of the mouth, as certain sounds of e and o in French, Italian, and German; -- opposed to open.,
C as in Close (adv.) In a close manner.,
C as in Close (adv.) Secretly; darkly.,
C as in Close-banded (a.) Closely united.,
C as in Close-barred (a.) Firmly barred or closed.,
C as in Close-bodied (a.) Fitting the body exactly; setting close, as a garment.,
C as in Close-fights (n. pl.) Barriers with loopholes, formerly erected on the deck of a vessel to shelter the men in a close engagement with an enemy's boarders; -- called also close quarters.,
C as in Closefisted (a.) Covetous; niggardly.,
C as in Closehanded (a.) Covetous; penurious; stingy; closefisted.,
C as in Closehauled (a.) Under way and moving as nearly as possible toward the direction from which the wind blows; -- said of a sailing vessel.,
C as in Closely (adv.) In a close manner.,
C as in Closely (adv.) Secretly; privately.,
C as in Closemouthed (a.) Cautious in speaking; secret; wary; uncommunicative.,
C as in Closen (v. t.) To make close.,
C as in Closeness (n.) The state of being close.,
C as in Closer (n.) One who, or that which, closes; specifically, a boot closer. See under Boot.,
C as in Closer (n.) A finisher; that which finishes or terminates.,
C as in Closer (n.) The last stone in a horizontal course, if of a less size than the others, or a piece of brick finishing a course.,
C as in Closereefed (a.) Having all the reefs taken in; -- said of a sail.,
C as in Close-stool (n.) A utensil to hold a chamber vessel, for the use of the sick and infirm. It is usually in the form of a box, with a seat and tight cover.,
C as in Closet (n.) A small room or apartment for retirement; a room for privacy.,
C as in Closet (n.) A small apartment, or recess in the side of a room, for household utensils, clothing, etc.,
C as in Closeting (imp. & p. pr. & vb. n.) of Closet,
C as in Closet (v. t.) To shut up in, or as in, a closet; to conceal.,
C as in Closet (v. t.) To make into a closet for a secret interview.,
C as in Close-tongued (a.) Closemouthed; silent.,
C as in Closh (n.) A disease in the feet of cattle; laminitis.,
C as in Closh (n.) The game of ninepins.,
C as in Closure (v. t.) The act of shutting; a closing; as, the closure of a chink.,
C as in Closure (v. t.) That which closes or shuts; that by which separate parts are fastened or closed.,
C as in Closure (v. t.) That which incloses or confines; an inclosure.,
C as in Closure (v. t.) A conclusion; an end.,
C as in Closure (v. t.) A method of putting an end to debate and securing an immediate vote upon a measure before a legislative body. It is similar in effect to the previous question. It was first introduced into the British House of Commons in 1882. The French word cloture was originally applied to this proceeding.,
C as in Clot (n.) A concretion or coagulation; esp. a soft, slimy, coagulated mass, as of blood; a coagulum.,
C as in Clotted (imp. & p. p.) of Clot,
C as in Clotting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Clot,
C as in Clot (v. i.) To concrete, coagulate, or thicken, as soft or fluid matter by evaporation; to become a cot or clod.,
C as in Clot (v. t.) To form into a slimy mass.,
C as in Clotbur (n.) The burdock.,
C as in Clotbur (n.) Same as Cocklebur.,
C as in Clote (n.) The common burdock; the clotbur.,
C as in Cloths (pl. ) of Cloth,
C as in Clothes (pl. ) of Cloth,
C as in Cloth (n.) A fabric made of fibrous material (or sometimes of wire, as in wire cloth); commonly, a woven fabric of cotton, woolen, or linen, adapted to be made into garments; specifically, woolen fabrics, as distinguished from all others.,
C as in Cloth (n.) The dress; raiment. [Obs.] See Clothes.,
C as in Cloth (n.) The distinctive dress of any profession, especially of the clergy; hence, the clerical profession.,
C as in Clothed (imp. & p. p.) of Clothe,
C as in Clad () of Clothe,
C as in Clothing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Clothe,
C as in Clothe (v. t.) To put garments on; to cover with clothing; to dress.,
C as in Clothe (v. t.) To provide with clothes; as, to feed and clothe a family; to clothe one's self extravagantly.,
C as in Clothe (v. t.) Fig.: To cover or invest, as with a garment; as, to clothe one with authority or power.,
C as in Clothe (v. i.) To wear clothes.,
C as in Clothes (n. pl.) Covering for the human body; dress; vestments; vesture; -- a general term for whatever covering is worn, or is made to be worn, for decency or comfort.,
C as in Clothes (n. pl.) The covering of a bed; bedclothes.,
C as in Clotheshorse (n.) A frame to hang clothes on.,
C as in Clothesline (n.) A rope or wire on which clothes are hung to dry.,
C as in Clothespin (n.) A forked piece of wood, or a small spring clamp, used for fastening clothes on a line.,
C as in Clothespress (n.) A receptacle for clothes.,
C as in Clothier (n.) One who makes cloths; one who dresses or fulls cloth.,
C as in Clothier (n.) One who sells cloth or clothes, or who makes and sells clothes.,
C as in Clothing (n.) Garments in general; clothes; dress; raiment; covering.,
C as in Clothing (n.) The art of process of making cloth.,
C as in Clothing (n.) A covering of non-conducting material on the outside of a boiler, or steam chamber, to prevent radiation of heat.,
C as in Clothing (n.) See Card clothing, under 3d Card.,
C as in Clothred (p. p.) Clottered.,
C as in Clotpoll (n.) See Clodpoll.,
C as in Clotted (a.) Composed of clots or clods; having the quality or form of a clot; sticky; slimy; foul.,
C as in Clotter (v. i.) To concrete into lumps; to clot.,
C as in Clotty (n.) Full of clots, or clods.,
C as in Cloture (n.) See Closure, 5.,
C as in Clotweed (n.) Cocklebur.,
C as in Cloud (n.) A collection of visible vapor, or watery particles, suspended in the upper atmosphere.,
C as in Cloud (n.) A mass or volume of smoke, or flying dust, resembling vapor.,
C as in Cloud (n.) A dark vein or spot on a lighter material, as in marble; hence, a blemish or defect; as, a cloud upon one's reputation; a cloud on a title.,
C as in Cloud (n.) That which has a dark, lowering, or threatening aspect; that which temporarily overshadows, obscures, or depresses; as, a cloud of sorrow; a cloud of war; a cloud upon the intellect.,
C as in Cloud (n.) A great crowd or multitude; a vast collection.,
C as in Cloud (n.) A large, loosely-knitted scarf, worn by women about the head.,
C as in Clouded (imp. & p. p.) of Cloud,
C as in Clouding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cloud,
C as in Cloud (v. t.) To overspread or hide with a cloud or clouds; as, the sky is clouded.,
C as in Cloud (v. t.) To darken or obscure, as if by hiding or enveloping with a cloud; hence, to render gloomy or sullen.,
C as in Cloud (v. t.) To blacken; to sully; to stain; to tarnish; to damage; -- esp. used of reputation or character.,
C as in Cloud (v. t.) To mark with, or darken in, veins or sports; to variegate with colors; as, to cloud yarn.,
C as in Cloud (v. i.) To grow cloudy; to become obscure with clouds; -- often used with up.,
C as in Cloudage (n.) Mass of clouds; cloudiness.,
C as in Cloudberry (n.) A species of raspberry (Rubus Chamaemerous) growing in the northern regions, and bearing edible, amber-colored fruit.,
C as in Cloud-built (a.) Built of, or in, the clouds; airy; unsubstantial; imaginary.,
C as in Cloud-burst (n.) A sudden copious rainfall, as the whole cloud had been precipitated at once.,
C as in Cloud-capped (a.) Having clouds resting on the top or head; reaching to the clouds; as, cloud-capped mountains.,
C as in Cloud-compeller (n.) Cloud-gatherer; -- an epithet applied to Zeus.,
C as in Cloudily (adv.) In a cloudy manner; darkly; obscurely.,
C as in Cloudiness (n.) The state of being cloudy.,
C as in Clouding (n.) A mottled appearance given to ribbons and silks in the process of dyeing.,
C as in Clouding (n.) A diversity of colors in yarn, recurring at regular intervals.,
C as in Cloudland (n.) Dreamland.,
C as in Cloudless (a.) Without a cloud; clear; bright.,
C as in Cloudlet (n.) A little cloud.,
C as in Cloudy (n.) Overcast or obscured with clouds; clouded; as, a cloudy sky.,
C as in Cloudy (n.) Consisting of a cloud or clouds.,
C as in Cloudy (n.) Indicating gloom, anxiety, sullenness, or ill-nature; not open or cheerful.,
C as in Cloudy (n.) Confused; indistinct; obscure; dark.,
C as in Cloudy (n.) Lacking clearness, brightness, or luster.,
C as in Cloudy (n.) Marked with veins or sports of dark or various hues, as marble.,
C as in Clough (n.) A cleft in a hill; a ravine; a narrow valley.,
C as in Clough (n.) A sluice used in returning water to a channel after depositing its sediment on the flooded land.,
C as in Clough (n.) An allowance in weighing. See Cloff.,
C as in Clout (n.) A cloth; a piece of cloth or leather; a patch; a rag.,
C as in Clout (n.) A swadding cloth.,
C as in Clout (n.) A piece; a fragment.,
C as in Clout (n.) The center of the butt at which archers shoot; -- probably once a piece of white cloth or a nail head.,
C as in Clout (n.) An iron plate on an axletree or other wood to keep it from wearing; a washer.,
C as in Clout (n.) A blow with the hand.,
C as in Clouted (imp. & p. p.) of Clout,
C as in Clouting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Clout,
C as in Clout (n.) To cover with cloth, leather, or other material; to bandage; patch, or mend, with a clout.,
C as in Clout (n.) To join or patch clumsily.,
C as in Clout (n.) To quard with an iron plate, as an axletree.,
C as in Clout (n.) To give a blow to; to strike.,
C as in Clout (n.) To stud with nails, as a timber, or a boot sole.,
C as in Clouterly (n.) Clumsy; awkward.,
C as in Clove (imp.) Cleft.,
C as in Clove (v. t.) A cleft; a gap; a ravine; -- rarely used except as part of a proper name; as, Kaaterskill Clove; Stone Clove.,
C as in Clove (n.) A very pungent aromatic spice, the unexpanded flower bud of the clove tree (Eugenia, / Caryophullus, aromatica), a native of the Molucca Isles.,
C as in Clove (n.) One of the small bulbs developed in the axils of the scales of a large bulb, as in the case of garlic.,
C as in Clove (n.) A weight. A clove of cheese is about eight pounds, of wool, about seven pounds.,
C as in Cloven (p. p. & a.) from Cleave, v. t.,
C as in Cloven-footed (a.) Alt. of Cloven-hoofed,
C as in Cloven-hoofed (a.) Having the foot or hoof divided into two parts, as the ox.,
C as in Clover (n.) A plant of different species of the genus Trifolium; as the common red clover, T. pratense, the white, T. repens, and the hare's foot, T. arvense.,
C as in Clovered (a.) Covered with growing clover.,
C as in Clowe-gilofre (n.) Spice clove.,
C as in Clown (n.) A man of coarse nature and manners; an awkward fellow; an ill-bred person; a boor.,
C as in Clown (n.) One who works upon the soil; a rustic; a churl.,
C as in Clown (n.) The fool or buffoon in a play, circus, etc.,
C as in Clown (v. i.) To act as a clown; -- with it.,
C as in Clownage (n.) Behavior or manners of a clown; clownery.,
C as in Clownery (n.) Clownishness.,
C as in Clownish (a.) Of or resembling a clown, or characteristic of a clown; ungainly; awkward.,
C as in Clownishness (n.) The manners of a clown; coarseness or rudeness of behavior.,
C as in Cloyed (imp. & p. p.) of Cloy,
C as in Cloying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cloy,
C as in Cloy (v. t.) To fill or choke up; to stop up; to clog.,
C as in Cloy (v. t.) To glut, or satisfy, as the appetite; to satiate; to fill to loathing; to surfeit.,
C as in Cloy (v. t.) To penetrate or pierce; to wound.,
C as in Cloy (v. t.) To spike, as a cannon.,
C as in Cloy (v. t.) To stroke with a claw.,
C as in Cloyless (a.) That does not cloy.,
C as in Cloyment (n.) Satiety.,
C as in Club (n.) A heavy staff of wood, usually tapering, and wielded the hand; a weapon; a cudgel.,
C as in Club (n.) Any card of the suit of cards having a figure like the trefoil or clover leaf. (pl.) The suit of cards having such figure.,
C as in Club (n.) An association of persons for the promotion of some common object, as literature, science, politics, good fellowship, etc.; esp. an association supported by equal assessments or contributions of the members.,
C as in Club (n.) A joint charge of expense, or any person's share of it; a contribution to a common fund.,
C as in Clubbed (imp. & p. p.) of Club,
C as in Clubbing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Club,
C as in Club (v. t.) To beat with a club.,
C as in Club (v. t.) To throw, or allow to fall, into confusion.,
C as in Club (v. t.) To unite, or contribute, for the accomplishment of a common end; as, to club exertions.,
C as in Club (v. t.) To raise, or defray, by a proportional assesment; as, to club the expense.,
C as in Club (v. i.) To form a club; to combine for the promotion of some common object; to unite.,
C as in Club (v. i.) To pay on equal or proportionate share of a common charge or expense; to pay for something by contribution.,
C as in Club (v. i.) To drift in a current with an anchor out.,
C as in Clubbable (a.) Suitable for membership in a club; sociable.,
C as in Clubbed (a.) Shaped like a club; grasped like, or used as, a club.,
C as in Clubber (n.) One who clubs.,
C as in Clubber (n.) A member of a club.,
C as in Clubbish (a.) Rude; clownish.,
C as in Clubbish (a.) Disposed to club together; as, a clubbish set.,
C as in Clubbist (n.) A member of a club; a frequenter of clubs.,
C as in Clubfist (n.) A large, heavy fist.,
C as in Clubfist (n.) A coarse, brutal fellow.,
C as in Clubfisted (a.) Having a large fist.,
C as in Clubfoot (n.) A short, variously distorted foot; also, the deformity, usually congenital, which such a foot exhibits; talipes.,
C as in Clubfooted (a.) Having a clubfoot.,
C as in Clubhand (n.) A short, distorted hand; also, the deformity of having such a hand.,
C as in Clubhaul (v. t.) To put on the other tack by dropping the lee anchor as soon as the wind is out of the sails (which brings the vessel's head to the wind), and by cutting the cable as soon as she pays off on the other tack. Clubhauling is attempted only in an exigency.,
C as in Clubhouse (n.) A house occupied by a club.,
C as in Clubroom (n.) The apartment in which a club meets.,
C as in Club-rush (n.) A rushlike plant, the reed mace or cat-tail, or some species of the genus Scirpus. See Bulrush.,
C as in Club-shaped (a.) Enlarged gradually at the end, as the antennae of certain insects.,
C as in Clucked (imp. & p. p.) of Cluck,
C as in Clucking (p pr. & vb. n.) of Cluck,
C as in Cluck (v. i.) To make the noise, or utter the call, of a brooding hen.,
C as in Cluck (v. t.) To call together, or call to follow, as a hen does her chickens.,
C as in Cluck (n.) The call of a hen to her chickens.,
C as in Cluck (n.) A click. See 3d Click, 2.,
C as in Clucking (n.) The noise or call of a brooding hen.,
C as in Clue (n.) A ball of thread; a thread or other means of guidance. Same as Clew.,
C as in Clum (interj.) Silence; hush.,
C as in Clumber (n.) A kind of field spaniel, with short legs and stout body, which, unlike other spaniels, hunts silently.,
C as in Clump (n.) An unshaped piece or mass of wood or other substance.,
C as in Clump (n.) A cluster; a group; a thicket.,
C as in Clump (n.) The compressed clay of coal strata.,
C as in Clump (v. t.) To arrange in a clump or clumps; to cluster; to group.,
C as in Clump (v. i.) To tread clumsily; to clamp.,
C as in Clumper (n.) To form into clumps or masses.,
C as in Clumps (n.) A game in which questions are asked for the purpose of enabling the questioners to discover a word or thing previously selected by two persons who answer the questions; -- so called because the players take sides in two "clumps" or groups, the "clump" which guesses the word winning the game.,
C as in Clumpy (n.) Composed of clumps; massive; shapeless.,
C as in Clumsily (adv.) In a clumsy manner; awkwardly; as, to walk clumsily.,
C as in Clumsiness (n.) The quality of being clumsy.,
C as in Clumsy (superl.) Stiff or benumbed, as with cold.,
C as in Clumsy (superl.) Without skill or grace; wanting dexterity, nimbleness, or readiness; stiff; awkward, as if benumbed; unwieldy; unhandy; hence; ill-made, misshapen, or inappropriate; as, a clumsy person; a clumsy workman; clumsy fingers; a clumsy gesture; a clumsy excuse.,
C as in Clunch (n.) Indurated clay. See Bind, n., 3.,
C as in Clunch (n.) One of the hard beds of the lower chalk.,
C as in Clung () imp. & p. p. of Cling.,
C as in Clung (v. i.) Wasted away; shrunken.,
C as in Cluniac (n.) A monk of the reformed branch of the Benedictine Order, founded in 912 at Cluny (or Clugny) in France. -- Also used as a.,
C as in Cluniacensian (a.) Cluniac.,
C as in Clupeoid (a.) Of or pertaining to the Herring family.,
C as in Cluster (n.) A number of things of the same kind growing together; a bunch.,
C as in Cluster (n.) A number of similar things collected together or lying contiguous; a group; as, a cluster of islands.,
C as in Cluster (n.) A number of individuals grouped together or collected in one place; a crowd; a mob.,
C as in Clustered (imp. & p. p.) of Cluster,
C as in Clustering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cluster,
C as in Cluster (v. i.) To grow in clusters or assemble in groups; to gather or unite in a cluster or clusters.,
C as in Cluster (v. t.) To collect into a cluster or clusters; to gather into a bunch or close body.,
C as in Clusteringly (adv.) In clusters.,
C as in Clustery (n.) Growing in, or full of, clusters; like clusters.,
C as in Clutch (n.) A gripe or clinching with, or as with, the fingers or claws; seizure; grasp.,
C as in Clutch (n.) The hands, claws, or talons, in the act of grasping firmly; -- often figuratively, for power, rapacity, or cruelty; as, to fall into the clutches of an adversary.,
C as in Clutch (n.) A device which is used for coupling shafting, etc., so as to transmit motion, and which may be disengaged at pleasure.,
C as in Clutch (n.) Any device for gripping an object, as at the end of a chain or tackle.,
C as in Clutch (n.) The nest complement of eggs of a bird.,
C as in Clutched (imp. & p. p.) of Clutch,
C as in Clutching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Clutch,
C as in Clutch (n.) To seize, clasp, or gripe with the hand, hands, or claws; -- often figuratively; as, to clutch power.,
C as in Clutch (n.) To close tightly; to clinch.,
C as in Clutch (v. i.) To reach (at something) as if to grasp; to catch or snatch; -- often followed by at.,
C as in Clutter (n.) A confused collection; hence, confusion; disorder; as, the room is in a clutter.,
C as in Clutter (n.) Clatter; confused noise.,
C as in Cluttered (imp. & p. p.) of Clutter,
C as in Cluttering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Clutter,
C as in Clutter (v. t.) To crowd together in disorder; to fill or cover with things in disorder; to throw into disorder; to disarrange; as, to clutter a room.,
C as in Clutter (v. i.) To make a confused noise; to bustle.,
C as in Clutter (n.) To clot or coagulate, as blood.,
C as in Clypeastroid (a.) Like or related to the genus Clupeaster; -- applied to a group of flattened sea urchins, with a rosette of pores on the upper side.,
C as in Clypeate (a.) Shaped like a round buckler or shield; scutate.,
C as in Clypeate (a.) Furnished with a shield, or a protective plate or shell.,
C as in Clypeiform (a.) Shield-shaped; clypeate.,
C as in Clypei (pl. ) of Clypeus,
C as in Clypeus (n.) The frontal plate of the head of an insect.,
C as in Clysmian (a.) Connected with, or related to, the deluge, or to a cataclysm; as, clysmian changes.,
C as in Clysmic (a.) Washing; cleansing.,
C as in Clyster (n.) A liquid injected into the lower intestines by means of a syringe; an injection; an enema.,
C as in Cnemial (a.) Pertaining to the shin bone.,
C as in Cnidae (pl. ) of Cnida,
C as in Cnida (n.) One of the peculiar stinging, cells found in Coelenterata; a nematocyst; a lasso cell.,
C as in Cnidaria (n. pl.) A comprehensive group equivalent to the true Coelenterata, i. e., exclusive of the sponges. They are so named from presence of stinging cells (cnidae) in the tissues. See Coelenterata.,
C as in Cnidoblast (n.) One of the cells which, in the Coelenterata, develop into cnidae.,
C as in Cnidocil (n.) The fine filiform process of a cnidoblast.,
C as in Co- () A form of the prefix com-, signifying with, together, in conjunction, joint. It is used before vowels and some consonants. See Com-.,
C as in Coacervate (a.) Raised into a pile; collected into a crowd; heaped.,
C as in Coacervate (v. t.) To heap up; to pile.,
C as in Coacervation (n.) A heaping together.,
C as in Coach (n.) A large, closed, four-wheeled carriage, having doors in the sides, and generally a front and back seat inside, each for two persons, and an elevated outside seat in front for the driver.,
C as in Coach (n.) A special tutor who assists in preparing a student for examination; a trainer; esp. one who trains a boat's crew for a race.,
C as in Coach (n.) A cabin on the after part of the quarter-deck, usually occupied by the captain.,
C as in Coach (n.) A first-class passenger car, as distinguished from a drawing-room car, sleeping car, etc. It is sometimes loosely applied to any passenger car.,
C as in Coached (imp. & p. p.) of Coach,
C as in Coaching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Coach,
C as in Coach (v. t.) To convey in a coach.,
C as in Coach (v. t.) To prepare for public examination by private instruction; to train by special instruction.,
C as in Coach (v. i.) To drive or to ride in a coach; -- sometimes used with,
C as in Coachbox () The seat of a coachman.,
C as in Coachdog () One of a breed of dogs trained to accompany carriages; the Dalmatian dog.,
C as in Coachee (n.) A coachman,
C as in Coachfellow (n.) One of a pair of horses employed to draw a coach; hence (Fig.), a comrade.,
C as in Coachmen (pl. ) of Coachman,
C as in Coachman (n.) A man whose business is to drive a coach or carriage.,
C as in Coachman (n.) A tropical fish of the Atlantic ocean (Dutes auriga); -- called also charioteer. The name refers to a long, lashlike spine of the dorsal fin.,
C as in Coachmanship (n.) Skill in driving a coach.,
C as in Coachwhip snake () A large, slender, harmless snake of the southern United States (Masticophis flagelliformis).,
C as in Coact (v. t.) To force; to compel; to drive.,
C as in Coact (v. i.) To act together; to work in concert; to unite.,
C as in Coaction (n.) Force; compulsion, either in restraining or impelling.,
C as in Coactive (a.) Serving to compel or constrain; compulsory; restrictive.,
C as in Coactive (a.) Acting in concurrence; united in action.,
C as in Coactively (adv.) In a coactive manner.,
C as in Coactivity (n.) Unity of action.,
C as in Coadaptation (n.) Mutual adaption.,
C as in Coadapted (a.) Adapted one to another; as, coadapted pulp and tooth.,
C as in Coadjument (n.) Mutual help; cooperation.,
C as in Coadjust (v. t.) To adjust by mutual adaptations.,
C as in Coadjustment (n.) Mutual adjustment.,
C as in Coadjutant (a.) Mutually assisting or operating; helping.,
C as in Coadjutant (n.) An assistant.,
C as in Coadjuting (a.) Mutually assisting.,
C as in Coadjutive (a.) Rendering mutual aid; coadjutant.,
C as in Coadjutor (n.) One who aids another; an assistant; a coworker.,
C as in Coadjutor (n.) The assistant of a bishop or of a priest holding a benefice.,
C as in Coadjutorship (n.) The state or office of a coadjutor; joint assistance.,
C as in Coadjutress (n.) Alt. of Coadjutrix,
C as in Coadjutrix (n.) A female coadjutor or assistant.,
C as in Coadjuvancy (n.) Joint help; cooperation.,
C as in Coadjuvant (a.) Cooperating.,
C as in Coadjuvant (n.) An adjuvant.,
C as in Coadunate (a.) United at the base, as contiguous lobes of a leaf.,
C as in Coadunation (n.) Union, as in one body or mass; unity.,
C as in Coadunition (n.) Coadunation.,
C as in Coadventure (n.) An adventure in which two or more persons are partakers.,
C as in Coadventure (v. i.) To share in a venture.,
C as in Coadventurer (n.) A fellow adventurer.,
C as in Coafforest (v. t.) To convert into, or add to, a forest.,
C as in Coag (n.) See Coak, a kind of tenon.,
C as in Coagency (n.) Agency in common; joint agency or agent.,
C as in Coagent (n.) An associate in an act; a coworker.,
C as in Coagment (v. t.) To join together.,
C as in Coagmentation (n.) The act of joining, or the state of being joined, together; union.,
C as in Coagulability (n.) The quality of being coagulable; capacity of being coagulated.,
C as in Coagulable (a.) Capable of being coagulated.,
C as in Coagulant (n.) That which produces coagulation.,
C as in Coagulate (a.) Coagulated.,
C as in Coagulated (imp. & p. p.) of Coagulate,
C as in Coagulating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Coagulate,
C as in Coagulate (v. t.) To cause (a liquid) to change into a curdlike or semisolid state, not by evaporation but by some kind of chemical reaction; to curdle; as, rennet coagulates milk; heat coagulates the white of an egg.,
C as in Coagulate (v. i.) To undergo coagulation.,
C as in Coagulated (a.) Changed into, or contained in, a coagulum or a curdlike mass; curdled.,
C as in Coagulation (n.) The change from a liquid to a thickened, curdlike, insoluble state, not by evaporation, but by some kind of chemical reaction; as, the spontaneous coagulation of freshly drawn blood; the coagulation of milk by rennet, or acid, and the coagulation of egg albumin by heat. Coagulation is generally the change of an albuminous body into an insoluble modification.,
C as in Coagulation (n.) The substance or body formed by coagulation.,
C as in Coagulative (a.) Having the power to cause coagulation; as, a coagulative agent.,
C as in Coagulator (n.) That which causes coagulation.,
C as in Coagulatory (a.) Serving to coagulate; produced by coagulation; as, coagulatory effects.,
C as in Coagula (pl. ) of Coagulum,
C as in Coagulum (a.) The thick, curdy precipitate formed by the coagulation of albuminous matter; any mass of coagulated matter, as a clot of blood.,
C as in Coaita (n.) The native name of certain South American monkeys of the genus Ateles, esp. A. paniscus. The black-faced coaita is Ateles ater. See Illustration in Appendix.,
C as in Coak (n.) See Coke, n.,
C as in Coak (n.) A kind of tenon connecting the face of a scarfed timber with the face of another timber, or a dowel or pin of hard wood or iron uniting timbers.,
C as in Coak (n.) A metallic bushing or strengthening piece in the center of a wooden block sheave.,
C as in Coak (v. t.) To unite, as timbers, by means of tenons or dowels in the edges or faces.,
C as in Coal (n.) A thoroughly charred, and extinguished or still ignited, fragment from wood or other combustible substance; charcoal.,
C as in Coal (n.) A black, or brownish black, solid, combustible substance, dug from beds or veins in the earth to be used for fuel, and consisting, like charcoal, mainly of carbon, but more compact, and often affording, when heated, a large amount of volatile matter.,
C as in Coaled (imp. & p. p.) of Coal,
C as in Coaling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Coal,
C as in Coal (v. t.) To burn to charcoal; to char.,
C as in Coal (v. t.) To mark or delineate with charcoal.,
C as in Coal (v. t.) To supply with coal; as, to coal a steamer.,
C as in Coal (v. i.) To take in coal; as, the steamer coaled at Southampton.,
C as in Coal-black (a.) As black as coal; jet black; very black.,
C as in Coalery (n.) See Colliery.,
C as in Coalesced (imp. & p. p.) of Coalesce,
C as in Coalescing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Coalesce,
C as in Coalesce (n.) To grow together; to unite by growth into one body; as, the parts separated by a wound coalesce.,
C as in Coalesce (n.) To unite in one body or product; to combine into one body or community; as, vapors coalesce.,
C as in Coalescence (n.) The act or state of growing together, as similar parts; the act of uniting by natural affinity or attraction; the state of being united; union; concretion.,
C as in Coalescent (a.) Growing together; cohering, as in the organic cohesion of similar parts; uniting.,
C as in Coalfish (n.) The pollock; -- called also, coalsey, colemie, colmey, coal whiting, etc. See Pollock.,
C as in Coalfish (n.) The beshow or candlefish of Alaska.,
C as in Coalfish (n.) The cobia.,
C as in Coalgoose (n.) The cormorant; -- so called from its black color.,
C as in Coalite (v. i.) To unite or coalesce.,
C as in Coalite (v. t.) To cause to unite or coalesce.,
C as in Coalition (n.) The act of coalescing; union into a body or mass, as of separate bodies or parts; as, a coalition of atoms.,
C as in Coalition (n.) A combination, for temporary purposes, of persons, parties, or states, having different interests.,
C as in Coalitioner (n.) A coalitionist.,
C as in Coalitionist (n.) One who joins or promotes a coalition; one who advocates coalition.,
C as in Co-allies (pl. ) of Co-ally,
C as in Co-ally (n.) A joint ally.,
C as in Coal-meter (n.) A licensed or official coal measurer in London. See Meter.,
C as in Coalmouse (n.) A small species of titmouse, with a black head; the coletit.,
C as in Coalpit (n.) A pit where coal is dug.,
C as in Coalpit (n.) A place where charcoal is made.,
C as in Coal tar () A thick, black, tarry liquid, obtained by the distillation of bituminous coal in the manufacture of illuminating gas; used for making printer's ink, black varnish, etc. It is a complex mixture from which many substances have been obtained, especially hydrocarbons of the benzene or aromatic series.,
C as in Coal-whipper (n.) One who raises coal out of the hold of a ship.,
C as in Coal works () A place where coal is dug, including the machinery for raising the coal.,
C as in Coaly (n.) Pertaining to, or resembling, coal; containing coal; of the nature of coal.,
C as in Coamings (n. pl.) Raised pieces of wood of iron around a hatchway, skylight, or other opening in the deck, to prevent water from running bellow; esp. the fore-and-aft pieces of a hatchway frame as distinguished from the transverse head ledges.,
C as in Coannex (v. t.) To annex with something else.,
C as in Coaptation (n.) The adaptation or adjustment of parts to each other, as of a broken bone or dislocated joint.,
C as in Coarct (a.) Alt. of Coarctate,
C as in Coarctate (a.) To press together; to crowd; to straiten; to confine closely.,
C as in Coarctate (a.) To restrain; to confine.,
C as in Coarctate (a.) Pressed together; closely connected; -- applied to insects having the abdomen separated from the thorax only by a constriction.,
C as in Coarctation (n.) Confinement to a narrow space.,
C as in Coarctation (n.) Pressure; that which presses.,
C as in Coarctation (n.) A stricture or narrowing, as of a canal, cavity, or orifice.,
C as in Coarse (superl.) Large in bulk, or composed of large parts or particles; of inferior quality or appearance; not fine in material or close in texture; gross; thick; rough; -- opposed to fine; as, coarse sand; coarse thread; coarse cloth; coarse bread.,
C as in Coarse (superl.) Not refined; rough; rude; unpolished; gross; indelicate; as, coarse manners; coarse language.,
C as in Coarse-grained (a.) Having a coarse grain or texture, as wood; hence, wanting in refinement.,
C as in Coarsely (adv.) In a coarse manner; roughly; rudely; inelegantly; uncivilly; meanly.,
C as in Coarsen (v. t.) To make coarse or vulgar; as, to coarsen one's character.,
C as in Coarseness (n.) The quality or state of being coarse; roughness; inelegance; vulgarity; grossness; as, coarseness of food, texture, manners, or language.,
C as in Coarticulation (n.) The union or articulation of bones to form a joint.,
C as in Co-assessor (n.) A joint assessor.,
C as in Coast (v. t.) The side of a thing.,
C as in Coast (v. t.) The exterior line, limit, or border of a country; frontier border.,
C as in Coast (v. t.) The seashore, or land near it.,
C as in Coasted (imp. & p. p.) of Coast,
C as in Coasting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Coast,
C as in Coast (n.) To draw or keep near; to approach.,
C as in Coast (n.) To sail by or near the shore.,
C as in Coast (n.) To sail from port to port in the same country.,
C as in Coast (n.) To slide down hill; to slide on a sled, upon snow or ice.,
C as in Coast (v. t.) To draw near to; to approach; to keep near, or by the side of.,
C as in Coast (v. t.) To sail by or near; to follow the coast line of.,
C as in Coast (v. t.) To conduct along a coast or river bank.,
C as in Coastal (a.) Of or pertaining to a coast.,
C as in Coaster (n.) A vessel employed in sailing along a coast, or engaged in the coasting trade.,
C as in Coaster (n.) One who sails near the shore.,
C as in Coasting (a.) Sailing along or near a coast, or running between ports along a coast.,
C as in Coasting (n.) A sailing along a coast, or from port to port; a carrying on a coasting trade.,
C as in Coasting (n.) Sliding down hill; sliding on a sled upon snow or ice.,
C as in Coastwise (adv.) Alt. of Coastways,
C as in Coastways (adv.) By way of, or along, the coast.,
C as in Coat (n.) An outer garment fitting the upper part of the body; especially, such a garment worn by men.,
C as in Coat (n.) A petticoat.,
C as in Coat (n.) The habit or vesture of an order of men, indicating the order or office; cloth.,
C as in Coat (n.) An external covering like a garment, as fur, skin, wool, husk, or bark; as, the horses coats were sleek.,
C as in Coat (n.) A layer of any substance covering another; a cover; a tegument; as, the coats of the eye; the coats of an onion; a coat of tar or varnish.,
C as in Coat (n.) Same as Coat of arms. See below.,
C as in Coat (n.) A coat card. See below.,
C as in Coated (imp. & p. p.) of Coat,
C as in Coating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Coat,
C as in Coat (v. t.) To cover with a coat or outer garment.,
C as in Coat (v. t.) To cover with a layer of any substance; as, to coat a jar with tin foil; to coat a ceiling.,
C as in Coatee (n.) A coat with short flaps.,
C as in Coati (n.) A mammal of tropical America of the genus Nasua, allied to the raccoon, but with a longer body, tail, and nose.,
C as in Coating (n.) A coat or covering; a layer of any substance, as a cover or protection; as, the coating of a retort or vial.,
C as in Coating (n.) Cloth for coats; as, an assortment of coatings.,
C as in Coatless (a.) Not wearing a coat; also, not possessing a coat.,
C as in Coaxed (imp. & p. p.) of Coax,
C as in Coaxing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Coax,
C as in Coax (v. t.) To persuade by gentle, insinuating courtesy, flattering, or fondling; to wheedle; to soothe.,
C as in Coax (n.) A simpleton; a dupe.,
C as in Coaxation (n.) The act of croaking.,
C as in Coaxer (n.) One who coaxes.,
C as in Coaxingly (adv.) In a coaxing manner; by coaxing.,
C as in Cob (n.) The top or head of anything.,
C as in Cob (n.) A leader or chief; a conspicuous person, esp. a rich covetous person.,
C as in Cob (n.) The axis on which the kernels of maize or indian corn grow.,
C as in Cob (n.) A spider; perhaps from its shape; it being round like a head.,
C as in Cob (n.) A young herring.,
C as in Cob (n.) A fish; -- also called miller's thumb.,
C as in Cob (n.) A short-legged and stout horse, esp. one used for the saddle.,
C as in Cob (n.) A sea mew or gull; esp., the black-backed gull (Larus marinus).,
C as in Cob (n.) A lump or piece of anything, usually of a somewhat large size, as of coal, or stone.,
C as in Cob (n.) A cobnut; as, Kentish cobs. See Cobnut.,
C as in Cob (n.) Clay mixed with straw.,
C as in Cob (n.) A punishment consisting of blows inflicted on the buttocks with a strap or a flat piece of wood.,
C as in Cob (n.) A Spanish coin formerly current in Ireland, worth abiut 4s. 6d.,
C as in Cobbed (imp. & p. p.) of Cob,
C as in Cobbing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cob,
C as in Cob (v. t.) To strike,
C as in Cob (v. t.) To break into small pieces, as ore, so as to sort out its better portions.,
C as in Cob (v. t.) To punish by striking on the buttocks with a strap, a flat piece of wood, or the like.,
C as in Cobaea (n.) A genus of climbing plants, native of Mexico and South America. C. scandens is a conservatory climber with large bell-shaped flowers.,
C as in Cobalt (n.) A tough, lustrous, reddish white metal of the iron group, not easily fusible, and somewhat magnetic. Atomic weight 59.1. Symbol Co.,
C as in Cobalt (n.) A commercial name of a crude arsenic used as fly poison.,
C as in Cobaltic (a.) Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, cobalt; -- said especially of those compounds in which cobalt has higher valence; as, cobaltic oxide.,
C as in Cobaltiferous (a.) Containing cobalt.,
C as in Cobaltine (n.) Alt. of Cobaltite,
C as in Cobaltite (n.) A mineral of a nearly silver-white color, composed of arsenic, sulphur, and cobalt.,
C as in Cobaltous (a.) Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, cobalt; -- said esp. of cobalt compounds in which the metal has its lower valence.,
C as in Cobbing (a.) Haughty; purse-proud. See Cob, n., 2.,
C as in Cobble (n.) A fishing boat. See Coble.,
C as in Cobble (n.) A cobblestone.,
C as in Cobble (n.) Cob coal. See under Cob.,
C as in Cobbled (imp. & p. p.) of Cobble,
C as in Cobbling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cobble,
C as in Cobble (v. t.) To make or mend coarsely; to patch; to botch; as, to cobble shoes.,
C as in Cobble (v. t.) To make clumsily.,
C as in Cobble (v. t.) To pave with cobblestones.,
C as in Cobbler (n.) A mender of shoes.,
C as in Cobbler (n.) A clumsy workman.,
C as in Cobbler (n.) A beverage. See Sherry cobbler, under Sherry.,
C as in Cobblestone (n.) A large pebble; a rounded stone not too large to be handled; a small boulder; -- used for paving streets and for other purposes.,
C as in Cobby (n.) Headstrong; obstinate.,
C as in Cobby (n.) Stout; hearty; lively.,
C as in Cobelligerent (a.) Carrying on war in conjunction with another power.,
C as in Cobelligerent (n.) A nation or state that carries on war in connection with another.,
C as in Cobia (n.) An oceanic fish of large size (Elacate canada); the crabeater; -- called also bonito, cubbyyew, coalfish, and sergeant fish.,
C as in Cobiron (n.) An andiron with a knob at the top.,
C as in Cobishop (n.) A joint or coadjutant bishop.,
C as in Coble (n.) A flat-floored fishing boat with a lug sail, and a drop rudder extending from two to four feet below the keel. It was originally used on the stormy coast of Yorkshire, England.,
C as in Cobnut (n.) A large roundish variety of the cultivated hazelnut.,
C as in Cobnut (n.) A game played by children with nuts.,
C as in Coboose (n.) See Caboose.,
C as in Cobourg (n.) A thin worsted fabric for women's dresses.,
C as in Cobra (n.) See Copra.,
C as in Cobra (n.) The cobra de capello.,
C as in Cobra de capello () The hooded snake (Naia tripudians), a highly venomous serpent inhabiting India.Naja --,
C as in Cobstone (n.) Cobblestone.,
C as in Cobswan (n.) A large swan.,
C as in Cobwall (n.) A wall made of clay mixed with straw.,
C as in Cobweb (n.) The network spread by a spider to catch its prey.,
C as in Cobweb (n.) A snare of insidious meshes designed to catch the ignorant and unwary.,
C as in Cobweb (n.) That which is thin and unsubstantial, or flimsy and worthless; rubbish.,
C as in Cobweb (n.) The European spotted flycatcher.,
C as in Cobwebbed (a.) Abounding in cobwebs.,
C as in Cobwebby (a.) Abounding in cobwebs, or any fine web; resembling a cobweb.,
C as in Cobwork (a.) Built of logs, etc., laid horizontally, with the ends dovetailed together at the corners, as in a log house; in marine work, often surrounding a central space filled with stones; as, a cobwork dock or breakwater.,
C as in Coca (n.) The dried leaf of a South American shrub (Erythroxylon Coca). In med., called Erythroxylon.,
C as in Cocagne (n.) An imaginary country of idleness and luxury.,
C as in Cocagne (n.) The land of cockneys; cockneydom; -- a term applied to London and its suburbs.,
C as in Cocaine (n.) A powerful alkaloid, C17H21NO4, obtained from the leaves of coca. It is a bitter, white, crystalline substance, and is remarkable for producing local insensibility to pain.,
C as in Cocciferous (a.) Bearing or producing berries; bacciferous; as, cocciferous trees or plants.,
C as in Coccinella (n.) A genus of small beetles of many species. They and their larvae feed on aphids or plant lice, and hence are of great benefit to man. Also called ladybirds and ladybugs.,
C as in Coccobacteria (pl. ) of Coccobacterium,
C as in Coccobacterium (n.) One of the round variety of bacteria, a vegetable organism, generally less than a thousandth of a millimeter in diameter.,
C as in Coccolite (n.) A granular variety of pyroxene, green or white in color.,
C as in Coccolith (n.) One of a kind of minute, calcareous bodies, probably vegetable, often abundant in deep-sea mud.,
C as in Coccosphere (n.) A small, rounded, marine organism, capable of braking up into coccoliths.,
C as in Coccosteus (n.) An extinct genus of Devonian ganoid fishes, having the broad plates about the head studded with berrylike tubercles.,
C as in Cocculus Indicus (n.) The fruit or berry of the Anamirta Cocculus, a climbing plant of the East Indies. It is a poisonous narcotic and stimulant.,
C as in Cocci (pl. ) of Coccus,
C as in Coccus (n.) One of the separable carpels of a dry fruit.,
C as in Coccus (n.) A genus of hemipterous insects, including scale insects, and the cochineal insect (Coccus cacti).,
C as in Coccus (n.) A form of bacteria, shaped like a globule.,
C as in Coccygeal (a.) Of or pertaining to the coccyx; as, the coccygeal vertebrae.,
C as in Coccygeous (a.) Coccygeal.,
C as in Coccyges (pl. ) of Coccyx,
C as in Coccyx (n.) The end of the vertebral column beyond the sacrum in man and tailless monkeys. It is composed of several vertebrae more or less consolidated.,
C as in Cochineal () A dyestuff consisting of the dried bodies of females of the Coccus cacti, an insect native in Mexico, Central America, etc., and found on several species of cactus, esp. Opuntia cochinellifera.,
C as in Cochineal fig () A plant of Central and Southern America, of the Cactus family, extensively cultivated for the sake of the cochineal insect, which lives on it.,
C as in Cochin fowl () A large variety of the domestic fowl, originally from Cochin China (Anam).,
C as in Cochlea (n.) An appendage of the labyrinth of the internal ear, which is elongated and coiled into a spiral in mammals. See Ear.,
C as in Cochlear (a.) Of or pertaining to the cochlea.,
C as in Cochleare (n.) A spoon.,
C as in Cochleare (n.) A spoonful.,
C as in Cocleariform (a.) Spoon-shaped.,
C as in Cochleary (a.) Same as Cochleate.,
C as in Cochleate (a.) Alt. of Cochleated,
C as in Cochleated (a.) Having the form of a snail shell; spiral; turbinated.,
C as in Cock (n.) The male of birds, particularly of gallinaceous or domestic fowls.,
C as in Cock (n.) A vane in the shape of a cock; a weathercock.,
C as in Cock (n.) A chief man; a leader or master.,
C as in Cock (n.) The crow of a cock, esp. the first crow in the morning; cockcrow.,
C as in Cock (n.) A faucet or valve.,
C as in Cock (n.) The style of gnomon of a dial.,
C as in Cock (n.) The indicator of a balance.,
C as in Cock (n.) The bridge piece which affords a bearing for the pivot of a balance in a clock or watch.,
C as in Cocked (imp. & p. p.) of Cock,
C as in Cocking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cock,
C as in Cock (v. t.) To set erect; to turn up.,
C as in Cock (v. t.) To shape, as a hat, by turning up the brim.,
C as in Cock (v. t.) To set on one side in a pert or jaunty manner.,
C as in Cock (v. t.) To turn (the eye) obliquely and partially close its lid, as an expression of derision or insinuation.,
C as in Cock (v. i.) To strut; to swagger; to look big, pert, or menacing.,
C as in Cock (n.) The act of cocking; also, the turn so given; as, a cock of the eyes; to give a hat a saucy cock.,
C as in Cock (n.) The notch of an arrow or crossbow.,
C as in Cock (n.) The hammer in the lock of a firearm.,
C as in Cock (v. t.) To draw the hammer of (a firearm) fully back and set it for firing.,
C as in Cock (v. i.) To draw back the hammer of a firearm, and set it for firing.,
C as in Cock (n.) A small concial pile of hay.,
C as in Cock (v. t.) To put into cocks or heaps, as hay.,
C as in Cock (n.) A small boat.,
C as in Cock (n.) A corruption or disguise of the word God, used in oaths.,
C as in Cockade (n.) A badge, usually in the form of a rosette, or knot, and generally worn upon the hat; -- used as an indication of military or naval service, or party allegiance, and in England as a part of the livery to indicate that the wearer is the servant of a military or naval officer.,
C as in Cockaded (a.) Wearing a cockade.,
C as in Cock-a-hoop (a.) Boastful; defiant; exulting. Also used adverbially.,
C as in Cockal (n.) A game played with sheep's bones instead of dice,
C as in Cockal (n.) The bone used in playing the game; -- called also huckle bone.,
C as in Cockaleekie (n.) A favorite soup in Scotland, made from a capon highly seasoned, and boiled with leeks and prunes.,
C as in Cockamaroo (n.) The Russian variety of bagatelle.,
C as in Cockateel (n.) An Australian parrot (Calopsitta Novae-Hollandiae); -- so called from its note.,
C as in Cockatoo (n.) A bird of the Parrot family, of the subfamily Cacatuinae, having a short, strong, and much curved beak, and the head ornamented with a crest, which can be raised or depressed at will. There are several genera and many species; as the broad-crested (Plictolophus, / Cacatua, cristatus), the sulphur-crested (P. galeritus), etc. The palm or great black cockatoo of Australia is Microglossus aterrimus.,
C as in Cockatrice (n.) A fabulous serpent whose breath and look were said to be fatal. See Basilisk.,
C as in Cockatrice (n.) A representation of this serpent. It has the head, wings, and legs of a bird, and tail of a serpent.,
C as in Cockatrice (n.) A venomous serpent which which cannot now be identified.,
C as in Cockatrice (n.) Any venomous or deadly thing.,
C as in Cockbill (v. t.) To tilt up one end of so as to make almost vertical; as, to cockbill the yards as a sign of mourning.,
C as in Cockboat (n.) A small boat, esp. one used on rivers or near the shore.,
C as in Cock-brained (a.) Giddy; rash.,
C as in Cockchafer (n.) A beetle of the genus Melolontha (esp. M. vulgaris) and allied genera; -- called also May bug, chafer, or dorbeetle.,
C as in Cockcrow (n.) Alt. of Cockcrowing,
C as in Cockcrowing (n.) The time at which cocks first crow; the early morning.,
C as in Cockered (imp. & p. p.) of Cocker,
C as in Cockering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cocker,
C as in Cocker (v. t.) To treat with too great tenderness; to fondle; to indulge; to pamper.,
C as in Cocker (n.) One given to cockfighting.,
C as in Cocker (n.) A small dog of the spaniel kind, used for starting up woodcocks, etc.,
C as in Cocker (n.) A rustic high shoe or half-boots.,
C as in Cockerel (n.) A young cock.,
C as in Cocket (n.) Pert; saucy.,
C as in Cocket (n.) A customhouse seal; a certified document given to a shipper as a warrant that his goods have been duly entered and have paid duty.,
C as in Cocket (n.) An office in a customhouse where goods intended for export are entered.,
C as in Cocket (n.) A measure for bread.,
C as in Cockeye (n.) A squinting eye.,
C as in Cockeye (n.) The socket in the ball of a millstone, which sits on the cockhead.,
C as in Cockfight (n.) A match or contest of gamecocks.,
C as in Cockfighting (n.) The act or practice of pitting gamecocks to fight.,
C as in Cockfighting (a.) Addicted to cockfighting.,
C as in Cockhead (n.) The rounded or pointed top of a grinding mill spindle, forming a pivot on which the stone is balanced.,
C as in Cockhorse (n.) A child's rocking-horse.,
C as in Cockhorse (n.) A high or tall horse.,
C as in Cockhorse (a.) Lifted up, as one is on a tall horse.,
C as in Cockhorse (a.) Lofty in feeling; exultant; proud; upstart.,
C as in Cockieleekie (n.) Same as Cockaleekie.,
C as in Cocking (n.) Cockfighting.,
C as in Cockle (n.) A bivalve mollusk, with radiating ribs, of the genus Cardium, especially C. edule, used in Europe for food; -- sometimes applied to similar shells of other genera.,
C as in Cockle (n.) A cockleshell.,
C as in Cockle (n.) The mineral black tourmaline or schorl; -- so called by the Cornish miners.,
C as in Cockle (n.) The fire chamber of a furnace.,
C as in Cockle (n.) A hop-drying kiln; an oast.,
C as in Cockle (n.) The dome of a heating furnace.,
C as in Cockled (imp. & p. p.) of Cockle,
C as in Cockling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cockle,
C as in Cockle (v. t.) To cause to contract into wrinkles or ridges, as some kinds of cloth after a wetting.,
C as in Cockle (n.) A plant or weed that grows among grain; the corn rose (Luchnis Githage).,
C as in Cockle (n.) The Lotium, or darnel.,
C as in Cocklebur (n.) A coarse, composite weed, having a rough or prickly fruit; one of several species of the genus Xanthium; -- called also clotbur.,
C as in Cockled (a.) Inclosed in a shell.,
C as in Cockled (a.) Wrinkled; puckered.,
C as in Cockler (n.) One who takes and sells cockles.,
C as in Cockleshell (n.) One of the shells or valves of a cockle.,
C as in Cockleshell (n.) A light boat.,
C as in Cockloft (n.) An upper loft; a garret; the highest room in a building.,
C as in Cockmaster (n.) One who breeds gamecocks.,
C as in Cockmatch (n.) A cockfight.,
C as in Cockneys (pl. ) of Cockney,
C as in Cockney (n.) An effeminate person; a spoilt child.,
C as in Cockney (n.) A native or resident of the city of London; -- used contemptuously.,
C as in Cockney (a.) Of or relating to, or like, cockneys.,
C as in Cockneydom (n.) The region or home of cockneys; cockneys, collectively.,
C as in Cockneyfy (v. t.) To form with the manners or character of a cockney.,
C as in Cockneyish (a.) Characteristic of, or resembling, cockneys.,
C as in Cockneyism (n.) The characteristics, manners, or dialect, of a cockney.,
C as in Cock-padle (n.) See Lumpfish.,
C as in Cockpit (n.) A pit, or inclosed area, for cockfights.,
C as in Cockpit (n.) The Privy Council room at Westminster; -- so called because built on the site of the cockpit of Whitehall palace.,
C as in Cockpit (n.) That part of a war vessel appropriated to the wounded during an engagement.,
C as in Cockpit (n.) In yachts and other small vessels, a space lower than the rest of the deck, which affords easy access to the cabin.,
C as in Cockroach (n.) An orthopterous insect of the genus Blatta, and allied genera.,
C as in Cockscomb (n.) See Coxcomb.,
C as in Cockscomb (n.) A plant (Celosia cristata), of many varieties, cultivated for its broad, fantastic spikes of brilliant flowers; -- sometimes called garden cockscomb. Also the Pedicularis, or lousewort, the Rhinanthus Crista-galli, and the Onobrychis Crista-galli.,
C as in Cockshead (n.) A leguminous herb (Onobrychis Caput-galli), having small spiny-crested pods.,
C as in Cockshut (n.) A kind of net to catch woodcock.,
C as in Cockshy (n.) A game in which trinkets are set upon sticks, to be thrown at by the players; -- so called from an ancient popular sport which consisted in "shying" or throwing cudgels at live cocks.,
C as in Cockshy (n.) An object at which stones are flung.,
C as in Cockspur (n.) A variety of Crataegus, or hawthorn (C. Crus-galli), having long, straight thorns; -- called also Cockspur thorn.,
C as in Cocksure (a.) Perfectly safe.,
C as in Cocksure (a.) Quite certain.,
C as in Cockswain (n.) The steersman of a boat; a petty officer who has charge of a boat and its crew.,
C as in Cocktail (n.) A beverage made of brandy, whisky, or gin, iced, flavored, and sweetened.,
C as in Cocktail (n.) A horse, not of pure breed, but having only one eighth or one sixteenth impure blood in his veins.,
C as in Cocktail (n.) A mean, half-hearted fellow; a coward.,
C as in Cocktail (n.) A species of rove beetle; -- so called from its habit of elevating the tail.,
C as in Cockup (n.) A large, highly esteemed, edible fish of India (Lates calcarifer); -- also called begti.,
C as in Cockweed (n.) Peppergrass.,
C as in Cocky (a.) Pert.,
C as in Coco () Alt. of Coco palm,
C as in Coco palm () See Cocoa.,
C as in Cocoa () Alt. of Cocoa palm,
C as in Cocoa palm () A palm tree producing the cocoanut (Cocos nucifera). It grows in nearly all tropical countries, attaining a height of sixty or eighty feet. The trunk is without branches, and has a tuft of leaves at the top, each being fifteen or twenty feet in length, and at the base of these the nuts hang in clusters; the cocoanut tree.,
C as in Cocoa (n.) A preparation made from the seeds of the chocolate tree, and used in making, a beverage; also the beverage made from cocoa or cocoa shells.,
C as in Cocoanut (n.) The large, hard-shelled nut of the cocoa palm. It yields an agreeable milky liquid and a white meat or albumen much used as food and in making oil.,
C as in Cocobolo (n.) Alt. of Cocobolas,
C as in Cocobolas (n.) A very beautiful and hard wood, obtained in the West India Islands. It is used in cabinetmaking, for the handles of tools, and for various fancy articles.,
C as in Cocoon (n.) An oblong case in which the silkworm lies in its chrysalis state. It is formed of threads of silk spun by the worm just before leaving the larval state. From these the silk of commerce is prepared.,
C as in Cocoon (n.) The case constructed by any insect to contain its larva or pupa.,
C as in Cocoon (n.) The case of silk made by spiders to protect their eggs.,
C as in Cocoon (n.) The egg cases of mucus, etc., made by leeches and other worms.,
C as in Cocoonery (n.) A building or apartment for silkworms, when feeding and forming cocoons.,
C as in Coctible (a.) Capable of being cooked.,
C as in Coctile (a.) Made by baking, or exposing to heat, as a brick.,
C as in Coction (n.) Act of boiling.,
C as in Coction (n.) Digestion.,
C as in Coction (n.) The change which the humorists believed morbific matter undergoes before elimination.,
C as in Cocus wood () A West Indian wood, used for making flutes and other musical instruments.,
C as in Cod (n.) A husk; a pod; as, a peascod.,
C as in Cod (n.) A small bag or pouch.,
C as in Cod (n.) The scrotum.,
C as in Cod (n.) A pillow or cushion.,
C as in Cod (n.) An important edible fish (Gadus morrhua), taken in immense numbers on the northern coasts of Europe and America. It is especially abundant and large on the Grand Bank of Newfoundland. It is salted and dried in large quantities.,
C as in Coda (n.) A few measures added beyond the natural termination of a composition.,
C as in Codder (n.) A gatherer of cods or peas.,
C as in Codding (a.) Lustful.,
C as in Coddled (imp. & p. p.) of Coddle,
C as in Coddling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Coddle,
C as in Coddle (v. t.) To parboil, or soften by boiling.,
C as in Coddle (v. t.) To treat with excessive tenderness; to pamper.,
C as in Coddymoddy (n.) A gull in the plumage of its first year.,
C as in Code (n.) A body of law, sanctioned by legislation, in which the rules of law to be specifically applied by the courts are set forth in systematic form; a compilation of laws by public authority; a digest.,
C as in Code (n.) Any system of rules or regulations relating to one subject; as, the medical code, a system of rules for the regulation of the professional conduct of physicians; the naval code, a system of rules for making communications at sea means of signals.,
C as in Codefendant (n.) A joint defendant.,
C as in Codeine (n.) One of the opium alkaloids; a white crystalline substance, C18H21NO3, similar to and regarded as a derivative of morphine, but much feebler in its action; -- called also codeia.,
C as in Codetta (n.) A short passage connecting two sections, but not forming part of either; a short coda.,
C as in Codices (pl. ) of Codex,
C as in Codex (n.) A book; a manuscript.,
C as in Codex (n.) A collection or digest of laws; a code.,
C as in Codex (n.) An ancient manuscript of the Sacred Scriptures, or any part of them, particularly the New Testament.,
C as in Codex (n.) A collection of canons.,
C as in Codfish (n.) A kind of fish. Same as Cod.,
C as in Codger (n.) A miser or mean person.,
C as in Codger (n.) A singular or odd person; -- a familiar, humorous, or depreciatory appellation.,
C as in Codical (a.) Relating to a codex, or a code.,
C as in Codicil (n.) A clause added to a will.,
C as in Codicillary (a.) Of the nature of a codicil.,
C as in Codification (n.) The act or process of codifying or reducing laws to a code.,
C as in Codifier (n.) One who codifies.,
C as in Codified (imp. & p. p.) of Codify,
C as in Codifying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Codify,
C as in Codify (v. t.) To reduce to a code, as laws.,
C as in Codilla (n.) The coarse tow of flax and hemp.,
C as in Codille (n.) A term at omber, signifying that the game is won.,
C as in Codist (n.) A codifier; a maker of codes.,
C as in Codle (v. t.) See Coddle.,
C as in Codlin (n.) Alt. of Codling,
C as in Codling (n.) An apple fit to stew or coddle.,
C as in Codling (n.) An immature apple.,
C as in Codling (n.) A young cod; also, a hake.,
C as in Cod liver (n.) The liver of the common cod and allied species.,
C as in Codpiece (n.) A part of male dress in front of the breeches, formerly made very conspicuous.,
C as in Coecilian (n.) See Caecilian.,
C as in Coeducation (n.) An educating together, as of persons of different sexes or races.,
C as in Coefficacy (n.) Joint efficacy.,
C as in Coefficiency (n.) Joint efficiency; cooperation.,
C as in Coefficient (a.) Cooperating; acting together to produce an effect.,
C as in Coefficient (n.) That which unites in action with something else to produce the same effect.,
C as in Coefficient (n.) A number or letter put before a letter or quantity, known or unknown, to show how many times the latter is to be taken; as, 6x; bx; here 6 and b are coefficients of x.,
C as in Coefficient (n.) A number, commonly used in computation as a factor, expressing the amount of some change or effect under certain fixed conditions as to temperature, length, volume, etc.; as, the coefficient of expansion; the coefficient of friction.,
C as in Coehorn (n.) A small bronze mortar mounted on a wooden block with handles, and light enough to be carried short distances by two men.,
C as in Coelacanth (a.) Having hollow spines, as some ganoid fishes.,
C as in Coelentera (n. pl.) Alt. of Coelenterata,
C as in Coelenterata (n. pl.) A comprehensive group of Invertebrata, mostly marine, comprising the Anthozoa, Hydrozoa, and Ctenophora. The name implies that the stomach and body cavities are one. The group is sometimes enlarged so as to include the sponges.,
C as in Coelenterate (a.) Belonging to the Coelentera.,
C as in Coelenterate (n.) One of the Coelentera.,
C as in Coelia (n.) A cavity.,
C as in Coeliac (a.) Alt. of Celiac,
C as in Celiac (a.) Relating to the abdomen, or to the cavity of the abdomen.,
C as in Coelodont (a.) Having hollow teeth; -- said of a group lizards.,
C as in Coelodont (n.) One of a group of lizards having hollow teeth.,
C as in Coelospermous (a.) Hollow-seeded; having the ventral face of the seedlike carpels incurved at the ends, as in coriander seed.,
C as in Coelum (n.) See Body cavity, under Body.,
C as in Coemption (n.) The act of buying the whole quantity of any commodity.,
C as in Coendoo (n.) The Brazilian porcupine (Cercolades, / Sphingurus, prehensiles), remarkable for its prehensile tail.,
C as in Coenenchym (n.) Alt. of Coenenchyma,
C as in Coenenchyma (n.) The common tissue which unites the polyps or zooids of a compound anthozoan or coral. It may be soft or more or less ossified. See Coral.,
C as in Coenesthesis (n.) Common sensation or general sensibility, as distinguished from the special sensations which are located in, or ascribed to, separate organs, as the eye and ear. It is supposed to depend on the ganglionic system.,
C as in Coenobite (n.) See Cenobite.,
C as in Coenoecium (n.) The common tissue which unites the various zooids of a bryozoan.,
C as in Coenogamy (n.) The state of a community which permits promiscuous sexual intercourse among its members; -- as in certain primitive tribes or communistic societies.,
C as in Coenosarc (n.) The common soft tissue which unites the polyps of a compound hydroid. See Hydroidea.,
C as in Coenurus (n.) The larval stage of a tapeworm (Taenia coenurus) which forms bladderlike sacs in the brain of sheep, causing the fatal disease known as water brain, vertigo, staggers or gid.,
C as in Coequal (a.) Being on an equality in rank or power.,
C as in Coequal (n.) One who is on an equality with another.,
C as in Coequality (n.) The state of being on an equality, as in rank or power.,
C as in Coequally (adv.) With coequality.,
C as in Coerced (imp. & p. p.) of Coerce,
C as in Coercing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Coerce,
C as in Coerce (v. t.) To restrain by force, especially by law or authority; to repress; to curb.,
C as in Coerce (v. t.) To compel or constrain to any action; as, to coerce a man to vote for a certain candidate.,
C as in Coerce (v. t.) To compel or enforce; as, to coerce obedience.,
C as in Coercible (a.) Capable of being coerced.,
C as in Coercion (n.) The act or process of coercing.,
C as in Coercion (n.) The application to another of either physical or moral force. When the force is physical, and cannot be resisted, then the act produced by it is a nullity, so far as concerns the party coerced. When the force is moral, then the act, though voidable, is imputable to the party doing it, unless he be so paralyzed by terror as to act convulsively. At the same time coercion is not negatived by the fact of submission under force. "Coactus volui" (I consented under compulsion) is the condition of mind which, when there is volition forced by coercion, annuls the result of such coercion.,
C as in Coercitive (a.) Coercive.,
C as in Coercive (a.) Serving or intended to coerce; having power to constrain.,
C as in Coerulignone (n.) A bluish violet, crystalline substance obtained in the purification of crude wood vinegar. It is regarded as a complex quinone derivative of diphenyl; -- called also cedriret.,
C as in Coessential (a.) Partaking of the same essence.,
C as in Coessentiality (n.) Participation of the same essence.,
C as in Coestablishment (n.) Joint establishment.,
C as in Coestate (n.) Joint estate.,
C as in Coetanean (n.) A person coetaneous with another; a contemporary.,
C as in Coetaneous (a.) Of the same age; beginning to exist at the same time; contemporaneous.,
C as in Coeternal (a.) Equally eternal.,
C as in Coeternity (n.) Existence from eternity equally with another eternal being; equal eternity.,
C as in Coeval (n.) Of the same age; existing during the same period of time, especially time long and remote; -- usually followed by with.,
C as in Coeval (n.) One of the same age; a contemporary.,
C as in Coevous (a.) Coeval,
C as in Coexecutor (n.) A joint executor.,
C as in Coexecutrix (n.) A joint executrix.,
C as in Coexisted (imp. & p. p.) of Coexist,
C as in Coexisting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Coexist,
C as in Coexist (v. i.) To exist at the same time; -- sometimes followed by with.,
C as in Coexistence (n.) Existence at the same time with another; -- contemporary existence.,
C as in Coexistent (a.) Existing at the same time with another.,
C as in Coexistent (n.) That which coexists with another.,
C as in Coexisting (a.) Coexistent.,
C as in Coextended (imp. & p. p.) of Coextend,
C as in Coextending (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Coextend,
C as in Coextend (v. t.) To extend through the same space or time with another; to extend to the same degree.,
C as in Coextension (n.) The act of extending equally, or the state of being equally extended.,
C as in Coextensive (a.) Equally extensive; having equal extent; as, consciousness and knowledge are coextensive.,
C as in Coffee (n.) The "beans" or "berries" (pyrenes) obtained from the drupes of a small evergreen tree of the genus Coffea, growing in Abyssinia, Arabia, Persia, and other warm regions of Asia and Africa, and also in tropical America.,
C as in Coffee (n.) The coffee tree.,
C as in Coffee (n.) The beverage made from the roasted and ground berry.,
C as in Coffeehouse (n.) A house of entertainment, where guests are supplied with coffee and other refreshments, and where men meet for conversation.,
C as in Coffeeman (n.) One who keeps a coffeehouse.,
C as in Coffeepot (n.) A covered pot in which coffee is prepared, or is brought upon the table for drinking.,
C as in Coffeeroom (n.) A public room where coffee and other refreshments may be obtained.,
C as in Coffer (n.) A casket, chest, or trunk; especially, one used for keeping money or other valuables.,
C as in Coffer (n.) Fig.: Treasure or funds; -- usually in the plural.,
C as in Coffer (n.) A panel deeply recessed in the ceiling of a vault, dome, or portico; a caisson.,
C as in Coffer (n.) A trench dug in the bottom of a dry moat, and extending across it, to enable the besieged to defend it by a raking fire.,
C as in Coffer (n.) The chamber of a canal lock; also, a caisson or a cofferdam.,
C as in Coffer (v. t.) To put into a coffer.,
C as in Coffer (v. t.) To secure from leaking, as a shaft, by ramming clay behind the masonry or timbering.,
C as in Coffer (v. t.) To form with or in a coffer or coffers; to furnish with a coffer or coffers.,
C as in Cofferdam (n.) A water-tight inclosure, as of piles packed with clay, from which the water is pumped to expose the bottom (of a river, etc.) and permit the laying of foundations, building of piers, etc.,
C as in Cofferer (n.) One who keeps treasures in a coffer.,
C as in Cofferwork (n.) Rubblework faced with stone.,
C as in Coffin (n.) The case in which a dead human body is inclosed for burial.,
C as in Coffin (n.) A basket.,
C as in Coffin (n.) A casing or crust, or a mold, of pastry, as for a pie.,
C as in Coffin (n.) A conical paper bag, used by grocers.,
C as in Coffin (n.) The hollow crust or hoof of a horse's foot, below the coronet, in which is the coffin bone.,
C as in Coffined (imp. & p. p.) of Coffin,
C as in Coffining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Coffin,
C as in Coffin (v. t.) To inclose in, or as in, a coffin.,
C as in Coffinless (a.) Having no coffin.,
C as in Coffle (n.) A gang of negro slaves being driven to market.,
C as in Cogged (imp. & p. p.) of Cog,
C as in Cogging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cog,
C as in Cog (v. t.) To seduce, or draw away, by adulation, artifice, or falsehood; to wheedle; to cozen; to cheat.,
C as in Cog (v. t.) To obtrude or thrust in, by falsehood or deception; as, to cog in a word; to palm off.,
C as in Cog (v. i.) To deceive; to cheat; to play false; to lie; to wheedle; to cajole.,
C as in Cog (n.) A trick or deception; a falsehood.,
C as in Cog (n.) A tooth, cam, or catch for imparting or receiving motion, as on a gear wheel, or a lifter or wiper on a shaft; originally, a separate piece of wood set in a mortise in the face of a wheel.,
C as in Cog (n.) A kind of tenon on the end of a joist, received into a notch in a bearing timber, and resting flush with its upper surface.,
C as in Cog (n.) A tenon in a scarf joint; a coak.,
C as in Cog (n.) One of the rough pillars of stone or coal left to support the roof of a mine.,
C as in Cog (v. t.) To furnish with a cog or cogs.,
C as in Cog (n.) A small fishing boat.,
C as in Cogency (n.) The quality of being cogent; power of compelling conviction; conclusiveness; force.,
C as in Cogenial (a.) Congenial.,
C as in Cogent (p. a.) Compelling, in a physical sense; powerful.,
C as in Cogent (p. a.) Having the power to compel conviction or move the will; constraining; conclusive; forcible; powerful; not easily reasisted.,
C as in Cogently (adv.) In a cogent manner; forcibly; convincingly; conclusively.,
C as in Cogger (n.) A flatterer or deceiver; a sharper.,
C as in Coggery (n.) Trick; deception.,
C as in Coggle (n.) A small fishing boat.,
C as in Coggle (n.) A cobblestone.,
C as in Cogitability (n.) The quality of being cogitable; conceivableness.,
C as in Cogitable (a.) Capable of being brought before the mind as a thought or idea; conceivable; thinkable.,
C as in Cogitabund (a.) Full of thought; thoughtful.,
C as in Cogitated (imp. & p. p.) of Cogitate,
C as in Cogitating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cogitate,
C as in Cogitate (v. i.) To engage in continuous thought; to think.,
C as in Cogitate (v. t.) To think over; to plan.,
C as in Cogitation (n.) The act of thinking; thought; meditation; contemplation.,
C as in Cogitative (a.) Possessing, or pertaining to, the power of thinking or meditating.,
C as in Cogitative (a.) Given to thought or contemplation.,
C as in Cogman (n.) A dealer in cogware or coarse cloth.,
C as in Cognac (n.) A kind of French brandy, so called from the town of Cognac.,
C as in Cognate (a.) Allied by blood; kindred by birth; specifically (Law), related on the mother's side.,
C as in Cognate (a.) Of the same or a similar nature; of the same family; proceeding from the same stock or root; allied; kindred; as, a cognate language.,
C as in Cognate (n.) One who is related to another on the female side.,
C as in Cognate (n.) One of a number of things allied in origin or nature; as, certain letters are cognates.,
C as in Cognateness (n.) The state of being cognate.,
C as in Cognati (n. pl.) Relatives by the mother's side.,
C as in Cognation (n.) Relationship by blood; descent from the same original; kindred.,
C as in Cognation (n.) Participation of the same nature.,
C as in Cognation (n.) That tie of consanguinity which exists between persons descended from the same mother; -- used in distinction from agnation.,
C as in Cognatus (n.) A person connected through cognation.,
C as in Cognisor (n.) Alt. of Cognisee,
C as in Cognisee (n.) See Cognizor, Cognizee.,
C as in Cognition (v. t.) The act of knowing; knowledge; perception.,
C as in Cognition (v. t.) That which is known.,
C as in Cognitive (a.) Knowing, or apprehending by the understanding; as, cognitive power.,
C as in Cognizable (a.) Capable of being known or apprehended; as, cognizable causes.,
C as in Cognizable (a.) Fitted to be a subject of judicial investigation; capable of being judicially heard and determined.,
C as in Cognizably (adv.) In a cognizable manner.,
C as in Cognizance (n.) Apprehension by the understanding; perception; observation.,
C as in Cognizance (n.) Recollection; recognition.,
C as in Cognizance (n.) Jurisdiction, or the power given by law to hear and decide controversies.,
C as in Cognizance (n.) The hearing a matter judicially.,
C as in Cognizance (n.) An acknowledgment of a fine of lands and tenements or confession of a thing done.,
C as in Cognizance (n.) A form of defense in the action of replevin, by which the defendant insists that the goods were lawfully taken, as a distress, by defendant, acting as servant for another.,
C as in Cognizance (n.) The distinguishing mark worn by an armed knight, usually upon the helmet, and by his retainers and followers: Hence, in general, a badge worn by a retainer or dependent, to indicate the person or party to which he belonged; a token by which a thing may be known.,
C as in Cognizant (a.) Having cognizance or knowledge. (of).,
C as in Cognize (v. t.) To know or perceive; to recognize.,
C as in Cognizee (n.) One to whom a fine of land was acknowledged.,
C as in Cognizor (n.) One who acknowledged the right of the plaintiff or cognizee in a fine; the defendant.,
C as in Cognomen (n.) The last of the three names of a person among the ancient Romans, denoting his house or family.,
C as in Cognomen (n.) A surname.,
C as in Cognominal (a.) Of or pertaining to a cognomen; of the nature of a surname.,
C as in Cognominal (n.) One bearing the same name; a namesake.,
C as in Cognomination (n.) A cognomen or surname.,
C as in Cognoscence (n.) Cognizance.,
C as in Cognoscenti (pl. ) of Cognoscente,
C as in Cognoscente (n.) A connoisseur.,
C as in Cognoscibility (n.) The quality of being cognoscible.,
C as in Cognoscible (a.) Capable of being known.,
C as in Cognoscible (a.) Liable to judicial investigation.,
C as in Cognoscitive (a.) Having the power of knowing.,
C as in Cognovit (n.) An instrument in writing whereby a defendant in an action acknowledges a plaintiff's demand to be just.,
C as in Coguardian (n.) A joint guardian.,
C as in Cogue (n.) A small wooden vessel; a pail.,
C as in Cogware (n.) A coarse, narrow cloth, like frieze, used by the lower classes in the sixteenth century.,
C as in Cogwheel (n.) A wheel with cogs or teeth; a gear wheel. See Illust. of Gearing.,
C as in Cohabited (imp. & p. p.) of Cohabit,
C as in Cohabiting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cohabit,
C as in Cohabit (v.) To inhabit or reside in company, or in the same place or country.,
C as in Cohabit (v.) To dwell or live together as husband and wife.,
C as in Cohabitant (n.) One who dwells with another, or in the same place or country.,
C as in Cohabitation (n.) The act or state of dwelling together, or in the same place with another.,
C as in Cohabitation (n.) The living together of a man and woman in supposed sexual relationship.,
C as in Cohabiter (n.) A cohabitant.,
C as in Coheir (n.) A joint heir; one of two or more heirs; one of several entitled to an inheritance.,
C as in Coheiress (n.) A female heir who inherits with other heiresses; a joint heiress.,
C as in Coheirship (n.) The state of being a coheir.,
C as in Coherald (n.) A joint herald.,
C as in Cohered (imp. & p. p.) of Cohere,
C as in Cohering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cohere,
C as in Cohere (a.) To stick together; to cleave; to be united; to hold fast, as parts of the same mass.,
C as in Cohere (a.) To be united or connected together in subordination to one purpose; to follow naturally and logically, as the parts of a discourse, or as arguments in a train of reasoning; to be logically consistent.,
C as in Cohere (a.) To suit; to agree; to fit.,
C as in Coherence (n.) Alt. of Coherency,
C as in Coherency (n.) A sticking or cleaving together; union of parts of the same body; cohesion.,
C as in Coherency (n.) Connection or dependence, proceeding from the subordination of the parts of a thing to one principle or purpose, as in the parts of a discourse, or of a system of philosophy; consecutiveness.,
C as in Coherent (a.) Sticking together; cleaving; as the parts of bodies; solid or fluid.,
C as in Coherent (a.) Composed of mutually dependent parts; making a logical whole; consistent; as, a coherent plan, argument, or discourse.,
C as in Coherent (a.) Logically consistent; -- applied to persons; as, a coherent thinker.,
C as in Coherent (a.) Suitable or suited; adapted; accordant.,
C as in Coherently (adv.) In a coherent manner.,
C as in Cohesibility (n.) The state of being cohesible.,
C as in Cohesible (a.) Capable of cohesion.,
C as in Cohesion (n.) The act or state of sticking together; close union.,
C as in Cohesion (n.) That from of attraction by which the particles of a body are united throughout the mass, whether like or unlike; -- distinguished from adhesion, which unites bodies by their adjacent surfaces.,
C as in Cohesion (n.) Logical agreement and dependence; as, the cohesion of ideas.,
C as in Cohesive (a.) Holding the particles of a homogeneous body together; as, cohesive attraction; producing cohesion; as, a cohesive force.,
C as in Cohesive (a.) Cohering, or sticking together, as in a mass; capable of cohering; tending to cohere; as, cohesive clay.,
C as in Cohibited (imp. & p. p.) of Cohibit,
C as in Cohibiting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cohibit,
C as in Cohibit (v. t.) To restrain.,
C as in Cohibition (n.) Hindrance; restraint.,
C as in Cohobated (imp. & p. p.) of Cohobate,
C as in Cohobating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cohobate,
C as in Cohobate (v. t.) To repeat the distillation of, pouring the liquor back upon the matter remaining in the vessel.,
C as in Cohobation (n.) The process of cohobating.,
C as in Cohorn (n.) See Coehorn.,
C as in Cohort (n.) A body of about five or six hundred soldiers; the tenth part of a legion.,
C as in Cohort (n.) Any band or body of warriors.,
C as in Cohort (n.) A natural group of orders of plants, less comprehensive than a class.,
C as in Cohosh (n.) A perennial American herb (Caulophyllum thalictroides), whose rootstock is used in medicine; -- also called pappoose root. The name is sometimes also given to the Cimicifuga racemosa, and to two species of Actaea, plants of the Crowfoot family.,
C as in Coif (n.) A cap.,
C as in Coif (n.) A close-fitting cap covering the sides of the head, like a small hood without a cape.,
C as in Coif (n.) An official headdress, such as that worn by certain judges in England.,
C as in Coif (v. t.) To cover or dress with, or as with, a coif.,
C as in Coifed (a.) Wearing a coif.,
C as in Coiffure (n.) A headdress, or manner of dressing the hair.,
C as in Coigne (n.) A quoin.,
C as in Coigne (n.) Alt. of Coigny,
C as in Coigny (n.) The practice of quartering one's self as landlord on a tenant; a quartering of one's self on anybody.,
C as in Coiled (imp. & p. p.) of Coil,
C as in Coiling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Coil,
C as in Coil (v. t.) To wind cylindrically or spirally; as, to coil a rope when not in use; the snake coiled itself before springing.,
C as in Coil (v. t.) To encircle and hold with, or as with, coils.,
C as in Coil (v. i.) To wind itself cylindrically or spirally; to form a coil; to wind; -- often with about or around.,
C as in Coil (n.) A ring, series of rings, or spiral, into which a rope, or other like thing, is wound.,
C as in Coil (n.) Fig.: Entanglement; toil; mesh; perplexity.,
C as in Coil (n.) A series of connected pipes in rows or layers, as in a steam heating apparatus.,
C as in Coil (n.) A noise, tumult, bustle, or confusion.,
C as in Coilon (n.) A testicle.,
C as in Coin (n.) A quoin; a corner or external angle; a wedge. See Coigne, and Quoin.,
C as in Coin (n.) A piece of metal on which certain characters are stamped by government authority, making it legally current as money; -- much used in a collective sense.,
C as in Coin (n.) That which serves for payment or recompense.,
C as in Coined (imp. & p. p.) of Coin,
C as in Coining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Coin,
C as in Coin (v. t.) To make of a definite fineness, and convert into coins, as a mass of metal; to mint; to manufacture; as, to coin silver dollars; to coin a medal.,
C as in Coin (v. t.) To make or fabricate; to invent; to originate; as, to coin a word.,
C as in Coin (v. t.) To acquire rapidly, as money; to make.,
C as in Coin (v. i.) To manufacture counterfeit money.,
C as in Coinage (v. t.) The act or process of converting metal into money.,
C as in Coinage (v. t.) Coins; the aggregate coin of a time or place.,
C as in Coinage (v. t.) The cost or expense of coining money.,
C as in Coinage (v. t.) The act or process of fabricating or inventing; formation; fabrication; that which is fabricated or forged.,
C as in Coincided (imp. & p. p.) of Coincide,
C as in Coinciding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Coincide,
C as in Coincide (n.) To occupy the same place in space, as two equal triangles, when placed one on the other.,
C as in Coincide (n.) To occur at the same time; to be contemporaneous; as, the fall of Granada coincided with the discovery of America.,
C as in Coincide (n.) To correspond exactly; to agree; to concur; as, our aims coincide.,
C as in Coincidence (n.) The condition of occupying the same place in space; as, the coincidence of circles, surfaces, etc.,
C as in Coincidence (n.) The condition or fact of happening at the same time; as, the coincidence of the deaths of John Adams and Thomas Jefferson.,
C as in Coincidence (n.) Exact correspondence in nature, character, result, circumstances, etc.; concurrence; agreement.,
C as in Coincibency (n.) Coincidence.,
C as in Coincident (a.) Having coincidence; occupying the same place; contemporaneous; concurrent; -- followed by with.,
C as in Coincident (n.) One of two or more coincident events; a coincidence.,
C as in Coincidental (a.) Coincident.,
C as in Coincidently (adv.) With coincidence.,
C as in Coincider (n.) One who coincides with another in an opinion.,
C as in Coindication (n.) One of several signs or symptoms indicating the same fact; as, a coindication of disease.,
C as in Coiner (n.) One who makes or stamps coin; a maker of money; -- usually, a maker of counterfeit money.,
C as in Coiner (n.) An inventor or maker, as of words.,
C as in Coinhabitant (n.) One who dwells with another, or with others.,
C as in Coinhere (v. i.) To inhere or exist together, as in one substance.,
C as in Coinheritance (n.) Joint inheritance.,
C as in Coinheritor (n.) A coheir.,
C as in Coinitial (a.) Having a common beginning.,
C as in Coinquinate (v. t.) To pollute.,
C as in Coinquination (n.) Defilement.,
C as in Coinstantaneous (a.) Happening at the same instant.,
C as in Cointense (a.) Equal in intensity or degree; as, the relations between 6 and 12, and 8 and 16, are cointense.,
C as in Cointension (n.) The condition of being of equal in intensity; -- applied to relations; as, 3:6 and 6:12 are relations of cointension.,
C as in Coir (n.) A material for cordage, matting, etc., consisting of the prepared fiber of the outer husk of the cocoanut.,
C as in Coir (n.) Cordage or cables, made of this material.,
C as in Coistril (n.) An inferior groom or lad employed by an esquire to carry the knight's arms and other necessaries.,
C as in Coistril (n.) A mean, paltry fellow; a coward.,
C as in Coit (n.) A quoit.,
C as in Coit (v. t.) To throw, as a stone. [Obs.] See Quoit.,
C as in Coition (n.) A coming together; sexual intercourse; copulation.,
C as in Cojoin (v. t.) To join; to conjoin.,
C as in Cojuror (n.) One who swears to another's credibility.,
C as in Coke (n.) Mineral coal charred, or depriver of its bitumen, sulphur, or other volatile matter by roasting in a kiln or oven, or by distillation, as in gas works. It is lagerly used where / smokeless fire is required.,
C as in Coke (v. t.) To convert into coke.,
C as in Cokenay (n.) A cockney.,
C as in Cokernut (n.) The cocoanut.,
C as in Cokes (n.) A simpleton; a gull; a dupe.,
C as in Cokewold (n.) Cuckold.,
C as in Col- () A prefix signifying with, together. See Com-.,
C as in Col (n.) A short ridge connecting two higher elevations or mountains; the pass over such a ridge.,
C as in Colaborer (n.) One who labors with another; an associate in labor.,
C as in Colander (n.) A utensil with a bottom perforated with little holes for straining liquids, mashed vegetable pulp, etc.; a strainer of wickerwork, perforated metal, or the like.,
C as in Colation (n.) The act or process of straining or filtering.,
C as in Colatitude (n.) The complement of the latitude, or the difference between any latitude and ninety degrees.,
C as in Colature (n.) The process of straining; the matter strained; a strainer.,
C as in Colbertine (n.) A kind of lace.,
C as in Colchicine (n.) A powerful vegetable alkaloid, C17H19NO5, extracted from the Colchicum autumnale, or meadow saffron, as a white or yellowish amorphous powder, with a harsh, bitter taste; -- called also colchicia.,
C as in Colchicum (n.) A genus of bulbous-rooted plants found in many parts of Europe, including the meadow saffron.,
C as in Colcothar (n.) Polishing rouge; a reddish brown oxide of iron, used in polishing glass, and also as a pigment; -- called also crocus Martis.,
C as in Cold (n.) Deprived of heat, or having a low temperature; not warm or hot; gelid; frigid.,
C as in Cold (n.) Lacking the sensation of warmth; suffering from the absence of heat; chilly; shivering; as, to be cold.,
C as in Cold (n.) Not pungent or acrid.,
C as in Cold (n.) Wanting in ardor, intensity, warmth, zeal, or passion; spiritless; unconcerned; reserved.,
C as in Cold (n.) Unwelcome; disagreeable; unsatisfactory.,
C as in Cold (n.) Wanting in power to excite; dull; uninteresting.,
C as in Cold (n.) Affecting the sense of smell (as of hunting dogs) but feebly; having lost its odor; as, a cold scent.,
C as in Cold (n.) Not sensitive; not acute.,
C as in Cold (n.) Distant; -- said, in the game of hunting for some object, of a seeker remote from the thing concealed.,
C as in Cold (n.) Having a bluish effect. Cf. Warm, 8.,
C as in Cold (n.) The relative absence of heat or warmth.,
C as in Cold (n.) The sensation produced by the escape of heat; chilliness or chillness.,
C as in Cold (n.) A morbid state of the animal system produced by exposure to cold or dampness; a catarrh.,
C as in Cold (v. i.) To become cold.,
C as in Cold-blooded (a.) Having cold blood; -- said of fish or animals whose blood is but little warmer than the water or air about them.,
C as in Cold-blooded (a.) Deficient in sensibility or feeling; hard-hearted.,
C as in Cold-blooded (a.) Not thoroughbred; -- said of animals, as horses, which are derived from the common stock of a country.,
C as in Coldfinch (n.) A British wagtail.,
C as in Cold-hearted (a.) Wanting passion or feeling; indifferent.,
C as in Coldish (a.) Somewhat cold; cool; chilly.,
C as in Coldly (adv.) In a cold manner; without warmth, animation, or feeling; with indifference; calmly.,
C as in Coldness (n.) The state or quality of being cold.,
C as in Cold-short (a.) Brittle when cold; as, cold-short iron.,
C as in Cold-shut (a.) Closed while too cold to become thoroughly welded; -- said of a forging or casting.,
C as in Cold-shut (n.) An imperfection caused by such insufficient welding.,
C as in Cole (n.) A plant of the Brassica or Cabbage genus; esp. that form of B. oleracea called rape and coleseed.,
C as in Co-legatee (n.) A joint legatee.,
C as in Colegoose (n.) See Coalgoose.,
C as in Colemanite (n.) A hydrous borate of lime occurring in transparent colorless or white crystals, also massive, in Southern California.,
C as in Colemouse (n.) See Coletit.,
C as in Coleopter (n.) One of the Coleoptera.,
C as in Coleoptera (n. pl.) An order of insects having the anterior pair of wings (elytra) hard and horny, and serving as coverings for the posterior pair, which are membranous, and folded transversely under the others when not in use. The mouth parts form two pairs of jaws (mandibles and maxillae) adapted for chewing. Most of the Coleoptera are known as beetles and weevils.,
C as in Coleopteral (a.) Alt. of Coleopterous,
C as in Coleopterous (a.) Having wings covered with a case or sheath; belonging to the Coleoptera.,
C as in Coleopteran (n.) One of the order of Coleoptera.,
C as in Coleopterist (n.) One versed in the study of the Coleoptera.,
C as in Coleorhiza (n.) A sheath in the embryo of grasses, inclosing the caulicle.,
C as in Coleperch (n.) A kind of small black perch.,
C as in Colera (n.) Bile; choler.,
C as in Coleridgian (a.) Pertaining to Samuel Taylor Coleridge, or to his poetry or metaphysics.,
C as in Coleseed (n.) The common rape or cole.,
C as in Coleslaw (n.) A salad made of sliced cabbage.,
C as in Co-lessee (n.) A partner in a lease taken.,
C as in Co-lessor (n.) A partner in giving a lease.,
C as in Colestaff (n.) See Colstaff.,
C as in Colet () Alt. of Collet,
C as in Collet () An inferior church servant. [Obs.] See Acolyte.,
C as in Coletit (n.) Alt. of Coaltit,
C as in Coaltit (n.) A small European titmouse (Parus ater), so named from its black color; -- called also coalmouse and colemouse.,
C as in Coleus (n.) A plant of several species of the Mint family, cultivated for its bright-colored or variegated leaves.,
C as in Colewort (n.) A variety of cabbage in which the leaves never form a compact head.,
C as in Colewort (n.) Any white cabbage before the head has become firm.,
C as in Colfox (n.) A crafty fox.,
C as in Colic (n.) A severe paroxysmal pain in the abdomen, due to spasm, obstruction, or distention of some one of the hollow viscera.,
C as in Colic (a.) Of or pertaining to colic; affecting the bowels.,
C as in Colic (a.) Of or pertaining to the colon; as, the colic arteries.,
C as in Colical (a.) Of, pertaining to, or of the nature of, colic.,
C as in Colicky (a.) Pertaining to, or troubled with, colic; as, a colicky disorder.,
C as in Colicroot (n.) A bitter American herb of the Bloodwort family, with the leaves all radical, and the small yellow or white flowers in a long spike (Aletris farinosa and A. aurea). Called sometimes star grass, blackroot, blazing star, and unicorn root.,
C as in Colin (n.) The American quail or bobwhite. The name is also applied to other related species. See Bobwhite.,
C as in Coliseum (n.) The amphitheater of Vespasian at Rome, the largest in the world.,
C as in Colitis (n.) An inflammation of the large intestine, esp. of its mucous membrane; colonitis.,
C as in Coll (v. t.) To embrace.,
C as in Collaborateur (n.) See Collaborator.,
C as in Collaboration (n.) The act of working together; united labor.,
C as in Collaborator (n.) An associate in labor, especially in literary or scientific labor.,
C as in Collagen (n.) The chemical basis of ordinary connective tissue, as of tendons or sinews and of bone. On being boiled in water it becomes gelatin or glue.,
C as in Collagenous (a.) Containing or resembling collagen.,
C as in Collapsed (imp. & p. p.) of Collapse,
C as in Collapsing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Collapse,
C as in Collapse (v. i.) To fall together suddenly, as the sides of a hollow vessel; to close by falling or shrinking together; to have the sides or parts of (a thing) fall in together, or be crushed in together; as, a flue in the boiler of a steam engine sometimes collapses.,
C as in Collapse (v. i.) To fail suddenly and completely, like something hollow when subject to too much pressure; to undergo a collapse; as, Maximilian's government collapsed soon after the French army left Mexico; many financial projects collapse after attaining some success and importance.,
C as in Collapse (n.) A falling together suddenly, as of the sides of a hollow vessel.,
C as in Collapse (n.) A sudden and complete failure; an utter failure of any kind; a breakdown.,
C as in Collapse (n.) Extreme depression or sudden failing of all the vital powers, as the result of disease, injury, or nervous disturbance.,
C as in Collapsion (n.) Collapse.,
C as in Collar (n.) Something worn round the neck, whether for use, ornament, restraint, or identification; as, the collar of a coat; a lady's collar; the collar of a dog.,
C as in Collar (n.) A ring or cincture.,
C as in Collar (n.) A collar beam.,
C as in Collar (n.) The neck or line of junction between the root of a plant and its stem.,
C as in Collar (n.) An ornament worn round the neck by knights, having on it devices to designate their rank or order.,
C as in Collar (n.) A ringlike part of a mollusk in connection with esophagus.,
C as in Collar (n.) A colored ring round the neck of a bird or mammal.,
C as in Collar (n.) A ring or round flange upon, surrounding, or against an object, and used for restraining motion within given limits, or for holding something to its place, or for hiding an opening around an object; as, a collar on a shaft, used to prevent endwise motion of the shaft; a collar surrounding a stovepipe at the place where it enters a wall. The flanges of a piston and the gland of a stuffing box are sometimes called collars.,
C as in Collar (n.) An eye formed in the bight or bend of a shroud or stay to go over the masthead; also, a rope to which certain parts of rigging, as dead-eyes, are secured.,
C as in Collar (n.) A curb, or a horizontal timbering, around the mouth of a shaft.,
C as in Collared (imp. & p. p.) of Collar,
C as in Collaring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Collar,
C as in Collar (v. t.) To seize by the collar.,
C as in Collar (v. t.) To put a collar on.,
C as in Collar bone () The clavicle.,
C as in Collards (n. pl.) Young cabbage, used as "greens"; esp. a kind cultivated for that purpose; colewort.,
C as in Collared (a.) Wearing a collar.,
C as in Collared (a.) Wearing a collar; -- said of a man or beast used as a bearing when a collar is represented as worn around the neck or loins.,
C as in Collared (a.) Rolled up and bound close with a string; as, collared beef. See To collar beef, under Collar, v. t.,
C as in Collatable (a.) Capable of being collated.,
C as in Collated (imp. & p. p.) of Collate,
C as in Collating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Collate,
C as in Collate (v. t.) To compare critically, as books or manuscripts, in order to note the points of agreement or disagreement.,
C as in Collate (v. t.) To gather and place in order, as the sheets of a book for binding.,
C as in Collate (v. t.) To present and institute in a benefice, when the person presenting is both the patron and the ordinary; -- followed by to.,
C as in Collate (v. t.) To bestow or confer.,
C as in Collate (v. i.) To place in a benefice, when the person placing is both the patron and the ordinary.,
C as in Collateral (a.) Coming from, being on, or directed toward, the side; as, collateral pressure.,
C as in Collateral (a.) Acting in an indirect way.,
C as in Collateral (a.) Related to, but not strictly a part of, the main thing or matter under consideration; hence, subordinate; not chief or principal; as, collateral interest; collateral issues.,
C as in Collateral (a.) Tending toward the same conclusion or result as something else; additional; as, collateral evidence.,
C as in Collateral (a.) Descending from the same stock or ancestor, but not in the same line or branch or one from the other; -- opposed to lineal.,
C as in Collateral (n.) A collateral relative.,
C as in Collateral (n.) Collateral security; that which is pledged or deposited as collateral security.,
C as in Collaterally (adv.) Side by side; by the side.,
C as in Collaterally (adv.) In an indirect or subordinate manner; indirectly.,
C as in Collaterally (adv.) In collateral relation; not lineally.,
C as in Collateralness (n.) The state of being collateral.,
C as in Collation (v. t.) The act of collating or comparing; a comparison of one copy er thing (as of a book, or manuscript) with another of a like kind; comparison, in general.,
C as in Collation (v. t.) The gathering and examination of sheets preparatory to binding.,
C as in Collation (v. t.) The act of conferring or bestowing.,
C as in Collation (v. t.) A conference.,
C as in Collation (v. t.) The presentation of a clergyman to a benefice by a bishop, who has it in his own gift.,
C as in Collation (v. t.) The act of comparing the copy of any paper with its original to ascertain its conformity.,
C as in Collation (v. t.) The report of the act made by the proper officers.,
C as in Collation (v. t.) The right which an heir has of throwing the whole heritable and movable estates of the deceased into one mass, and sharing it equally with others who are of the same degree of kindred.,
C as in Collation (v. t.) A collection of the Lives of the Fathers or other devout work read daily in monasteries.,
C as in Collation (v. t.) A light repast or luncheon; as, a cold collation; -- first applied to the refreshment on fast days that accompanied the reading of the collation in monasteries.,
C as in Collation (v. i.) To partake of a collation.,
C as in Collationer (n.) One who examines the sheets of a book that has just been printed, to ascertain whether they are correctly printed, paged, etc.,
C as in Collatitious (a.) Brought together; contributed; done by contributions.,
C as in Collative (a.) Passing or held by collation; -- said of livings of which the bishop and the patron are the same person.,
C as in Collator (n.) One who collates manuscripts, books, etc.,
C as in Collator (n.) One who collates to a benefice.,
C as in Collator (n.) One who confers any benefit.,
C as in Collaud (v. t.) To join in praising.,
C as in Colleague (n.) A partner or associate in some civil or ecclesiastical office or employment. It is never used of partners in trade or manufactures.,
C as in Colleague (v.t & i.) To unite or associate with another or with others.,
C as in Colleagueship (n.) Partnership in office.,
C as in Collected (imp. & p. p.) of Collect,
C as in Collecting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Collect,
C as in Collect (v. t.) To gather into one body or place; to assemble or bring together; to obtain by gathering.,
C as in Collect (v. t.) To demand and obtain payment of, as an account, or other indebtedness; as, to collect taxes.,
C as in Collect (v. t.) To infer from observed facts; to conclude from premises.,
C as in Collect (v. i.) To assemble together; as, the people collected in a crowd; to accumulate; as, snow collects in banks.,
C as in Collect (v. i.) To infer; to conclude.,
C as in Collect (v. t.) A short, comprehensive prayer, adapted to a particular day, occasion, or condition, and forming part of a liturgy.,
C as in Collectanea (v. t.) Passages selected from various authors, usually for purposes of instruction; miscellany; anthology.,
C as in Collected (a.) Gathered together.,
C as in Collected (a.) Self-possessed; calm; composed.,
C as in Collectedly (adv.) Composedly; coolly.,
C as in Collectedness (n.) A collected state of the mind; self-possession.,
C as in Collectible (a.) Capable of being collected.,
C as in Collection (n.) The act or process of collecting or of gathering; as, the collection of specimens.,
C as in Collection (n.) That which is collected,
C as in Collection (n.) A gathering or assemblage of objects or of persons.,
C as in Collection (n.) A gathering of money for charitable or other purposes, as by passing a contribution box for freewill offerings.,
C as in Collection (n.) That which is obtained in payment of demands.,
C as in Collection (n.) An accumulation of any substance.,
C as in Collection (n.) The act of inferring or concluding from premises or observed facts; also, that which is inferred.,
C as in Collection (n.) The jurisdiction of a collector of excise.,
C as in Collectional (a.) Of or pertaining to collecting.,
C as in Collective (a.) Formed by gathering or collecting; gathered into a mass, sum, or body; congregated or aggregated; as, the collective body of a nation.,
C as in Collective (a.) Deducing consequences; reasoning; inferring.,
C as in Collective (a.) Expressing a collection or aggregate of individuals, by a singular form; as, a collective name or noun, like assembly, army, jury, etc.,
C as in Collective (a.) Tending to collect; forming a collection.,
C as in Collective (a.) Having plurality of origin or authority; as, in diplomacy, a note signed by the representatives of several governments is called a collective note.,
C as in Collective (n.) A collective noun or name.,
C as in Collectively (adv.) In a mass, or body; in a collected state; in the aggregate; unitedly.,
C as in Collectiveness (n.) A state of union; mass.,
C as in Collectivism (n.) The doctrine that land and capital should be owned by society collectively or as a whole; communism.,
C as in Collectivist (n.) An advocate of collectivism.,
C as in Collectivist (a.) Relating to, or characteristic of, collectivism.,
C as in Collector (n.) One who collects things which are separate; esp., one who makes a business or practice of collecting works of art, objects in natural history, etc.; as, a collector of coins.,
C as in Collector (n.) A compiler of books; one who collects scattered passages and puts them together in one book.,
C as in Collector (n.) An officer appointed and commissioned to collect and receive customs, duties, taxes, or toll.,
C as in Collector (n.) One authorized to collect debts.,
C as in Collector (n.) A bachelor of arts in Oxford, formerly appointed to superintend some scholastic proceedings in Lent.,
C as in Collectorate (n.) The district of a collector of customs; a collectorship.,
C as in Collectorship (n.) The office of a collector of customs or of taxes.,
C as in Collegatary (n.) A joint legatee.,
C as in College (n.) A collection, body, or society of persons engaged in common pursuits, or having common duties and interests, and sometimes, by charter, peculiar rights and privileges; as, a college of heralds; a college of electors; a college of bishops.,
C as in College (n.) A society of scholars or friends of learning, incorporated for study or instruction, esp. in the higher branches of knowledge; as, the colleges of Oxford and Cambridge Universities, and many American colleges.,
C as in College (n.) A building, or number of buildings, used by a college.,
C as in College (n.) Fig.: A community.,
C as in Collegial (n.) Collegiate.,
C as in Collegian (n.) A member of a college, particularly of a literary institution so called; a student in a college.,
C as in Collegiate (a.) Of or pertaining to a college; as, collegiate studies; a collegiate society.,
C as in Collegiate (n.) A member of a college.,
C as in Collembola (n. pl.) The division of Thysanura which includes Podura, and allied forms.,
C as in Collenchyma (n.) A tissue of vegetable cells which are thickend at the angles and (usually) elongated.,
C as in Collet (n.) A small collar or neckband.,
C as in Collet (n.) A small metal ring; a small collar fastened on an arbor; as, the collet on the balance arbor of a watch; a small socket on a stem, for holding a drill.,
C as in Collet (n.) The part of a ring containing the bezel in which the stone is set.,
C as in Collet (n.) The flat table at the base of a brilliant. See Illust. of Brilliant.,
C as in Colleterial (a.) Of or pertaining to the colleterium of insects.,
C as in Colleterium (n.) An organ of female insects, containing a cement to unite the ejected ova.,
C as in Colletic (a.) Agglutinant.,
C as in Colletic (n.) An agglutinant.,
C as in Colley (n.) See Collie.,
C as in Collide (v. i.) To strike or dash against each other; to come into collision; to clash; as, the vessels collided; their interests collided.,
C as in Collide (v. t.) To strike or dash against.,
C as in Collidine (n.) One of a class of organic bases, C8H11N, usually pungent oily liquids, belonging to the pyridine series, and obtained from bone oil, coal tar, naphtha, and certain alkaloids.,
C as in Collie (n.) The Scotch shepherd dog. There are two breeds, the rough-haired and smooth-haired. It is remarkable for its intelligence, displayed especially in caring for flocks.,
C as in Collied (p. & a.) Darkened. See Colly, v. t.,
C as in Collier (n.) One engaged in the business of digging mineral coal or making charcoal, or in transporting or dealing in coal.,
C as in Collier (n.) A vessel employed in the coal trade.,
C as in Collieries (pl. ) of Colliery,
C as in Colliery (n.) The place where coal is dug; a coal mine, and the buildings, etc., belonging to it.,
C as in Colliery (n.) The coal trade.,
C as in Colliflower (n.) See Cauliflower.,
C as in Colligated (imp. & p. p.) of Colligate,
C as in Colligating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Colligate,
C as in Colligate (v. t.) To tie or bind together.,
C as in Colligate (v. t.) To bring together by colligation; to sum up in a single proposition.,
C as in Colligate (a.) Bound together.,
C as in Colligation (n.) A binding together.,
C as in Colligation (n.) That process by which a number of isolated facts are brought under one conception, or summed up in a general proposition, as when Kepler discovered that the various observed positions of the planet Mars were points in an ellipse.,
C as in Collimated (imp. & p. p.) of Collimate,
C as in Collimating (p. p. & vb. n.) of Collimate,
C as in Collimate (v. t.) To render parallel to a certain line or direction; to bring into the same line, as the axes of telescopes, etc.; to render parallel, as rays of light.,
C as in Collimation (n.) The act of collimating; the adjustment of the line of the sights, as the axial line of the telescope of an instrument, into its proper position relative to the other parts of the instrument.,
C as in Collimator (n.) A telescope arranged and used to determine errors of collimation, both vertical and horizontal.,
C as in Collimator (n.) A tube having a convex lens at one end and at the other a small opening or slit which is at the principal focus of the lens, used for producing a beam of parallel rays; also, a lens so used.,
C as in Collin (n.) A very pure form of gelatin.,
C as in Colline (n.) A small hill or mount.,
C as in Collineation (n.) The act of aiming at, or directing in a line with, a fixed object.,
C as in Colling (v. t.) An embrace; dalliance.,
C as in Collingly (adv.) With embraces.,
C as in Collingual (a.) Having, or pertaining to, the same language.,
C as in Colliquable (a.) Liable to melt, grow soft, or become fluid.,
C as in Colliquament (n.) The first rudiments of an embryo in generation.,
C as in Colliquated (imp. & p. p.) of Colliquate,
C as in Colliquating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Colliquate,
C as in Colliquate (v. t. & i.) To change from solid to fluid; to make or become liquid; to melt.,
C as in Colliquation (n.) A melting together; the act of melting; fusion.,
C as in Colliquation (n.) A processive wasting or melting away of the solid parts of the animal system with copious excretions of liquids by one or more passages.,
C as in Colliquative (a.) Causing rapid waste or exhaustion; melting; as, colliquative sweats.,
C as in Colliquefaction (n.) A melting together; the reduction of different bodies into one mass by fusion.,
C as in Collish (n.) A tool to polish the edge of a sole.,
C as in Collision (n.) The act of striking together; a striking together, as of two hard bodies; a violent meeting, as of railroad trains; a clashing.,
C as in Collision (n.) A state of opposition; antagonism; interference.,
C as in Collisive (a.) Colliding; clashing.,
C as in Collitigant (a.) Disputing or wrangling.,
C as in Collitigant (n.) One who litigates or wrangles.,
C as in Collocate (a.) Set; placed.,
C as in Collocated (imp. & p. p.) of Collocate,
C as in Collocating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Collocate,
C as in Collocate (v. t.) To set or place; to set; to station.,
C as in Collocation (n.) The act of placing; the state of being placed with something else; disposition in place; arrangement.,
C as in Collocution (n.) A speaking or conversing together; conference; mutual discourse.,
C as in Collocutor (n.) One of the speakers in a dialogue.,
C as in Collodion (n.) A solution of pyroxylin (soluble gun cotton) in ether containing a varying proportion of alcohol. It is strongly adhesive, and is used by surgeons as a coating for wounds; but its chief application is as a vehicle for the sensitive film in photography.,
C as in Collodionize (v. t.) To prepare or treat with collodion.,
C as in Collodiotype (n.) A picture obtained by the collodion process; a melanotype or ambrotype.,
C as in Collodium (n.) See Collodion.,
C as in Collogue (v. i.) To talk or confer secretly and confidentially; to converse, especially with evil intentions; to plot mischief.,
C as in Colloid (a.) Resembling glue or jelly; characterized by a jellylike appearance; gelatinous; as, colloid tumors.,
C as in Colloid (n.) A substance (as albumin, gum, gelatin, etc.) which is of a gelatinous rather than a crystalline nature, and which diffuses itself through animal membranes or vegetable parchment more slowly than crystalloids do; -- opposed to crystalloid.,
C as in Colloid (n.) A gelatinous substance found in colloid degeneration and colloid cancer.,
C as in Colloidal (a.) Pertaining to, or of the nature of, colloids.,
C as in Colloidality (n.) The state or quality of being colloidal.,
C as in Collop (n.) A small slice of meat; a piece of flesh.,
C as in Collop (n.) A part or piece of anything; a portion.,
C as in Colloped (a.) Having ridges or bunches of flesh, like collops.,
C as in Collophore (n.) A suckerlike organ at the base of the abdomen of insects belonging to the Collembola.,
C as in Collophore (n.) An adhesive marginal organ of the Lucernariae.,
C as in Colloquial (a.) Pertaining to, or used in, conversation, esp. common and familiar conversation; conversational; hence, unstudied; informal; as, colloquial intercourse; colloquial phrases; a colloquial style.,
C as in Colloquialism (n.) A colloquial expression, not employed in formal discourse or writing.,
C as in Colloquialize (v. t.) To make colloquial and familiar; as, to colloquialize one's style of writing.,
C as in Colloquist (n.) A speaker in a colloquy or dialogue.,
C as in Colloquies (pl. ) of Colloquy,
C as in Colloquy (n.) Mutual discourse of two or more persons; conference; conversation.,
C as in Colloquy (n.) In some American colleges, a part in exhibitions, assigned for a certain scholarship rank; a designation of rank in collegiate scholarship.,
C as in Collow (n.) Soot; smut. See 1st Colly.,
C as in Colluctancy (n.) A struggling to resist; a striving against; resistance; opposition of nature.,
C as in Colluctation (n.) A struggling; a contention.,
C as in Colluded (imp. & p. p.) of Collude,
C as in Colluding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Collude,
C as in Collude (v. i.) To have secretly a joint part or share in an action; to play into each other's hands; to conspire; to act in concert.,
C as in Colluder (n.) One who conspires in a fraud.,
C as in Colla (pl. ) of Collum,
C as in Collum (n.) A neck or cervix.,
C as in Collum (n.) Same as Collar.,
C as in Collusion (n.) A secret agreement and cooperation for a fraudulent or deceitful purpose; a playing into each other's hands; deceit; fraud; cunning.,
C as in Collusion (n.) An agreement between two or more persons to defraud a person of his rights, by the forms of law, or to obtain an object forbidden by law.,
C as in Collusive (a.) Characterized by collusion; done or planned in collusion.,
C as in Collusive (a.) Acting in collusion.,
C as in Collusory (a.) Collusive.,
C as in Collutory (n.) A medicated wash for the mouth.,
C as in Colly (n.) The black grime or soot of coal.,
C as in Collied (imp. & p. p.) of Colly,
C as in Collying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Colly,
C as in Colly (v. t.) To render black or dark, as of with coal smut; to begrime.,
C as in Colly (n.) A kind of dog. See Collie.,
C as in Collybist (n.) A money changer.,
C as in Collyriums (pl. ) of Collyrium,
C as in Collyria (pl. ) of Collyrium,
C as in Collyrium (n.) An application to the eye, usually an eyewater.,
C as in Colocolo (n.) A South American wild cat (Felis colocolo), of the size of the ocelot.,
C as in Colocynth (n.) The light spongy pulp of the fruit of the bitter cucumber (Citrullus, / Cucumis, colocynthis), an Asiatic plant allied to the watermelon; coloquintida. It comes in white balls, is intensely bitter, and a powerful cathartic. Called also bitter apple, bitter cucumber, bitter gourd.,
C as in Colocynthin (n.) The active medicinal principle of colocynth; a bitter, yellow, crystalline substance, regarded as a glucoside.,
C as in Cologne (n.) A perfumed liquid, composed of alcohol and certain aromatic oils, used in the toilet; -- called also cologne water and eau de cologne.,
C as in Cologne earth () An earth of a deep brown color, containing more vegetable than mineral matter; an earthy variety of lignite, or brown coal.,
C as in Colombier (n.) A large size of paper for drawings. See under Paper.,
C as in Colombin (n.) See Calumbin.,
C as in Colombo (n.) See Calumba.,
C as in Colon (n.) That part of the large intestines which extends from the caecum to the rectum. [See Illust of Digestion.],
C as in Colon (n.) A point or character, formed thus [:], used to separate parts of a sentence that are complete in themselves and nearly independent, often taking the place of a conjunction.,
C as in Colonel (n.) The chief officer of a regiment; an officer ranking next above a lieutenant colonel and next below a brigadier general.,
C as in Colonelcy (n.) The office, rank, or commission of a colonel.,
C as in Colonelship (n.) Colonelcy.,
C as in Coloner (n.) A colonist.,
C as in Colonial (a.) Of or pertaining to a colony; as, colonial rights, traffic, wars.,
C as in Colonical (a.) Of or pertaining to husbandmen.,
C as in Colonist (n.) A member or inhabitant of a colony.,
C as in Colonitis (n.) See Colitis.,
C as in Colonization (n.) The act of colonizing, or the state of being colonized; the formation of a colony or colonies.,
C as in Colonizationist (n.) A friend to colonization, esp. (U. S. Hist) to the colonization of Africa by emigrants from the colored population of the United States.,
C as in Colonized (imp. & p. p.) of Colonize,
C as in Colonizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Colonize,
C as in Colonize (v. t.) To plant or establish a colony or colonies in; to people with colonists; to migrate to and settle in.,
C as in Colonize (v. i.) To remove to, and settle in, a distant country; to make a colony.,
C as in Colonizer (n.) One who promotes or establishes a colony; a colonist.,
C as in Colonnade (n.) A series or range of columns placed at regular intervals with all the adjuncts, as entablature, stylobate, roof, etc.,
C as in Colonies (pl. ) of Colony,
C as in Colony (n.) A company of people transplanted from their mother country to a remote province or country, and remaining subject to the jurisdiction of the parent state; as, the British colonies in America.,
C as in Colony (n.) The district or country colonized; a settlement.,
C as in Colony (n.) A company of persons from the same country sojourning in a foreign city or land; as, the American colony in Paris.,
C as in Colony (n.) A number of animals or plants living or growing together, beyond their usual range.,
C as in Colophany (n.) See Colophony.,
C as in Colophene (n.) A colorless, oily liquid, formerly obtained by distillation of colophony. It is regarded as a polymeric form of terebenthene. Called also diterebene.,
C as in Colophon (n.) An inscription, monogram, or cipher, containing the place and date of publication, printer's name, etc., formerly placed on the last page of a book.,
C as in Colophonite (n.) A coarsely granular variety of garnet.,
C as in Colophony (n.) Rosin.,
C as in Coloquintida (n.) See Colocynth.,
C as in Color (n.) A property depending on the relations of light to the eye, by which individual and specific differences in the hues and tints of objects are apprehended in vision; as, gay colors; sad colors, etc.,
C as in Color (n.) Any hue distinguished from white or black.,
C as in Color (n.) The hue or color characteristic of good health and spirits; ruddy complexion.,
C as in Color (n.) That which is used to give color; a paint; a pigment; as, oil colors or water colors.,
C as in Color (n.) That which covers or hides the real character of anything; semblance; excuse; disguise; appearance.,
C as in Color (n.) Shade or variety of character; kind; species.,
C as in Color (n.) A distinguishing badge, as a flag or similar symbol (usually in the plural); as, the colors or color of a ship or regiment; the colors of a race horse (that is, of the cap and jacket worn by the jockey).,
C as in Color (n.) An apparent right; as where the defendant in trespass gave to the plaintiff an appearance of title, by stating his title specially, thus removing the cause from the jury to the court.,
C as in Colored (imp. & p. p.) of Color,
C as in Coloring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Color,
C as in Color (v. t.) To change or alter the hue or tint of, by dyeing, staining, painting, etc.; to dye; to tinge; to paint; to stain.,
C as in Color (v. t.) To change or alter, as if by dyeing or painting; to give a false appearance to; usually, to give a specious appearance to; to cause to appear attractive; to make plausible; to palliate or excuse; as, the facts were colored by his prejudices.,
C as in Color (v. t.) To hide.,
C as in Color (v. i.) To acquire color; to turn red, especially in the face; to blush.,
C as in Colorable (a.) Specious; plausible; having an appearance of right or justice.,
C as in Colorado beetle () A yellowish beetle (Doryphora decemlineata), with ten longitudinal, black, dorsal stripes. It has migrated eastwards from its original habitat in Colorado, and is very destructive to the potato plant; -- called also potato beetle and potato bug. See Potato beetle.,
C as in Colorado group () A subdivision of the cretaceous formation of western North America, especially developed in Colorado and the upper Missouri region.,
C as in Coloradoite (n.) Mercury telluride, an iron-black metallic mineral, found in Colorado.,
C as in Colorate (a.) Colored.,
C as in Coloration (n.) The act or art of coloring; the state of being colored.,
C as in Colorature (n.) Vocal music colored, as it were, by florid ornaments, runs, or rapid passages.,
C as in Color-blind (a.) Affected with color blindness. See Color blindness, under Color, n.,
C as in Colored (a.) Having color; tinged; dyed; painted; stained.,
C as in Colored (a.) Specious; plausible; adorned so as to appear well; as, a highly colored description.,
C as in Colored (a.) Of some other color than black or white.,
C as in Colored (a.) Of some other color than white; specifically applied to negroes or persons having negro blood; as, a colored man; the colored people.,
C as in Colored (a.) Of some other color than green.,
C as in Colorific (a.) Capable of communicating color or tint to other bodies.,
C as in Colorimeter (n.) An instrument for measuring the depth of the color of anything, especially of a liquid, by comparison with a standard liquid.,
C as in Coloring (n.) The act of applying color to; also, that which produces color.,
C as in Coloring (n.) Change of appearance as by addition of color; appearance; show; disguise; misrepresentation.,
C as in Colorist (n.) One who colors; an artist who excels in the use of colors; one to whom coloring is of prime importance.,
C as in Colorless (a.) Without color; not distinguished by any hue; transparent; as, colorless water.,
C as in Colorless (a.) Free from any manifestation of partial or peculiar sentiment or feeling; not disclosing likes, dislikes, prejudice, etc.; as, colorless music; a colorless style; definitions should be colorless.,
C as in Colormen (pl. ) of Colorman,
C as in Colorman (n.) A vender of paints, etc.,
C as in Color sergeant () See under Sergeant.,
C as in Colossal (a.) Of enormous size; gigantic; huge; as, a colossal statue.,
C as in Colossal (a.) Of a size larger than heroic. See Heroic.,
C as in Colossean (a.) Colossal.,
C as in Colosseum (n.) The amphitheater of Vespasian in Rome.,
C as in Colossi (pl. ) of Colossus,
C as in Colossuses (pl. ) of Colossus,
C as in Colossus (n.) A statue of gigantic size. The name was especially applied to certain famous statues in antiquity, as the Colossus of Nero in Rome, the Colossus of Apollo at Rhodes.,
C as in Colossus (n.) Any man or beast of gigantic size.,
C as in Colostrum (n.) The first milk secreted after delivery; biestings.,
C as in Colostrum (n.) A mixture of turpentine and the yolk of an egg, formerly used as an emulsion.,
C as in Colotomy (n.) An operation for opening the colon,
C as in Colour (n.) See Color.,
C as in Colp (n.) See Collop.,
C as in Colportage (n.) The distribution of religious books, tracts, etc., by colporteurs.,
C as in Colporter (n.) Same as Colporteur.,
C as in Colporteur (n.) A hawker; specifically, one who travels about selling and distributing religious tracts and books.,
C as in Colstaff (n.) A staff by means of which a burden is borne by two persons on their shoulders.,
C as in Colt (n.) The young of the equine genus or horse kind of animals; -- sometimes distinctively applied to the male, filly being the female. Cf. Foal.,
C as in Colt (n.) A young, foolish fellow.,
C as in Colt (n.) A short knotted rope formerly used as an instrument of punishment in the navy.,
C as in Colt (v. i.) To frisk or frolic like a colt; to act licentiously or wantonly.,
C as in Colt (v. t.) To horse; to get with young.,
C as in Colt (v. t.) To befool.,
C as in Colter (n.) A knife or cutter, attached to the beam of a plow to cut the sward, in advance of the plowshare and moldboard.,
C as in Coltish (a.) Like a colt; wanton; frisky.,
C as in Coltsfoot (n.) A perennial herb (Tussilago Farfara), whose leaves and rootstock are sometimes employed in medicine.,
C as in Colt's tooth () See under Colt.,
C as in Coluber (n.) A genus of harmless serpents.,
C as in Colubrine (a.) like or related to snakes of the genus Coluber.,
C as in Colubrine (a.) Like a snake; cunning; crafty.,
C as in Colugo (n.) A peculiar East Indian mammal (Galleopithecus volans), having along the sides, connecting the fore and hind limbs, a parachutelike membrane, by means of which it is able to make long leaps, like the flying squirrel; -- called also flying lemur.,
C as in Columba (n.) See Calumba.,
C as in Columbae (n. pl.) An order of birds, including the pigeons.,
C as in Columbaria (pl. ) of Columbarium,
C as in Columbarium (n.) A dovecote or pigeon house.,
C as in Columbarium (n.) A sepulchral chamber with niches for holding cinerary urns.,
C as in Columbaries (pl. ) of Columbary,
C as in Columbary (n.) A dovecote; a pigeon house.,
C as in Columbate (n.) A salt of columbic acid; a niobate. See Columbium.,
C as in Columbatz fly () See Buffalo fly, under Buffalo.,
C as in Columbella (n.) A genus of univalve shells, abundant in tropical seas. Some species, as Columbella mercatoria, were formerly used as shell money.,
C as in Columbia (n.) America; the United States; -- a poetical appellation given in honor of Columbus, the discoverer.,
C as in Columbiad (n.) A form of seacoast cannon; a long, chambered gun designed for throwing shot or shells with heavy charges of powder, at high angles of elevation.,
C as in Columbian (a.) Of or pertaining to the United States, or to America.,
C as in Columbic (a.) Pertaining to, or containing, columbium or niobium; niobic.,
C as in Columbic (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, the columbo root.,
C as in Columbier (n.) See Colombier.,
C as in Columbiferous (a.) Producing or containing columbium.,
C as in Columbin (n.) A white, crystalline, bitter substance. See Calumbin.,
C as in Columbine (a.) Of or pertaining to a dove; dovelike; dove-colored.,
C as in Columbine (n.) A plant of several species of the genus Aquilegia; as, A. vulgaris, or the common garden columbine; A. Canadensis, the wild red columbine of North America.,
C as in Columbine (n.) The mistress or sweetheart of Harlequin in pantomimes.,
C as in Columbite (n.) A mineral of a black color, submetallic luster, and high specific specific gravity. It is a niobate (or columbate) of iron and manganese, containing tantalate of iron; -- first found in New England.,
C as in Columbium (n.) A rare element of the vanadium group, first found in a variety of the mineral columbite occurring in Connecticut, probably at Haddam. Atomic weight 94.2. Symbol Cb or Nb. Now more commonly called niobium.,
C as in Columbo (n.) See Calumba.,
C as in Columella (n.) An axis to which a carpel of a compound pistil may be attached, as in the case of the geranium; or which is left when a pod opens.,
C as in Columella (n.) A columnlike axis in the capsules of mosses.,
C as in Columella (n.) A term applied to various columnlike parts; as, the columella, or epipterygoid bone, in the skull of many lizards; the columella of the ear, the bony or cartilaginous rod connecting the tympanic membrane with the internal ear.,
C as in Columella (n.) The upright pillar in the axis of most univalve shells.,
C as in Columella (n.) The central pillar or axis of the calicles of certain corals.,
C as in Columelliform (a.) Shaped like a little column, or columella.,
C as in Column (n.) A kind of pillar; a cylindrical or polygonal support for a roof, ceiling, statue, etc., somewhat ornamented, and usually composed of base, shaft, and capital. See Order.,
C as in Column (n.) Anything resembling, in form or position, a column in architecture; an upright body or mass; a shaft or obelisk; as, a column of air, of water, of mercury, etc.; the Column Vendome; the spinal column.,
C as in Column (n.) A body of troops formed in ranks, one behind the other; -- contradistinguished from line. Compare Ploy, and Deploy.,
C as in Column (n.) A small army.,
C as in Column (n.) A number of ships so arranged as to follow one another in single or double file or in squadrons; -- in distinction from "line", where they are side by side.,
C as in Column (n.) A perpendicular set of lines, not extending across the page, and separated from other matter by a rule or blank space; as, a column in a newspaper.,
C as in Column (n.) A perpendicular line of figures.,
C as in Column (n.) The body formed by the union of the stamens in the Mallow family, or of the stamens and pistil in the orchids.,
C as in Columnar (a.) Formed in columns; having the form of a column or columns; like the shaft of a column.,
C as in Columnarity (n.) The state or quality of being columnar.,
C as in Columnated (a.) Having columns; as, columnated temples.,
C as in Columned (a.) Having columns.,
C as in Columniation (n.) The employment or arrangement of columns in a structure.,
C as in Colures (pl. ) of Colure,
C as in Colure (n.) One of two great circles intersecting at right angles in the poles of the equator. One of them passes through the equinoctial points, and hence is denominated the equinoctial colure; the other intersects the equator at the distance of 90 from the former, and is called the solstitial colure.,
C as in Colies (pl. ) of Coly,
C as in Coly (n.) Any bird of the genus Colius and allied genera. They inhabit Africa.,
C as in Colza (n.) A variety of cabbage (Brassica oleracea), cultivated for its seeds, which yield an oil valued for illuminating and lubricating purposes; summer rape.,
C as in Com- () A prefix from the Latin preposition cum, signifying with, together, in conjunction, very, etc. It is used in the form com- before b, m, p, and sometimes f, and by assimilation becomes col- before l, cor- before r, and con- before any consonant except b, h, l, m, p, r, and w. Before a vowel com- becomes co-; also before h, w, and sometimes before other consonants.,
C as in Coma (n.) A state of profound insensibility from which it is difficult or impossible to rouse a person. See Carus.,
C as in Coma (n.) The envelope of a comet; a nebulous covering, which surrounds the nucleus or body of a comet.,
C as in Coma (n.) A tuft or bunch, -- as the assemblage of branches forming the head of a tree; or a cluster of bracts when empty and terminating the inflorescence of a plant; or a tuft of long hairs on certain seeds.,
C as in Comanches (n. pl.) A warlike, savage, and nomadic tribe of the Shoshone family of Indians, inhabiting Mexico and the adjacent parts of the United States; -- called also Paducahs. They are noted for plundering and cruelty.,
C as in Comart (n.) A covenant.,
C as in Comate (a.) Encompassed with a coma, or bushy appearance, like hair; hairy.,
C as in Co-mate (n.) A companion.,
C as in Comatose (a.) Relating to, or resembling, coma; drowsy; lethargic; as, comatose sleep; comatose fever.,
C as in Comatous (a.) Comatose.,
C as in Comatula (n.) A crinoid of the genus Antedon and related genera. When young they are fixed by a stem. When adult they become detached and cling to seaweeds, etc., by their dorsal cirri; -- called also feather stars.,
C as in Comatulid (n.) Any crinoid of the genus Antedon or allied genera.,
C as in Comb (n.) An instrument with teeth, for straightening, cleansing, and adjusting the hair, or for keeping it in place.,
C as in Comb (n.) An instrument for currying hairy animals, or cleansing and smoothing their coats; a currycomb.,
C as in Comb (n.) A toothed instrument used for separating and cleansing wool, flax, hair, etc.,
C as in Comb (n.) The serrated vibratory doffing knife of a carding machine.,
C as in Comb (n.) A former, commonly cone-shaped, used in hat manufacturing for hardening the soft fiber into a bat.,
C as in Comb (n.) A tool with teeth, used for chasing screws on work in a lathe; a chaser.,
C as in Comb (n.) The notched scale of a wire micrometer.,
C as in Comb (n.) The collector of an electrical machine, usually resembling a comb.,
C as in Comb (n.) The naked fleshy crest or caruncle on the upper part of the bill or hood of a cock or other bird. It is usually red.,
C as in Comb (n.) One of a pair of peculiar organs on the base of the abdomen of scorpions.,
C as in Comb (n.) The curling crest of a wave.,
C as in Comb (n.) The waxen framework forming the walls of the cells in which bees store their honey, eggs, etc.; honeycomb.,
C as in Comb (n.) The thumbpiece of the hammer of a gunlock, by which it may be cocked.,
C as in Combed (imp. & p. p.) of Comb,
C as in Combing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Comb,
C as in Comb (v. t.) To disentangle, cleanse, or adjust, with a comb; to lay smooth and straight with, or as with, a comb; as, to comb hair or wool. See under Combing.,
C as in Comb (n.) To roll over, as the top or crest of a wave; to break with a white foam, as waves.,
C as in Comb (n.) Alt. of Combe,
C as in Combe (n.) That unwatered portion of a valley which forms its continuation beyond and above the most elevated spring that issues into it.,
C as in Comb (n.) A dry measure. See Coomb.,
C as in Combated (imp. & p. p.) of Combat,
C as in Combating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Combat,
C as in Combat (v. i.) To struggle or contend, as with an opposing force; to fight.,
C as in Combat (v. t.) To fight with; to oppose by force, argument, etc.; to contend against; to resist.,
C as in Combat (n.) A fight; a contest of violence; a struggle for supremacy.,
C as in Combat (n.) An engagement of no great magnitude; or one in which the parties engaged are not armies.,
C as in Combatable (a.) Such as can be, or is liable to be, combated; as, combatable foes, evils, or arguments.,
C as in Combatant (a.) Contending; disposed to contend.,
C as in Combatant (n.) One who engages in combat.,
C as in Combater (n.) One who combats.,
C as in Combative (a.) Disposed to engage in combat; pugnacious.,
C as in Combativeness (n.) The quality of being combative; propensity to contend or to quarrel.,
C as in Combativeness (n.) A cranial development supposed to indicate a combative disposition.,
C as in Combattant (a.) In the position of fighting; -- said of two lions set face to face, each rampant.,
C as in Combbroach (n.) A tooth of a wool comb.,
C as in Combe (n.) See Comb.,
C as in Comber (n.) One who combs; one whose occupation it is to comb wool, flax, etc. Also, a machine for combing wool, flax, etc.,
C as in Comber (n.) A long, curling wave.,
C as in Comber (v. t.) To cumber.,
C as in Comber (n.) Encumbrance.,
C as in Comber (n.) The cabrilla. Also, a name applied to a species of wrasse.,
C as in Combinable (a.) Capable of combining; consistent with.,
C as in Combinate (a.) United; joined; betrothed.,
C as in Combination (n.) The act or process of combining or uniting persons and things.,
C as in Combination (n.) The result of combining or uniting; union of persons or things; esp. a union or alliance of persons or states to effect some purpose; -- usually in a bad sense.,
C as in Combination (n.) The act or process of uniting by chemical affinity, by which substances unite with each other in definite proportions by weight to form distinct compounds.,
C as in Combination (n.) The different arrangements of a number of objects, as letters, into groups.,
C as in Combined (imp. & p. p.) of Combine,
C as in Combining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Combine,
C as in Combine (v. t.) To unite or join; to link closely together; to bring into harmonious union; to cause or unite so as to form a homogeneous substance, as by chemical union.,
C as in Combine (v. t.) To bind; to hold by a moral tie.,
C as in Combine (v. i.) To form a union; to agree; to coalesce; to confederate.,
C as in Combine (v. i.) To unite by affinity or natural attraction; as, two substances, which will not combine of themselves, may be made to combine by the intervention of a third.,
C as in Combine (v. i.) In the game of casino, to play a card which will take two or more cards whose aggregate number of pips equals those of the card played.,
C as in Combined (a.) United closely; confederated; chemically united.,
C as in Combinedly (adv. In combination or cooperation) ; jointly.,
C as in Combiner (n.) One who, or that which, combines.,
C as in Combing (n.) The act or process of using a comb or a number of combs; as, the combing of one's hair; the combing of wool.,
C as in Combing (n.) That which is caught or collected with a comb, as loose, tangled hair.,
C as in Combing (n.) Hair arranged to be worn on the head.,
C as in Combing (n.) See Coamings.,
C as in Combless (a.) Without a comb or crest; as, a combless cock.,
C as in Comboloio (n.) A Mohammedan rosary, consisting of ninety-nine beads.,
C as in Comb-shaped (a.) Pectinate.,
C as in Combust (a.) Burnt; consumed.,
C as in Combust (a.) So near the sun as to be obscured or eclipsed by his light, as the moon or planets when not more than eight degrees and a half from the sun.,
C as in Combustibility (n.) The quality of being combustible.,
C as in Combustible (a.) Capable of taking fire and burning; apt to catch fire; inflammable.,
C as in Combustible (a.) Easily kindled or excited; quick; fiery; irascible.,
C as in Combustible (n.) A substance that may be set on fire, or which is liable to take fire and burn.,
C as in Combustibleness (n.) Combustibility.,
C as in Combustion (n.) The state of burning.,
C as in Combustion (n.) The combination of a combustible with a supporter of combustion, producing heat, and sometimes both light and heat.,
C as in Combustion (n.) Violent agitation; confusion; tumult.,
C as in Combustious (a.) Inflammable.,
C as in Came (imp.) of Come,
C as in Come (p. p.) of Come,
C as in Coming (p. pr & vb. n.) of Come,
C as in Come (n.) To move hitherward; to draw near; to approach the speaker, or some place or person indicated; -- opposed to go.,
C as in Come (n.) To complete a movement toward a place; to arrive.,
C as in Come (n.) To approach or arrive, as if by a journey or from a distance.,
C as in Come (n.) To approach or arrive, as the result of a cause, or of the act of another.,
C as in Come (n.) To arrive in sight; to be manifest; to appear.,
C as in Come (n.) To get to be, as the result of change or progress; -- with a predicate; as, to come untied.,
C as in Come (v. t.) To carry through; to succeed in; as, you can't come any tricks here.,
C as in Come (n.) Coming.,
C as in Co-meddle (v. t.) To mix; to mingle, to temper.,
C as in Comedian (n.) An actor or player in comedy.,
C as in Comedian (n.) A writer of comedy.,
C as in Comedienne (n.) A women who plays in comedy.,
C as in Comedietta (n.) A dramatic sketch; a brief comedy.,
C as in Comedones (pl. ) of Comedo,
C as in Comedo (n.) A small nodule or cystic tumor, common on the nose, etc., which on pressure allows the escape of a yellow wormlike mass of retained oily secretion, with a black head (dirt).,
C as in Comedown (n.) A downfall; an humiliation.,
C as in Comedies (pl. ) of Comedy,
C as in Comedy (n.) A dramatic composition, or representation of a bright and amusing character, based upon the foibles of individuals, the manners of society, or the ludicrous events or accidents of life; a play in which mirth predominates and the termination of the plot is happy; -- opposed to tragedy.,
C as in Comelily (adv.) In a suitable or becoming manner.,
C as in Comeliness (n.) The quality or state of being comely.,
C as in Comely (superl.) Pleasing or agreeable to the sight; well-proportioned; good-looking; handsome.,
C as in Comely (superl.) Suitable or becoming; proper; agreeable.,
C as in Comely (adv.) In a becoming manner.,
C as in Come-outer (n.) One who comes out or withdraws from a religious or other organization; a radical reformer.,
C as in Comer (n.) One who comes, or who has come; one who has arrived, and is present.,
C as in Comes (n.) The answer to the theme (dux) in a fugue.,
C as in Comessation (n.) A reveling; a rioting.,
C as in Comestible (a.) Suitable to be eaten; eatable; esculent.,
C as in Comestible (n.) Something suitable to be eaten; -- commonly in the plural.,
C as in Comet (n.) A member of the solar system which usually moves in an elongated orbit, approaching very near to the sun in its perihelion, and receding to a very great distance from it at its aphelion. A comet commonly consists of three parts: the nucleus, the envelope, or coma, and the tail; but one or more of these parts is frequently wanting. See Illustration in Appendix.,
C as in Cometarium (n.) An instrument, intended to represent the revolution of a comet round the sun.,
C as in Cometary (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, a comet.,
C as in Comet-finder (n.) Alt. of Comet- seeker,
C as in Comet- seeker (n.) A telescope of low power, having a large field of view, used for finding comets.,
C as in Cometic (a.) Relating to a comet.,
C as in Cometographer (n.) One who describes or writes about comets.,
C as in Cometography (n.) A description of, or a treatise concerning, comets.,
C as in Cometology (n.) The department of astronomy relating to comets.,
C as in Comfit (n.) A dry sweetmeat; any kind of fruit, root, or seed preserved with sugar and dried; a confection.,
C as in Comfit (v. t.) To preserve dry with sugar.,
C as in Comfiture (n.) See Comfit, n.,
C as in Comforted (imp. & p. p.) of Comfort,
C as in Comforting. (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Comfort,
C as in Comfort (v. t.) To make strong; to invigorate; to fortify; to corroborate.,
C as in Comfort (v. t.) To assist or help; to aid.,
C as in Comfort (v. t.) To impart strength and hope to; to encourage; to relieve; to console; to cheer.,
C as in Comfort (n.) Assistance; relief; support.,
C as in Comfort (n.) Encouragement; solace; consolation in trouble; also, that which affords consolation.,
C as in Comfort (n.) A state of quiet enjoyment; freedom from pain, want, or anxiety; also, whatever contributes to such a condition.,
C as in Comfort (n.) A wadded bedquilt; a comfortable.,
C as in Comfort (n.) Unlawful support, countenance, or encouragement; as, to give aid and comfort to the enemy.,
C as in Comfortable (a.) Strong; vigorous; valiant.,
C as in Comfortable (a.) Serviceable; helpful.,
C as in Comfortable (a.) Affording or imparting comfort or consolation; able to comfort; cheering; as, a comfortable hope.,
C as in Comfortable (a.) In a condition of comfort; having comforts; not suffering or anxious; hence, contented; cheerful; as, to lead a comfortable life.,
C as in Comfortable (a.) Free, or comparatively free, from pain or distress; -- used of a sick person.,
C as in Comfortable (n.) A stuffed or quilted coverlet for a bed; a comforter; a comfort.,
C as in Comfortableness (n.) State of being comfortable.,
C as in Comfortably (adv.) In a comfortable or comforting manner.,
C as in Comforter (n.) One who administers comfort or consolation.,
C as in Comforter (n.) The Holy Spirit, -- referring to his office of comforting believers.,
C as in Comforter (n.) A knit woolen tippet, long and narrow.,
C as in Comforter (n.) A wadded bedquilt; a comfortable.,
C as in Comfortless (a.) Without comfort or comforts; in want or distress; cheerless.,
C as in Comfortment (n.) Act or process of administering comfort.,
C as in Comfortress (n.) A woman who comforts.,
C as in Comfrey (n.) A rough, hairy, perennial plant of several species, of the genus Symphytum.,
C as in Comic (a.) Relating to comedy, as distinct from tragedy.,
C as in Comic (a.) Causing mirth; ludicrous.,
C as in Comic (n.) A comedian.,
C as in Comical (a.) Relating to comedy.,
C as in Comical (a.) Exciting mirth; droll; laughable; as, a comical story.,
C as in Comicalities (pl. ) of Comicality,
C as in Comicality (n.) The quality of being comical; something comical.,
C as in Comicry (n.) The power of exciting mirth; comicalness.,
C as in Coming (a.) Approaching; of the future, especially the near future; the next; as, the coming week or year; the coming exhibition.,
C as in Coming (a.) Ready to come; complaisant; fond.,
C as in Coming (n.) Approach; advent; manifestation; as, the coming of the train.,
C as in Coming (n.) Specifically: The Second Advent of Christ.,
C as in Comitia (n. pl.) A public assembly of the Roman people for electing officers or passing laws.,
C as in Comitial (a.) Relating to the comitia, or popular assemblies of the Romans for electing officers and passing laws.,
C as in Comities (pl. ) of Comity,
C as in Comity (n.) Mildness and suavity of manners; courtesy between equals; friendly civility; as, comity of manners; the comity of States.,
C as in Comma (n.) A character or point [,] marking the smallest divisions of a sentence, written or printed.,
C as in Comma (n.) A small interval (the difference between a major and minor half step), seldom used except by tuners.,
C as in Commanded (imp. & p. p.) of Command,
C as in Commanding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Command,
C as in Command (v. t.) To order with authority; to lay injunction upon; to direct; to bid; to charge.,
C as in Command (v. t.) To exercise direct authority over; to have control of; to have at one's disposal; to lead.,
C as in Command (v. t.) To have within a sphere of control, influence, access, or vision; to dominate by position; to guard; to overlook.,
C as in Command (v. t.) To have power or influence of the nature of authority over; to obtain as if by ordering; to receive as a due; to challenge; to claim; as, justice commands the respect and affections of the people; the best goods command the best price.,
C as in Command (v. t.) To direct to come; to bestow.,
C as in Command (v. i.) To have or to exercise direct authority; to govern; to sway; to influence; to give an order or orders.,
C as in Command (v. i.) To have a view, as from a superior position.,
C as in Command (n.) An authoritative order requiring obedience; a mandate; an injunction.,
C as in Command (n.) The possession or exercise of authority.,
C as in Command (n.) Authority; power or right of control; leadership; as, the forces under his command.,
C as in Command (n.) Power to dominate, command, or overlook by means of position; scope of vision; survey.,
C as in Command (n.) Control; power over something; sway; influence; as, to have command over one's temper or voice; the fort has command of the bridge.,
C as in Command (n.) A body of troops, or any naval or military force or post, or the whole territory under the authority or control of a particular officer.,
C as in Commandable (a.) Capable of being commanded.,
C as in Commandant (n.) A commander; the commanding officer of a place, or of a body of men; as, the commandant of a navy-yard.,
C as in Commandatory (a.) Mandatory; as, commandatory authority.,
C as in Commander (n.) A chief; one who has supreme authority; a leader; the chief officer of an army, or of any division of it.,
C as in Commander (n.) An officer who ranks next below a captain, -- ranking with a lieutenant colonel in the army.,
C as in Commander (n.) The chief officer of a commandery.,
C as in Commander (n.) A heavy beetle or wooden mallet, used in paving, in sail lofts, etc.,
C as in Commandership (n.) The office of a commander.,
C as in Commanderies (pl. ) of Commandery,
C as in Commandery (n.) The office or rank of a commander.,
C as in Commandery (n.) A district or a manor with lands and tenements appertaining thereto, under the control of a member of an order of knights who was called a commander; -- called also a preceptory.,
C as in Commandery (n.) An assembly or lodge of Knights Templars (so called) among the Freemasons.,
C as in Commandery (n.) A district under the administration of a military commander or governor.,
C as in Commanding (a.) Exercising authority; actually in command; as, a commanding officer.,
C as in Commanding (a.) Fitted to impress or control; as, a commanding look or presence.,
C as in Commanding (a.) Exalted; overlooking; having superior strategic advantages; as, a commanding position.,
C as in Commandingly (adv.) In a commanding manner.,
C as in Commandment (n.) An order or injunction given by authority; a command; a charge; a precept; a mandate.,
C as in Commandment (n.) One of the ten laws or precepts given by God to the Israelites at Mount Sinai.,
C as in Commandment (n.) The act of commanding; exercise of authority.,
C as in Commandment (n.) The offense of commanding or inducing another to violate the law.,
C as in Commandress (n.) A woman invested with authority to command.,
C as in Commandry (n.) See Commandery.,
C as in Commark (n.) The frontier of a country; confines.,
C as in Commaterial (a.) Consisting of the same material.,
C as in Commatic (a.) Having short clauses or sentences; brief; concise.,
C as in Commatism (n.) Conciseness in writing.,
C as in Commeasurable (a.) Having the same measure; commensurate; proportional.,
C as in Commeasure (v. t.) To be commensurate with; to equal.,
C as in Commemorable (a.) Worthy to be commemorated.,
C as in Commemorated (imp. & p. p.) of Commemorate,
C as in Commemorating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Commemorate,
C as in Commemorate (v. t.) To call to remembrance by a special act or observance; to celebrate with honor and solemnity; to honor, as a person or event, by some act of respect or affection, intended to preserve the remembrance of the person or event; as, to commemorate the sufferings and dying love of our Savior by the sacrament of the Lord's Supper; to commemorate the Declaration of Independence by the observance of the Fourth of July.,
C as in Commemoration (n.) The act of commemorating; an observance or celebration designed to honor the memory of some person or event.,
C as in Commemoration (n.) Whatever serves the purpose of commemorating; a memorial.,
C as in Commemorative (a.) Tending or intended to commemorate.,
C as in Commemorator (n.) One who commemorates.,
C as in Commemoratory (a.) Serving to commemorate; commemorative.,
C as in Commenced (imp. & p. p.) of Commence,
C as in Commencing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Commence,
C as in Commence (v. i.) To have a beginning or origin; to originate; to start; to begin.,
C as in Commence (v. i.) To begin to be, or to act as.,
C as in Commence (v. i.) To take a degree at a university.,
C as in Commence (v. t.) To enter upon; to begin; to perform the first act of.,
C as in Commencement (n.) The first existence of anything; act or fact of commencing; rise; origin; beginning; start.,
C as in Commencement (n.) The day when degrees are conferred by colleges and universities upon students and others.,
C as in Commended (imp. & p. p.) of Commend,
C as in Commending (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Commend,
C as in Commend (v. t.) To commit, intrust, or give in charge for care or preservation.,
C as in Commend (v. t.) To recommend as worthy of confidence or regard; to present as worthy of notice or favorable attention.,
C as in Commend (v. t.) To mention with approbation; to praise; as, to commend a person or an act.,
C as in Commend (v. t.) To mention by way of courtesy, implying remembrance and good will.,
C as in Commend (n.) Commendation; praise.,
C as in Commend (n.) Compliments; greetings.,
C as in Commendable (a.) Worthy of being commended or praised; laudable; praiseworthy.,
C as in Commendam (n.) A vacant living or benefice commended to a cleric (usually a bishop) who enjoyed the revenue until a pastor was provided. A living so held was said to be held in commendam. The practice was abolished by law in 1836.,
C as in Commendatary (n.) One who holds a living in commendam.,
C as in Commendation (n.) The act of commending; praise; favorable representation in words; recommendation.,
C as in Commendation (n.) That which is the ground of approbation or praise.,
C as in Commendation (n.) A message of affection or respect; compliments; greeting.,
C as in Commendator (n.) One who holds a benefice in commendam; a commendatary.,
C as in Commendatory (a.) Serving to commend; containing praise or commendation; commending; praising.,
C as in Commendatory (a.) Holding a benefice in commendam; as, a commendatory bishop.,
C as in Commendatory (n.) A commendation; eulogy.,
C as in Commender (n.) One who commends or praises.,
C as in Commensal (n.) One who eats at the same table.,
C as in Commensal (n.) An animal, not truly parasitic, which lives in, with, or on, another, partaking usually of the same food. Both species may be benefited by the association.,
C as in Commensal (a.) Having the character of a commensal.,
C as in Commensalism (n.) The act of eating together; table fellowship.,
C as in Commensality (n.) Fellowship at table; the act or practice of eating at the same table.,
C as in Commensation (n.) Commensality.,
C as in Commensurability (n.) The quality of being commensurable.,
C as in Commensurable (a.) Having a common measure; capable of being exactly measured by the same number, quantity, or measure.,
C as in Commensurably (adv.) In a commensurable manner; so as to be commensurable.,
C as in Commensurated (imp. & p. p.) of Commensurate,
C as in Commensurating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Commensurate,
C as in Commensurate (v. t.) To reduce to a common measure.,
C as in Commensurate (v. t.) To proportionate; to adjust.,
C as in Commensurate (a.) Having a common measure; commensurable; reducible to a common measure; as, commensurate quantities.,
C as in Commensurate (a.) Equal in measure or extent; proportionate.,
C as in Commensurately (adv.) In a commensurate manner; so as to be equal or proportionate; adequately.,
C as in Commensurately (adv.) With equal measure or extent.,
C as in Commensurateness (n.) The state or quality of being commensurate.,
C as in Commensuration (n.) The act of commensurating; the state of being commensurate.,
C as in Commented (imp. & p. p.) of Comment,
C as in Commenting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Comment,
C as in Comment (v. i.) To make remarks, observations, or criticism; especially, to write notes on the works of an author, with a view to illustrate his meaning, or to explain particular passages; to write annotations; -- often followed by on or upon.,
C as in Comment (v. t.) To comment on.,
C as in Comment (n.) A remark, observation, or criticism; gossip; discourse; talk.,
C as in Comment (n.) A note or observation intended to explain, illustrate, or criticise the meaning of a writing, book, etc.; explanation; annotation; exposition.,
C as in Commentaries (pl. ) of Commentary,
C as in Commentary (v. i.) A series of comments or annotations; esp., a book of explanations or expositions on the whole or a part of the Scriptures or of some other work.,
C as in Commentary (v. i.) A brief account of transactions or events written hastily, as if for a memorandum; -- usually in the plural; as, Caesar's Commentaries on the Gallic War.,
C as in Commentate (v. t. & i.) To write comments or notes upon; to make comments.,
C as in Commentation (n.) The act or process of commenting or criticising; exposition.,
C as in Commentation (n.) The result of the labors of a commentator.,
C as in Commentator (n.) One who writes a commentary or comments; an expositor; an annotator.,
C as in Commentatorial (a.) Pertaining to the making of commentaries.,
C as in Commentatorship (n.) The office or occupation of a commentator.,
C as in Commenter (n.) One who makes or writes comments; a commentator; an annotator.,
C as in Commentitious (a.) Fictitious or imaginary; unreal; as, a commentitious system of religion.,
C as in Commerce (n.) The exchange or buying and selling of commodities; esp. the exchange of merchandise, on a large scale, between different places or communities; extended trade or traffic.,
C as in Commerce (n.) Social intercourse; the dealings of one person or class in society with another; familiarity.,
C as in Commerce (n.) Sexual intercourse.,
C as in Commerce (n.) A round game at cards, in which the cards are subject to exchange, barter, or trade.,
C as in Commerced (imp. & p. p.) of Commerce,
C as in Commercing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Commerce,
C as in Commerce (v. i.) To carry on trade; to traffic.,
C as in Commerce (v. i.) To hold intercourse; to commune.,
C as in Commercial (a.) Of or pertaining to commerce; carrying on or occupied with commerce or trade; mercantile; as, commercial advantages; commercial relations.,
C as in Commercialism (n.) The commercial spirit or method.,
C as in Commercially (adv.) In a commercial manner.,
C as in Commigrate (v. i.) To migrate together.,
C as in Commigration (n.) Migration together.,
C as in Commination (n.) A threat or threatening; a denunciation of punishment or vengeance.,
C as in Commination (n.) An office in the liturgy of the Church of England, used on Ash Wednesday, containing a recital of God's anger and judgments against sinners.,
C as in Comminatory (a.) Threatening or denouncing punishment; as, comminatory terms.,
C as in Commingled (imp. & p. p.) of Commingle,
C as in Commingling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Commingle,
C as in Commingle (v. t. & i.) To mingle together; to mix in one mass, or intimately; to blend.,
C as in Comminuted (imp. & p. p.) of Comminute,
C as in Comminuting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Comminute,
C as in Comminute (v. t.) To reduce to minute particles, or to a fine powder; to pulverize; to triturate; to grind; as, to comminute chalk or bones; to comminute food with the teeth.,
C as in Comminution (n.) The act of reducing to a fine powder or to small particles; pulverization; the state of being comminuted.,
C as in Comminution (n.) Fracture (of a bone) into a number of pieces.,
C as in Comminution (n.) Gradual diminution by the removal of small particles at a time; a lessening; a wearing away.,
C as in Commiserable (a.) Pitiable.,
C as in Commiserated (imp. & p. p.) of Commiserate,
C as in Commiserating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Commiserate,
C as in Commiserate (v. t.) To feel sorrow, pain, or regret for; to pity.,
C as in Commiseration (n.) The act of commiserating; sorrow for the wants, afflictions, or distresses of another; pity; compassion.,
C as in Commiserative (a.) Feeling or expressing commiseration.,
C as in Commiserator (n.) One who pities.,
C as in Commissarial (a.) Of or pertaining to a commissary.,
C as in Commissariat (n.) The organized system by which armies and military posts are supplied with food and daily necessaries.,
C as in Commissariat (n.) The body of officers charged with such service.,
C as in Commissaries (pl. ) of Commissary,
C as in Commissary (n.) One to whom is committed some charge, duty, or office, by a superior power; a commissioner.,
C as in Commissary (n.) An officer of the bishop, who exercises ecclesiastical jurisdiction in parts of the diocese at a distance from the residence of the bishop.,
C as in Commissary (n.) An officer having charge of a special service; as, the commissary of musters.,
C as in Commissary (n.) An officer whose business is to provide food for a body of troops or a military post; -- officially called commissary of subsistence.,
C as in Commissaryship (n.) The office or employment of a commissary.,
C as in Commission (n.) The act of committing, doing, or performing; the act of perpetrating.,
C as in Commission (n.) The act of intrusting; a charge; instructions as to how a trust shall be executed.,
C as in Commission (n.) The duty or employment intrusted to any person or persons; a trust; a charge.,
C as in Commission (n.) A formal written warrant or authority, granting certain powers or privileges and authorizing or commanding the performance of certain duties.,
C as in Commission (n.) A certificate conferring military or naval rank and authority; as, a colonel's commission.,
C as in Commission (n.) A company of persons joined in the performance of some duty or the execution of some trust; as, the interstate commerce commission.,
C as in Commission (n.) The acting under authority of, or on account of, another.,
C as in Commission (n.) The thing to be done as agent for another; as, I have three commissions for the city.,
C as in Commission (n.) The brokerage or allowance made to a factor or agent for transacting business for another; as, a commission of ten per cent on sales. See Del credere.,
C as in Commissioned (imp. & p. p.) of Commission,
C as in Commissioning (p. pr & vb. n.) of Commission,
C as in Commission (v. t.) To give a commission to; to furnish with a commission; to empower or authorize; as, to commission persons to perform certain acts; to commission an officer.,
C as in Commission (v. t.) To send out with a charge or commission.,
C as in Commissional (a.) Alt. of Commissionary,
C as in Commissionary (a.) Of, pertaining to, or conferring, a commission; conferred by a commission or warrant.,
C as in Commissionate (v. t.) To commission,
C as in Commissioner (n.) A person who has a commission or warrant to perform some office, or execute some business, for the government, corporation, or person employing him; as, a commissioner to take affidavits or to adjust claims.,
C as in Commissioner (n.) An officer having charge of some department or bureau of the public service.,
C as in Commissionnaire (n.) An agent or factor; a commission merchant.,
C as in Commissionnaire (n.) One of a class of attendants, in some European cities, who perform miscellaneous services for travelers.,
C as in Commissionship (n.) The office of commissioner.,
C as in Commissive (a.) Relating to commission; of the nature of, or involving, commission.,
C as in Commissural (a.) Of or pertaining to a commissure.,
C as in Commissure (n.) A joint, seam, or closure; the place where two bodies, or parts of a body, meet and unite; an interstice, cleft, or juncture.,
C as in Commissure (n.) The point of union between two parts, as the angles of the lips or eyelids, the mandibles of a bird, etc.,
C as in Commissure (n.) A collection of fibers connecting parts of the brain or spinal marrow; a chiasma.,
C as in Commissure (n.) The line of junction or cohering face of two carpels, as in the parsnip, caraway, etc.,
C as in Committed (imp. & p. p.) of Commit,
C as in Committing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Commit,
C as in Commit (v. t.) To give in trust; to put into charge or keeping; to intrust; to consign; -- used with to, unto.,
C as in Commit (v. t.) To put in charge of a jailor; to imprison.,
C as in Commit (v. t.) To do; to perpetrate, as a crime, sin, or fault.,
C as in Commit (v. t.) To join for a contest; to match; -- followed by with.,
C as in Commit (v. t.) To pledge or bind; to compromise, expose, or endanger by some decisive act or preliminary step; -- often used reflexively; as, to commit one's self to a certain course.,
C as in Commit (v. t.) To confound.,
C as in Commit (v. i.) To sin; esp., to be incontinent.,
C as in Commitment (n.) The act of committing, or putting in charge, keeping, or trust; consignment; esp., the act of committing to prison.,
C as in Commitment (n.) A warrant or order for the imprisonment of a person; -- more frequently termed a mittimus.,
C as in Commitment (n.) The act of referring or intrusting to a committee for consideration and report; as, the commitment of a petition or a bill.,
C as in Commitment (n.) A doing, or perpetration, in a bad sense, as of a crime or blunder; commission.,
C as in Commitment (n.) The act of pledging or engaging; the act of exposing, endangering, or compromising; also, the state of being pledged or engaged.,
C as in Committable (a.) Capable of being committed.,
C as in Committal (n.) The act of committing, or the state of being committed; commitment.,
C as in Committee (n.) One or more persons elected or appointed, to whom any matter or business is referred, either by a legislative body, or by a court, or by any collective body of men acting together.,
C as in Committee (v. t.) One to whom the charge of the person or estate of another, as of a lunatic, is committed by suitable authority; a guardian.,
C as in Committeeman (n.) A member of a committee.,
C as in Committer (n.) One who commits; one who does or perpetrates.,
C as in Committer (n.) A fornicator.,
C as in Committible (a.) Capable of being committed; liable to be committed.,
C as in Commixed (imp. & p. p.) of Commix,
C as in Commixing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Commix,
C as in Commix (v. t. & i.) To mix or mingle together; to blend.,
C as in Commixion (n.) Commixture.,
C as in Commixtion (n.) Commixture; mingling.,
C as in Commixture (n.) The act or process of mixing; the state of being mingled; the blending of ingredients in one mass or compound.,
C as in Commixture (n.) The mass formed by mingling different things; a compound; a mixture.,
C as in Commodate (n.) A gratuitous loan.,
C as in Commode (n.) A kind of headdress formerly worn by ladies, raising the hair and fore part of the cap to a great height.,
C as in Commode (n.) A piece of furniture, so named according to temporary fashion,
C as in Commode (n.) A chest of drawers or a bureau.,
C as in Commode (n.) A night stand with a compartment for holding a chamber vessel.,
C as in Commode (n.) A kind of close stool.,
C as in Commode (n.) A movable sink or stand for a wash bowl, with closet.,
C as in Commodious (a.) Adapted to its use or purpose, or to wants and necessities; serviceable; spacious and convenient; roomy and comfortable; as, a commodious house.,
C as in Commodiously (adv.) In a commodious manner.,
C as in Commodiousness (n.) State of being commodious; suitableness for its purpose; convenience; roominess.,
C as in Commodities (pl. ) of Commodity,
C as in Commodity (n.) Convenience; accommodation; profit; benefit; advantage; interest; commodiousness.,
C as in Commodity (n.) That which affords convenience, advantage, or profit, especially in commerce, including everything movable that is bought and sold (except animals), -- goods, wares, merchandise, produce of land and manufactures, etc.,
C as in Commodity (n.) A parcel or quantity of goods.,
C as in Commodore (n.) An officer who ranks next above a captain; sometimes, by courtesy, the senior captain of a squadron. The rank of commodore corresponds with that of brigadier general in the army.,
C as in Commodore (n.) A captain commanding a squadron, or a division of a fleet, or having the temporary rank of rear admiral.,
C as in Commodore (n.) A title given by courtesy to the senior captain of a line of merchant vessels, and also to the chief officer of a yachting or rowing club.,
C as in Commodore (n.) A familiar for the flagship, or for the principal vessel of a squadron or fleet.,
C as in Common (v.) Belonging or relating equally, or similarly, to more than one; as, you and I have a common interest in the property.,
C as in Common (v.) Belonging to or shared by, affecting or serving, all the members of a class, considered together; general; public; as, properties common to all plants; the common schools; the Book of Common Prayer.,
C as in Common (v.) Often met with; usual; frequent; customary.,
C as in Common (v.) Not distinguished or exceptional; inconspicuous; ordinary; plebeian; -- often in a depreciatory sense.,
C as in Common (v.) Profane; polluted.,
C as in Common (v.) Given to habits of lewdness; prostitute.,
C as in Common (n.) The people; the community.,
C as in Common (n.) An inclosed or uninclosed tract of ground for pleasure, for pasturage, etc., the use of which belongs to the public; or to a number of persons.,
C as in Common (n.) The right of taking a profit in the land of another, in common either with the owner or with other persons; -- so called from the community of interest which arises between the claimant of the right and the owner of the soil, or between the claimants and other commoners entitled to the same right.,
C as in Common (v. i.) To converse together; to discourse; to confer.,
C as in Common (v. i.) To participate.,
C as in Common (v. i.) To have a joint right with others in common ground.,
C as in Common (v. i.) To board together; to eat at a table in common.,
C as in Commonable (a.) Held in common.,
C as in Commonable (a.) Allowed to pasture on public commons.,
C as in Commonage (n.) The right of pasturing on a common; the right of using anything in common with others.,
C as in Commonalties (pl. ) of Commonalty,
C as in Commonalty (n.) The common people; those classes and conditions of people who are below the rank of nobility; the commons.,
C as in Commonalty (n.) The majority or bulk of mankind.,
C as in Commoner (n.) One of the common people; one having no rank of nobility.,
C as in Commoner (n.) A member of the House of Commons.,
C as in Commoner (n.) One who has a joint right in common ground.,
C as in Commoner (n.) One sharing with another in anything.,
C as in Commoner (n.) A student in the university of Oxford, Eng., who is not dependent on any foundation for support, but pays all university charges; - - at Cambridge called a pensioner.,
C as in Commoner (n.) A prostitute.,
C as in Commonish (a.) Somewhat common; commonplace; vulgar.,
C as in Commonition (n.) Advice; warning; instruction.,
C as in Commonitive (a.) Monitory.,
C as in Commonitory (a.) Calling to mind; giving admonition.,
C as in Commonly (adv.) Usually; generally; ordinarily; frequently; for the most part; as, confirmed habits commonly continue through life.,
C as in Commonly (adv.) In common; familiarly.,
C as in Commonness (n.) State or quality of being common or usual; as, the commonness of sunlight.,
C as in Commonness (n.) Triteness; meanness.,
C as in Commonplace (a.) Common; ordinary; trite; as, a commonplace person, or observation.,
C as in Commonplace (n.) An idea or expression wanting originality or interest; a trite or customary remark; a platitude.,
C as in Commonplace (n.) A memorandum; something to be frequently consulted or referred to.,
C as in Commonplace (v. t.) To enter in a commonplace book, or to reduce to general heads.,
C as in Commonplace (v. i.) To utter commonplaces; to indulge in platitudes.,
C as in Commonplaceness (n.) The quality of being commonplace; commonness.,
C as in Commons (n. pl.) The mass of the people, as distinguished from the titled classes or nobility; the commonalty; the common people.,
C as in Commons (n. pl.) The House of Commons, or lower house of the British Parliament, consisting of representatives elected by the qualified voters of counties, boroughs, and universities.,
C as in Commons (n. pl.) Provisions; food; fare, -- as that provided at a common table in colleges and universities.,
C as in Commons (n. pl.) A club or association for boarding at a common table, as in a college, the members sharing the expenses equally; as, to board in commons.,
C as in Commons (n. pl.) A common; public pasture ground.,
C as in Common sense () See Common sense, under Sense.,
C as in Commonty (n.) A common; a piece of land in which two or more persons have a common right.,
C as in Commonweal (n.) Commonwealth.,
C as in Commonwealth (n.) A state; a body politic consisting of a certain number of men, united, by compact or tacit agreement, under one form of government and system of laws.,
C as in Commonwealth (n.) The whole body of people in a state; the public.,
C as in Commonwealth (n.) Specifically, the form of government established on the death of Charles I., in 1649, which existed under Oliver Cromwell and his son Richard, ending with the abdication of the latter in 1659.,
C as in Commorance (n.) See Commorancy.,
C as in Commorancy (n.) A dwelling or ordinary residence in a place; habitation.,
C as in Commorancy (n.) Residence temporarily, or for a short time.,
C as in Commorant (n.) Ordinarily residing; inhabiting.,
C as in Commorant (n.) Inhabiting or occupying temporarily.,
C as in Commorant (n.) A resident.,
C as in Commoration (n.) The act of staying or residing in a place.,
C as in Commorient (a.) Dying together or at the same time.,
C as in Commorse (n.) Remorse.,
C as in Commote (v. t.) To commove; to disturb; to stir up.,
C as in Commotion (n.) Disturbed or violent motion; agitation.,
C as in Commotion (n.) A popular tumult; public disturbance; riot.,
C as in Commotion (n.) Agitation, perturbation, or disorder, of mind; heat; excitement.,
C as in Commoved (imp. & p. p.) of Commove,
C as in Commoving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Commove,
C as in Commove (v. t.) To urge; to persuade; to incite.,
C as in Commove (v. t.) To put in motion; to disturb; to unsettle.,
C as in Communal (a.) Pertaining to a commune.,
C as in Communalism (n.) A French theory of government which holds that commune should be a kind of independent state, and the national government a confederation of such states, having only limited powers. It is advocated by advanced French republicans; but it should not be confounded with communism.,
C as in Communalist (n.) An advocate of communalism.,
C as in Communalistic (a.) Pertaining to communalism.,
C as in Communed (imp. & p. p.) of Commune,
C as in Communing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Commune,
C as in Commune (v. i.) To converse together with sympathy and confidence; to interchange sentiments or feelings; to take counsel.,
C as in Commune (v. i.) To receive the communion; to partake of the eucharist or Lord's supper.,
C as in Commune (n.) Communion; sympathetic intercourse or conversation between friends.,
C as in Commune (n.) The commonalty; the common people.,
C as in Commune (n.) A small territorial district in France under the government of a mayor and municipal council; also, the inhabitants, or the government, of such a district. See Arrondissement.,
C as in Commune (n.) Absolute municipal self-government.,
C as in Communicability (n.) The quality of being communicable; capability of being imparted.,
C as in Communicable (a.) Capable of being communicated, or imparted; as, a communicable disease; communicable knowledge.,
C as in Communicable (a.) Communicative; free-speaking.,
C as in Communicant (n.) One who partakes of, or is entitled to partake of, the sacrament of the Lord's supper; a church member.,
C as in Communicant (n.) One who communicates.,
C as in Communicant (a.) Communicating.,
C as in Communicated (imp. & p. p.) of Communicate,
C as in Communicating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Communicate,
C as in Communicate (v. i.) To share in common; to participate in.,
C as in Communicate (v. i.) To impart; to bestow; to convey; as, to communicate a disease or a sensation; to communicate motion by means of a crank.,
C as in Communicate (v. i.) To make known; to recount; to give; to impart; as, to communicate information to any one.,
C as in Communicate (v. i.) To administer the communion to.,
C as in Communicate (v. i.) To share or participate; to possess or enjoy in common; to have sympathy.,
C as in Communicate (v. i.) To give alms, sympathy, or aid.,
C as in Communicate (v. i.) To have intercourse or to be the means of intercourse; as, to communicate with another on business; to be connected; as, a communicating artery.,
C as in Communicate (v. i.) To partake of the Lord's supper; to commune.,
C as in Communication (n.) The act or fact of communicating; as, communication of smallpox; communication of a secret.,
C as in Communication (n.) Intercourse by words, letters, or messages; interchange of thoughts or opinions, by conference or other means; conference; correspondence.,
C as in Communication (n.) Association; company.,
C as in Communication (n.) Means of communicating; means of passing from place to place; a connecting passage; connection.,
C as in Communication (n.) That which is communicated or imparted; intelligence; news; a verbal or written message.,
C as in Communication (n.) Participation in the Lord's supper.,
C as in Communication (n.) A trope, by which a speaker assumes that his hearer is a partner in his sentiments, and says we, instead of I or you.,
C as in Communicative (a.) Inclined to communicate; ready to impart to others.,
C as in Communicativeness (n.) The quality of being communicative.,
C as in Communicator (n.) One who communicates.,
C as in Communicatory (a.) Imparting knowledge or information.,
C as in Communion (n.) The act of sharing; community; participation.,
C as in Communion (n.) Intercourse between two or more persons; esp., intimate association and intercourse implying sympathy and confidence; interchange of thoughts, purposes, etc.; agreement; fellowship; as, the communion of saints.,
C as in Communion (n.) A body of Christians having one common faith and discipline; as, the Presbyterian communion.,
C as in Communion (n.) The sacrament of the eucharist; the celebration of the Lord's supper; the act of partaking of the sacrament; as, to go to communion; to partake of the communion.,
C as in Communism (n.) A scheme of equalizing the social conditions of life; specifically, a scheme which contemplates the abolition of inequalities in the possession of property, as by distributing all wealth equally to all, or by holding all wealth in common for the equal use and advantage of all.,
C as in Communist (n.) An advocate for the theory or practice of communism.,
C as in Communist (n.) A supporter of the commune of Paris.,
C as in Communistic (a.) Of or pertaining to communism or communists; as, communistic theories.,
C as in Communistic (a.) Living or having their nests in common, as certain birds.,
C as in Communities (pl. ) of Community,
C as in Community (n.) Common possession or enjoyment; participation; as, a community of goods.,
C as in Community (n.) A body of people having common rights, privileges, or interests, or living in the same place under the same laws and regulations; as, a community of monks. Hence a number of animals living in a common home or with some apparent association of interests.,
C as in Community (n.) Society at large; a commonwealth or state; a body politic; the public, or people in general.,
C as in Community (n.) Common character; likeness.,
C as in Community (n.) Commonness; frequency.,
C as in Commutability (n.) The quality of being commutable.,
C as in Commutable (a.) Capable of being commuted or interchanged.,
C as in Commutableness (n.) The quality of being commutable; interchangeableness.,
C as in Commutation (n.) A passing from one state to another; change; alteration; mutation.,
C as in Commutation (n.) The act of giving one thing for another; barter; exchange.,
C as in Commutation (n.) The change of a penalty or punishment by the pardoning power of the State; as, the commutation of a sentence of death to banishment or imprisonment.,
C as in Commutation (n.) A substitution, as of a less thing for a greater, esp. a substitution of one form of payment for another, or one payment for many, or a specific sum of money for conditional payments or allowances; as, commutation of tithes; commutation of fares; commutation of copyright; commutation of rations.,
C as in Commutative (a.) Relative to exchange; interchangeable; reciprocal.,
C as in Commutator (n.) A piece of apparatus used for reversing the direction of an electrical current; an attachment to certain electrical machines, by means of which alternating currents are made to be continuous or to have the same direction.,
C as in Commuted (imp. & p. p.) of Commute,
C as in Commuting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Commute,
C as in Commute (v. t.) To exchange; to put or substitute something else in place of, as a smaller penalty, obligation, or payment, for a greater, or a single thing for an aggregate; hence, to lessen; to diminish; as, to commute a sentence of death to one of imprisonment for life; to commute tithes; to commute charges for fares.,
C as in Commute (v. i.) To obtain or bargain for exemption or substitution; to effect a commutation.,
C as in Commute (v. i.) To pay, or arrange to pay, in gross instead of part by part; as, to commute for a year's travel over a route.,
C as in Commuter (n.) One who commutes; especially, one who commutes in traveling.,
C as in Commutual (a.) Mutual; reciprocal; united.,
C as in Comose (a.) Bearing a tuft of soft hairs or down, as the seeds of milkweed.,
C as in Compact (p. p. & a) Joined or held together; leagued; confederated.,
C as in Compact (p. p. & a) Composed or made; -- with of.,
C as in Compact (p. p. & a) Closely or firmly united, as the particles of solid bodies; firm; close; solid; dense.,
C as in Compact (p. p. & a) Brief; close; pithy; not diffuse; not verbose; as, a compact discourse.,
C as in Compacted (imp. & p. p.) of Compact,
C as in Compacting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Compact,
C as in Compact (v. t.) To thrust, drive, or press closely together; to join firmly; to consolidate; to make close; -- as the parts which compose a body.,
C as in Compact (v. t.) To unite or connect firmly, as in a system.,
C as in Compact (n.) An agreement between parties; a covenant or contract.,
C as in Compacted (a.) Compact; pressed close; concentrated; firmly united.,
C as in Compactedly (adv.) In a compact manner.,
C as in Compactedness (n.) A state of being compact.,
C as in Compacter (n.) One who makes a compact.,
C as in Compactible (a.) That may be compacted.,
C as in Compaction (n.) The act of making compact, or the state of being compact.,
C as in Compactly (adv.) In a compact manner; with close union of parts; densely; tersely.,
C as in Compactness (n.) The state or quality of being compact; close union of parts; density.,
C as in Compacture (n.) Close union or connection of parts; manner of joining; construction.,
C as in Compages (v. t.) A system or structure of many parts united.,
C as in Compaginate (v. t.) To unite or hold together; as, the side pieces compaginate the frame.,
C as in Compagination (n.) Union of parts; structure.,
C as in Companable (a.) Companionable; sociable.,
C as in Companator (n.) Same as Impanator.,
C as in Companiable (a.) Companionable; sociable.,
C as in Companion (n.) One who accompanies or is in company with another for a longer or shorter period, either from choice or casually; one who is much in the company of, or is associated with, another or others; an associate; a comrade; a consort; a partner.,
C as in Companion (n.) A knight of the lowest rank in certain orders; as, a companion of the Bath.,
C as in Companion (n.) A fellow; -- in contempt.,
C as in Companion (n.) A skylight on an upper deck with frames and sashes of various shapes, to admit light to a cabin or lower deck.,
C as in Companion (n.) A wooden hood or penthouse covering the companion way; a companion hatch.,
C as in Companion (v. t.) To be a companion to; to attend on; to accompany.,
C as in Companion (v. t.) To qualify as a companion; to make equal.,
C as in Companionable (a.) Fitted to be a companion; fit for good fellowship; agreeable; sociable.,
C as in Companionless (a.) Without a companion.,
C as in Companionship (n.) Fellowship; association; the act or fact of keeping company with any one.,
C as in Companies (pl. ) of Company,
C as in Company (n.) The state of being a companion or companions; the act of accompanying; fellowship; companionship; society; friendly intercourse.,
C as in Company (n.) A companion or companions.,
C as in Company (n.) An assemblage or association of persons, either permanent or transient.,
C as in Company (n.) Guests or visitors, in distinction from the members of a family; as, to invite company to dine.,
C as in Company (n.) Society, in general; people assembled for social intercourse.,
C as in Company (n.) An association of persons for the purpose of carrying on some enterprise or business; a corporation; a firm; as, the East India Company; an insurance company; a joint-stock company.,
C as in Company (n.) Partners in a firm whose names are not mentioned in its style or title; -- often abbreviated in writing; as, Hottinguer & Co.,
C as in Company (n.) A subdivision of a regiment of troops under the command of a captain, numbering in the United States (full strength) 100 men.,
C as in Company (n.) The crew of a ship, including the officers; as, a whole ship's company.,
C as in Company (n.) The body of actors employed in a theater or in the production of a play.,
C as in Companied (imp. & p. p.) of Company,
C as in Companying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Company,
C as in Company (v. t.) To accompany or go with; to be companion to.,
C as in Company (v. i.) To associate.,
C as in Company (v. i.) To be a gay companion.,
C as in Company (v. i.) To have sexual commerce.,
C as in Comparable (a.) Capable of being compared; worthy of comparison.,
C as in Comparate (n.) One of two things compared together.,
C as in Comparation (n.) A making ready; provision.,
C as in Comparative (a.) Of or pertaining to comparison.,
C as in Comparative (a.) Proceeding from, or by the method of, comparison; as, the comparative sciences; the comparative anatomy.,
C as in Comparative (a.) Estimated by comparison; relative; not positive or absolute, as compared with another thing or state.,
C as in Comparative (a.) Expressing a degree greater or less than the positive degree of the quality denoted by an adjective or adverb. The comparative degree is formed from the positive by the use of -er, more, or less; as, brighter, more bright, or less bright.,
C as in Comparative (n.) The comparative degree of adjectives and adverbs; also, the form by which the comparative degree is expressed; as, stronger, wiser, weaker, more stormy, less windy, are all comparatives.,
C as in Comparative (n.) An equal; a rival; a compeer.,
C as in Comparative (n.) One who makes comparisons; one who affects wit.,
C as in Comparatively (adv.) According to estimate made by comparison; relatively; not positively or absolutely.,
C as in Comparator (n.) An instrument or machine for comparing anything to be measured with a standard measure; -- applied especially to a machine for comparing standards of length.,
C as in Compared (imp. & p. p.) of Compare,
C as in Comparing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Compare,
C as in Compare (v. t.) To examine the character or qualities of, as of two or more persons or things, for the purpose of discovering their resemblances or differences; to bring into comparison; to regard with discriminating attention.,
C as in Compare (v. t.) To represent as similar, for the purpose of illustration; to liken.,
C as in Compare (v. t.) To inflect according to the degrees of comparison; to state positive, comparative, and superlative forms of; as, most adjectives of one syllable are compared by affixing "- er" and "-est" to the positive form; as, black, blacker, blackest; those of more than one syllable are usually compared by prefixing "more" and "most", or "less" and "least", to the positive; as, beautiful, more beautiful, most beautiful.,
C as in Compare (v. i.) To be like or equal; to admit, or be worthy of, comparison; as, his later work does not compare with his earlier.,
C as in Compare (v. i.) To vie; to assume a likeness or equality.,
C as in Compare (n.) Comparison.,
C as in Compare (n.) Illustration by comparison; simile.,
C as in Compare (v. t.) To get; to procure; to obtain; to acquire,
C as in Comparer (n.) One who compares.,
C as in Comparison (n.) The act of comparing; an examination of two or more objects with the view of discovering the resemblances or differences; relative estimate.,
C as in Comparison (n.) The state of being compared; a relative estimate; also, a state, quality, or relation, admitting of being compared; as, to bring a thing into comparison with another; there is no comparison between them.,
C as in Comparison (n.) That to which, or with which, a thing is compared, as being equal or like; illustration; similitude.,
C as in Comparison (n.) The modification, by inflection or otherwise, which the adjective and adverb undergo to denote degrees of quality or quantity; as, little, less, least, are examples of comparison.,
C as in Comparison (n.) A figure by which one person or thing is compared to another, or the two are considered with regard to some property or quality, which is common to them both; e.g., the lake sparkled like a jewel.,
C as in Comparison (n.) The faculty of the reflective group which is supposed to perceive resemblances and contrasts.,
C as in Comparison (v. t.) To compare.,
C as in Comparted (imp. & p. p.) of Compart,
C as in Comparting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Compart,
C as in Compart (v. t.) To divide; to mark out into parts or subdivisions.,
C as in Compartition (n.) The act of dividing into parts or compartments; division; also, a division or compartment.,
C as in Compartment (n.) One of the parts into which an inclosed portion of space is divided, as by partitions, or lines; as, the compartments of a cabinet, a house, or a garden.,
C as in Compartment (n.) One of the sections into which the hold of a ship is divided by water-tight bulkheads.,
C as in Compartner (n.) See Copartner.,
C as in Compass (n.) A passing round; circuit; circuitous course.,
C as in Compass (n.) An inclosing limit; boundary; circumference; as, within the compass of an encircling wall.,
C as in Compass (n.) An inclosed space; an area; extent.,
C as in Compass (n.) Extent; reach; sweep; capacity; sphere; as, the compass of his eye; the compass of imagination.,
C as in Compass (n.) Moderate bounds, limits of truth; moderation; due limits; -- used with within.,
C as in Compass (n.) The range of notes, or tones, within the capacity of a voice or instrument.,
C as in Compass (n.) An instrument for determining directions upon the earth's surface by means of a magnetized bar or needle turning freely upon a pivot and pointing in a northerly and southerly direction.,
C as in Compass (n.) A pair of compasses.,
C as in Compass (n.) A circle; a continent.,
C as in Compassed (imp. & p. p.) of Compass,
C as in Compassing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Compass,
C as in Compass (v. t.) To go about or entirely round; to make the circuit of.,
C as in Compass (v. t.) To inclose on all sides; to surround; to encircle; to environ; to invest; to besiege; -- used with about, round, around, and round about.,
C as in Compass (v. t.) To reach round; to circumvent; to get within one's power; to obtain; to accomplish.,
C as in Compass (v. t.) To curve; to bend into a circular form.,
C as in Compass (v. t.) To purpose; to intend; to imagine; to plot.,
C as in Compassable (a.) Capable of being compassed or accomplished.,
C as in Compassed (a.) Rounded; arched.,
C as in Compasses (n.) An instrument for describing circles, measuring figures, etc., consisting of two, or (rarely) more, pointed branches, or legs, usually joined at the top by a rivet on which they move.,
C as in Compassing (a.) Curved; bent; as, compassing timbers.,
C as in Compassion (n.) Literally, suffering with another; a sensation of sorrow excited by the distress or misfortunes of another; pity; commiseration.,
C as in Compassion (v. t.) To pity.,
C as in Compassionable (a.) Deserving compassion or pity; pitiable.,
C as in Compassionate (a.) Having a temper or disposition to pity; sympathetic; merciful.,
C as in Compassionate (a.) Complaining; inviting pity; pitiable.,
C as in Compassionated (imp. & p. p.) of Compassionate,
C as in Compassionating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Compassionate,
C as in Compassionate (v. t.) To have compassion for; to pity; to commiserate; to sympathize with.,
C as in Compassionately (adv.) In a compassionate manner; mercifully.,
C as in Compassionateness (n.) The quality or state of being compassionate.,
C as in Compassless (a.) Having no compass.,
C as in Compaternity (n.) The relation of a godfather to a person.,
C as in Compatibility (n.) The quality or power of being compatible or congruous; congruity; as, a compatibility of tempers; a compatibility of properties.,
C as in Compatible (a.) Capable of existing in harmony; congruous; suitable; not repugnant; -- usually followed by with.,
C as in Compatibleness (n.) Compatibility; consistency; fitness; agreement.,
C as in Compatibly (adv.) In a compatible manner.,
C as in Compatient (a.) Suffering or enduring together.,
C as in Compatriot (n.) One of the same country, and having like interests and feeling.,
C as in Compatriot (a.) Of the same country; having a common sentiment of patriotism.,
C as in Compatriotism (n.) The condition of being compatriots.,
C as in Compear (v. i.) To appear.,
C as in Compear (v. i.) To appear in court personally or by attorney.,
C as in Compeer () An equal, as in rank, age, prowess, etc.; a companion; a comrade; a mate.,
C as in Compeer (v. t.) To be equal with; to match.,
C as in Compeer (v. i.) Alt. of Compeir,
C as in Compeir (v. i.) See Compear.,
C as in Compelled (imp. & p. p.) of Compel,
C as in Compelling (p. pr. & vb. n) of Compel,
C as in Compel (v. t.) To drive or urge with force, or irresistibly; to force; to constrain; to oblige; to necessitate, either by physical or moral force.,
C as in Compel (v. t.) To take by force or violence; to seize; to exact; to extort.,
C as in Compel (v. t.) To force to yield; to overpower; to subjugate.,
C as in Compel (v. t.) To gather or unite in a crowd or company.,
C as in Compel (v. t.) To call forth; to summon.,
C as in Compel (v. i.) To make one yield or submit.,
C as in Compellable (a.) Capable of being compelled or constrained.,
C as in Compellably (adv.) By compulsion.,
C as in Compellation (n.) Style of address or salutation; an appellation.,
C as in Compellative (n.) The name by which a person is addressed; an appellative.,
C as in Compellatory (a.) Serving to compel; compulsory.,
C as in Compeller (n.) One who compels or constrains.,
C as in Compend (n.) A compendium; an epitome; a summary.,
C as in Compendiarious (a.) Short; compendious.,
C as in Compendiate (v. t.) To sum or collect together.,
C as in Compendious (a.) Containing the substance or general principles of a subject or work in a narrow compass; abridged; summarized.,
C as in Compendiously (adv.) In a compendious manner.,
C as in Compendiousness (n.) The state or quality of being compendious.,
C as in Compendiums (pl. ) of Compendium,
C as in Compendia (pl. ) of Compendium,
C as in Compendium (n.) A brief compilation or composition, containing the principal heads, or general principles, of a larger work or system; an abridgment; an epitome; a compend; a condensed summary.,
C as in Compensated (imp. & p. p.) of Compensate,
C as in Compensating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Compensate,
C as in Compensate (v. t.) To make equal return to; to remunerate; to recompense; to give an equivalent to; to requite suitably; as, to compensate a laborer for his work, or a merchant for his losses.,
C as in Compensate (v. t.) To be equivalent in value or effect to; to counterbalance; to make up for; to make amends for.,
C as in Compensate (v. i.) To make amends; to supply an equivalent; -- followed by for; as, nothing can compensate for the loss of reputation.,
C as in Compensation (n.) The act or principle of compensating.,
C as in Compensation (n.) That which constitutes, or is regarded as, an equivalent; that which makes good the lack or variation of something else; that which compensates for loss or privation; amends; remuneration; recompense.,
C as in Compensation (n.) The extinction of debts of which two persons are reciprocally debtors by the credits of which they are reciprocally creditors; the payment of a debt by a credit of equal amount; a set-off.,
C as in Compensation (n.) A recompense or reward for some loss or service.,
C as in Compensation (n.) An equivalent stipulated for in contracts for the sale of real estate, in which it is customary to provide that errors in description, etc., shall not avoid, but shall be the subject of compensation.,
C as in Compensative (a.) Affording compensation.,
C as in Compensative (n.) Compensation.,
C as in Compensator (n.) One who, or that which, compensates; -- a name applied to various mechanical devices.,
C as in Compensator (n.) An iron plate or magnet placed near the compass on iron vessels to neutralize the effect of the ship's attraction on the needle.,
C as in Compensatory (a.) Serving for compensation; making amends.,
C as in Compense (v. t.) To compensate.,
C as in Comperendinate (v. t.) To delay.,
C as in Compesce (v. t.) To hold in check; to restrain.,
C as in Competed (imp. & p. p.) of Compete,
C as in Competing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Compete,
C as in Compete (v. i.) To contend emulously; to seek or strive for the same thing, position, or reward for which another is striving; to contend in rivalry, as for a prize or in business; as, tradesmen compete with one another.,
C as in Competence (n.) Alt. of Competency,
C as in Competency (n.) The state of being competent; fitness; ability; adequacy; power.,
C as in Competency (n.) Property or means sufficient for the necessaries and conveniences of life; sufficiency without excess.,
C as in Competency (n.) Legal capacity or qualifications; fitness; as, the competency of a witness or of a evidence.,
C as in Competency (n.) Right or authority; legal power or capacity to take cognizance of a cause; as, the competence of a judge or court.,
C as in Competent (a.) Answering to all requirements; adequate; sufficient; suitable; capable; legally qualified; fit.,
C as in Competent (a.) Rightfully or properly belonging; incident; -- followed by to.,
C as in Competently (adv.) In a competent manner; adequately; suitably.,
C as in Competible (a.) Compatible; suitable; consistent.,
C as in Competition (n.) The act of seeking, or endeavoring to gain, what another is endeavoring to gain at the same time; common strife for the same objects; strife for superiority; emulous contest; rivalry, as for approbation, for a prize, or as where two or more persons are engaged in the same business and each seeking patronage; -- followed by for before the object sought, and with before the person or thing competed with.,
C as in Competitive (a.) Of or pertaining to competition; producing competition; competitory; as, a competitive examination.,
C as in Competitor (n.) One who seeks what another seeks, or claims what another claims; one who competes; a rival.,
C as in Competitor (n.) An associate; a confederate.,
C as in Competitory (a.) Acting in competition; competing; rival.,
C as in Competitress (n.) A woman who competes.,
C as in Competitrix (n.) A competitress.,
C as in Compilation (n.) The act or process of compiling or gathering together from various sources.,
C as in Compilation (n.) That which is compiled; especially, a book or document composed of materials gathering from other books or documents.,
C as in Compilator (n.) Compiler.,
C as in Compiled (imp. & p. p.) of Compile,
C as in Compiling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Compile,
C as in Compile (v. t.) To put together; to construct; to build.,
C as in Compile (v. t.) To contain or comprise.,
C as in Compile (v. t.) To put together in a new form out of materials already existing; esp., to put together or compose out of materials from other books or documents.,
C as in Compile (v. t.) To write; to compose.,
C as in Compilement (n.) Compilation.,
C as in Compiler (n.) One who compiles; esp., one who makes books by compilation.,
C as in Compinge (v. t.) To compress; to shut up.,
C as in Complacence (n.) Alt. of Complacency,
C as in Complacency (n.) Calm contentment; satisfaction; gratification.,
C as in Complacency (n.) The cause of pleasure or joy.,
C as in Complacency (n.) The manifestation of contentment or satisfaction; good nature; kindness; civility; affability.,
C as in Complacent (a.) Self-satisfied; contented; kindly; as, a complacent temper; a complacent smile.,
C as in Complacential (a.) Marked by, or causing, complacence.,
C as in Complacently (adv.) In a complacent manner.,
C as in Complained (imp. & p. p.) of Complain,
C as in Complaining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Complain,
C as in Complain (v. i.) To give utterance to expression of grief, pain, censure, regret. etc.; to lament; to murmur; to find fault; -- commonly used with of. Also, to creak or squeak, as a timber or wheel.,
C as in Complain (v. i.) To make a formal accusation; to make a charge.,
C as in Complain (v. t.) To lament; to bewail.,
C as in Complainable (a.) That may be complained of.,
C as in Complainant (n.) One who makes complaint.,
C as in Complainant (n.) One who commences a legal process by a complaint.,
C as in Complainant (n.) The party suing in equity, answering to the plaintiff at common law.,
C as in Complainer (n.) One who complains or laments; one who finds fault; a murmurer.,
C as in Complaint (n.) Expression of grief, regret, pain, censure, or resentment; lamentation; murmuring; accusation; fault-finding.,
C as in Complaint (n.) Cause or subject of complaint or murmuring.,
C as in Complaint (n.) An ailment or disease of the body.,
C as in Complaint (n.) A formal allegation or charge against a party made or presented to the appropriate court or officer, as for a wrong done or a crime committed (in the latter case, generally under oath); an information; accusation; the initial bill in proceedings in equity.,
C as in Complaintful (a.) Full of complaint.,
C as in Complaisance (n.) Disposition to please or oblige; obliging compliance with the wishes of others; a deportment indicative of a desire to please; courtesy; civility.,
C as in Complaisant (a.) Desirous to please; courteous; obliging; compliant; as, a complaisant gentleman.,
C as in Complanar (a.) See Coplanar.,
C as in Complanate (v. t.) Flattened to a level surface.,
C as in Complanate (v. t.) To make level.,
C as in Complected (a.) Complexioned.,
C as in Complement (v. t.) That which fills up or completes; the quantity or number required to fill a thing or make it complete.,
C as in Complement (v. t.) That which is required to supply a deficiency, or to complete a symmetrical whole.,
C as in Complement (v. t.) Full quantity, number, or amount; a complete set; completeness.,
C as in Complement (v. t.) A second quantity added to a given quantity to make it equal to a third given quantity.,
C as in Complement (v. t.) Something added for ornamentation; an accessory.,
C as in Complement (v. t.) The whole working force of a vessel.,
C as in Complement (v. t.) The interval wanting to complete the octave; -- the fourth is the complement of the fifth, the sixth of the third.,
C as in Complement (v. t.) A compliment.,
C as in Complement (v. t.) To supply a lack; to supplement.,
C as in Complement (v. t.) To compliment.,
C as in Complemental (a.) Supplying, or tending to supply, a deficiency; fully completing.,
C as in Complemental (a.) Complimentary; courteous.,
C as in Complementary (a.) Serving to fill out or to complete; as, complementary numbers.,
C as in Complementary (n.) One skilled in compliments.,
C as in Complete (a.) Filled up; with no part or element lacking; free from deficiency; entire; perfect; consummate.,
C as in Complete (a.) Finished; ended; concluded; completed; as, the edifice is complete.,
C as in Complete (a.) Having all the parts or organs which belong to it or to the typical form; having calyx, corolla, stamens, and pistil.,
C as in Completed (imp. & p. p.) of Complete,
C as in Completing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Complete,
C as in Complete (v. t.) To bring to a state in which there is no deficiency; to perfect; to consummate; to accomplish; to fulfill; to finish; as, to complete a task, or a poem; to complete a course of education.,
C as in Completely (adv.) In a complete manner; fully.,
C as in Completement (n.) Act of completing or perfecting; completion.,
C as in Completeness (n.) The state of being complete.,
C as in Completion (n.) The act or process of making complete; the getting through to the end; as, the completion of an undertaking, an education, a service.,
C as in Completion (n.) State of being complete; fulfillment; accomplishment; realization.,
C as in Completive (a.) Making complete.,
C as in Completory (a.) Serving to fulfill.,
C as in Completory (n.) Same as Compline.,
C as in Complex (n.) Composed of two or more parts; composite; not simple; as, a complex being; a complex idea.,
C as in Complex (n.) Involving many parts; complicated; intricate.,
C as in Complex (n.) Assemblage of related things; collection; complication.,
C as in Complexed (a.) Complex, complicated.,
C as in Complexedness (n.) The quality or state of being complex or involved; complication.,
C as in Complexion (n.) The state of being complex; complexity.,
C as in Complexion (n.) A combination; a complex.,
C as in Complexion (n.) The bodily constitution; the temperament; habitude, or natural disposition; character; nature.,
C as in Complexion (n.) The color or hue of the skin, esp. of the face.,
C as in Complexion (n.) The general appearance or aspect; as, the complexion of the sky; the complexion of the news.,
C as in Complexional (a.) Of or pertaining to constitutional complexion.,
C as in Complexionally (adv.) Constitutionally.,
C as in Complexionary (a.) Pertaining to the complexion, or to the care of it.,
C as in Complexioned (a.) Having (such) a complexion; -- used in composition; as, a dark-complexioned or a ruddy-complexioned person.,
C as in Complexities (pl. ) of Complexity,
C as in Complexity (n.) The state of being complex; intricacy; entanglement.,
C as in Complexity (n.) That which is complex; intricacy; complication.,
C as in Complexly (adv.) In a complex manner; not simply.,
C as in Complexness (n.) The state of being complex; complexity.,
C as in Complexus (n.) A complex; an aggregate of parts; a complication.,
C as in Compliable (a.) Capable of bending or yielding; apt to yield; compliant.,
C as in Compliance (n.) The act of complying; a yielding; as to a desire, demand, or proposal; concession; submission.,
C as in Compliance (n.) A disposition to yield to others; complaisance.,
C as in Compliancy (n.) Compliance; disposition to yield to others.,
C as in Compliant (a.) Yielding; bending; pliant; submissive.,
C as in Compliantly (adv.) In a compliant manner.,
C as in Complicacy (n.) A state of being complicate or intricate.,
C as in Complicant (a.) Overlapping, as the elytra of certain beetles.,
C as in Complicate (a.) Composed of two or more parts united; complex; complicated; involved.,
C as in Complicate (a.) Folded together, or upon itself, with the fold running lengthwise.,
C as in Complicated (imp. & p. p.) of Complicate,
C as in Complicating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Complicate,
C as in Complicate (v. t.) To fold or twist together; to combine intricately; to make complex; to combine or associate so as to make intricate or difficult.,
C as in Complicately (adv.) In a complex manner.,
C as in Complicateness (n.) Complexity.,
C as in Complication (n.) The act or process of complicating; the state of being complicated; intricate or confused relation of parts; entanglement; complexity.,
C as in Complication (n.) A disease or diseases, or adventitious circumstances or conditions, coexistent with and modifying a primary disease, but not necessarily connected with it.,
C as in Complices (pl. ) of Complice,
C as in Complice (n.) An accomplice.,
C as in Complicities (pl. ) of Complicity,
C as in Complicity (n.) The state of being an accomplice; participation in guilt.,
C as in Complier (n.) One who complies, yields, or obeys; one of an easy, yielding temper.,
C as in Compliment (n.) An expression, by word or act, of approbation, regard, confidence, civility, or admiration; a flattering speech or attention; a ceremonious greeting; as, to send one's compliments to a friend.,
C as in Compliment (v. t.) To praise, flatter, or gratify, by expressions of approbation, respect, or congratulation; to make or pay a compliment to.,
C as in Compliment (v. i.) To pass compliments; to use conventional expressions of respect.,
C as in Complimental (a.) Complimentary.,
C as in Complimentary (a.) Expressive of regard or praise; of the nature of, or containing, a compliment; as, a complimentary remark; a complimentary ticket.,
C as in Complimentative (a.) Complimentary.,
C as in Complimenter (n.) One who compliments; one given to complimenting; a flatterer.,
C as in Compline (n.) Alt. of Complin,
C as in Complin (n.) The last division of the Roman Catholic breviary; the seventh and last of the canonical hours of the Western church; the last prayer of the day, to be said after sunset.,
C as in Complot (n.) A plotting together; a confederacy in some evil design; a conspiracy.,
C as in Complotted (imp. & p. p.) of Complot,
C as in Complotting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Complot,
C as in Complot (v. t. & i.) To plot or plan together; to conspire; to join in a secret design.,
C as in Complotment (n.) A plotting together.,
C as in Complotter (n.) One joined in a plot.,
C as in Complutensian (a.) Of or pertaining to Complutum (now Alcala de Henares) a city near Madrid; as, the Complutensian Bible.,
C as in Compluvium (n.) A space left unroofed over the court of a Roman dwelling, through which the rain fell into the impluvium or cistern.,
C as in Complied (imp. & p. p.) of Comply,
C as in Complying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Comply,
C as in Comply (v. i.) To yield assent; to accord; agree, or acquiesce; to adapt one's self; to consent or conform; -- usually followed by with.,
C as in Comply (v. i.) To be ceremoniously courteous; to make one's compliments.,
C as in Comply (v. i.) To fulfill; to accomplish.,
C as in Comply (v. i.) To infold; to embrace.,
C as in Compone (v. t.) To compose; to settle; to arrange.,
C as in Compone (a.) See Compony.,
C as in Component (v. t.) Serving, or helping, to form; composing; constituting; constituent.,
C as in Component (n.) A constituent part; an ingredient.,
C as in Compony (a.) Alt. of Compone,
C as in Compone (a.) Divided into squares of alternate tinctures in a single row; -- said of any bearing; or, in the case of a bearing having curved lines, divided into patches of alternate colors following the curve. If there are two rows it is called counter-compony.,
C as in Comported (imp. & p. p.) of Comport,
C as in Comporting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Comport,
C as in Comport (v. i.) To bear or endure; to put up (with); as, to comport with an injury.,
C as in Comport (v. i.) To agree; to accord; to suit; -- sometimes followed by with.,
C as in Comport (v. t.) To bear; to endure; to brook; to put with.,
C as in Comport (v. t.) To carry; to conduct; -- with a reflexive pronoun.,
C as in Comport (n.) Manner of acting; behavior; conduct; deportment.,
C as in Comportable (a.) Suitable; consistent.,
C as in Comportance (n.) Behavior; comport.,
C as in Comportation (n.) A bringing together.,
C as in Comportment (n.) Manner of acting; behavior; bearing.,
C as in Composed (imp. & p. p.) of Compose,
C as in Composing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Compose,
C as in Compose (v. t.) To form by putting together two or more things or parts; to put together; to make up; to fashion.,
C as in Compose (v. t.) To form the substance of, or part of the substance of; to constitute.,
C as in Compose (v. t.) To construct by mental labor; to design and execute, or put together, in a manner involving the adaptation of forms of expression to ideas, or to the laws of harmony or proportion; as, to compose a sentence, a sermon, a symphony, or a picture.,
C as in Compose (v. t.) To dispose in proper form; to reduce to order; to put in proper state or condition; to adjust; to regulate.,
C as in Compose (v. t.) To free from agitation or disturbance; to tranquilize; to soothe; to calm; to quiet.,
C as in Compose (v. t.) To arrange (types) in a composing stick in order for printing; to set (type).,
C as in Compose (v. i.) To come to terms.,
C as in Composed (a.) Free from agitation; calm; sedate; quiet; tranquil; self-possessed.,
C as in Composer (n.) One who composes; an author. Specifically, an author of a piece of music.,
C as in Composer (n.) One who, or that which, quiets or calms; one who adjusts a difference.,
C as in Composing (a.) Tending to compose or soothe.,
C as in Composing (a.) Pertaining to, or used in, composition.,
C as in Compositae (n. pl.) A large family of dicotyledonous plants, having their flowers arranged in dense heads of many small florets and their anthers united in a tube. The daisy, dandelion, and asters, are examples.,
C as in Composite (v. t.) Made up of distinct parts or elements; compounded; as, a composite language.,
C as in Composite (v. t.) Belonging to a certain order which is composed of the Ionic order grafted upon the Corinthian. It is called also the Roman or the Italic order, and is one of the five orders recognized by the Italian writers of the sixteenth century. See Capital.,
C as in Composite (v. t.) Belonging to the order Compositae; bearing involucrate heads of many small florets, as the daisy, thistle, and dandelion.,
C as in Composite (n.) That which is made up of parts or compounded of several elements; composition; combination; compound.,
C as in Composition (n.) The act or art of composing, or forming a whole or integral, by placing together and uniting different things, parts, or ingredients.,
C as in Composition (n.) The invention or combination of the parts of any literary work or discourse, or of a work of art; as, the composition of a poem or a piece of music.,
C as in Composition (n.) The art or practice of so combining the different parts of a work of art as to produce a harmonious whole; also, a work of art considered as such. See 4, below.,
C as in Composition (n.) The act of writing for practice in a language, as English, Latin, German, etc.,
C as in Composition (n.) The setting up of type and arranging it for printing.,
C as in Composition (n.) The state of being put together or composed; conjunction; combination; adjustment.,
C as in Composition (n.) A mass or body formed by combining two or more substances; as, a chemical composition.,
C as in Composition (n.) A literary, musical, or artistic production, especially one showing study and care in arrangement; -- often used of an elementary essay or translation done as an educational exercise.,
C as in Composition (n.) Consistency; accord; congruity.,
C as in Composition (n.) Mutual agreement to terms or conditions for the settlement of a difference or controversy; also, the terms or conditions of settlement; agreement.,
C as in Composition (n.) The adjustment of a debt, or avoidance of an obligation, by some form of compensation agreed on between the parties; also, the sum or amount of compensation agreed upon in the adjustment.,
C as in Composition (n.) Synthesis as opposed to analysis.,
C as in Compositive (a.) Having the quality of entering into composition; compounded.,
C as in Compositor (n.) One who composes or sets in order.,
C as in Compositor (n.) One who sets type and arranges it for use.,
C as in Compositous (a.) Belonging to the Compositae; composite.,
C as in Compossible (a.) Able to exist with another thing; consistent.,
C as in Compost (n.) A mixture; a compound.,
C as in Compost (n.) A mixture for fertilizing land; esp., a composition of various substances (as muck, mold, lime, and stable manure) thoroughly mingled and decomposed, as in a compost heap.,
C as in Compost (v. t.) To manure with compost.,
C as in Compost (v. t.) To mingle, as different fertilizing substances, in a mass where they will decompose and form into a compost.,
C as in Composture (n.) Manure; compost.,
C as in Composure (n.) The act of composing, or that which is composed; a composition.,
C as in Composure (n.) Orderly adjustment; disposition.,
C as in Composure (n.) Frame; make; temperament.,
C as in Composure (n.) A settled state; calmness; sedateness; tranquillity; repose.,
C as in Composure (n.) A combination; a union; a bond.,
C as in Compotation (n.) The act of drinking or tippling together.,
C as in Compotator (n.) One who drinks with another.,
C as in Compote (n.) A preparation of fruit in sirup in such a manner as to preserve its form, either whole, halved, or quartered; as, a compote of pears.,
C as in Compound (n.) In the East Indies, an inclosure containing a house, outbuildings, etc.,
C as in Compounded (imp. & p. p.) of Compound,
C as in Compounding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Compound,
C as in Compound (v. t.) To form or make by combining different elements, ingredients, or parts; as, to compound a medicine.,
C as in Compound (v. t.) To put together, as elements, ingredients, or parts, in order to form a whole; to combine, mix, or unite.,
C as in Compound (v. t.) To modify or change by combination with some other thing or part; to mingle with something else.,
C as in Compound (v. t.) To compose; to constitute.,
C as in Compound (v. t.) To settle amicably; to adjust by agreement; to compromise; to discharge from obligation upon terms different from those which were stipulated; as, to compound a debt.,
C as in Compound (v. i.) To effect a composition; to come to terms of agreement; to agree; to settle by a compromise; -- usually followed by with before the person participating, and for before the thing compounded or the consideration.,
C as in Compound (v. t.) Composed of two or more elements, ingredients, parts; produced by the union of several ingredients, parts, or things; composite; as, a compound word.,
C as in Compound (n.) That which is compounded or formed by the union or mixture of elements ingredients, or parts; a combination of simples; a compound word; the result of composition.,
C as in Compound (n.) A union of two or more ingredients in definite proportions by weight, so combined as to form a distinct substance; as, water is a compound of oxygen and hydrogen.,
C as in Compoundable (a.) That may be compounded.,
C as in Compounder (n.) One who, or that which, compounds or mixes; as, a compounder of medicines.,
C as in Compounder (n.) One who attempts to bring persons or parties to terms of agreement, or to accomplish, ends by compromises.,
C as in Compounder (n.) One who compounds a debt, obligation, or crime.,
C as in Compounder (n.) One at a university who pays extraordinary fees for the degree he is to take.,
C as in Compounder (n.) A Jacobite who favored the restoration of James II, on condition of a general amnesty and of guarantees for the security of the civil and ecclesiastical constitution of the realm.,
C as in Comprador (n.) A kind of steward or agent.,
C as in Comprecation (n.) A praying together.,
C as in Comprehended (imp. & p. p.) of Comprehend,
C as in Comprehending (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Comprehend,
C as in Comprehend (v. t.) To contain; to embrace; to include; as, the states comprehended in the Austrian Empire.,
C as in Comprehend (v. t.) To take in or include by construction or implication; to comprise; to imply.,
C as in Comprehend (v. t.) To take into the mind; to grasp with the understanding; to apprehend the meaning of; to understand.,
C as in Comprehensibility (n.) The quality or state of being comprehensible; capability of being understood.,
C as in Comprehensible (a.) Capable of being comprehended, included, or comprised.,
C as in Comprehensible (a.) Capable of being understood; intelligible; conceivable by the mind.,
C as in Comprehensibleness (n.) The quality of being comprehensible; comprehensibility.,
C as in Comprehensibly (adv.) With great extent of signification; comprehensively.,
C as in Comprehensibly (adv.) Intelligibly; in a manner to be comprehended or understood.,
C as in Comprehension (n.) The act of comprehending, containing, or comprising; inclusion.,
C as in Comprehension (n.) That which is comprehended or inclosed within narrow limits; a summary; an epitome.,
C as in Comprehension (n.) The capacity of the mind to perceive and understand; the power, act, or process of grasping with the intellect; perception; understanding; as, a comprehension of abstract principles.,
C as in Comprehension (n.) The complement of attributes which make up the notion signified by a general term.,
C as in Comprehension (n.) A figure by which the name of a whole is put for a part, or that of a part for a whole, or a definite number for an indefinite.,
C as in Comprehensive (a.) Including much; comprising many things; having a wide scope or a full view.,
C as in Comprehensive (a.) Having the power to comprehend or understand many things.,
C as in Comprehensive (a.) Possessing peculiarities that are characteristic of several diverse groups.,
C as in Comprehensively (adv.) In a comprehensive manner; with great extent of scope.,
C as in Comprehensiveness (n.) The quality of being comprehensive; extensiveness of scope.,
C as in Comprehensor (n.) One who comprehends; one who has attained to a full knowledge.,
C as in Compressed (imp. & p. p.) of Compress,
C as in Compressing (p. pr & vb. n.) of Compress,
C as in Compress (v. t.) To press or squeeze together; to force into a narrower compass; to reduce the volume of by pressure; to compact; to condense; as, to compress air or water.,
C as in Compress (v. t.) To embrace sexually.,
C as in Compress (n.) A folded piece of cloth, pledget of lint, etc., used to cover the dressing of wounds, and so placed as, by the aid of a bandage, to make due pressure on any part.,
C as in Compressed (a.) Pressed together; compacted; reduced in volume by pressure.,
C as in Compressed (a.) Flattened lengthwise.,
C as in Compressibility (n.) The quality of being compressible of being compressible; as, the compressibility of elastic fluids.,
C as in Compressible (a.) Capable of being pressed together or forced into a narrower compass, as an elastic or spongy substance.,
C as in Compressibleness (n.) The quality of being compressible; compressibility.,
C as in Compression (n.) The act of compressing, or state of being compressed.,
C as in Compressive (a.) Compressing, or having power or tendency to compress; as, a compressive force.,
C as in Compressor (n.) Anything which serves to compress,
C as in Compressor (n.) A muscle that compresses certain parts.,
C as in Compressor (n.) An instrument for compressing an artery (esp., the femoral artery) or other part.,
C as in Compressor (n.) An apparatus for confining or flattening between glass plates an object to be examined with the microscope; -- called also compressorium.,
C as in Compressor (n.) A machine for compressing gases; especially, an air compressor.,
C as in Compressure (n.) Compression.,
C as in Comprint (v. t. & i.) To print together.,
C as in Comprint (v. t. & i.) To print surreptitiously a work belonging to another.,
C as in Comprint (n.) The surreptitious printing of another's copy or book; a work thus printed.,
C as in Comprisal (n.) The act of comprising or comprehending; a compendium or epitome.,
C as in Comprised (imp. & p. p.) of Comprise,
C as in Comprising (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Comprise,
C as in Comprise (v. t.) To comprehend; to include.,
C as in Comprobate (v. i.) To agree; to concur.,
C as in Comprobation (n.) Joint attestation; proof.,
C as in Comprobation (n.) Approbation.,
C as in Compromise (n.) A mutual agreement to refer matters in dispute to the decision of arbitrators.,
C as in Compromise (n.) A settlement by arbitration or by mutual consent reached by concession on both sides; a reciprocal abatement of extreme demands or rights, resulting in an agreement.,
C as in Compromise (n.) A committal to something derogatory or objectionable; a prejudicial concession; a surrender; as, a compromise of character or right.,
C as in Compromised (imp. & p. p.) of Compromise,
C as in Compromising (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Compromise,
C as in Compromise (n.) To bind by mutual agreement; to agree.,
C as in Compromise (n.) To adjust and settle by mutual concessions; to compound.,
C as in Compromise (n.) To pledge by some act or declaration; to endanger the life, reputation, etc., of, by some act which can not be recalled; to expose to suspicion.,
C as in Compromise (v. i.) To agree; to accord.,
C as in Compromise (v. i.) To make concession for conciliation and peace.,
C as in Compromiser (n.) One who compromises.,
C as in Compromissorial (a.) Relating to compromise.,
C as in Compromitted (imp. & p. p.) of Compromit,
C as in Compromitting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Compromit,
C as in Compromit (n.) To pledge by some act or declaration; to promise.,
C as in Compromit (n.) To put to hazard, by some indiscretion; to endanger; to compromise; as, to compromit the honor or the safety of a nation.,
C as in Comprovincial (a.) Belonging to, or associated in, the same province.,
C as in Comprovincial (n.) One who belongs to the same province.,
C as in Compsognathus (n.) A genus of Dinosauria found in the Jurassic formation, and remarkable for having several birdlike features.,
C as in Compt (n.) Account; reckoning; computation.,
C as in Compt (v. t.) To compute; to count.,
C as in Compt (a.) Neat; spruce.,
C as in Compter (n.) A counter.,
C as in Compte rendu () A report of an officer or agent.,
C as in Comptible (v. t.) Accountable; responsible; sensitive.,
C as in Comptly (adv.) Neatly.,
C as in Comptrol (n. & v.) See Control.,
C as in Comptroler (n.) A controller; a public officer whose duty it is to examine certify accounts.,
C as in Compulsative (a.) Compulsatory.,
C as in Compulsatively (adv.) By compulsion.,
C as in Compulsatory (a.) Operating with force; compelling; forcing; constraining; resulting from, or enforced by, compulsion.,
C as in Compulsion (n.) The act of compelling, or the state of being compelled; the act of driving or urging by force or by physical or moral constraint; subjection to force.,
C as in Compulsive (a.) Having power to compel; exercising or applying compulsion.,
C as in Compulsively (adv.) By compulsion; by force.,
C as in Compulsorily (adv.) In a compulsory manner; by force or constraint.,
C as in Compulsory (a.) Having the power of compulsion; constraining.,
C as in Compulsory (a.) Obligatory; enjoined by authority; necessary; due to compulsion.,
C as in Compunct (a.) Affected with compunction; conscience-stricken.,
C as in Compunction (n.) A pricking; stimulation.,
C as in Compunction (n.) A picking of heart; poignant grief proceeding from a sense of guilt or consciousness of causing pain; the sting of conscience.,
C as in Compunctionless (a.) Without compunction.,
C as in Compunctious (a.) Of the nature of compunction; caused by conscience; attended with, or causing, compunction.,
C as in Compunctiously (adv.) With compunction.,
C as in Compunctive (a.) Sensitive in respect of wrongdoing; conscientious.,
C as in Compurgation (v. t.) The act or practice of justifying or confirming a man's veracity by the oath of others; -- called also wager of law. See Purgation; also Wager of law, under Wager.,
C as in Compurgation (v. t.) Exculpation by testimony to one's veracity or innocence.,
C as in Compurgator (n.) One who bears testimony or swears to the veracity or innocence of another. See Purgation; also Wager of law, under Wager.,
C as in Compurgatorial (a.) Relating to a compurgator or to compurgation.,
C as in Computable (a.) Capable of being computed, numbered, or reckoned.,
C as in Computation (n.) The act or process of computing; calculation; reckoning.,
C as in Computation (n.) The result of computation; the amount computed.,
C as in Computed (imp. & p. p.) of Compute,
C as in Computing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Compute,
C as in Compute (v. t.) To determine calculation; to reckon; to count.,
C as in Compute (n.) Computation.,
C as in Computer (n.) One who computes.,
C as in Computist (n.) A computer.,
C as in Comrade (n.) A mate, companion, or associate.,
C as in Comradery (n.) The spirit of comradeship; comradeship.,
C as in Comradeship (n.) The state of being a comrade; intimate fellowship.,
C as in Comrogue (n.) A fellow rogue.,
C as in Comtism (n.) Positivism; the positive philosophy. See Positivism.,
C as in Comtist (n.) A disciple of Comte; a positivist.,
C as in Con- () A prefix, fr. L. cum, signifying with, together, etc. See Com-.,
C as in Con (adv.) Against the affirmative side; in opposition; on the negative side; -- The antithesis of pro, and usually in connection with it. See Pro.,
C as in Conned (imp. & p. p.) of Con,
C as in Conning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Con,
C as in Con (v. t.) To know; to understand; to acknowledge.,
C as in Con (v. t.) To study in order to know; to peruse; to learn; to commit to memory; to regard studiously.,
C as in Con (v. t.) To conduct, or superintend the steering of (a vessel); to watch the course of (a vessel) and direct the helmsman how to steer.,
C as in Conacre (v. t.) To underlet a portion of, for a single crop; -- said of a farm.,
C as in Conacre (n.) A system of letting a portion of a farm for a single crop.,
C as in Conacre (n.) Also used adjectively; as, the conacre system or principle.,
C as in Conarium (n.) The pineal gland.,
C as in Conation (n.) The power or act which directs or impels to effort of any kind, whether muscular or psychical.,
C as in Conative (a.) Of or pertaining to conation.,
C as in Conatus (n.) A natural tendency inherent in a body to develop itself; an attempt; an effort.,
C as in Concamerate (v. t.) To arch over; to vault.,
C as in Concamerate (v. t.) To divide into chambers or cells.,
C as in Concameration (n.) An arch or vault.,
C as in Concameration (n.) A chamber of a multilocular shell.,
C as in Concatenated (imp. & p. p.) of Concatenate,
C as in Concatenating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Concatenate,
C as in Concatenate (v. t.) To link together; to unite in a series or chain, as things depending on one another.,
C as in Concatenation (n.) A series of links united; a series or order of things depending on each other, as if linked together; a chain, a succession.,
C as in Concause (n.) A joint cause.,
C as in Concavation (n.) The act of making concave.,
C as in Concave (a.) Hollow and curved or rounded; vaulted; -- said of the interior of a curved surface or line, as of the curve of the of the inner surface of an eggshell, in opposition to convex; as, a concave mirror; the concave arch of the sky.,
C as in Concave (a.) Hollow; void of contents.,
C as in Concave (n.) A hollow; an arched vault; a cavity; a recess.,
C as in Concave (n.) A curved sheath or breasting for a revolving cylinder or roll.,
C as in Concaved (imp. & p. p.) of Concave,
C as in Concaving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Concave,
C as in Concave (v. t.) To make hollow or concave.,
C as in Concaved (a.) Bowed in the form of an arch; -- called also arched.,
C as in Concaveness (n.) Hollowness; concavity.,
C as in Concavities (pl. ) of Concavity,
C as in Concavity (n.) A concave surface, or the space bounded by it; the state of being concave.,
C as in Concavo-concave (a.) Concave or hollow on both sides; double concave.,
C as in Concavo-convex (a.) Concave on one side and convex on the other, as an eggshell or a crescent.,
C as in Concavo-convex (a.) Specifically, having such a combination of concave and convex sides as makes the focal axis the shortest line between them. See Illust. under Lens.,
C as in Concavous (a.) Concave.,
C as in Concealed (imp. & p. p.) of Conceal,
C as in Concealing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Conceal,
C as in Conceal (v. t.) To hide or withdraw from observation; to cover; to cover or keep from sight; to prevent the discovery of; to withhold knowledge of.,
C as in Concealable (a.) Capable of being concealed.,
C as in Concealed (a.) Hidden; kept from sight; secreted.,
C as in Concealer (n.) One who conceals.,
C as in Concealment (n.) The act of concealing; the state of being concealed.,
C as in Concealment (n.) A place of hiding; a secret place; a retreat frem observation.,
C as in Concealment (n.) A secret; out of the way knowledge.,
C as in Concealment (n.) Suppression of such facts and circumstances as in justice ought to be made known.,
C as in Conceded (imp. & p. p.) of Concede,
C as in Conceding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Concede,
C as in Concede (v. t.) To yield or suffer; to surrender; to grant; as, to concede the point in question.,
C as in Concede (v. t.) To grant, as a right or privilege; to make concession of.,
C as in Concede (v. t.) To admit to be true; to acknowledge.,
C as in Concede (v. i.) To yield or make concession.,
C as in Conceit (n.) That which is conceived, imagined, or formed in the mind; idea; thought; image; conception.,
C as in Conceit (n.) Faculty of conceiving ideas; mental faculty; apprehension; as, a man of quick conceit.,
C as in Conceit (n.) Quickness of apprehension; active imagination; lively fancy.,
C as in Conceit (n.) A fanciful, odd, or extravagant notion; a quant fancy; an unnatural or affected conception; a witty thought or turn of expression; a fanciful device; a whim; a quip.,
C as in Conceit (n.) An overweening idea of one's self; vanity.,
C as in Conceit (n.) Design; pattern.,
C as in Conceit (v. t.) To conceive; to imagine.,
C as in Conceit (v. i.) To form an idea; to think.,
C as in Conceited (a.) Endowed with fancy or imagination.,
C as in Conceited (a.) Entertaining a flattering opinion of one's self; vain.,
C as in Conceited (a.) Curiously contrived or designed; fanciful.,
C as in Conceitedly (adv.) In an egotistical manner.,
C as in Conceitedly (adv.) Fancifully; whimsically.,
C as in Conceitedness (n.) The state of being conceited; conceit; vanity.,
C as in Conceitless (a.) Without wit; stupid.,
C as in Conceivable (a.) Capable of being conceived, imagined, or understood.,
C as in Conceived (imp. & p. p.) of Conceive,
C as in Conceiving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Conceive,
C as in Conceive (v. t.) To receive into the womb and begin to breed; to begin the formation of the embryo of.,
C as in Conceive (v. t.) To form in the mind; to plan; to devise; to generate; to originate; as, to conceive a purpose, plan, hope.,
C as in Conceive (v. t.) To apprehend by reason or imagination; to take into the mind; to know; to imagine; to comprehend; to understand.,
C as in Conceive (v. i.) To have an embryo or fetus formed in the womb; to breed; to become pregnant.,
C as in Conceive (v. i.) To have a conception, idea, or opinion; think; -- with of.,
C as in Conceiver (n.) One who conceives.,
C as in Concelebrate (v. t.) To celebrate together.,
C as in Concent (n.) Concert of voices; concord of sounds; harmony; as, a concent of notes.,
C as in Concent (n.) Consistency; accordance.,
C as in Concentered (imp. & p. p.) of Concentre,
C as in Concentred () of Concentre,
C as in Concentering (p. pr & vb. n.) of Concentre,
C as in Concentring () of Concentre,
C as in Concenter (v. i.) Alt. of Concentre,
C as in Concentre (v. i.) To come to one point; to meet in, or converge toward, a common center; to have a common center.,
C as in Concenter (v. t.) Alt. of Concentre,
C as in Concentre (v. t.) To draw or direct to a common center; to bring together at a focus or point, as two or more lines; to concentrate.,
C as in Concentrated (imp. & p. p.) of Concentrate,
C as in Concentrating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Concentrate,
C as in Concentrate (v. t.) To bring to, or direct toward, a common center; to unite more closely; to gather into one body, mass, or force; to fix; as, to concentrate rays of light into a focus; to concentrate the attention.,
C as in Concentrate (v. t.) To increase the strength and diminish the bulk of, as of a liquid or an ore; to intensify, by getting rid of useless material; to condense; as, to concentrate acid by evaporation; to concentrate by washing; -- opposed to dilute.,
C as in Concentrate (v. i.) To approach or meet in a common center; to consolidate; as, population tends to concentrate in cities.,
C as in Concentration (n.) The act or process of concentrating; the process of becoming concentrated, or the state of being concentrated; concentration.,
C as in Concentration (n.) The act or process of reducing the volume of a liquid, as by evaporation.,
C as in Concentration (n.) The act or process of removing the dress of ore and of reducing the valuable part to smaller compass, as by currents of air or water.,
C as in Concentrative (a.) Serving or tending to concentrate; characterized by concentration.,
C as in Concentrativeness (n.) The quality of concentrating.,
C as in Concentrativeness (n.) The faculty or propensity which has to do with concentrating the intellectual the intellectual powers.,
C as in Concentrator (n.) An apparatus for the separation of dry comminuted ore, by exposing it to intermittent puffs of air.,
C as in Concentric (a.) Alt. of Concentrical,
C as in Concentrical (a.) Having a common center, as circles of different size, one within another.,
C as in Concentric (n.) That which has a common center with something else.,
C as in Concentrically (adv.) In a concentric manner.,
C as in Concentricity (n.) The state of being concentric.,
C as in Concentual (a.) Possessing harmony; accordant.,
C as in Concept (n.) An abstract general conception; a notion; a universal.,
C as in Conceptacle (n.) That in which anything is contained; a vessel; a receiver or receptacle.,
C as in Conceptacle (n.) A pericarp, opening longitudinally on one side and having the seeds loose in it; a follicle; a double follicle or pair of follicles.,
C as in Conceptacle (n.) One of the cases containing the spores, etc., of flowerless plants, especially of algae.,
C as in Conceptibility (n.) The quality of being conceivable; conceivableness.,
C as in Conceptible (a.) Capable of being conceived; conceivable.,
C as in Conception (n.) The act of conceiving in the womb; the initiation of an embryonic animal life.,
C as in Conception (n.) The state of being conceived; beginning.,
C as in Conception (n.) The power or faculty of apprehending of forming an idea in the mind; the power of recalling a past sensation or perception.,
C as in Conception (n.) The formation in the mind of an image, idea, or notion, apprehension.,
C as in Conception (n.) The image, idea, or notion of any action or thing which is formed in the mind; a concept; a notion; a universal; the product of a rational belief or judgment. See Concept.,
C as in Conception (n.) Idea; purpose; design.,
C as in Conception (n.) Conceit; affected sentiment or thought.,
C as in Conceptional (a.) Pertaining to conception.,
C as in Conceptionalist (n.) A conceptualist.,
C as in Conceptious (a.) Apt to conceive; fruitful.,
C as in Conceptive (a.) Capable of conceiving.,
C as in Conceptual (a.) Pertaining to conception.,
C as in Conceptualism (n.) A theory, intermediate between realism and nominalism, that the mind has the power of forming for itself general conceptions of individual or single objects.,
C as in Conceptualist (n.) One who maintains the theory of conceptualism.,
C as in Concerned (imp. & p. p.) of Concern,
C as in Concerning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Concern,
C as in Concern (v. t.) To relate or belong to; to have reference to or connection with; to affect the interest of; to be of importance to.,
C as in Concern (v. t.) To engage by feeling or sentiment; to interest; as, a good prince concerns himself in the happiness of his subjects.,
C as in Concern (v. i.) To be of importance.,
C as in Concern (n.) That which relates or belongs to one; business; affair.,
C as in Concern (n.) That which affects the welfare or happiness; interest; moment.,
C as in Concern (n.) Interest in, or care for, any person or thing; regard; solicitude; anxiety.,
C as in Concern (n.) Persons connected in business; a firm and its business; as, a banking concern.,
C as in Concerned (v. t.) Disturbed; troubled; solicitous; as, to be much concerned for the safety of a friend.,
C as in Concernedly (adv.) In a concerned manner; solicitously; sympathetically.,
C as in Concerning (prep.) Pertaining to; regarding; having relation to; respecting; as regards.,
C as in Concerning (a.) Important.,
C as in Concerning (n.) That in which one is concerned or interested; concern; affair; interest.,
C as in Concerning (n.) Importance; moment; consequence.,
C as in Concerning (n.) Concern; participation; interposition.,
C as in Concerning (n.) Emotion of mind; solicitude; anxiety.,
C as in Concerted (imp. & p. p.) of Concert,
C as in Concerting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Concert,
C as in Concert (v. t.) To plan together; to settle or adjust by conference, agreement, or consultation.,
C as in Concert (v. t.) To plan; to devise; to arrange.,
C as in Concert (v. i.) To act in harmony or conjunction; to form combined plans.,
C as in Concert (v. t.) Agreement in a design or plan; union formed by mutual communication of opinions and views; accordance in a scheme; harmony; simultaneous action.,
C as in Concert (v. t.) Musical accordance or harmony; concord.,
C as in Concert (v. t.) A musical entertainment in which several voices or instruments take part.,
C as in Concertante (n.) A concert for two or more principal instruments, with orchestral accompaniment. Also adjectively; as, concertante parts.,
C as in Concertation (n.) Strife; contention.,
C as in Concertative (a.) Contentious; quarrelsome.,
C as in Concerted (a.) Mutually contrived or planned; agreed on; as, concerted schemes, signals.,
C as in Concertina (n.) A small musical instrument on the principle of the accordion. It is a small elastic box, or bellows, having free reeds on the inside, and keys and handles on the outside of each of the two hexagonal heads.,
C as in Concertino (n.) A piece for one or more solo instruments with orchestra; -- more concise than the concerto.,
C as in Concertion (n.) Act of concerting; adjustment.,
C as in Concertmeister (n.) The head violinist or leader of the strings in an orchestra; the sub-leader of the orchestra; concert master.,
C as in Concertos (pl. ) of Concerto,
C as in Concerto (n.) A composition (usually in symphonic form with three movements) in which one instrument (or two or three) stands out in bold relief against the orchestra, or accompaniment, so as to display its qualities or the performer's skill.,
C as in Concession (n.) The act of conceding or yielding; usually implying a demand, claim, or request, and thus distinguished from giving, which is voluntary or spontaneous.,
C as in Concession (n.) A thing yielded; an acknowledgment or admission; a boon; a grant; esp. a grant by government of a privilege or right to do something; as, a concession to build a canal.,
C as in Concessionist (n.) One who favors concession.,
C as in Concessive (a.) Implying concession; as, a concessive conjunction.,
C as in Concessively (adv.) By way of concession.,
C as in Concessory (a.) Conceding; permissive.,
C as in Concettism (n.) The use of concetti or affected conceits.,
C as in Concetti (pl. ) of Concetto,
C as in Concetto (n.) Affected wit; a conceit.,
C as in Conch (n.) A name applied to various marine univalve shells; esp. to those of the genus Strombus, which are of large size. S. gigas is the large pink West Indian conch. The large king, queen, and cameo conchs are of the genus Cassis. See Cameo.,
C as in Conch (n.) In works of art, the shell used by Tritons as a trumpet.,
C as in Conch (n.) One of the white natives of the Bahama Islands or one of their descendants in the Florida Keys; -- so called from the commonness of the conch there, or because they use it for food.,
C as in Conch (n.) See Concha, n.,
C as in Conch (n.) The external ear. See Concha, n., 2.,
C as in Concha (n.) The plain semidome of an apse; sometimes used for the entire apse.,
C as in Concha (n.) The external ear; esp. the largest and deepest concavity of the external ear, surrounding the entrance to the auditory canal.,
C as in Conchal (a.) Pertaining to the concha, or external ear; as, the conchal cartilage.,
C as in Conchifer (n.) One of the Conchifera.,
C as in Conchifera (n. pl.) That class of Mollusca which includes the bivalve shells; the Lamellibranchiata. See Mollusca.,
C as in Conchiferous (a.) Producing or having shells.,
C as in Conchiform (a.) Shaped like one half of a bivalve shell; shell-shaped.,
C as in Conchinine (n.) See Quinidine.,
C as in Conchite (n.) A fossil or petrified conch or shell.,
C as in Conchitic (a.) Composed of shells; containing many shells.,
C as in Conchoid (n.) A curve, of the fourth degree, first made use of by the Greek geometer, Nicomedes, who invented it for the purpose of trisecting an angle and duplicating the cube.,
C as in Conchoidal (a.) Having elevations or depressions in form like one half of a bivalve shell; -- applied principally to a surface produced by fracture.,
C as in Conchological (a.) Pertaining to, or connected with, conchology.,
C as in Conchologist (n.) One who studies, or is versed in, conchology.,
C as in Conchology (n.) The science of Mollusca, and of the shells which they form; malacology.,
C as in Conchometer (n.) An instrument for measuring shells, or the angle of their spire.,
C as in Conchometry (n.) The art of measuring shells or their curves; conchyliometry.,
C as in Concho-spiral (n.) A kind of spiral curve found in certain univalve shells.,
C as in Conchylaceous (a.) Alt. of Conchyliaceous,
C as in Conchyliaceous (a.) Of or pertaining to shells; resembling a shell; as, conchyliaceous impressions.,
C as in Conchyliologist (n.) Alt. of Conchyliology,
C as in Conchyliology (n.) See Conchologist, and Conchology.,
C as in Conchyliometry (n.) Same as Conchometry.,
C as in Conchylious (a.) Conchylaceous.,
C as in Conciator (a.) The person who weighs and proportions the materials to be made into glass, and who works and tempers them.,
C as in Concierge (n.) One who keeps the entrance to an edifice, public or private; a doorkeeper; a janitor, male or female.,
C as in Conciliable (n.) A small or private assembly, especially of an ecclesiastical nature.,
C as in Conciliable (a.) Capable of being conciliated or reconciled.,
C as in Conciliabule (n.) An obscure ecclesiastical council; a conciliable.,
C as in Conciliar (a.) Alt. of Conciliary,
C as in Conciliary (a.) Of or pertaining to, or issued by, a council.,
C as in Conciliated (imp. & p. p.) of Conciliate,
C as in Conciliating (p. pr & vb. n.) of Conciliate,
C as in Conciliate (v. t.) To win ower; to gain from a state of hostility; to gain the good will or favor of; to make friendly; to mollify; to propitiate; to appease.,
C as in Conciliation (n.) The act or process of conciliating; the state of being conciliated.,
C as in Conciliative (a.) Conciliatory.,
C as in Conciliator (n.) One who conciliates.,
C as in Conciliatory (a.) Tending to conciliate; pacific; mollifying; propitiating.,
C as in Concinnate (v. t.) To place fitly together; to adapt; to clear.,
C as in Concinnity (n.) Internal harmony or fitness; mutual adaptation of parts; elegance; -- used chiefly of style of discourse.,
C as in Concinnous (a.) Characterized by concinnity; neat; elegant.,
C as in Concionate (v. i.) To preach.,
C as in Concionator (n.) An haranguer of the people; a preacher.,
C as in Concionator (n.) A common councilman.,
C as in Concionatory (a.) Of or pertaining to preaching or public addresses.,
C as in Concise (a.) Expressing much in a few words; condensed; brief and compacted; -- used of style in writing or speaking.,
C as in Concisely (adv.) In a concise manner; briefly.,
C as in Conciseness (n.) The quality of being concise.,
C as in Concision (n.) A cutting off; a division; a schism; a faction.,
C as in Concitation (n.) The act of stirring up, exciting, or agitating.,
C as in Concite (v. t.) To excite or stir up.,
C as in Conclamation (n.) An outcry or shout of many together.,
C as in Conclave (n.) The set of apartments within which the cardinals of the Roman Catholic Church are continuously secluded while engaged in choosing a pope.,
C as in Conclave (n.) The body of cardinals shut up in the conclave for the election of a pope; hence, the body of cardinals.,
C as in Conclave (n.) A private meeting; a close or secret assembly.,
C as in Conclavist (n.) One of the two ecclesiastics allowed to attend a cardinal in the conclave.,
C as in Concluded (imp. & p. p.) of Conclude,
C as in Concluding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Conclude,
C as in Conclude (v. t.) To shut up; to inclose.,
C as in Conclude (v. t.) To include; to comprehend; to shut up together; to embrace.,
C as in Conclude (v. t.) To reach as an end of reasoning; to infer, as from premises; to close, as an argument, by inferring; -- sometimes followed by a dependent clause.,
C as in Conclude (v. t.) To make a final determination or judgment concerning; to judge; to decide.,
C as in Conclude (v. t.) To bring to an end; to close; to finish.,
C as in Conclude (v. t.) To bring about as a result; to effect; to make; as, to conclude a bargain.,
C as in Conclude (v. t.) To shut off; to restrain; to limit; to estop; to bar; -- generally in the passive; as, the defendant is concluded by his own plea; a judgment concludes the introduction of further evidence argument.,
C as in Conclude (v. i.) To come to a termination; to make an end; to close; to end; to terminate.,
C as in Conclude (v. i.) To form a final judgment; to reach a decision.,
C as in Concludency (n.) Deduction from premises; inference; conclusion.,
C as in Concludent (a.) Bringing to a close; decisive; conclusive.,
C as in Concluder (n.) One who concludes.,
C as in Concludingly (adv.) Conclusively.,
C as in Conclusible (a.) Demonstrable; determinable.,
C as in Conclusion (n.) The last part of anything; close; termination; end.,
C as in Conclusion (n.) Final decision; determination; result.,
C as in Conclusion (n.) Any inference or result of reasoning.,
C as in Conclusion (n.) The inferred proposition of a syllogism; the necessary consequence of the conditions asserted in two related propositions called premises. See Syllogism.,
C as in Conclusion (n.) Drawing of inferences.,
C as in Conclusion (n.) An experiment, or something from which a conclusion may be drawn.,
C as in Conclusion (n.) The end or close of a pleading, e.g., the formal ending of an indictment, "against the peace," etc.,
C as in Conclusion (n.) An estoppel or bar by which a person is held to a particular position.,
C as in Conclusive (a.) Belonging to a close or termination; decisive; convincing; putting an end to debate or question; leading to, or involving, a conclusion or decision.,
C as in Conclusively (adv.) In the way of conclusion; decisively; positively.,
C as in Conclusiveness (n.) The quality of being conclusive; decisiveness.,
C as in Conclusory (a.) Conclusive.,
C as in Concocted (imp. & p. p.) of Concoct,
C as in Concocting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Concoct,
C as in Concoct (v. t.) To digest; to convert into nourishment by the organs of nutrition.,
C as in Concoct (v. t.) To purify or refine chemically.,
C as in Concoct (v. t.) To prepare from crude materials, as food; to invent or prepare by combining different ingredients; as, to concoct a new dish or beverage.,
C as in Concoct (v. t.) To digest in the mind; to devise; to make up; to contrive; to plan; to plot.,
C as in Concoct (v. t.) To mature or perfect; to ripen.,
C as in Concocter (n.) One who concocts.,
C as in Concoction (n.) A change in food produced by the organs of nutrition; digestion.,
C as in Concoction (n.) The act of concocting or preparing by combining different ingredients; also, the food or compound thus prepared.,
C as in Concoction (n.) The act of digesting in the mind; planning or devising; rumination.,
C as in Concoction (n.) Abatement of a morbid process, as a fever and return to a normal condition.,
C as in Concoction (n.) The act of perfecting or maturing.,
C as in Concoctive (a.) Having the power of digesting or ripening; digestive.,
C as in Concolor (a.) Of the same color; of uniform color.,
C as in Concolorous (a.) Of the same color throughout.,
C as in Concomitance (n.) Alt. of Concomitancy,
C as in Concomitancy (n.) The state of accompanying; accompaniment.,
C as in Concomitancy (n.) The doctrine of the existence of the entire body of Christ in the eucharist, under each element, so that the body and blood are both received by communicating in one kind only.,
C as in Concomitant (a.) Accompanying; conjoined; attending.,
C as in Concomitant (n.) One who, or that which, accompanies, or is collaterally connected with another; a companion; an associate; an accompaniment.,
C as in Concomitantly (adv.) In company with others; unitedly; concurrently.,
C as in Concord (n.) A state of agreement; harmony; union.,
C as in Concord (n.) Agreement by stipulation; compact; covenant; treaty or league.,
C as in Concord (n.) Agreement of words with one another, in gender, number, person, or case.,
C as in Concord (n.) An agreement between the parties to a fine of land in reference to the manner in which it should pass, being an acknowledgment that the land in question belonged to the complainant. See Fine.,
C as in Concord (n.) An agreeable combination of tones simultaneously heard; a consonant chord; consonance; harmony.,
C as in Concord (n.) A variety of American grape, with large dark blue (almost black) grapes in compact clusters.,
C as in Concord (v. i.) To agree; to act together.,
C as in Concordable (a.) Capable of according; agreeing; harmonious.,
C as in Concordance (n.) Agreement; accordance.,
C as in Concordance (n.) Concord; agreement.,
C as in Concordance (n.) An alphabetical verbal index showing the places in the text of a book where each principal word may be found, with its immediate context in each place.,
C as in Concordance (n.) A topical index or orderly analysis of the contents of a book.,
C as in Concordancy (n.) Agreement.,
C as in Concordant (a.) Agreeing; correspondent; harmonious; consonant.,
C as in Concordantly (adv.) In a concordant manner.,
C as in Concordat (n.) A compact, covenant, or agreement concerning anything.,
C as in Concordat (n.) An agreement made between the pope and a sovereign or government for the regulation of ecclesiastical matters with which both are concerned; as, the concordat between Pope Pius VII and Bonaparte in 1801.,
C as in Concordist (n.) The compiler of a concordance.,
C as in Concorporate (v. t. & i.) To unite in one mass or body; to incorporate.,
C as in Concorporate (a.) United in one body; incorporated.,
C as in Concorporation (n.) Union of things in one mass or body.,
C as in Concourse (n.) A moving, flowing, or running together; confluence.,
C as in Concourse (n.) An assembly; a gathering formed by a voluntary or spontaneous moving and meeting in one place.,
C as in Concourse (n.) The place or point of meeting or junction of two bodies.,
C as in Concourse (n.) An open space where several roads or paths meet; esp. an open space in a park where several roads meet.,
C as in Concourse (n.) Concurrence; cooperation.,
C as in Concreate (v. t.) To create at the same time.,
C as in Concremation (n.) The act of burning different things together.,
C as in Concrement (n.) A growing together; the collection or mass formed by concretion, or natural union.,
C as in Concrescence (n.) Coalescence of particles; growth; increase by the addition of particles.,
C as in Concrescible (a.) Capable of being changed from a liquid to a solid state.,
C as in Concrescive (a.) Growing together, or into union; uniting.,
C as in Concrete (a.) United in growth; hence, formed by coalition of separate particles into one mass; united in a solid form.,
C as in Concrete (a.) Standing for an object as it exists in nature, invested with all its qualities, as distinguished from standing for an attribute of an object; -- opposed to abstract.,
C as in Concrete (a.) Applied to a specific object; special; particular; -- opposed to general. See Abstract, 3.,
C as in Concrete (n.) A compound or mass formed by concretion, spontaneous union, or coalescence of separate particles of matter in one body.,
C as in Concrete (n.) A mixture of gravel, pebbles, or broken stone with cement or with tar, etc., used for sidewalks, roadways, foundations, etc., and esp. for submarine structures.,
C as in Concrete (n.) A term designating both a quality and the subject in which it exists; a concrete term.,
C as in Concrete (n.) Sugar boiled down from cane juice to a solid mass.,
C as in Concreted (imp. & p. p.) of Concrete,
C as in Concreting (p. pr & vb. n.) of Concrete,
C as in Concrete (v. i.) To unite or coalesce, as separate particles, into a mass or solid body.,
C as in Concrete (v. t.) To form into a mass, as by the cohesion or coalescence of separate particles.,
C as in Concrete (v. t.) To cover with, or form of, concrete, as a pavement.,
C as in Concretely (adv.) In a concrete manner.,
C as in Concreteness (n.) The quality of being concrete.,
C as in Concretion (n.) The process of concreting; the process of uniting or of becoming united, as particles of matter into a mass; solidification.,
C as in Concretion (n.) A mass or nodule of solid matter formed by growing together, by congelation, condensation, coagulation, induration, etc.; a clot; a lump; a calculus.,
C as in Concretion (n.) A rounded mass or nodule produced by an aggregation of the material around a center; as, the calcareous concretions common in beds of clay.,
C as in Concretional (a.) Concretionary.,
C as in Concretionary (a.) Pertaining to, or formed by, concretion or aggregation; producing or containing concretions.,
C as in Concretive (a.) Promoting concretion.,
C as in Concretively (adv.) In a concrete manner.,
C as in Concreture (n.) A mass formed by concretion.,
C as in Concrew (a.) To grow together.,
C as in Concrimination (n.) A joint accusation.,
C as in Concubinacy (n.) The practice of concubinage.,
C as in Concubinage (n.) The cohabiting of a man and a woman who are not legally married; the state of being a concubine.,
C as in Concubinage (n.) A plea, in which it is alleged that the woman suing for dower was not lawfully married to the man in whose lands she seeks to be endowed, but that she was his concubine.,
C as in Concubinal (a.) Of or pertaining to concubinage.,
C as in Concubinarian (a. & n.) Concubinary.,
C as in Concubinary (a.) Relating to concubinage; living in concubinage.,
C as in Concubinaries (pl. ) of Concubinary,
C as in Concubinary (n.) One who lives in concubinage.,
C as in Concubinate (n.) Concubinage.,
C as in Concubine (n.) A woman who cohabits with a man without being his wife; a paramour.,
C as in Concubine (n.) A wife of inferior condition; a lawful wife, but not united to the man by the usual ceremonies, and of inferior condition. Such were Hagar and Keturah, the concubines of Abraham; and such concubines were allowed by the Roman laws. Their children were not heirs of their father.,
C as in Concultated (imp. & p. p.) of Conculcate,
C as in Conculcating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Conculcate,
C as in Conculcate (v. t.) To tread or trample under foot.,
C as in Concupiscence (n.) Sexual lust; morbid carnal passion.,
C as in Concupiscent (a.) Having sexual lust; libidinous; lustful; lecherous; salacious.,
C as in Concupiscential (a.) Relating to concupiscence.,
C as in Concupiscentious (a.) Concupiscent.,
C as in Concupiscible (a.) Exciting to, or liable to be affected by, concupiscence; provoking lustful desires.,
C as in Concupiscible (a.) Exciting desire, good or evil.,
C as in Concupiscibleness (n.) The state of being concupiscible.,
C as in Concupy (n.) Concupiscence. [Used only in "Troilus and Cressida"],
C as in Concurred (imp. & p. p.) of Concur,
C as in Concurring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Concur,
C as in Concur (v. i.) To run together; to meet.,
C as in Concur (v. i.) To meet in the same point; to combine or conjoin; to contribute or help toward a common object or effect.,
C as in Concur (v. i.) To unite or agree (in action or opinion); to join; to act jointly; to agree; to coincide; to correspond.,
C as in Concur (v. i.) To assent; to consent.,
C as in Concurrence (n.) The act of concurring; a meeting or coming together; union; conjunction; combination.,
C as in Concurrence (n.) A meeting of minds; agreement in opinion; union in design or act; -- implying joint approbation.,
C as in Concurrence (n.) Agreement or consent, implying aid or contribution of power or influence; cooperation.,
C as in Concurrence (n.) A common right; coincidence of equal powers; as, a concurrence of jurisdiction in two different courts.,
C as in Concurrency (n.) Concurrence.,
C as in Concurrent (a.) Acting in conjunction; agreeing in the same act or opinion; contributing to the same event or effect; cooperating.,
C as in Concurrent (a.) Conjoined; associate; concomitant; existing or happening at the same time.,
C as in Concurrent (a.) Joint and equal in authority; taking cognizance of similar questions; operating on the same objects; as, the concurrent jurisdiction of courts.,
C as in Concurrent (a.) Meeting in one point.,
C as in Concurrent (n.) One who, or that which, concurs; a joint or contributory cause.,
C as in Concurrent (n.) One pursuing the same course, or seeking the same objects; hence, a rival; an opponent.,
C as in Concurrent (n.) One of the supernumerary days of the year over fifty-two complete weeks; -- so called because they concur with the solar cycle, the course of which they follow.,
C as in Concurrently (adv.) With concurrence; unitedly.,
C as in Concurrentness (n.) The state or quality of being concurrent; concurrence.,
C as in Concurring (a.) Agreeing.,
C as in Concuss (v. t.) To shake or agitate.,
C as in Concuss (v. t.) To force (a person) to do something, or give up something, by intimidation; to coerce.,
C as in Concussation (n.) A violent shock or agitation.,
C as in Concussion (n.) A shaking or agitation; a shock; caused by the collision of two bodies.,
C as in Concussion (n.) A condition of lowered functional activity, without visible structural change, produced in an organ by a shock, as by fall or blow; as, a concussion of the brain.,
C as in Concussion (n.) The unlawful forcing of another by threats of violence to yield up something of value.,
C as in Concussive (a.) Having the power or quality of shaking or agitating.,
C as in Cond (v. t.) To con, as a ship.,
C as in Condemned (imp. & p. p.) of Condemn,
C as in Condemning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Condemn,
C as in Condemn (v. t.) To pronounce to be wrong; to disapprove of; to censure.,
C as in Condemn (v. t.) To declare the guilt of; to make manifest the faults or unworthiness of; to convict of guilt.,
C as in Condemn (v. t.) To pronounce a judicial sentence against; to sentence to punishment, suffering, or loss; to doom; -- with to before the penalty.,
C as in Condemn (v. t.) To amerce or fine; -- with in before the penalty.,
C as in Condemn (v. t.) To adjudge or pronounce to be unfit for use or service; to adjudge or pronounce to be forfeited; as, the ship and her cargo were condemned.,
C as in Condemn (v. t.) To doom to be taken for public use, under the right of eminent domain.,
C as in Condemnable () Worthy of condemnation; blamable; culpable.,
C as in Condemnation (n.) The act of condemning or pronouncing to be wrong; censure; blame; disapprobation.,
C as in Condemnation (n.) The act of judicially condemning, or adjudging guilty, unfit for use, or forfeited; the act of dooming to punishment or forfeiture.,
C as in Condemnation (n.) The state of being condemned.,
C as in Condemnation (n.) The ground or reason of condemning.,
C as in Condemnatory (a.) Condemning; containing or imposing condemnation or censure; as, a condemnatory sentence or decree.,
C as in Condemned (a.) Pronounced to be wrong, guilty, worthless, or forfeited; adjudged or sentenced to punishment, destruction, or confiscation.,
C as in Condemned (a.) Used for condemned persons.,
C as in Condemner (n.) One who condemns or censures.,
C as in Condensability (n.) Capability of being condensed.,
C as in Condensable (a.) Capable of being condensed; as, vapor is condensable.,
C as in Condensate (v. t.) Made dense; condensed.,
C as in Condensated (imp. & p. p.) of Condensate,
C as in Condensating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Condensate,
C as in Condensate (v. t.) To condense.,
C as in Condensation (n.) The act or process of condensing or of being condensed; the state of being condensed.,
C as in Condensation (n.) The act or process of reducing, by depression of temperature or increase of pressure, etc., to another and denser form, as gas to the condition of a liquid or steam to water.,
C as in Condensation (n.) A rearrangement or concentration of the different constituents of one or more substances into a distinct and definite compound of greater complexity and molecular weight, often resulting in an increase of density, as the condensation of oxygen into ozone, or of acetone into mesitylene.,
C as in Condensative (a.) Having the property of condensing.,
C as in Condensed (imp. & p. p.) of Condense,
C as in Condensing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Condense,
C as in Condense (v. t.) To make more close, compact, or dense; to compress or concentrate into a smaller compass; to consolidate; to abridge; to epitomize.,
C as in Condense (v. t.) To reduce into another and denser form, as by cold or pressure; as, to condense gas into a liquid form, or steam into water.,
C as in Condense (v. i.) To become more compact; to be reduced into a denser form.,
C as in Condense (v. i.) To combine or unite (as two chemical substances) with or without separation of some unimportant side products.,
C as in Condense (v. i.) To undergo polymerization.,
C as in Condense (a.) Condensed; compact; dense.,
C as in Condenser (n.) One who, or that which, condenses.,
C as in Condenser (n.) An instrument for condensing air or other elastic fluids, consisting of a cylinder having a movable piston to force the air into a receiver, and a valve to prevent its escape.,
C as in Condenser (n.) An instrument for concentrating electricity by the effect of induction between conducting plates separated by a nonconducting plate.,
C as in Condenser (n.) A lens or mirror, usually of short focal distance, used to concentrate light upon an object.,
C as in Condenser (n.) An apparatus for receiving and condensing the volatile products of distillation to a liquid or solid form, by cooling.,
C as in Condenser (n.) An apparatus, separate from the cylinder, in which the exhaust steam is condensed by the action of cold water or air. See Illust. of Steam engine.,
C as in Condensible (a.) Capable of being condensed; as, a gas condensible to a liquid by cold.,
C as in Conder (n.) One who watches shoals of fish; a balker. See Balker.,
C as in Condescended (imp. & p. p.) of Condescend,
C as in Condescending (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Condescend,
C as in Condescend (v. i.) To stoop or descend; to let one's self down; to submit; to waive the privilege of rank or dignity; to accommodate one's self to an inferior.,
C as in Condescend (v. i.) To consent.,
C as in Condescendence (n.) Alt. of Condescendency,
C as in Condescendency (n.) Condescension.,
C as in Condescendingly (adv.) In a condescending manner.,
C as in Condescension (n.) The act of condescending; voluntary descent from one's rank or dignity in intercourse with an inferior; courtesy toward inferiors.,
C as in Condescent (n.) An act of condescension.,
C as in Condign (a.) Worthy; suitable; deserving; fit.,
C as in Condign (a.) Deserved; adequate; suitable to the fault or crime.,
C as in Condignity (n.) Merit, acquired by works, which can claim reward on the score of general benevolence.,
C as in Condignly (adv.) According to merit.,
C as in Condignness (n.) Agreeableness to deserts; suitableness.,
C as in Condiment (n.) Something used to give relish to food, and to gratify the taste; a pungment and appetizing substance, as pepper or mustard; seasoning.,
C as in Condisciple (n.) A schoolfellow; a fellow-student.,
C as in Condite (a.) Preserved; pickled.,
C as in Condite (v. t.) To pickle; to preserve; as, to condite pears, quinces, etc.,
C as in Condition (n.) Mode or state of being; state or situation with regard to external circumstances or influences, or to physical or mental integrity, health, strength, etc.; predicament; rank; position, estate.,
C as in Condition (n.) Essential quality; property; attribute.,
C as in Condition (n.) Temperament; disposition; character.,
C as in Condition (n.) That which must exist as the occasion or concomitant of something else; that which is requisite in order that something else should take effect; an essential qualification; stipulation; terms specified.,
C as in Condition (n.) A clause in a contract, or agreement, which has for its object to suspend, to defeat, or in some way to modify, the principal obligation; or, in case of a will, to suspend, revoke, or modify a devise or bequest. It is also the case of a future uncertain event, which may or may not happen, and on the occurrence or non-occurrence of which, the accomplishment, recission, or modification of an obligation or testamentary disposition is made to depend.,
C as in Conditioned (imp. & p. p.) of Condition,
C as in Conditioning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Condition,
C as in Condition (v. i.) To make terms; to stipulate.,
C as in Condition (v. i.) To impose upon an object those relations or conditions without which knowledge and thought are alleged to be impossible.,
C as in Condition (n.) To invest with, or limit by, conditions; to burden or qualify by a condition; to impose or be imposed as the condition of.,
C as in Condition (n.) To contract; to stipulate; to agree.,
C as in Condition (n.) To put under conditions; to require to pass a new examination or to make up a specified study, as a condition of remaining in one's class or in college; as, to condition a student who has failed in some branch of study.,
C as in Condition (n.) To test or assay, as silk (to ascertain the proportion of moisture it contains).,
C as in Condition (n.) train; acclimate.,
C as in Conditional (a.) Containing, implying, or depending on, a condition or conditions; not absolute; made or granted on certain terms; as, a conditional promise.,
C as in Conditional (a.) Expressing a condition or supposition; as, a conditional word, mode, or tense.,
C as in Conditional (n.) A limitation.,
C as in Conditional (n.) A conditional word, mode, or proposition.,
C as in Conditionality (n.) The quality of being conditional, or limited; limitation by certain terms.,
C as in Conditionally (adv.) In a conditional manner; subject to a condition or conditions; not absolutely or positively.,
C as in Conditionate (v. t.) Conditional.,
C as in Conditionate (v. t.) To qualify by conditions; to regulate.,
C as in Conditionate (v. t.) To put under conditions; to render conditional.,
C as in Conditioned (a.) Surrounded; circumstanced; in a certain state or condition, as of property or health; as, a well conditioned man.,
C as in Conditioned (a.) Having, or known under or by, conditions or relations; not independent; not absolute.,
C as in Conditionly (adv.) Conditionally.,
C as in Conditories (pl. ) of Conditory,
C as in Conditory (n.) A repository for holding things; a hinding place.,
C as in Condog (v. i.) To concur; to agree.,
C as in Condolatory (a.) Expressing condolence.,
C as in Condoled (imp. & p. p.) of Condole,
C as in Condoling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Condole,
C as in Condole (v. i.) To express sympathetic sorrow; to grieve in sympathy; -- followed by with.,
C as in Condole (v. t.) To lament or grieve over.,
C as in Condolement (n.) Condolence.,
C as in Condolement (n.) Sorrow; mourning; lamentation.,
C as in Condolence (n.) Expression of sympathy with another in sorrow or grief.,
C as in Condoler (n.) One who condoles.,
C as in Condonation (n.) The act of condoning or pardoning.,
C as in Condonation (n.) Forgiveness, either express or implied, by a husband of his wife or by a wife of her husband, for a breach of marital duty, as adultery, with an implied condition that the offense shall not be repeated.,
C as in Condoned (imp. & p. p.) of Condone,
C as in Condoning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Condone,
C as in Condone (v. t.) To pardon; to forgive.,
C as in Condone (v. t.) To pardon; to overlook the offense of; esp., to forgive for a violation of the marriage law; -- said of either the husband or the wife.,
C as in Condor (n.) A very large bird of the Vulture family (Sarcorhamphus gryphus), found in the most elevated parts of the Andes.,
C as in Condottieri (pl. ) of Condottiere,
C as in Condottiere (n.) A military adventurer of the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries, who sold his services, and those of his followers, to any party in any contest.,
C as in Conduced (imp. & p. p.) of Conduce,
C as in Conducing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Conduce,
C as in Conduce (n.) To lead or tend, esp. with reference to a favorable or desirable result; to contribute; -- usually followed by to or toward.,
C as in Conduce (v. t.) To conduct; to lead; to guide.,
C as in Conducent (a.) Conducive; tending.,
C as in Conducibility (n.) The state or quality of being conducible; conducibleness.,
C as in Conducible (a.) Conducive; tending; contributing.,
C as in Conducibleness (n.) Quality of being conducible.,
C as in Conducibly (adv.) In a manner to promote.,
C as in Conducive (a.) Loading or tending; helpful; contributive; tending to promote.,
C as in Conduciveness (n.) The quality of conducing.,
C as in Conduct (n.) The act or method of conducting; guidance; management.,
C as in Conduct (n.) Skillful guidance or management; generalship.,
C as in Conduct (n.) Convoy; escort; guard; guide.,
C as in Conduct (n.) That which carries or conveys anything; a channel; a conduit; an instrument.,
C as in Conduct (n.) The manner of guiding or carrying one's self; personal deportment; mode of action; behavior.,
C as in Conduct (n.) Plot; action; construction; manner of development.,
C as in Conducted (imp. & p. p.) of Conduct,
C as in Conducting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Conduct,
C as in Conduct (n.) To lead, or guide; to escort; to attend.,
C as in Conduct (n.) To lead, as a commander; to direct; to manage; to carry on; as, to conduct the affairs of a kingdom.,
C as in Conduct (n.) To behave; -- with the reflexive; as, he conducted himself well.,
C as in Conduct (n.) To serve as a medium for conveying; to transmit, as heat, light, electricity, etc.,
C as in Conduct (n.) To direct, as the leader in the performance of a musical composition.,
C as in Conduct (v. i.) To act as a conductor (as of heat, electricity, etc.); to carry.,
C as in Conduct (v. i.) To conduct one's self; to behave.,
C as in Conductibility (n.) Capability of being conducted; as, the conductibility of heat or electricity.,
C as in Conductibility (n.) Conductivity; capacity for receiving and transmitting.,
C as in Conductible (a.) Capable of being conducted.,
C as in Conduction (n.) The act of leading or guiding.,
C as in Conduction (n.) The act of training up.,
C as in Conduction (n.) Transmission through, or by means of, a conductor; also, conductivity.,
C as in Conductive (a.) Having the quality or power of conducting; as, the conductive tissue of a pistil.,
C as in Conductivity (n.) The quality or power of conducting, or of receiving and transmitting, as heat, electricity, etc.; as, the conductivity of a nerve.,
C as in Conductor (n.) One who, or that which, conducts; a leader; a commander; a guide; a manager; a director.,
C as in Conductor (n.) One in charge of a public conveyance, as of a railroad train or a street car.,
C as in Conductor (n.) The leader or director of an orchestra or chorus.,
C as in Conductor (n.) A substance or body capable of being a medium for the transmission of certain forces, esp. heat or electricity; specifically, a lightning rod.,
C as in Conductor (n.) A grooved sound or staff used for directing instruments, as lithontriptic forceps, etc.; a director.,
C as in Conductor (n.) Same as Leader.,
C as in Conductory (a.) Having the property of conducting.,
C as in Conductress (n.) A woman who leads or directs; a directress.,
C as in Conduit (n.) A pipe, canal, channel, or passage for conveying water or fluid.,
C as in Conduit (n.) A structure forming a reservoir for water.,
C as in Conduit (n.) A narrow passage for private communication.,
C as in Conduplicate (a.) Folded lengthwise along the midrib, the upper face being within; -- said of leaves or petals in vernation or aestivation.,
C as in Conduplication (n.) A doubling together or folding; a duplication.,
C as in Condurango (n.) See Cundurango.,
C as in Condurrite (n.) A variety of the mineral domeykite, or copper arsenide, from the Condurra mine in Cornwall, England.,
C as in Condylar (a.) Of or pertaining to a condyle.,
C as in Condyle (n.) A bony prominence; particularly, an eminence at the end of a bone bearing a rounded articular surface; -- sometimes applied also to a concave articular surface.,
C as in Condyloid (a.) Shaped like or pertaining to a condyle.,
C as in Condylomata (pl. ) of Condylome,
C as in Condylomes (pl. ) of Condylome,
C as in Condyloma (n.) Alt. of Condylome,
C as in Condylome (n.) A wartlike new growth on the outer skin or adjoining mucous membrane.,
C as in Condylopod (n.) An arthropod.,
C as in Cone (n.) A solid of the form described by the revolution of a right-angled triangle about one of the sides adjacent to the right angle; -- called also a right cone. More generally, any solid having a vertical point and bounded by a surface which is described by a straight line always passing through that vertical point; a solid having a circle for its base and tapering to a point or vertex.,
C as in Cone (n.) Anything shaped more or less like a mathematical cone; as, a volcanic cone, a collection of scoriae around the crater of a volcano, usually heaped up in a conical form.,
C as in Cone (n.) The fruit or strobile of the Coniferae, as of the pine, fir, cedar, and cypress. It is composed of woody scales, each one of which has one or two seeds at its base.,
C as in Cone (n.) A shell of the genus Conus, having a conical form.,
C as in Cone (v. t.) To render cone-shaped; to bevel like the circular segment of a cone; as, to cone the tires of car wheels.,
C as in Cone-in-cone (a.) Consisting of a series of parallel cones, each made up of many concentric cones closely packed together; -- said of a kind of structure sometimes observed in sedimentary rocks.,
C as in Coneine (n.) See Conine.,
C as in Conepate (n.) Alt. of Conepatl,
C as in Conepatl (n.) The skunk.,
C as in Cone pulley () A pulley for driving machines, etc., having two or more parts or steps of different diameters; a pulley having a conical shape.,
C as in Coney (n.) A rabbit. See Cony.,
C as in Coney (n.) A fish. See Cony.,
C as in Confab (n.) Familiar talk or conversation.,
C as in Confabulated (imp. & p. p.) of Confabulate,
C as in Confabulating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Confabulate,
C as in Confabulate (v. i.) To talk familiarly together; to chat; to prattle.,
C as in Confabulation (n.) Familiar talk; easy, unrestrained, unceremonious conversation.,
C as in Confabulatory (a.) Of the nature of familiar talk; in the form of a dialogue.,
C as in Confalon (n.) One of a fraternity of seculars, also called Penitents.,
C as in Confarreation (n.) A form of marriage among the Romans, in which an offering of bread was made, in presence of the high priest and at least ten witnesses.,
C as in Confated (p.a.) Fated or decreed with something else.,
C as in Confected (imp. & p. p.) of Confect,
C as in Confecting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Confect,
C as in Confect (v. t.) To prepare, as sweetmeats; to make a confection of.,
C as in Confect (v. t.) To construct; to form; to mingle or mix.,
C as in Confect (n.) A comfit; a confection.,
C as in Confection (n.) A composition of different materials.,
C as in Confection (n.) A preparation of fruits or roots, etc., with sugar; a sweetmeat.,
C as in Confection (n.) A composition of drugs.,
C as in Confection (n.) A soft solid made by incorporating a medicinal substance or substances with sugar, sirup, or honey.,
C as in Confectionary (n.) A confectioner.,
C as in Confectionary (a.) Prepared as a confection.,
C as in Confectioner (n.) A compounder.,
C as in Confectioner (n.) One whose occupation it is to make or sell confections, candies, etc.,
C as in Confectionery (n.) Sweetmeats, in general; things prepared and sold by a confectioner; confections; candies.,
C as in Confectionery (n.) A place where candies, sweetmeats, and similar things are made or sold.,
C as in Confectory (a.) Pertaining to the art of making sweetmeats.,
C as in Confecture (n.) Same as Confiture.,
C as in Confeder (v. i.) To confederate.,
C as in Confederacies (pl. ) of Confederacy,
C as in Confederacy (n.) A league or compact between two or more persons, bodies of men, or states, for mutual support or common action; alliance.,
C as in Confederacy (n.) The persons, bodies, states, or nations united by a league; a confederation.,
C as in Confederacy (n.) A combination of two or more persons to commit an unlawful act, or to do a lawful act by unlawful means. See Conspiracy.,
C as in Confederate (a.) United in a league; allied by treaty; engaged in a confederacy; banded together; allied.,
C as in Confederate (a.) Of or pertaining to the government of the eleven Southern States of the United States which (1860-1865) attempted to establish an independent nation styled the Confederate States of America; as, the Confederate congress; Confederate money.,
C as in Confederate (n.) One who is united with others in a league; a person or a nation engaged in a confederacy; an ally; also, an accomplice in a bad sense.,
C as in Confederate (n.) A name designating an adherent to the cause of the States which attempted to withdraw from the Union (1860-1865).,
C as in Confederated (imp. & p. p.) of Confederate,
C as in Confederating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Confederate,
C as in Confederate (v. t.) To unite in a league or confederacy; to ally.,
C as in Confederate (v. i.) To unite in a league; to join in a mutual contract or covenant; to band together.,
C as in Confederater (n.) A confederate.,
C as in Confederation (n.) The act of confederating; a league; a compact for mutual support; alliance, particularly of princes, nations, or states.,
C as in Confederation (n.) The parties that are confederated, considered as a unit; a confederacy.,
C as in Confederative (a.) Of or pertaining to a confederation.,
C as in Confederator (n.) A confederate.,
C as in Conferred (imp. & p. p.) of Confer,
C as in Conferring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Confer,
C as in Confer (v. t.) To bring together for comparison; to compare.,
C as in Confer (v. t.) To grant as a possession; to bestow.,
C as in Confer (v. t.) To contribute; to conduce.,
C as in Confer (v. i.) To have discourse; to consult; to compare views; to deliberate.,
C as in Conferee (n.) One who is conferred with, or who takes part in a conference; as, the conferees on the part of the Senate.,
C as in Conferee (n.) One upon whom something is conferred.,
C as in Conference (n.) The act of comparing two or more things together; comparison.,
C as in Conference (n.) The act of consulting together formally; serious conversation or discussion; interchange of views.,
C as in Conference (n.) A meeting for consultation, discussion, or an interchange of opinions.,
C as in Conference (n.) A meeting of the two branches of a legislature, by their committees, to adjust between them.,
C as in Conference (n.) A stated meeting of preachers and others, invested with authority to take cognizance of ecclesiastical matters.,
C as in Conference (n.) A voluntary association of Congregational churches of a district; the district in which such churches are.,
C as in Conferential (a.) Relating to conference.,
C as in Conferrable (a.) Capable of being conferred.,
C as in Conferree (n.) Same as Conferee.,
C as in Conferrer (n.) One who confers; one who converses.,
C as in Conferrer (n.) One who bestows; a giver.,
C as in Conferruminate (a.) Alt. of Conferruminated,
C as in Conferruminated (a.) Closely united by the coalescence, or sticking together, of contiguous faces, as in the case of the cotyledons of the live-oak acorn.,
C as in Confervae (pl. ) of Conferva,
C as in Conferva (n.) Any unbranched, slender, green plant of the fresh-water algae. The word is frequently used in a wider sense.,
C as in Confervaceous (a.) Belonging to the confervae.,
C as in Confervoid (a.) Like, or related to, the confervae.,
C as in Confervous (a.) Pertaining to confervae; consisting of, or resembling, the confervae.,
C as in Confessed (imp. & p. p.) of Confess,
C as in Confessing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Confess,
C as in Confess (v. t.) To make acknowledgment or avowal in a matter pertaining to one's self; to acknowledge, own, or admit, as a crime, a fault, a debt.,
C as in Confess (v. t.) To acknowledge faith in; to profess belief in.,
C as in Confess (v. t.) To admit as true; to assent to; to acknowledge, as after a previous doubt, denial, or concealment.,
C as in Confess (v. t.) To make known or acknowledge, as one's sins to a priest, in order to receive absolution; -- sometimes followed by the reflexive pronoun.,
C as in Confess (v. t.) To hear or receive such confession; -- said of a priest.,
C as in Confess (v. t.) To disclose or reveal, as an effect discloses its cause; to prove; to attest.,
C as in Confess (v. i.) To make confession; to disclose sins or faults, or the state of the conscience.,
C as in Confess (v. i.) To acknowledge; to admit; to concede.,
C as in Confessant (n.) One who confesses to a priest.,
C as in Confessary (n.) One who makes a confession.,
C as in Confessedly (adv.) By confession; without denial.,
C as in Confesser (n.) One who makes a confession.,
C as in Confession (n.) Acknowledgment; avowal, especially in a matter pertaining to one's self; the admission of a debt, obligation, or crime.,
C as in Confession (n.) Acknowledgment of belief; profession of one's faith.,
C as in Confession (n.) The act of disclosing sins or faults to a priest in order to obtain sacramental absolution.,
C as in Confession (n.) A formulary in which the articles of faith are comprised; a creed to be assented to or signed, as a preliminary to admission to membership of a church; a confession of faith.,
C as in Confession (n.) An admission by a party to whom an act is imputed, in relation to such act. A judicial confession settles the issue to which it applies; an extrajudical confession may be explained or rebutted.,
C as in Confessional (n.) The recess, seat, or inclosed place, where a priest sits to hear confessions; often a small structure furnished with a seat for the priest and with a window or aperture so that the penitent who is outside may whisper into the priest's ear without being seen by him or heard by others.,
C as in Confessional (a.) Pertaining to a confession of faith.,
C as in Confessionalism (n.) An exaggerated estimate of the importance of giving full assent to any particular formula of the Christian faith.,
C as in Confessionalist (n.) A priest hearing, or sitting to hear, confession.,
C as in Confessionary (n.) A confessional.,
C as in Confessionary (a.) Pertaining to auricular confession; as, a confessionary litany.,
C as in Confessionist (n.) One professing a certain faith.,
C as in Confessor (n.) One who confesses; one who acknowledges a fault, or the truth of a charge, at the risk of suffering; specifically, one who confesses himself a follower of Christ and endures persecution for his faith.,
C as in Confessor (n.) A priest who hears the confessions of others and is authorized to grant them absolution.,
C as in Confessorship (n.) The act or state of suffering persecution for religious faith.,
C as in Confestly (adv.) See Cofessedly.,
C as in Confidant (n. fem.) Alt. of Confidante,
C as in Confidante (n. fem.) One to whom secrets, especially those relating to affairs of love, are confided or intrusted; a confidential or bosom friend.,
C as in Confided (imp. & p. p.) of Confide,
C as in Confiding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Confide,
C as in Confide (v. i.) To put faith (in); to repose confidence; to trust; -- usually followed by in; as, the prince confides in his ministers.,
C as in Confide (v. t.) To intrust; to give in charge; to commit to one's keeping; -- followed by to.,
C as in Confidence (n.) The act of confiding, trusting, or putting faith in; trust; reliance; belief; -- formerly followed by of, now commonly by in.,
C as in Confidence (n.) That in which faith is put or reliance had.,
C as in Confidence (n.) The state of mind characterized by one's reliance on himself, or his circumstances; a feeling of self-sufficiency; such assurance as leads to a feeling of security; self-reliance; -- often with self prefixed.,
C as in Confidence (n.) Private conversation; (pl.) secrets shared; as, there were confidences between them.,
C as in Confidence (n.) Trustful; without fear or suspicion; frank; unreserved.,
C as in Confidence (n.) Having self-reliance; bold; undaunted.,
C as in Confidence (n.) Having an excess of assurance; bold to a fault; dogmatical; impudent; presumptuous.,
C as in Confidence (n.) Giving occasion for confidence.,
C as in Confident (n.) See Confidant.,
C as in Confidential (a.) Enjoying, or treated with, confidence; trusted in; trustworthy; as, a confidential servant or clerk.,
C as in Confidential (a.) Communicated in confidence; secret.,
C as in Confidentially (adv.) In confidence; in reliance on secrecy.,
C as in Confidently (adv.) With confidence; with strong assurance; positively.,
C as in Confidentness (n.) The quality of being confident.,
C as in Confider (n.) One who confides.,
C as in Confiding (a.) That confides; trustful; unsuspicious.,
C as in Configurate (v. i.) To take form or position, as the parts of a complex structure; to agree with a pattern.,
C as in Configuration (n.) Form, as depending on the relative disposition of the parts of a thing' shape; figure.,
C as in Configuration (n.) Relative position or aspect of the planets; the face of the horoscope, according to the relative positions of the planets at any time.,
C as in Configured (imp. & p. p.) of Configure,
C as in Configuring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Configure,
C as in Configure (v. t.) To arrange or dispose in a certain form, figure, or shape.,
C as in Confinable (a.) Capable of being confined, restricted, or limited.,
C as in Confined (imp. & p. p.) of Confine,
C as in Confining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Confine,
C as in Confine (v. t.) To restrain within limits; to restrict; to limit; to bound; to shut up; to inclose; to keep close.,
C as in Confine (v. i.) To have a common boundary; to border; to lie contiguous; to touch; -- followed by on or with.,
C as in Confine (n.) Common boundary; border; limit; -- used chiefly in the plural.,
C as in Confine (n.) Apartment; place of restraint; prison.,
C as in Confineless (a.) Without limitation or end; boundless.,
C as in Confinement (n.) Restraint within limits; imprisonment; any restraint of liberty; seclusion.,
C as in Confinement (n.) Restraint within doors by sickness, esp. that caused by childbirth; lying-in.,
C as in Confiner (n.) One who, or that which, limits or restrains.,
C as in Confiner (n.) One who lives on confines, or near the border of a country; a borderer; a near neighbor.,
C as in Confinity (n.) Community of limits; contiguity.,
C as in Confrmed (imp. & p. p.) of Confirm,
C as in Confirming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Confirm,
C as in Confirm (v. t.) To make firm or firmer; to add strength to; to establish; as, health is confirmed by exercise.,
C as in Confirm (v. t.) To strengthen in judgment or purpose.,
C as in Confirm (v. t.) To give new assurance of the truth of; to render certain; to verify; to corroborate; as, to confirm a rumor.,
C as in Confirm (v. t.) To render valid by formal assent; to complete by a necessary sanction; to ratify; as, to confirm the appoinment of an official; the Senate confirms a treaty.,
C as in Confirm (v. t.) To administer the rite of confirmation to. See Confirmation, 3.,
C as in Confirmable (a.) That may be confirmed.,
C as in Confirmance (n.) Confirmation.,
C as in Confirmation (n.) The act of confirming or strengthening; the act of establishing, ratifying, or sanctioning; as, the confirmation of an appointment.,
C as in Confirmation (n.) That which confirms; that which gives new strength or assurance; as to a statement or belief; additional evidence; proof; convincing testimony.,
C as in Confirmation (n.) A rite supplemental to baptism, by which a person is admitted, through the laying on of the hands of a bishop, to the full privileges of the church, as in the Roman Catholic, the Episcopal Church, etc.,
C as in Confirmation (n.) A conveyance by which a voidable estate is made sure and not voidable, or by which a particular estate is increased; a contract, express or implied, by which a person makes that firm and binding which was before voidable.,
C as in Confirmative (a.) Tending to confirm or establish.,
C as in Confirmator (n.) One who, or that which, confirms; a confirmer.,
C as in Confirmatory (a. .) Serving to confirm; corroborative.,
C as in Confirmatory (a. .) Pertaining to the rite of confirmation.,
C as in Confirmedly (adv.) With confirmation.,
C as in Confirmedness (n.) A fixed state.,
C as in Confirmee (n.) One to whom anything is confirmed.,
C as in Confirmer (n.) One who, or that which, confirms, establishes, or ratifies; one who corroborates.,
C as in Confirmingly (adv.) In a confirming manner.,
C as in Confiscable (a.) Capable of being confiscated; liable to forfeiture.,
C as in Confiscate (a.) Seized and appropriated by the government to the public use; forfeited.,
C as in Confiscated (imp. & p. p.) of Confiscate,
C as in Confiscating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Confiscate,
C as in Confiscate (v. t. ) To seize as forfeited to the public treasury; to appropriate to the public use.,
C as in Confiscation (n.) The act or process of taking property or condemning it to be taken, as forfeited to the public use.,
C as in Confiscator (n.) One who confiscates.,
C as in Confiscatory (a.) Effecting confiscation; characterized by confiscations.,
C as in Confit (n.) Same as Comfit.,
C as in Confitent (n.) One who confesses his sins and faults.,
C as in Confiteor (n.) A form of prayer in which public confession of sins is made.,
C as in Confiture (n.) Composition; preparation, as of a drug, or confection; a sweetmeat.,
C as in Confixed (imp. & p. p.) of Confix,
C as in Confix (v. t.) To fix; to fasten.,
C as in Confixure (n.) Act of fastening.,
C as in Conflagrant (a.) Burning together in a common flame.,
C as in Conflagration (n.) A fire extending to many objects, or over a large space; a general burning.,
C as in Conflated (imp. & p. p.) of Conflate,
C as in Conflating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Conflate,
C as in Conflate (v. t.) To blow together; to bring together; to collect; to fuse together; to join or weld; to consolidate.,
C as in Conflation (n.) A blowing together, as of many instruments in a concert, or of many fires in a foundry.,
C as in Conflict (v.) A striking or dashing together; violent collision; as, a conflict of elements or waves.,
C as in Conflict (v.) A strife for the mastery; hostile contest; battle; struggle; fighting.,
C as in Conflicted (imp. & p. p.) of Conflict,
C as in Conflicting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Conflict,
C as in Conflict (v. i.) To strike or dash together; to meet in violent collision; to collide.,
C as in Conflict (v. i.) To maintain a conflict; to contend; to engage in strife or opposition; to struggle.,
C as in Conflict (v. i.) To be in opposition; to be contradictory.,
C as in Conflicting (a.) Being in conflict or collision, or in opposition; contending; contradictory; incompatible; contrary; opposing.,
C as in Conflictive (a.) Tending to conflict; conflicting.,
C as in Confluence (n.) The act of flowing together; the meeting or junction of two or more streams; the place of meeting.,
C as in Confluence (n.) Any running together of separate streams or currents; the act of meeting and crowding in a place; hence, a crowd; a concourse; an assemblage.,
C as in Confluent (a.) Flowing together; meeting in their course; running one into another.,
C as in Confluent (a.) Blended into one; growing together, so as to obliterate all distinction.,
C as in Confluent (a.) Running together or uniting, as pimples or pustules.,
C as in Confluent (a.) Characterized by having the pustules, etc., run together or unite, so as to cover the surface; as, confluent smallpox.,
C as in Confluent (n.) A small steam which flows into a large one.,
C as in Confluent (n.) The place of meeting of steams, currents, etc.,
C as in Conflux (n.) A flowing together; a meeting of currents.,
C as in Conflux (n.) A large assemblage; a passing multitude.,
C as in Confluxibility (n.) The tendency of fluids to run together.,
C as in Confluxible (a.) Inclined to flow or run together.,
C as in Confocal (a.) Having the same foci; as, confocal quadrics.,
C as in Conform (a.) Of the same form; similar in import; conformable.,
C as in Conformed (imp. & p. p.) of Conform,
C as in Conforming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Conform,
C as in Conform (v. t.) To shape in accordance with; to make like; to bring into harmony or agreement with; -- usually with to or unto.,
C as in Conform (v. i.) To be in accord or harmony; to comply; to be obedient; to submit; -- with to or with.,
C as in Conform (v. i.) To comply with the usages of the Established Church; to be a conformist.,
C as in Conformability (n.) The state of being conformable.,
C as in Conformability (n.) The parallelism of two sets of strata which are in contact.,
C as in Conformable (a.) Corresponding in form, character, opinions, etc.; similar; like; consistent; proper or suitable; -- usually followed by to.,
C as in Conformable (a.) Disposed to compliance or obedience; ready to follow direstions; submissive; compliant.,
C as in Conformable (a.) Parallel, or nearly so; -- said of strata in contact.,
C as in Conformableness (n.) The quality of being conformable; conformability.,
C as in Conformably (adv.) With conformity or in conformity; suitably; agreeably.,
C as in Conformance (n.) Conformity.,
C as in Conformate (a.) Having the same form.,
C as in Conformation (n.) The act of conforming; the act of producing conformity.,
C as in Conformation (n.) The state of being conformed; agreement; hence; structure, as depending on the arrangement of parts; form; arrangement.,
C as in Conformer (n.) One who conforms; one who complies with established forms or doctrines.,
C as in Conformist (n.) One who conforms or complies; esp., one who conforms to the Church of England, or to the Established Church, as distinguished from a dissenter or nonconformist.,
C as in Conformities (pl. ) of Conformity,
C as in Conformity (n.) Correspondence in form, manner, or character; resemblance; agreement; congruity; -- followed by to, with, or between.,
C as in Conformity (n.) Compliance with the usages of the Established Church.,
C as in Confortation (n.) The act of strengthening.,
C as in Confounded (imp. & p. p.) of Confound,
C as in Confounding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Confound,
C as in Confound (v. t.) To mingle and blend, so that different elements can not be distinguished; to confuse.,
C as in Confound (v. t.) To mistake for another; to identify falsely.,
C as in Confound (v. t.) To throw into confusion or disorder; to perplex; to strike with amazement; to dismay.,
C as in Confound (v. t.) To destroy; to ruin; to waste.,
C as in Confounded (a.) Confused; perplexed.,
C as in Confounded (a.) Excessive; extreme; abominable.,
C as in Confoundedly (adv.) Extremely; odiously; detestable.,
C as in Confoundedness (n.) The state of being confounded.,
C as in Confounder (n.) One who confounds.,
C as in Confract (a.) Broken in pieces; severed.,
C as in Confragose (a.) Broken; uneven.,
C as in Confraternities (pl. ) of Confraternity,
C as in Confraternity (n.) A society of body of men united for some purpose, or in some profession; a brotherhood.,
C as in Confrere (n.) Fellow member of a fraternity; intimate associate.,
C as in Confrication (n.) A rubbing together; friction.,
C as in Confrier (n.) A confr/re.,
C as in Confronted (imp. & p. p.) of Confront,
C as in Confronting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Confront,
C as in Confront (v. t.) To stand facing or in front of; to face; esp. to face hostilely; to oppose with firmness.,
C as in Confront (v. t.) To put face to face; to cause to face or to meet; as, to confront one with the proofs of his wrong doing.,
C as in Confront (v. t.) To set in opposition for examination; to put in contrast; to compare.,
C as in Confrontation (n.) Act of confrontating.,
C as in Confronte (a.) Same as Affronte.,
C as in Confronter (n.) One who confronts.,
C as in Confrontment (n.) The act of confronting; the state of being face to face.,
C as in Confrontment (n.) The act of confronting; the state of being face to face.,
C as in Confucian (a.) Of, or relating to, Confucius, the great Chinese philosopher and teacher.,
C as in Confucian (n.) A Confucianist.,
C as in Confucianism (n.) The political morality taught by Confucius and his disciples, which forms the basis of the Chinese jurisprudence and education. It can hardly be called a religion, as it does not inculcate the worship of any god.,
C as in Confucianist (n.) A follower of Confucius; a Confucian.,
C as in Confus (a.) Confused, disturbed.,
C as in Confusability (n.) Capability of being confused.,
C as in Confusable (a.) Capable of being confused.,
C as in Confuse (a.) Mixed; confounded.,
C as in Confused (imp. & p. p.) of Confuse,
C as in Confusing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Confuse,
C as in Confuse (v. t.) To mix or blend so that things can not be distinguished; to jumble together; to confound; to render indistinct or obscure; as, to confuse accounts; to confuse one's vision.,
C as in Confuse (v. t.) To perplex; to disconcert; to abash; to cause to lose self-possession.,
C as in Confusedly (adv.) In a confused manner.,
C as in Confusedness (n.) A state of confusion.,
C as in Confusely (adv.) Confusedly; obscurely.,
C as in Confusion (n.) The state of being mixed or blended so as to produce indistinctness or error; indistinct combination; disorder; tumult.,
C as in Confusion (n.) The state of being abashed or disconcerted; loss self-possession; perturbation; shame.,
C as in Confusion (n.) Overthrow; defeat; ruin.,
C as in Confusion (n.) One who confuses; a confounder.,
C as in Confusive (a.) Confusing; having a tendency to confusion.,
C as in Confutable (a.) That may be confuted.,
C as in Confutant (n.) One who undertakes to confute.,
C as in Confutation (n.) The act or process of confuting; refutation.,
C as in Confutative (a.) Adapted or designed to confute.,
C as in Confuted (imp. & p. p.) of Confute,
C as in Confuting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Confute,
C as in Confute (v. t.) To overwhelm by argument; to refute conclusively; to prove or show to be false or defective; to overcome; to silence.,
C as in Confutement (n.) Confutation.,
C as in Confuter (n.) One who confutes or disproves.,
C as in Cong (n.) An abbreviation of Congius.,
C as in Conge (n.) The act of taking leave; parting ceremony; farewell; also, dismissal.,
C as in Conge (n.) The customary act of civility on any occasion; a bow or a courtesy.,
C as in Conge (n.) An apophyge.,
C as in Conge (n.) To take leave with the customary civilities; to bow or courtesy.,
C as in Congeable (a.) Permissible; done lawfully; as, entry congeable.,
C as in Congealed (imp. & p. p.) of Congeal,
C as in Congealing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Congeal,
C as in Congeal (v. t.) To change from a fluid to a solid state by cold; to freeze.,
C as in Congeal (v. t.) To affect as if by freezing; to check the flow of, or cause to run cold; to chill.,
C as in Congeal (v. i.) To grow hard, stiff, or thick, from cold or other causes; to become solid; to freeze; to cease to flow; to run cold; to be chilled.,
C as in Congealable (a.) Capable of being congealed.,
C as in Congealedness (n.) The state of being congealed.,
C as in Congealment (n.) The act or the process of congealing; congeliation.,
C as in Congealment (n.) That which is formed by congelation; a clot.,
C as in Congee (n. & v.) See Conge, Conge.,
C as in Congee (n.) Boiled rice; rice gruel.,
C as in Congee (n.) A jail; a lockup.,
C as in Congelation (n.) The act or process of passing, or causing to pass, from a fluid to a solid state, as by the abstraction of heat; the act or process of freezing.,
C as in Congelation (n.) The state of being congealed.,
C as in Congelation (n.) That which is congealed.,
C as in Congener (n.) A thing of the same genus, species, or kind; a thing allied in nature, character, or action.,
C as in Congeneracy (n.) Similarity of origin; affinity.,
C as in Congeneric (a.) Alt. of Congenerical,
C as in Congenerical (a.) Belonging to the same genus; allied in origin, nature, or action.,
C as in Congenerous (a.) Allied in origin or cause; congeneric; as, congenerous diseases.,
C as in Congenial (a.) Partaking of the same nature; allied by natural characteristics; kindred; sympathetic.,
C as in Congenial (a.) Naturally adapted; suited to the disposition.,
C as in Congeniality (n.) The state or quality of being congenial; natural affinity; adaptation; suitableness.,
C as in Congenialize (v. t.) To make congenial.,
C as in Congenially (adv.) In a congenial manner; as, congenially married or employed.,
C as in Congenialness (n.) Congeniality.,
C as in Congenious (a.) Congeneric.,
C as in Congenital (a.) Existing at, or dating from, birth; pertaining to one from birth; born with one; connate; constitutional; natural; as, a congenital deformity. See Connate.,
C as in Congenitally (dv.) In a congenital manner.,
C as in Congenite (a.) Congenital; connate; inborn. See Congenital.,
C as in Conger (n.) The conger eel; -- called also congeree.,
C as in Congeries (n. sing & pl.) A collection of particles or bodies into one mass; a heap; an aggregation.,
C as in Congest (v. t. ) To collect or gather into a mass or aggregate; to bring together; to accumulate.,
C as in Congest (v. t. ) To cause an overfullness of the blood vessels (esp. the capillaries) of an organ or part.,
C as in Congested (a.) Crowded together.,
C as in Congested (a.) Containing an unnatural accumulation of blood; hyperaemic; -- said of any part of the body.,
C as in Congestion (n.) The act of gathering into a heap or mass; accumulation.,
C as in Congestion (n.) Overfullness of the capillary and other blood vessels, etc., in any locality or organ (often producing other morbid symptoms); local hyper/mia, active or passive; as, arterial congestion; venous congestion; congestion of the lungs.,
C as in Congestive (a.) Pertaining to, indicating, or attended with, congestion in some part of the body; as, a congestive fever.,
C as in Congiaries (pl. ) of Congiary,
C as in Congiary (n.) A present, as of corn, wine, or oil, made by a Roman emperor to the soldiers or the people; -- so called because measured to each in a congius.,
C as in Congius (n.) A liquid measure containing about three quarts.,
C as in Congius (n.) A gallon, or four quarts.,
C as in Conglaciate (v. t. & i.) To turn to ice; to freeze.,
C as in Conglaciation (n.) The act or process of changing into ice, or the state of being converted to ice; a freezing; congelation; also, a frost.,
C as in Conglobate (a.) Collected into, or forming, a rounded mass or ball; as, the conglobate [lymphatic] glands; conglobate flowers.,
C as in Conglobated (imp. & p. p.) of Conglobate,
C as in Conglobating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Conglobate,
C as in Conglobate (v. t.) To collect or form into a ball or rounded mass; to gather or mass together.,
C as in Conglobation (n.) The act or process of forming into a ball.,
C as in Conglobation (n.) A round body.,
C as in Conglobed (imp. & p. p.) of Conglobe,
C as in Conglobing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Conglobe,
C as in Conglobe (v. t. ) To gather into a ball; to collect into a round mass.,
C as in Conglobe (v. i.) To collect, unite, or coalesce in a round mass.,
C as in Conglobulate (v. i.) To gather into a small round mass.,
C as in Conglomerate (a.) Gathered into a ball or a mass; collected together; concentrated; as, conglomerate rays of light.,
C as in Conglomerate (a.) Closely crowded together; densly clustered; as, conglomerate flowers.,
C as in Conglomerate (a.) Composed of stones, pebbles, or fragments of rocks, cemented together.,
C as in Conglomerate (n.) That which is heaped together in a mass or conpacted from various sources; a mass formed of fragments; collection; accumulation.,
C as in Conglomerate (n.) A rock, composed or rounded fragments of stone cemented together by another mineral substance, either calcareous, siliceous, or argillaceous; pudding stone; -- opposed to agglomerate. See Breccia.,
C as in Conglomerated (imp. & p. p.) of Conglomerate,
C as in Conglomerating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Conglomerate,
C as in Conglomerate (v. t.) To gather into a ball or round body; to collect into a mass.,
C as in Conglomeration (n.) The act or process of gathering into a mass; the state of being thus collected; collection; accumulation; that which is conglomerated; a mixed mass.,
C as in Conglutin (n.) A variety of vegetable casein, resembling legumin, and found in almonds, rye, wheat, etc.,
C as in Conglutinant (a.) Cementing together; uniting closely; causing to adhere; promoting healing, as of a wound or a broken bone, by adhesion of the parts.,
C as in Conglutinate (a.) Glued together; united, as by some adhesive substance.,
C as in Conglutinated (imp. & p. p.) of Conglutinate,
C as in Conglutinate (v. t.) To glue together; to unite by some glutinous or tenacious substance; to cause to adhere or to grow together.,
C as in Conglutinate (v. i.) To unite by the intervention of some glutinous substance; to coalesce.,
C as in Conglutination (n.) A gluing together; a joining by means of some tenacious substance; junction; union.,
C as in Conglutinative (a.) Conglutinant.,
C as in Congou (n.) Alt. of Congo,
C as in Congo (n.) Black tea, of higher grade (finer leaf and less dusty) than the present bohea. See Tea.,
C as in Congo snake () An amphibian (Amphiuma means) of the order Urodela, found in the southern United States. See Amphiuma.,
C as in Congratulant (a.) Rejoicing together; congratulatory.,
C as in Congratulated (imp. & p. p.) of Congratulate,
C as in Congratulating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Congratulate,
C as in Congratulate (v. t.) To address with expressions of sympathetic pleasure on account of some happy event affecting the person addressed; to wish joy to.,
C as in Congratulate (v. i.) To express of feel sympathetic joy; as, to congratulate with one's country.,
C as in Congratulation (n.) The act of congratulating; an expression of sympathetic pleasure.,
C as in Congratulator (n.) One who offers congratulation.,
C as in Congratulatory (a.) Expressive of sympathetic joy; as, a congratulatory letter.,
C as in Congree (v. i.) To agree.,
C as in Congreet (v. t.) To salute mutually.,
C as in Congregate (a.) Collected; compact; close.,
C as in Congregated (imp. & p. p.) of Congregate,
C as in Congregating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Congregate,
C as in Congregate (v. t.) To collect into an assembly or assemblage; to assemble; to bring into one place, or into a united body; to gather together; to mass; to compact.,
C as in Congregate (v. i.) To come together; to assemble; to meet.,
C as in Congregation (n.) The act of congregating, or bringing together, or of collecting into one aggregate or mass.,
C as in Congregation (n.) A collection or mass of separate things.,
C as in Congregation (n.) An assembly of persons; a gathering; esp. an assembly of persons met for the worship of God, and for religious instruction; a body of people who habitually so meet.,
C as in Congregation (n.) The whole body of the Jewish people; -- called also Congregation of the Lord.,
C as in Congregation (n.) A body of cardinals or other ecclesiastics to whom as intrusted some department of the church business; as, the Congregation of the Propaganda, which has charge of the missions of the Roman Catholic Church.,
C as in Congregation (n.) A company of religious persons forming a subdivision of a monastic order.,
C as in Congregation (n.) The assemblage of Masters and Doctors at Oxford or Cambrige University, mainly for the granting of degrees.,
C as in Congregation (n.) the name assumed by the Protestant party under John Knox. The leaders called themselves (1557) Lords of the Congregation.,
C as in Congregational (a.) Of or pertaining to a congregation; conducted, or participated in, by a congregation; as, congregational singing.,
C as in Congregational (a.) Belonging to the system of Congregationalism, or to Congregationalist; holding to the faith and polity of Congregationalism; as, a Congregational church.,
C as in Congregationalism (n.) That system of church organization which vests all ecclesiastical power in the assembled brotherhood of each local church.,
C as in Congregationalism (n.) The faith and polity of the Congregational churches, taken collectively.,
C as in Congregationalist (n.) One who belongs to a Congregational church or society; one who holds to Congregationalism.,
C as in Congresses (pl. ) of Congress,
C as in Congress (n.) A meeting of individuals, whether friendly or hostile; an encounter.,
C as in Congress (n.) A sudden encounter; a collision; a shock; -- said of things.,
C as in Congress (n.) The coming together of a male and female in sexual commerce; the act of coition.,
C as in Congress (n.) A gathering or assembly; a conference.,
C as in Congress (n.) A formal assembly, as of princes, deputies, representatives, envoys, or commissioners; esp., a meeting of the representatives of several governments or societies to consider and determine matters of common interest.,
C as in Congress (n.) The collective body of senators and representatives of the people of a nation, esp. of a republic, constituting the chief legislative body of the nation.,
C as in Congress (n.) The lower house of the Spanish Cortes, the members of which are elected for three years.,
C as in Congression (n.) A coming or bringing together, as in a public meeting, in a dispute, in the act of comparing, or in sexual intercourse.,
C as in Congressional (a.) Of or pertaining to a congress, especially, to the Congress of the United States; as, congressional debates.,
C as in Congressive (a.) Encountering, or coming together.,
C as in Congressmen (pl. ) of Congressman,
C as in Congressman (n.) A member of the Congress of the United States, esp. of the House of Representatives.,
C as in Congreve rocket () See under Rocket.,
C as in Congrue (v. i.) To agree; to be suitable.,
C as in Congruence (n.) Suitableness of one thing to another; agreement; consistency.,
C as in Congruency (n.) Congruence.,
C as in Congruent (a.) Possessing congruity; suitable; agreeing; corresponding.,
C as in Congruism (n.) See Congruity.,
C as in Congruities (pl. ) of Congruity,
C as in Congruity (n.) The state or quality of being congruous; the relation or agreement between things; fitness; harmony; correspondence; consistency.,
C as in Congruity (n.) Coincidence, as that of lines or figures laid over one another.,
C as in Congruity (n.) That, in an imperfectly good persons, which renders it suitable for God to bestow on him gifts of grace.,
C as in Congruous (a.) Suitable or concordant; accordant; fit; harmonious; correspondent; consistent.,
C as in Congruously (adv.) In a congruous manner.,
C as in Conhydrine (n.) A vegetable alkaloid found with conine in the poison hemlock (Conium maculatum). It is a white crystalline substance, C8H17NO, easily convertible into conine.,
C as in Conia (n.) Same as Conine.,
C as in Conic (a.) Alt. of Conical,
C as in Conical (a.) Having the form of, or resembling, a geometrical cone; round and tapering to a point, or gradually lessening in circumference; as, a conic or conical figure; a conical vessel.,
C as in Conical (a.) Of or pertaining to a cone; as, conic sections.,
C as in Conic (n.) A conic section.,
C as in Conicality (n.) Conicalness.,
C as in Conically (adv.) In the form of a cone.,
C as in Conicalness (n.) State or quality of being conical.,
C as in Conico- (a.) A combining form, meaning somewhat resembling a cone; as, conico-cylindrical, resembling a cone and a cylinder; conico-hemispherical; conico-subulate.,
C as in Conicoid (a.) Same as Conoidal.,
C as in Conics (n.) That branch of geometry which treats of the cone and the curves which arise from its sections.,
C as in Conics (n.) Conic sections.,
C as in Conida (pl. ) of Conidium,
C as in Conidium (n.) A peculiar kind of reproductive cell found in certain fungi, and often containing zoospores.,
C as in Conifer (n.) A tree or shrub bearing cones; one of the order Coniferae, which includes the pine, cypress, and (according to some) the yew.,
C as in Coniferin (n.) A glucoside extracted from the cambium layer of coniferous trees as a white crystalline substance.,
C as in Coniferous (a.) Bearing cones, as the pine and cypress.,
C as in Coniferous (a.) Pertaining to the order Coniferae, of which the pine tree is the type.,
C as in Coniform (a.) Cone-shaped; conical.,
C as in Coniine (n.) See Conine.,
C as in Conimene (n.) Same as Olibene.,
C as in Conine (n.) A powerful and very poisonous vegetable alkaloid found in the hemlock (Conium maculatum) and extracted as a colorless oil, C8H17N, of strong repulsive odor and acrid taste. It is regarded as a derivative of piperidine and likewise of one of the collidines. It occasions a gradual paralysis of the motor nerves. Called also coniine, coneine, conia, etc. See Conium, 2.,
C as in Coniroster (n.) One of the Conirostres.,
C as in Conirostral (a.) Belonging to the Conirostres.,
C as in Conirostres (n. pl.) A tribe of perching birds, including those which have a strong conical bill, as the finches.,
C as in Conisor (n.) See Cognizor.,
C as in Conistra (n.) Originally, a part of the palestra, or gymnasium among the Greeks; either the place where sand was stored for use in sprinkling the wrestlers, or the wrestling ground itself. Hence, a part of the orchestra of the Greek theater.,
C as in Conite (n.) A magnesian variety of dolomite.,
C as in Conium (n.) A genus of biennial, poisonous, white-flowered, umbelliferous plants, bearing ribbed fruit ("seeds") and decompound leaves.,
C as in Conium (n.) The common hemlock (Conium maculatum, poison hemlock, spotted hemlock, poison parsley), a roadside weed of Europe, Asia, and America, cultivated in the United States for medicinal purpose. It is an active poison. The leaves and fruit are used in medicine.,
C as in Conject (n.) To throw together, or to throw.,
C as in Conject (v. t.) To conjecture; also, to plan.,
C as in Conjector (n.) One who guesses or conjectures.,
C as in Conjecturable (a.) Capable of being conjectured or guessed.,
C as in Conjectural (a.) Dependent on conjecture; fancied; imagined; guessed at; undetermined; doubtful.,
C as in Conjecturalist (n.) A conjecturer.,
C as in Conjecturally (n.) That which depends upon guess; guesswork.,
C as in Conjecturally (adv.) In a conjectural manner; by way of conjecture.,
C as in Conjecture (n.) An opinion, or judgment, formed on defective or presumptive evidence; probable inference; surmise; guess; suspicion.,
C as in Conjectured (imp. & p. p.) of Conjecture,
C as in Conjecturing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Conjecture,
C as in Conjecture (v. t.) To arrive at by conjecture; to infer on slight evidence; to surmise; to guess; to form, at random, opinions concerning.,
C as in Conjecture (v. i.) To make conjectures; to surmise; to guess; to infer; to form an opinion; to imagine.,
C as in Conjecturer (n.) One who conjectures.,
C as in Conjoined (imp. & p. p.) of Conjoin,
C as in Conjoining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Conjoin,
C as in Conjoin (v. t.) To join together; to unite.,
C as in Conjoin (v. i.) To unite; to join; to league.,
C as in Conjoined (a.) Joined together or touching.,
C as in Conjoint (a.) United; connected; associated.,
C as in Conjointly (adv.) In a conjoint manner; untitedly; jointly; together.,
C as in Conjointness (n.) The quality of being conjoint.,
C as in Conjubilant (a.) Shouting together for joy; rejoicing together.,
C as in Conjugal (a.) Belonging to marriage; suitable or appropriate to the marriage state or to married persons; matrimonial; connubial.,
C as in Conjugality (n.) The conjugal state; sexual intercourse.,
C as in Conjugally (adv.) In a conjugal manner; matrimonially; connubially.,
C as in Conjugate (a.) United in pairs; yoked together; coupled.,
C as in Conjugate (a.) In single pairs; coupled.,
C as in Conjugate (a.) Containing two or more radicals supposed to act the part of a single one.,
C as in Conjugate (a.) Agreeing in derivation and radical signification; -- said of words.,
C as in Conjugate (a.) Presenting themselves simultaneously and having reciprocal properties; -- frequently used in pure and applied mathematics with reference to two quantities, points, lines, axes, curves, etc.,
C as in Conjugate (n.) A word agreeing in derivation with another word, and therefore generally resembling it in signification.,
C as in Conjugate (n.) A complex radical supposed to act the part of a single radical.,
C as in Conjugated (imp. & p. p.) of Conjugate,
C as in Conjugating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Conjugate,
C as in Conjugate (v. t.) To unite in marriage; to join.,
C as in Conjugate (v. t.) To inflect (a verb), or give in order the forms which it assumed in its several voices, moods, tenses, numbers, and persons.,
C as in Conjugate (v. i.) To unite in a kind of sexual union, as two or more cells or individuals among the more simple plants and animals.,
C as in Conjugation (n.) the act of uniting or combining; union; assemblage.,
C as in Conjugation (n.) Two things conjoined; a pair; a couple.,
C as in Conjugation (n.) The act of conjugating a verb or giving in order its various parts and inflections.,
C as in Conjugation (n.) A scheme in which are arranged all the parts of a verb.,
C as in Conjugation (n.) A class of verbs conjugated in the same manner.,
C as in Conjugation (n.) A kind of sexual union; -- applied to a blending of the contents of two or more cells or individuals in some plants and lower animals, by which new spores or germs are developed.,
C as in Conjugational (a.) relating to conjugation.,
C as in Conjugial (a.) Conjugal.,
C as in Conjugium (n.) The marriage tie.,
C as in Conjunct (a.) United; conjoined; concurrent.,
C as in Conjunct (a.) Same as Conjoined.,
C as in Conjunction (n.) The act of conjoining, or the state of being conjoined, united, or associated; union; association; league.,
C as in Conjunction (n.) The meeting of two or more stars or planets in the same degree of the zodiac; as, the conjunction of the moon with the sun, or of Jupiter and Saturn. See the Note under Aspect, n., 6.,
C as in Conjunction (n.) A connective or connecting word; an indeclinable word which serves to join together sentences, clauses of a sentence, or words; as, and, but, if.,
C as in Conjunctional (a.) Relating to a conjunction.,
C as in Conjunctiva (n.) The mucous membrane which covers the external surface of the ball of the eye and the inner surface of the lids; the conjunctival membrane.,
C as in Conjunctival (a.) Joining; connecting.,
C as in Conjunctival (a.) Of or pertaining to the conjunctiva.,
C as in Conjunctive (a.) Serving to unite; connecting together.,
C as in Conjunctive (a.) Closely united.,
C as in Conjunctively (adv.) In conjunction or union; together.,
C as in Conjunctiveness (n.) The state or quality of being conjunctive.,
C as in Conjunctivitis (n.) Inflammation of the conjunctiva.,
C as in Conjunctly (adv.) In union; conjointly; unitedly; together.,
C as in Conjuncture (n.) The act of joining, or state of being joined; union; connection; combination.,
C as in Conjuncture (n.) A crisis produced by a combination of circumstances; complication or combination of events or circumstances; plight resulting from various conditions.,
C as in Conjuration (n.) The act of calling or summoning by a sacred name, or in solemn manner; the act of binding by an oath; an earnest entreaty; adjuration.,
C as in Conjuration (n.) The act or process of invoking supernatural aid by the use of a magical form of words; the practice of magic arts; incantation; enchantment.,
C as in Conjuration (n.) A league for a criminal purpose; conspiracy.,
C as in Conjurator (n.) One who swears or is sworn with others; one bound by oath with others; a compurgator.,
C as in Conjured (imp. & p. p.) of Conjure,
C as in Conjuring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Conjure,
C as in Conjure (v. t.) To call on or summon by a sacred name or in solemn manner; to implore earnestly; to adjure.,
C as in Conjure (v. i.) To combine together by an oath; to conspire; to confederate.,
C as in Conjure (v. t.) To affect or effect by conjuration; to call forth or send away by magic arts; to excite or alter, as if by magic or by the aid of supernatural powers.,
C as in Conjure (v. i.) To practice magical arts; to use the tricks of a conjurer; to juggle; to charm.,
C as in Conjurement (n.) Serious injunction; solemn demand or entreaty.,
C as in Conjurer (n.) One who conjures; one who calls, entreats, or charges in a solemn manner.,
C as in Conjurer (n.) One who practices magic arts; one who pretends to act by the aid super natural power; also, one who performs feats of legerdemain or sleight of hand.,
C as in Conjurer (n.) One who conjectures shrewdly or judges wisely; a man of sagacity.,
C as in Conjuror (n.) One bound by a common oath with others.,
C as in Conjury (n.) The practice of magic; enchantment.,
C as in Conn (v. t.) See Con, to direct a ship.,
C as in Connascence (n.) Alt. of Connascency,
C as in Connascency (n.) The common birth of two or more at the same tome; production of two or more together.,
C as in Connascency (n.) That which is born or produced with another.,
C as in Connascency (n.) The act of growing together.,
C as in Connascent (a.) Born together; produced at the same time.,
C as in Connate (a.) Born with another; being of the same birth.,
C as in Connate (a.) Congenital; existing from birth.,
C as in Connate (a.) Congenitally united; growing from one base, or united at their bases; united into one body; as, connate leaves or athers. See Illust. of Connate-perfoliate.,
C as in Connate-perfoliate (a.) Connate or coalescent at the base so as to produce a broad foliaceous body through the center of which the stem passes; -- applied to leaves, as the leaves of the boneset.,
C as in Connation (n.) Connection by birth; natural union.,
C as in Connatural (a. ) Connected by nature; united in nature; inborn; inherent; natural.,
C as in Connatural (a. ) Partaking of the same nature.,
C as in Connaturality (n.) Participation of the same nature; natural union or connection.,
C as in Connaturalize (v. t.) To bring to the same nature as something else; to adapt.,
C as in Connaturally (adv.) By the act of nature; originally; from birth.,
C as in Connaturalness (n.) Participation of the same nature; natural union.,
C as in Connature (n.) Participation in a common nature or character.,
C as in Connected (imp. & p. p.) of Connect,
C as in Connecting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Connect,
C as in Connect (v. t.) To join, or fasten together, as by something intervening; to associate; to combine; to unite or link together; to establish a bond or relation between.,
C as in Connect (v. t.) To associate (a person or thing, or one's self) with another person, thing, business, or affair.,
C as in Connect (v. i.) To join, unite, or cohere; to have a close relation; as, one line of railroad connects with another; one argument connect with another.,
C as in Connectedly (adv.) In a connected manner.,
C as in Connection (n.) The act of connecting, or the state of being connected; junction; union; alliance; relationship.,
C as in Connection (n.) That which connects or joins together; bond; tie.,
C as in Connection (n.) A relation; esp. a person connected with another by marriage rather than by blood; -- used in a loose and indefinite, and sometimes a comprehensive, sense.,
C as in Connection (n.) The persons or things that are connected; as, a business connection; the Methodist connection.,
C as in Connective (a.) Connecting, or adapted to connect; involving connection.,
C as in Connective (n.) That which connects,
C as in Connective (n.) A word that connect words or sentences; a conjunction or preposition.,
C as in Connective (n.) That part of an anther which connects its thecae, lobes, or cells.,
C as in Connectively (adv.) In connjunction; jointly.,
C as in Connector (n.) One who, or that which, connects,
C as in Connector (n.) A flexible tube for connecting the ends of glass tubes in pneumatic experiments.,
C as in Connector (n.) A device for holding two parts of an electrical conductor in contact.,
C as in Conner (n.) A marine European fish (Crenilabrus melops); also, the related American cunner. See Cunner.,
C as in Connex (v. t.) To connect.,
C as in Connexion (n.) Connection. See Connection.,
C as in Connexive (a.) See Connective.,
C as in Conning tower (n.) The shot-proof pilot house of a war vessel.,
C as in Connivance (n.) Intentional failure or forbearance to discover a fault or wrongdoing; voluntary oversight; passive consent or cooperation.,
C as in Connivance (n.) Corrupt or guilty assent to wrongdoing, not involving actual participation in, but knowledge of, and failure to prevent or oppose it.,
C as in Connived (imp. & p. p.) of Connive,
C as in Conniving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Connive,
C as in Connive (v. i.) To open and close the eyes rapidly; to wink.,
C as in Connive (v. i.) To close the eyes upon a fault; to wink (at); to fail or forbear by intention to discover an act; to permit a proceeding, as if not aware of it; -- usually followed by at.,
C as in Connive (v. t.) To shut the eyes to; to overlook; to pretend not to see.,
C as in Connivency (n.) Connivance.,
C as in Connivent (a.) Forbearing to see; designedly inattentive; as, connivent justice.,
C as in Connivent (a.) Brought close together; arched inward so that the points meet; converging; in close contact; as, the connivent petals of a flower, wings of an insect, or folds of membrane in the human system, etc.,
C as in Conniver (n.) One who connives.,
C as in Connoisseur (n.) One well versed in any subject; a skillful or knowing person; a critical judge of any art, particulary of one of the fine arts.,
C as in Connoisseurship (n.) State of being a connoisseur.,
C as in Connotate (v. t.) To connote; to suggest or designate (something) as additional; to include; to imply.,
C as in Connotation (n.) The act of connoting; a making known or designating something additional; implication of something more than is asserted.,
C as in Connotative (a.) Implying something additional; illative.,
C as in Connotative (a.) Implying an attribute. See Connote.,
C as in Connotatively (adv.) In a connotative manner; expressing connotation.,
C as in Connoted (imp. & p. p.) of Connote,
C as in Connoting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Connote,
C as in Connote (v. t.) To mark along with; to suggest or indicate as additional; to designate by implication; to include in the meaning; to imply.,
C as in Connote (v. t.) To imply as an attribute.,
C as in Connubial (a.) Of or pertaining to marriage, or the marriage state; conjugal; nuptial.,
C as in Connubiality (n.) The quality of being connubial; something characteristics of the conjugal state; an expression of connubial tenderness.,
C as in Connumeration (n.) A reckoning together.,
C as in Connusance (n.) See Cognizance.,
C as in Connusant (a.) See Cognizant.,
C as in Connusor (n.) See Cognizor.,
C as in Connutritious (a.) Nutritious by force of habit; -- said of certain kinds of food.,
C as in Conny (a.) Brave; fine; canny.,
C as in Conodont (n.) A peculiar toothlike fossil of many forms, found especially in carboniferous rocks. Such fossils are supposed by some to be the teeth of marsipobranch fishes, but they are probably the jaws of annelids.,
C as in Conoid (n.) Anything that has a form resembling that of a cone.,
C as in Conoid (n.) A solid formed by the revolution of a conic section about its axis; as, a parabolic conoid, elliptic conoid, etc.; -- more commonly called paraboloid, ellipsoid, etc.,
C as in Conoid (n.) A surface which may be generated by a straight line moving in such a manner as always to meet a given straight line and a given curve, and continue parallel to a given plane.,
C as in Conoid (a.) Resembling a cone; conoidal.,
C as in Conoidal (a.) Nearly, but not exactly, conical.,
C as in Conoidic (a.) Alt. of Conoidical,
C as in Conoidical (a.) Pertaining to a conoid; having the form of a conoid.,
C as in Conominee (n.) One nominated in conjunction with another; a joint nominee.,
C as in Conquadrate (v. t.) To bring into a square.,
C as in Conquassate (v. t.) To shake; to agitate.,
C as in Conquered (imp. & p. p.) of Conquer,
C as in Conquering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Conquer,
C as in Conquer (v. t.) To gain or acquire by force; to take possession of by violent means; to gain dominion over; to subdue by physical means; to reduce; to overcome by force of arms; to cause to yield; to vanquish.,
C as in Conquer (v. t.) To subdue or overcome by mental or moral power; to surmount; as, to conquer difficulties, temptation, etc.,
C as in Conquer (v. t.) To gain or obtain, overcoming obstacles in the way; to win; as, to conquer freedom; to conquer a peace.,
C as in Conquer (v. i.) To gain the victory; to overcome; to prevail.,
C as in Conquerable (a.) Capable of being conquered or subdued.,
C as in Conqueress (n.) A woman who conquers.,
C as in Conqueror (n.) One who conquers.,
C as in Conquest (n.) The act or process of conquering, or acquiring by force; the act of overcoming or subduing opposition by force, whether physical or moral; subjection; subjugation; victory.,
C as in Conquest (n.) That which is conquered; possession gained by force, physical or moral.,
C as in Conquest (n.) The acquiring of property by other means than by inheritance; acquisition.,
C as in Conquest (n.) The act of gaining or regaining by successful struggle; as, the conquest of liberty or peace.,
C as in Consanguineal (a.) Of the same blood; related by birth.,
C as in Consanguined (a.) Of kin blood; related.,
C as in Consanguineous (a.) Of the same blood; related by birth; descended from the same parent or ancestor.,
C as in Consanguinity (n.) The relation of persons by blood, in distinction from affinity or relation by marriage; blood relationship; as, lineal consanguinity; collateral consanguinity.,
C as in Consarcination (n.) A patching together; patchwork.,
C as in Conscience (n.) Knowledge of one's own thoughts or actions; consciousness.,
C as in Conscience (n.) The faculty, power, or inward principle which decides as to the character of one's own actions, purposes, and affections, warning against and condemning that which is wrong, and approving and prompting to that which is right; the moral faculty passing judgment on one's self; the moral sense.,
C as in Conscience (n.) The estimate or determination of conscience; conviction or right or duty.,
C as in Conscience (n.) Tenderness of feeling; pity.,
C as in Conscienced (a.) Having a conscience.,
C as in Conscienceless (a.) Without conscience; indifferent to conscience; unscrupulous.,
C as in Conscient (a.) Conscious.,
C as in Conscientious (a.) Influenced by conscience; governed by a strict regard to the dictates of conscience, or by the known or supposed rules of right and wrong; -- said of a person.,
C as in Conscientious (a.) Characterized by a regard to conscience; conformed to the dictates of conscience; -- said of actions.,
C as in Conscientiously (adv.) In a conscientious manner; as a matter of conscience; hence; faithfully; accurately; completely.,
C as in Conscientiousness (n.) The quality of being conscientious; a scrupulous regard to the dictates of conscience.,
C as in Conscionable (a.) Governed by, or according to, conscience; reasonable; just.,
C as in Conscionableness (n.) The quality of being conscionable; reasonableness.,
C as in Conscionably (adv.) Reasonably; justly.,
C as in Conscious (a.) Possessing the faculty of knowing one's own thoughts or mental operations.,
C as in Conscious (a.) Possessing knowledge, whether by internal, conscious experience or by external observation; cognizant; aware; sensible.,
C as in Conscious (a.) Made the object of consciousness; known to one's self; as, conscious guilt.,
C as in Consciously (adv.) In a conscious manner; with knowledge of one's own mental operations or actions.,
C as in Consciousness (n.) The state of being conscious; knowledge of one's own existence, condition, sensations, mental operations, acts, etc.,
C as in Consciousness (n.) Immediate knowledge or perception of the presence of any object, state, or sensation. See the Note under Attention.,
C as in Consciousness (n.) Feeling, persuasion, or expectation; esp., inward sense of guilt or innocence.,
C as in Conscribe (v. t.) To enroll; to enlist.,
C as in Conscript (a.) Enrolled; written; registered.,
C as in Conscript (n.) One taken by lot, or compulsorily enrolled, to serve as a soldier or sailor.,
C as in Conscript (v. t.) To enroll, by compulsion, for military service.,
C as in Conscription (n.) An enrolling or registering.,
C as in Conscription (n.) A compulsory enrollment of men for military or naval service; a draft.,
C as in Conscription (a.) Belonging to, or of the nature of, a conspiration.,
C as in Consecrate (a.) Consecrated; devoted; dedicated; sacred.,
C as in Consecrated (imp. & p. p.) of Consecrate,
C as in Consecrating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Consecrate,
C as in Consecrate (v. t.) To make, or declare to be, sacred; to appropriate to sacred uses; to set apart, dedicate, or devote, to the service or worship of God; as, to consecrate a church; to give (one's self) unreservedly, as to the service of God.,
C as in Consecrate (v. t.) To set apart to a sacred office; as, to consecrate a bishop.,
C as in Consecrate (v. t.) To canonize; to exalt to the rank of a saint; to enroll among the gods, as a Roman emperor.,
C as in Consecrate (v. t.) To render venerable or revered; to hallow; to dignify; as, rules or principles consecrated by time.,
C as in Consecrater (n.) Consecrator.,
C as in Consecration (n.) The act or ceremony of consecrating; the state of being consecrated; dedication.,
C as in Consecrator (n.) One who consecrates; one who performs the rites by which a person or thing is devoted or dedicated to sacred purposes.,
C as in Consecratory (a.) Of or pertaining to the act of consecration; dedicatory.,
C as in Consectaneous (a.) Following as a matter of course.,
C as in Consectary (a.) Following by consequence; consequent; deducible.,
C as in Consectary (n.) That which follows by consequence or is logically deducible; deduction from premises; corollary.,
C as in Consecute (v. t.) To follow closely; to endeavor to overtake; to pursue.,
C as in Consecution (n.) A following, or sequel; actual or logical dependence.,
C as in Consecution (n.) A succession or series of any kind.,
C as in Consecutive (a.) Following in a train; succeeding one another in a regular order; successive; uninterrupted in course or succession; with no interval or break; as, fifty consecutive years.,
C as in Consecutive (a.) Following as a consequence or result; actually or logically dependent; consequential; succeeding.,
C as in Consecutive (a.) Having similarity of sequence; -- said of certain parallel progressions of two parts in a piece of harmony; as, consecutive fifths, or consecutive octaves, which are forbidden.,
C as in Consecutively (adv.) In a consecutive manner; by way of sequence; successively.,
C as in Consecutiveness (n.) The state or quality of being consecutive.,
C as in Consension (n.) Agreement; accord.,
C as in Consensual (v. i.) Existing, or made, by the mutual consent of two or more parties.,
C as in Consensual (v. i.) Excited or caused by sensation, sympathy, or reflex action, and not by conscious volition; as, consensual motions.,
C as in Consensus (n.) Agreement; accord; consent.,
C as in Consented (imp. & p. p.) of Consent,
C as in Consenting (p. pr. & vb. n) of Consent,
C as in Consent (v. i.) To agree in opinion or sentiment; to be of the same mind; to accord; to concur.,
C as in Consent (v. i.) To indicate or express a willingness; to yield to guidance, persuasion, or necessity; to give assent or approval; to comply.,
C as in Consent (v. t.) To grant; to allow; to assent to; to admit.,
C as in Consent (n.) Agreement in opinion or sentiment; the being of one mind; accord.,
C as in Consent (n.) Correspondence in parts, qualities, or operations; agreement; harmony; coherence.,
C as in Consent (n.) Voluntary accordance with, or concurrence in, what is done or proposed by another; acquiescence; compliance; approval; permission.,
C as in Consent (n.) Capable, deliberate, and voluntary assent or agreement to, or concurrence in, some act or purpose, implying physical and mental power and free action.,
C as in Consent (n.) Sympathy. See Sympathy, 4.,
C as in Consentaneity (n.) Mutual agreement.,
C as in Consentaneous (a.) Consistent; agreeable; suitable; accordant to; harmonious; concurrent.,
C as in Consentant (a.) Consenting.,
C as in Consenter (a.) One who consents.,
C as in Consentient (a.) Agreeing in mind; accordant.,
C as in Consentingly (adv.) With consent; in a compliant manner.,
C as in Consequence (n.) That which follows something on which it depends; that which is produced by a cause; a result.,
C as in Consequence (n.) A proposition collected from the agreement of other previous propositions; any conclusion which results from reason or argument; inference.,
C as in Consequence (n.) Chain of causes and effects; consecution.,
C as in Consequence (n.) Importance with respect to what comes after; power to influence or produce an effect; value; moment; rank; distinction.,
C as in Consequencing (n.) Drawing inference.,
C as in Consequent (a.) Following as a result, inference, or natural effect.,
C as in Consequent (a.) Following by necessary inference or rational deduction; as, a proposition consequent to other propositions.,
C as in Consequent (n.) That which follows, or results from, a cause; a result or natural effect.,
C as in Consequent (n.) That which follows from propositions by rational deduction; that which is deduced from reasoning or argumentation; a conclusion, or inference.,
C as in Consequent (n.) The second term of a ratio, as the term b in the ratio a:b, the first a, being the antecedent.,
C as in Consequential (a.) Following as a consequence, result, or logical inference; consequent.,
C as in Consequential (a.) Assuming or exhibiting an air of consequence; pretending to importance; pompous; self-important; as, a consequential man. See Consequence, n., 4.,
C as in Consequentially (adv.) With just deduction of consequence; with right connection of ideas; logically.,
C as in Consequentially (adv.) By remote consequence; not immediately; eventually; as, to do a thing consequentially.,
C as in Consequentially (adv.) In a regular series; in the order of cause and effect; with logical concatenation; consecutively; continuously.,
C as in Consequentially (adv.) With assumed importance; pompously.,
C as in Consequentialness (n.) The quality of being consequential.,
C as in Consequently (adv.) By consequence; by natural or logical sequence or connection.,
C as in Consertion (n.) Junction; adaptation,
C as in Conservable (a.) Capable of being preserved from decay or injury.,
C as in Conservancy (n.) Conservation, as from injury, defilement, or irregular use.,
C as in Conservant (a.) Having the power or quality of conservation.,
C as in Conservation (n.) The act of preserving, guarding, or protecting; the keeping (of a thing) in a safe or entire state; preservation.,
C as in Conservational (a.) Tending to conserve; preservative.,
C as in Conservatism (n.) The disposition and tendency to preserve what is established; opposition to change; the habit of mind; or conduct, of a conservative.,
C as in Conservative (a.) Having power to preserve in a safe of entire state, or from loss, waste, or injury; preservative.,
C as in Conservative (a.) Tending or disposed to maintain existing institutions; opposed to change or innovation.,
C as in Conservative (a.) Of or pertaining to a political party which favors the conservation of existing institutions and forms of government, as the Conservative party in England; -- contradistinguished from Liberal and Radical.,
C as in Conservative (n.) One who, or that which, preserves from ruin, injury, innovation, or radical change; a preserver; a conserver.,
C as in Conservative (n.) One who desires to maintain existing institutions and customs; also, one who holds moderate opinions in politics; -- opposed to revolutionary or radical.,
C as in Conservative (n.) A member of the Conservative party.,
C as in Conservativeness (a.) The quality of being conservative.,
C as in Conservatoire (n.) A public place of instruction in any special branch, esp. music and the arts. [See Conservatory, 3].,
C as in Conservator (n.) One who preserves from injury or violation; a protector; a preserver.,
C as in Conservator (n.) An officer who has charge of preserving the public peace, as a justice or sheriff.,
C as in Conservator (n.) One who has an official charge of preserving the rights and privileges of a city, corporation, community, or estate.,
C as in Conservatory (a.) Having the quality of preserving from loss, decay, or injury.,
C as in Conservatory (n.) That which preserves from injury.,
C as in Conservatory (n.) A place for preserving anything from loss, decay, waste, or injury; particulary, a greenhouse for preserving exotic or tender plants.,
C as in Conservatory (n.) A public place of instruction, designed to preserve and perfect the knowledge of some branch of science or art, esp. music.,
C as in Conservatrix (n.) A woman who preserves from loss, injury, etc.,
C as in Conserved (imp. & p. p.) of Conserve,
C as in Conserving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Conserve,
C as in Conserve (v. t.) To keep in a safe or sound state; to save; to preserve; to protect.,
C as in Conserve (v. t.) To prepare with sugar, etc., for the purpose of preservation, as fruits, etc.; to make a conserve of.,
C as in Conserve (n.) Anything which is conserved; especially, a sweetmeat prepared with sugar; a confection.,
C as in Conserve (n.) A medicinal confection made of freshly gathered vegetable substances mixed with finely powdered refined sugar. See Confection.,
C as in Conserve (n.) A conservatory.,
C as in Conserver (n.) One who conserves.,
C as in Considered (imp. & p. p.) of Consider,
C as in Considering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Consider,
C as in Consider (v. t.) To fix the mind on, with a view to a careful examination; to think on with care; to ponder; to study; to meditate on.,
C as in Consider (v. t.) To look at attentively; to observe; to examine.,
C as in Consider (v. t.) To have regard to; to take into view or account; to pay due attention to; to respect.,
C as in Consider (v. t.) To estimate; to think; to regard; to view.,
C as in Consider (v. i.) To think seriously; to make examination; to reflect; to deliberate.,
C as in Consider (v. i.) To hesitate.,
C as in Considerable (a.) Worthy of consideration, borne in mind, or attended to.,
C as in Considerable (a.) Of some distinction; noteworthy; influential; respectable; -- said of persons.,
C as in Considerable (a.) Of importance or value.,
C as in Considerableness (n.) Worthiness of consideration; dignity; value; size; amount.,
C as in Considerably (adv.) In a manner or to a degree not trifling or unimportant; greatly; much.,
C as in Considerance (n.) Act of considering; consideration.,
C as in Considerate (a.) Given to consideration or to sober reflection; regardful of consequences or circumstances; circumspect; careful; esp. careful of the rights, claims, and feelings of other.,
C as in Considerate (a.) Having respect to; regardful.,
C as in Consideration (n.) The act or process of considering; continuous careful thought; examination; contemplation; deliberation; attention.,
C as in Consideration (n.) Attentive respect; appreciative regard; -- used especially in diplomatic or stately correspondence.,
C as in Consideration (n.) Thoughtful or sympathetic regard or notice.,
C as in Consideration (n.) Claim to notice or regard; some degree of importance or consequence.,
C as in Consideration (n.) The result of delibration, or of attention and examonation; matured opinion; a reflection; as, considerations on the choice of a profession.,
C as in Consideration (n.) That which is, or should be, taken into account as a ground of opinion or action; motive; reason.,
C as in Consideration (n.) The cause which moves a contracting party to enter into an agreement; the material cause of a contract; the price of a stripulation; compensation; equivalent.,
C as in Considerative (a.) Considerate; careful; thoughtful.,
C as in Considerator (n.) One who considers.,
C as in Considerer (n.) One who considers; a man of reflection; a thinker.,
C as in Consideringly (adv.) With consideration or deliberation.,
C as in Consigned (imp. & p. p.) of Consign,
C as in Consigning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Consign,
C as in Consign (v. t.) To give, transfer, or deliver, in a formal manner, as if by signing over into the possession of another, or into a different state, with the sense of fixedness in that state, or permanence of possession; as, to consign the body to the grave.,
C as in Consign (v. t.) To give in charge; to commit; to intrust.,
C as in Consign (v. t.) To send or address (by bill of lading or otherwise) to an agent or correspondent in another place, to be cared for or sold, or for the use of such correspondent; as, to consign a cargo or a ship; to consign goods.,
C as in Consign (v. t.) To assign; to devote; to set apart.,
C as in Consign (v. t.) To stamp or impress; to affect.,
C as in Consign (v. i.) To submit; to surrender or yield one's self.,
C as in Consign (v. i.) To yield consent; to agree; to acquiesce.,
C as in Consignatary (n.) A consignee.,
C as in Consignation (n.) The act of consigning; the act of delivering or committing to another person, place, or state.,
C as in Consignation (n.) The act of ratifying or establishing, as if by signing; confirmation; ratification.,
C as in Consignation (n.) A stamp; an indication; a sign.,
C as in Consignatory (n.) One of several that jointly sign a written instrument, as a treaty.,
C as in Consignature (n.) Joint signature.,
C as in Consigne (n.) A countersign; a watchword.,
C as in Consigne (n.) One who is orders to keep within certain limits.,
C as in Consignee (n.) The person to whom goods or other things are consigned; a factor; -- correlative to consignor.,
C as in Consigner (n.) One who consigns. See Consignor.,
C as in Consignificant (a.) Having joint or equal signification; synonymous.,
C as in Consignification (n.) Joint signification.,
C as in Consignificative (a.) Consignificant; jointly significate.,
C as in Consignify (v. t.) To signify or denote in combination with something else.,
C as in Consignment (n.) The act of consigning; consignation.,
C as in Consignment (n.) The act of consigning or sending property to an agent or correspondent in another place, as for care, sale, etc.,
C as in Consignment (n.) That which is consigned; the goods or commodities sent or addressed to a consignee at one time or by one conveyance.,
C as in Consignment (n.) The writing by which anything is consigned.,
C as in Consignor (n.) One who consigns something to another; -- opposed to consignee.,
C as in Consilience (n.) Act of concurring; coincidence; concurrence.,
C as in Consimilitude (n.) Alt. of Consimility,
C as in Consimility (n.) Common resemblance.,
C as in Consisted (imp. & p. p.) of Consist,
C as in Consisting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Consist,
C as in Consist (v. i.) To stand firm; to be in a fixed or permanent state, as a body composed of parts in union or connection; to hold together; to be; to exist; to subsist; to be supported and maintained.,
C as in Consist (v. i.) To be composed or made up; -- followed by of.,
C as in Consist (v. i.) To have as its substance or character, or as its foundation; to be; -- followed by in.,
C as in Consist (v. i.) To be consistent or harmonious; to be in accordance; -- formerly used absolutely, now followed by with.,
C as in Consist (v. i.) To insist; -- followed by on.,
C as in Consistence (n.) Alt. of Consistency,
C as in Consistency (n.) The condition of standing or adhering together, or being fixed in union, as the parts of a body; existence; firmness; coherence; solidity.,
C as in Consistency (n.) A degree of firmness, density, or spissitude.,
C as in Consistency (n.) That which stands together as a united whole; a combination.,
C as in Consistency (n.) Firmness of constitution or character; substantiality; durability; persistency.,
C as in Consistency (n.) Agreement or harmony of all parts of a complex thing among themselves, or of the same thing with itself at different times; the harmony of conduct with profession; congruity; correspondence; as, the consistency of laws, regulations, or judicial decisions; consistency of opinions; consistency of conduct or of character.,
C as in Consistent (a.) Possessing firmness or fixedness; firm; hard; solid.,
C as in Consistent (a.) Having agreement with itself or with something else; having harmony among its parts; possesing unity; accordant; harmonious; congruous; compatible; uniform; not contradictory.,
C as in Consistent (a.) Living or acting in conformity with one's belief or professions.,
C as in Consistently (adv.) In a consistent manner.,
C as in Consistorial (a.) Of or pertaining to a consistory.,
C as in Consistorian (a.) Pertaining to a Presbyterian consistory; -- a contemptuous term of 17th century controversy.,
C as in Consistories (pl. ) of Consistory,
C as in Consistory (n.) Primarily, a place of standing or staying together; hence, any solemn assembly or council.,
C as in Consistory (n.) The spiritual court of a diocesan bishop held before his chancellor or commissioner in his cathedral church or elsewhere.,
C as in Consistory (n.) An assembly of prelates; a session of the college of cardinals at Rome.,
C as in Consistory (n.) A church tribunal or governing body.,
C as in Consistory (n.) A civil court of justice.,
C as in Consistory (a.) Of the nature of, or pertaining to, a consistory.,
C as in Consociate (n.) An associate; an accomplice.,
C as in Consociated (imp. & p. p.) of Consociate,
C as in Consociating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Consociate,
C as in Consociate (v. t.) To bring into alliance, confederacy, or relationship; to bring together; to join; to unite.,
C as in Consociate (v. t.) To unite in an ecclesiastical consociation.,
C as in Consociate (v. i.) To be allied, confederated, or associated; to coalescence.,
C as in Consociate (v. i.) To form an ecclesiastical consociation.,
C as in Consociation (n.) Intimate union; fellowship; alliance; companionship; confederation; association; intimacy.,
C as in Consociation (n.) A voluntary and permanent council or union of neighboring Congregational churches, for mutual advice and cooperation in ecclesiastical matters; a meeting of pastors and delegates from churches thus united.,
C as in Consociational (a.) Of or pertaining to a consociation.,
C as in Consolable (a.) Capable of receiving consolation.,
C as in Consolate (v. t.) To console; to comfort.,
C as in Consolation (n.) The act of consoling; the state of being consoled; allevation of misery or distress of mind; refreshment of spirit; comfort; that which consoles or comforts the spirit.,
C as in Consolato del mare () A collection of maritime laws of disputed origin, supposed to have been first published at Barcelona early in the 14th century. It has formed the basis of most of the subsequent collections of maritime laws.,
C as in Consolator (n.) One who consoles or comforts.,
C as in Consolatory (a.) Of a consoling or comforting nature.,
C as in Consolatory (n.) That which consoles; a speech or writing intended for consolation.,
C as in Consoled (imp. & p. p.) of Console,
C as in Consoling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Console,
C as in Console (v. t.) To cheer in distress or depression; to alleviate the grief and raise the spirits of; to relieve; to comfort; to soothe.,
C as in Console (n.) A bracket whose projection is not more than half its height.,
C as in Console (n.) Any small bracket; also, a console table.,
C as in Consoler (n.) One who gives consolation.,
C as in Consolidant (a.) Serving to unite or consolidate; having the quality of consolidating or making firm.,
C as in Consolidate (a.) Formed into a solid mass; made firm; consolidated.,
C as in Consolidated (imp. & p. p.) of Consolidate,
C as in Consolidating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Consolidate,
C as in Consolidate (v. t.) To make solid; to unite or press together into a compact mass; to harden or make dense and firm.,
C as in Consolidate (v. t.) To unite, as various particulars, into one mass or body; to bring together in close union; to combine; as, to consolidate the armies of the republic.,
C as in Consolidate (v. t.) To unite by means of applications, as the parts of a broken bone, or the lips of a wound.,
C as in Consolidate (v. i.) To grow firm and hard; to unite and become solid; as, moist clay consolidates by drying.,
C as in Consolidated (p. p. & a.) Made solid, hard, or compact; united; joined; solidified.,
C as in Consolidated (p. p. & a.) Having a small surface in proportion to bulk, as in the cactus.,
C as in Consolidation (n.) The act or process of consolidating, making firm, or uniting; the state of being consolidated; solidification; combination.,
C as in Consolidation (n.) To organic cohesion of different circled in a flower; adnation.,
C as in Consolidation (n.) The combination of several actions into one.,
C as in Consolidative (a.) Tending or having power to consolidate; healing.,
C as in Consoling (a.) Adapted to console or comfort; cheering; as, this is consoling news.,
C as in Consols (n. pl. ) The leading British funded government security.,
C as in Consomme (n.) A clear soup or bouillion boiled down so as to be very rich.,
C as in Consonance (n.) Alt. of Consonancy,
C as in Consonancy (n.) Accord or agreement of sounds produced simultaneously, as a note with its third, fifth, and eighth.,
C as in Consonancy (n.) Agreement or congruity; harmony; accord; consistency; suitableness.,
C as in Consonancy (n.) Friendship; concord.,
C as in Consonant (a.) Having agreement; congruous; consistent; according; -- usually followed by with or to.,
C as in Consonant (a.) Having like sounds.,
C as in Consonant (a.) harmonizing together; accordant; as, consonant tones, consonant chords.,
C as in Consonant (a.) Of or pertaining to consonants; made up of, or containing many, consonants.,
C as in Consonant (n.) An articulate sound which in utterance is usually combined and sounded with an open sound called a vowel; a member of the spoken alphabet other than a vowel; also, a letter or character representing such a sound.,
C as in Consonantal (a.) Of the nature of a consonant; pertaining to consonants.,
C as in Consonantize (v. t.) To change into, or use as, a consonant.,
C as in Consonantly (adv.) In a consonant, consistent, or congruous manner; agreeably.,
C as in Consonantness (n.) The quality or condition of being consonant, agreeable, or consistent.,
C as in Consonous (a.) Agreeing in sound; symphonious.,
C as in Consopiation (n.) The act of sleeping, or of lulling, to sleep.,
C as in Consopite (a.) Lulled to sleep.,
C as in Consopite (v. t.) To lull to sleep; to quiet; to compose.,
C as in Consort (n.) One who shares the lot of another; a companion; a partner; especially, a wife or husband.,
C as in Consort (n.) A ship keeping company with another.,
C as in Consort (n.) Concurrence; conjunction; combination; association; union.,
C as in Consort (n.) An assembly or association of persons; a company; a group; a combination.,
C as in Consort (n.) Harmony of sounds; concert, as of musical instruments.,
C as in Consorted (imp. & p. p.) of Consort,
C as in Consorting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Consort,
C as in Consort (v. i.) To unite or to keep company; to associate; -- used with with.,
C as in Consort (v. t.) To unite or join, as in affection, harmony, company, marriage, etc.; to associate.,
C as in Consort (v. t.) To attend; to accompany.,
C as in Consortable (a.) Suitable for association or companionship.,
C as in Consortion (n.) Fellowship; association; companionship.,
C as in Consortship (n.) The condition of a consort; fellowship; partnership.,
C as in Consound (n.) A name applied loosely to several plants of different genera, esp. the comfrey.,
C as in Conspecific (a.) Of the same species.,
C as in Conspectuities (pl. ) of Conspectuity,
C as in Conspectuity (n.) The faculty of seeing; sight; eye.,
C as in Conspectus (n.) A general sketch or outline of a subject; a synopsis; an epitome.,
C as in Conspersion (n.) The act of sprinkling.,
C as in Conspicuity (n.) The state or quality of being clear or bright; brightness; conspicuousness.,
C as in Conspicuous (a.) Open to the view; obvious to the eye; easy to be seen; plainly visible; manifest; attracting the eye.,
C as in Conspicuous (a.) Obvious to the mental eye; easily recognized; clearly defined; notable; prominent; eminent; distinguished; as, a conspicuous excellence, or fault.,
C as in Conspiracies (pl. ) of Conspiracy,
C as in Conspiracy (n.) A combination of men for an evil purpose; an agreement, between two or more persons, to commit a crime in concert, as treason; a plot.,
C as in Conspiracy (n.) A concurence or general tendency, as of circumstances, to one event, as if by agreement.,
C as in Conspiracy (n.) An agreement, manifesting itself in words or deeds, by which two or more persons confederate to do an unlawful act, or to use unlawful to do an act which is lawful; confederacy.,
C as in Conspirant (a.) Engaging in a plot to commit a crime; conspiring.,
C as in Conspiration (n.) Agreement or concurrence for some end or purpose; conspiracy.,
C as in Conspirator (n.) One who engages in a conspiracy; a plotter.,
C as in Conspired (imp. & p. p.) of Conspire,
C as in Conspiring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Conspire,
C as in Conspire (v. i.) To make an agreement, esp. a secret agreement, to do some act, as to commit treason or a crime, or to do some unlawful deed; to plot together.,
C as in Conspire (v. i.) To concur to one end; to agree.,
C as in Conspire (v. t.) To plot; to plan; to combine for.,
C as in Conspirer (n.) One who conspires; a conspirator.,
C as in Conspiringly (adv.) In the manner of a conspirator; by conspiracy.,
C as in Conspissation (n.) A making thick or viscous; thickness; inspissation.,
C as in Conspurcate (v. t.) To pollute; to defile.,
C as in Conspurcation (n.) The act of defiling; defilement; pollution.,
C as in Constable (n.) A high officer in the monarchical establishments of the Middle Ages.,
C as in Constable (n.) An officer of the peace having power as a conservator of the public peace, and bound to execute the warrants of judicial officers.,
C as in Constablery (n.) The constabulary.,
C as in Constablery (n.) The district or jurisdiction of a constable.,
C as in Constableship (n.) The office or functions of a constable.,
C as in Constabless (n.) The wife of a constable.,
C as in Constablewick (n.) The district to which a constable's power is limited.,
C as in Constabulary (a.) Of or pertaining to constables; consisting of constables.,
C as in Constabulary (n.) The collective body of constables in any town, district, or country.,
C as in Constabulatory (n.) A constabulary.,
C as in Constancy (n.) The state or quality of being constant or steadfast; freedom from change; stability; fixedness; immutability; as, the constancy of God in his nature and attributes.,
C as in Constancy (n.) Fixedness or firmness of mind; persevering resolution; especially, firmness of mind under sufferings, steadiness in attachments, or perseverance in enterprise; stability; fidelity.,
C as in Constant (v. t.) Firm; solid; fixed; immovable; -- opposed to fluid.,
C as in Constant (v. t.) Not liable, or given, to change; permanent; regular; continuous; continually recurring; steadfast; faithful; not fickle.,
C as in Constant (v. t.) Remaining unchanged or invariable, as a quantity, force, law, etc.,
C as in Constant (v. t.) Consistent; logical.,
C as in Constant (n.) That which is not subject to change; that which is invariable.,
C as in Constant (n.) A quantity that does not change its value; -- used in countradistinction to variable.,
C as in Constantia (n.) A superior wine, white and red, from Constantia, in Cape Colony.,
C as in Constantly (adv.) With constancy; steadily; continually; perseveringly; without cessation; uniformly.,
C as in Constat (n.) A certificate showing what appears upon record touching a matter in question.,
C as in Constate (v. t.) To ascertain; to verify; to establish; to prove.,
C as in Constellate (v. i. ) To join luster; to shine with united radiance, or one general light.,
C as in Constellate (v. t.) To unite in one luster or radiance, as stars.,
C as in Constellate (v. t.) To set or adorn with stars or constellations; as, constellated heavens.,
C as in Constellation (n.) A cluster or group of fixed stars, or dvision of the heavens, designated in most cases by the name of some animal, or of some mythologial personage, within whose imaginary outline, as traced upon the heavens, the group is included.,
C as in Constellation (n.) An assemblage of splendors or excellences.,
C as in Constellation (n.) Fortune; fate; destiny.,
C as in Consternation (n.) Amazement or horror that confounds the faculties, and incapacitates for reflection; terror, combined with amazement; dismay.,
C as in Constipated (imp. & p. p.) of Constipate,
C as in Constipating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Constipate,
C as in Constipate (v. t.) To crowd or cram into a narrow compass; to press together or condense.,
C as in Constipate (v. t.) To stop (a channel) by filling it, and preventing passage through it; as, to constipate the capillary vessels.,
C as in Constipate (v. t.) To render costive; to cause constipation in.,
C as in Constipation (n.) Act of crowding anything into a less compass, or the state of being crowded or pressed together; condensation.,
C as in Constipation (n.) A state of the bowels in which the evacuations are infrequent and difficult, or the intestines become filled with hardened faeces; costiveness.,
C as in Constituencies (pl. ) of Constituency,
C as in Constituency (n.) A body of constituents, as the body of citizens or voters in a representative district.,
C as in Constituent (a.) Serving to form, compose, or make up; elemental; component.,
C as in Constituent (a.) Having the power of electing or appointing.,
C as in Constituent (n.) The person or thing which constitutes, determines, or constructs.,
C as in Constituent (n.) That which constitutes or composes, as a part, or an essential part; a component; an element.,
C as in Constituent (n.) One for whom another acts; especially, one who is represented by another in a legislative assembly; -- correlative to representative.,
C as in Constituent (n.) A person who appoints another to act for him as attorney in fact.,
C as in Constituted (imp. & p. p.) of Constitute,
C as in Constituting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Constitute,
C as in Constitute (v. t.) To cause to stand; to establish; to enact.,
C as in Constitute (v. t.) To make up; to compose; to form.,
C as in Constitute (v. t.) To appoint, depute, or elect to an office; to make and empower.,
C as in Constitute (n.) An established law.,
C as in Constituter (n.) One who constitutes or appoints.,
C as in Constitution (n.) The act or process of constituting; the action of enacting, establishing, or appointing; enactment; establishment; formation.,
C as in Constitution (n.) The state of being; that form of being, or structure and connection of parts, which constitutes and characterizes a system or body; natural condition; structure; texture; conformation.,
C as in Constitution (n.) The aggregate of all one's inherited physical qualities; the aggregate of the vital powers of an individual, with reference to ability to endure hardship, resist disease, etc.; as, a robust constitution.,
C as in Constitution (n.) The aggregate of mental qualities; temperament.,
C as in Constitution (n.) The fundamental, organic law or principles of government of men, embodied in written documents, or implied in the institutions and usages of the country or society; also, a written instrument embodying such organic law, and laying down fundamental rules and principles for the conduct of affairs.,
C as in Constitution (n.) An authoritative ordinance, regulation or enactment; especially, one made by a Roman emperor, or one affecting ecclesiastical doctrine or discipline; as, the constitutions of Justinian.,
C as in Constitutional (a.) Belonging to, or inherent in, the constitution, or in the structure of body or mind; as, a constitutional infirmity; constitutional ardor or dullness.,
C as in Constitutional (a.) In accordance with, or authorized by, the constitution of a state or a society; as, constitutional reforms.,
C as in Constitutional (a.) Regulated by, dependent on, or secured by, a constitution; as, constitutional government; constitutional rights.,
C as in Constitutional (a.) Relating to a constitution, or establishment form of government; as, a constitutional risis.,
C as in Constitutional (a.) For the benefit or one's constitution or health; as, a constitutional walk.,
C as in Constitutional (n.) A walk or other exercise taken for one's health or constitution.,
C as in Constitutionalism (n.) The theory, principles, or authority of constitutional government; attachment or adherence to a constitution or constitutional government.,
C as in Constitutionalist (n.) One who advocates a constitutional form of government; a constitutionalist.,
C as in ties (pl. ) of Constitutionality,
C as in Constitutionality (n.) The quality or state of being constitutional, or inherent in the natural frame.,
C as in Constitutionality (n.) The state of being consistent with the constitution or frame of government, or of being authorized by its provisions.,
C as in Constitutionally (adv.) In accordance with the constitution or natural disposition of the mind or body; naturally; as, he was constitutionally timid.,
C as in Constitutionally (adv.) In accordance with the constitution or fundamental law; legally; as, he was not constitutionally appointed.,
C as in Constitutionist (n.) One who adheres to the constitution of the country.,
C as in Constitutive (a.) Tending or assisting to constitute or compose; elemental; essential.,
C as in Constitutive (a.) Having power to enact, establish, or create; instituting; determining.,
C as in Constitutively (adv.) In a constitutive manner.,
C as in Constrained (imp. & p. p.) of Constrain,
C as in Constraining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Constrain,
C as in Constrain (v. t.) To secure by bonds; to chain; to bond or confine; to hold tightly; to constringe.,
C as in Constrain (v. t.) To bring into a narrow compass; to compress.,
C as in Constrain (v. t.) To hold back by force; to restrain; to repress.,
C as in Constrain (v. t.) To compel; to force; to necessitate; to oblige.,
C as in Constrain (v. t.) To violate; to ravish.,
C as in Constrain (v. t.) To produce in such a manner as to give an unnatural effect; as, a constrained voice.,
C as in Constrainable (a.) Capable of being constrained; liable to constraint, or to restraint.,
C as in Constrained (a.) Marked by constraint; not free; not voluntary; embarrassed; as, a constrained manner; a constrained tone.,
C as in Constrainedly (adv.) By constraint or compulsion; in a constrained manner.,
C as in Constrainer (n.) One who constrains.,
C as in Constraint (n.) The act of constraining, or the state of being constrained; that which compels to, or restrains from, action; compulsion; restraint; necessity.,
C as in Constraintive (a.) Constraining; compulsory.,
C as in Constricted (imp. & p. p.) of Constrict,
C as in Constricting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Constrict,
C as in Constrict (v. t.) To draw together; to render narrower or smaller; to bind; to cramp; to contract or cause to shrink.,
C as in Constricted (a.) Drawn together; bound; contracted; cramped.,
C as in Constricted (a.) Contracted or compressed so as to be smaller in certain places or parts than in others.,
C as in Constriction (n.) The act of constricting by means of some inherent power or by movement or change in the thing itself, as distinguished from compression.,
C as in Constriction (n.) The state of being constricted; the point where a thing is constricted; a narrowing or binding.,
C as in Constrictive (a.) Serving or tending to bind or constrict.,
C as in Constrictor (n.) That which constricts, draws together, or contracts.,
C as in Constrictor (n.) A muscle which contracts or closes an orifice, or which compresses an organ; a sphincter.,
C as in Constrictor (n.) A serpent that kills its prey by inclosing and crushing it with its folds; as, the boa constrictor.,
C as in Constringed (imp. & p. p.) of Constringe,
C as in Constringing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Constringe,
C as in Constringe (v. t.) To dawn together; to contract; to force to contract itself; to constrict; to cause to shrink.,
C as in Constringent (a.) Having the quality of contracting, binding, or compressing.,
C as in Constructed (imp. & p. p.) of Construct,
C as in Constructing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Construct,
C as in Construct (v. t.) To put together the constituent parts of (something) in their proper place and order; to build; to form; to make; as, to construct an edifice.,
C as in Construct (v. t.) To devise; to invent; to set in order; to arrange; as, to construct a theory of ethics.,
C as in Construct (a.) Formed by, or relating to, construction, interpretation, or inference.,
C as in Constructer (n.) One who, or that which, constructs or frames.,
C as in Construction (n.) The process or art of constructing; the act of building; erection; the act of devising and forming; fabrication; composition.,
C as in Construction (n.) The form or manner of building or putting together the parts of anything; structure; arrangement.,
C as in Construction (n.) The arrangement and connection of words in a sentence; syntactical arrangement.,
C as in Construction (n.) The method of construing, interpreting, or explaining a declaration or fact; an attributed sense or meaning; understanding; explanation; interpretation; sense.,
C as in Constructional (a.) Pertaining to, or deduced from, construction or interpretation.,
C as in Constructionist (n.) One who puts a certain construction upon some writing or instrument, as the Constitutions of the United States; as, a strict constructionist; a broad constructionist.,
C as in Constructive (a.) Having ability to construct or form; employed in construction; as, to exhibit constructive power.,
C as in Constructive (a.) Derived from, or depending on, construction or interpretation; not directly expressed, but inferred.,
C as in Constructively (adv.) In a constructive manner; by construction or inference.,
C as in Constructiveness (n.) Tendency or ability to form or construct.,
C as in Constructiveness (n.) The faculty which enables one to construct, as in mechanical, artistic, or literary matters.,
C as in Constructor (n.) A constructer.,
C as in Constructure (n.) That which is constructed or formed; an edifice; a fabric.,
C as in Construed (imp. & p. p.) of Construe,
C as in Construing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Construe,
C as in Construe (v. t. ) To apply the rules of syntax to (a sentence or clause) so as to exhibit the structure, arrangement, or connection of, or to discover the sense; to explain the construction of; to interpret; to translate.,
C as in Construe (v. t. ) To put a construction upon; to explain the sense or intention of; to interpret; to understand.,
C as in Construprated (imp. & p. p.) of Constuprate,
C as in Constuprating (p. p. & vb. n.) of Constuprate,
C as in Constuprate (v. t.) To ravish; to debauch.,
C as in Constupration (n.) The act of ravishing; violation; defilement.,
C as in Consubstantial (a.) Of the same kind or nature; having the same substance or essence; coessential.,
C as in Consubstantialism (n.) The doctrine of consubstantiation.,
C as in Consubstantialist (n.) One who believes in consubstantiation.,
C as in Consubstantiality (n.) Participation of the same nature; coexistence in the same substance.,
C as in Consubstantially (adv.) In a consubstantial manner; with identity of substance or nature.,
C as in Consubstantiated (imp. & p. p.) of Consubstantiate,
C as in Consubstantiating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Consubstantiate,
C as in Consubstantiate (v. t. ) To cause to unite, or to regard as united, in one common substance or nature.,
C as in Consubstantiate (v. i.) To profess or belive the doctrine of consubstantion.,
C as in Consubstantiate (a.) Partaking of the same substance; united; consubstantial.,
C as in Consubstantiation (n.) An identity or union of substance.,
C as in Consubstantiation (n.) The actual, substantial presence of the body of Christ with the bread and wine of the sacrament of the Lord's Supper; impanation; -- opposed to transubstantiation.,
C as in Consuetude (n.) Custom, habit; usage.,
C as in Consuetudinal (a.) According to custom; customary; usual.,
C as in Consuetudinary (a.) Customary.,
C as in Consuetudinaries (pl. ) of Cussuetudinary,
C as in Cussuetudinary (n.) A manual or ritual of customary devotional exercises.,
C as in Consul (n.) One of the two chief magistrates of the republic.,
C as in Consul (n.) A senator; a counselor.,
C as in Consul (n.) One of the three chief magistrates of France from 1799 to 1804, who were called, respectively, first, second, and third consul.,
C as in Consul (n.) An official commissioned to reside in some foreign country, to care for the commercial interests of the citizens of the appointing government, and to protect its seamen.,
C as in Consulage (n.) A duty or tax paid by merchants for the protection of their commerce by means of a consul in a foreign place.,
C as in Consular (a.) Of or pertaining to a consul; performing the duties of a consul; as, consular power; consular dignity; consular officers.,
C as in Consulary (a.) Consular.,
C as in Consulate (n.) The office of a consul.,
C as in Consulate (n.) The jurisdiction or residence of a consul.,
C as in Consulate (n.) Consular government; term of office of a consul.,
C as in Consulship (n.) The office of a consul; consulate.,
C as in Consulship (n.) The term of office of a consul.,
C as in Consulted (imp. & p. p.) of Consult,
C as in Consulting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Consult,
C as in Consult (v. i.) To seek the opinion or advice of another; to take counsel; to deliberate together; to confer.,
C as in Consult (v. t.) To ask advice of; to seek the opinion of; to apply to for information or instruction; to refer to; as, to consult a physician; to consult a dictionary.,
C as in Consult (v. t.) To have reference to, in judging or acting; to have regard to; to consider; as, to consult one's wishes.,
C as in Consult (v. t.) To deliberate upon; to take for.,
C as in Consult (v. t.) To bring about by counsel or contrivance; to devise; to contrive.,
C as in Consult (n.) The act of consulting or deliberating; consultation; also, the result of consulation; determination; decision.,
C as in Consult (n.) A council; a meeting for consultation.,
C as in Consult (n.) Agreement; concert,
C as in Consultary (a.) Formed by consultation; resulting from conference.,
C as in Consultation (n.) The act of consulting or conferring; deliberation of two or more persons on some matter, with a view to a decision.,
C as in Consultation (n.) A council or conference, as of physicians, held to consider a special case, or of lawyers restained in a cause.,
C as in Consultative (a.) Pertaining to consultation; having the privilege or right of conference.,
C as in Consultatory (a.) Formed by, or resulting from, consultation; advisory.,
C as in Consulter (n.) One who consults, or asks counsel or information.,
C as in Consulting (a.) That consults.,
C as in Consultive (a.) Determined by, or pertaining to, consultation; deliberate; consultative.,
C as in Consumable (a.) Capable of being consumed; that may be destroyed, dissipated, wasted, or spent.,
C as in Consumed (imp. & p. p.) of Consume,
C as in Consuming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Consume,
C as in Consume (v. t.) To destroy, as by decomposition, dissipation, waste, or fire; to use up; to expend; to waste; to burn up; to eat up; to devour.,
C as in Consume (v. i.) To waste away slowly.,
C as in Consumedly (adv.) Excessively.,
C as in Consumer (n.) One who, or that which, consumes; as, the consumer of food.,
C as in Consumingly (adv.) In a consuming manner.,
C as in Consummate (a.) Carried to the utmost extent or degree; of the highest quality; complete; perfect.,
C as in Consummated (imp. & p. p.) of Consummate,
C as in Consummating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Consummate,
C as in Consummate (v. t. ) To bring to completion; to raise to the highest point or degree; to complete; to finish; to perfect; to achieve.,
C as in Consummately (adv.) In a consummate manner; completely.,
C as in Consummation (n.) The act of consummating, or the state of being consummated; completed; completion; perfection; termination; end (as of the world or of life).,
C as in Consummative (a.) Serving to consummate; completing.,
C as in Consumption (n.) The act or process of consuming by use, waste, etc.; decay; destruction.,
C as in Consumption (n.) The state or process of being consumed, wasted, or diminished; waste; diminution; loss; decay.,
C as in Consumption (n.) A progressive wasting away of the body; esp., that form of wasting, attendant upon pulmonary phthisis and associated with cough, spitting of blood, hectic fever, etc.; pulmonary phthisis; -- called also pulmonary consumption.,
C as in Consumptive (a.) Of or pertaining to consumption; having the quality of consuming, or dissipating; destructive; wasting.,
C as in Consumptive (a.) Affected with, or inclined to, consumption.,
C as in Consumptive (n.) One affected with consumption; as, a resort for consumptives.,
C as in Consumptively (adv.) In a way tending to or indication consumption.,
C as in Consumptiveness (n.) A state of being consumptive, or a tendency to a consumption.,
C as in Contabescent (a.) Wasting away gradually.,
C as in Contact (n.) A close union or junction of bodies; a touching or meeting.,
C as in Contact (n.) The property of two curves, or surfaces, which meet, and at the point of meeting have a common direction.,
C as in Contact (n.) The plane between two adjacent bodies of dissimilar rock.,
C as in Contaction (n.) Act of touching.,
C as in Contagion (n.) The transmission of a disease from one person to another, by direct or indirect contact.,
C as in Contagion (n.) That which serves as a medium or agency to transmit disease; a virus produced by, or exhalation proceeding from, a diseased person, and capable of reproducing the disease.,
C as in Contagion (n.) The act or means of communicating any influence to the mind or heart; as, the contagion of enthusiasm.,
C as in Contagion (n.) Venom; poison.,
C as in Contagioned (a.) Affected by contagion.,
C as in Contagionist (n.) One who believes in the contagious character of certain diseases, as of yellow fever.,
C as in Contagious (a.) Communicable by contact, by a virus, or by a bodily exhalation; catching; as, a contagious disease.,
C as in Contagious (a.) Conveying or generating disease; pestilential; poisonous; as, contagious air.,
C as in Contagious (a.) Spreading or communicable from one to another; exciting similar emotions or conduct in others.,
C as in Contagiously (adv.) In a contagious manner.,
C as in Contagiousness (n.) Quality of being contagious.,
C as in Contagium (n.) Contagion; contagious matter.,
C as in Contained (imp. & p. p.) of Contain,
C as in Containing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Contain,
C as in Contain (v. t.) To hold within fixed limits; to comprise; to include; to inclose; to hold.,
C as in Contain (v. t.) To have capacity for; to be able to hold; to hold; to be equivalent to; as, a bushel contains four pecks.,
C as in Contain (v. t.) To put constraint upon; to restrain; to confine; to keep within bounds.,
C as in Contain (v. i.) To restrain desire; to live in continence or chastity.,
C as in Containable (a.) Capable of being contained or comprised.,
C as in Containant (n.) A container.,
C as in Container (n.) One who, or that which, contains.,
C as in Containment (n.) That which is contained; the extent; the substance.,
C as in Contaminable (a.) Capable of being contaminated.,
C as in Contaminated (imp. & p. p.) of Contaminate,
C as in Contaminating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Contaminate,
C as in Contaminate (v. t.) To soil, stain, or corrupt by contact; to tarnish; to sully; to taint; to pollute; to defile.,
C as in Contaminate (a.) Contaminated; defiled; polluted; tainted.,
C as in Contamination (n.) The act or process of contaminating; pollution; defilement; taint; also, that which contaminates.,
C as in Contamitive (a.) Tending or liable to contaminate.,
C as in Contangoes (pl. ) of Contango,
C as in Contango (n.) The premium or interest paid by the buyer to the seller, to be allowed to defer paying for the stock purchased until the next fortnightly settlement day.,
C as in Contango (n.) The postponement of payment by the buyer of stock on the payment of a premium to the seller. See Backwardation.,
C as in Contection (n.) A covering.,
C as in Contek (n.) Quarrel; contention; contest.,
C as in Contek (n.) Contumely; reproach.,
C as in Contemned (imp. & p. p.) of Contemn,
C as in Contemning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Contemn,
C as in Contemn (v. t.) To view or treat with contempt, as mean and despicable; to reject with disdain; to despise; to scorn.,
C as in Contemner (n.) One who contemns; a despiser; a scorner.,
C as in Contemningly (adv.) Contemptuously.,
C as in Contemper (v. t.) To modify or temper; to allay; to qualify; to moderate; to soften.,
C as in Contemperate (v. t.) To temper; to moderate.,
C as in Contemperation (n.) The act of tempering or moderating.,
C as in Contemperation (n.) Proportionate mixture or combination.,
C as in Contemperature (n.) The condition of being tempered; proportionate mixture; temperature.,
C as in Contemplance (n.) Contemplation.,
C as in Contemplant (a.) Given to contemplation; meditative.,
C as in Contemplated (imp. & p. p.) of Contemplate,
C as in Contemplating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Contemplate,
C as in Contemplate (v. t.) To look at on all sides or in all its bearings; to view or consider with continued attention; to regard with deliberate care; to meditate on; to study.,
C as in Contemplate (v. t.) To consider or have in view, as contingent or probable; to look forward to; to purpose; to intend.,
C as in Contemplate (v. i.) To consider or think studiously; to ponder; to reflect; to muse; to meditate.,
C as in Contemplation (n.) The act of the mind in considering with attention; continued attention of the mind to a particular subject; meditation; musing; study.,
C as in Contemplation (n.) Holy meditation.,
C as in Contemplation (n.) The act of looking forward to an event as about to happen; expectation; the act of intending or purposing.,
C as in Contemplatist (n.) A contemplator.,
C as in Contemplative (a.) Pertaining to contemplation; addicted to, or employed in, contemplation; meditative.,
C as in Contemplative (a.) Having the power of contemplation; as, contemplative faculties.,
C as in Contemplative (n.) A religious or either sex devoted to prayer and meditation, rather than to active works of charity.,
C as in Contemplatively (adv.) With contemplation; in a contemplative manner.,
C as in Contemplativeness (n.) The state of being contemplative; thoughtfulness.,
C as in Contemplator (n.) One who contemplates.,
C as in Contemporaneity (n.) The state of being contemporaneous.,
C as in Contemporaneous (a.) Living, existing, or occurring at the same time; contemporary.,
C as in Contemporaneously (adv.) At the same time with some other event.,
C as in Contemporariness (n.) Existence at the same time; contemporaneousness.,
C as in Contemporary (a.) Living, occuring, or existing, at the same time; done in, or belonging to, the same times; contemporaneous.,
C as in Contemporary (a.) Of the same age; coeval.,
C as in Contemporaries (pl. ) of Contemporary,
C as in Contemporary (n.) One who lives at the same time with another; as, Petrarch and Chaucer were contemporaries.,
C as in Contempt (n.) The act of contemning or despising; the feeling with which one regards that which is esteemed mean, vile, or worthless; disdain; scorn.,
C as in Contempt (n.) The state of being despised; disgrace; shame.,
C as in Contempt (n.) An act or expression denoting contempt.,
C as in Contempt (n.) Disobedience of the rules, orders, or process of a court of justice, or of rules or orders of a legislative body; disorderly, contemptuous, or insolent language or behavior in presence of a court, tending to disturb its proceedings, or impair the respect due to its authority.,
C as in Contemptibility (n.) The quality of being contemptible; contemptibleness.,
C as in Contemptible (a.) Worthy of contempt; deserving of scorn or disdain; mean; vile; despicable.,
C as in Contemptible (a.) Despised; scorned; neglected; abject.,
C as in Contemptible (a.) Insolent; scornful; contemptuous.,
C as in Contemptibleness (n.) The state or quality of being contemptible, or of being despised.,
C as in Contemptibly (adv.) In a contemptible manner.,
C as in Contemptuous (a.) Manifesting or expressing contempt or disdain; scornful; haughty; insolent; disdainful.,
C as in Contemptuously (adv.) In a contemptuous manner; with scorn or disdain; despitefully.,
C as in Contemptuousness (n.) Disposition to or manifestion of contempt; insolence; haughtiness.,
C as in Contended (imp. & p. p.) of Contend,
C as in Contending (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Contend,
C as in Contend (v. i.) To strive in opposition; to contest; to dispute; to vie; to quarrel; to fight.,
C as in Contend (v. i.) To struggle or exert one's self to obtain or retain possession of, or to defend.,
C as in Contend (v. i.) To strive in debate; to engage in discussion; to dispute; to argue.,
C as in Contend (v. t.) To struggle for; to contest.,
C as in Contendent (n.) An antagonist; a contestant.,
C as in Contender (n.) One who contends; a contestant.,
C as in Contendress (n.) A female contestant.,
C as in Contenement (n.) That which is held together with another thing; that which is connected with a tenement, or thing holden, as a certain quantity of land adjacent to a dwelling, and necessary to the reputable enjoyment of the dwelling; appurtenance.,
C as in Content (a.) Contained within limits; hence, having the desires limited by that which one has; not disposed to repine or grumble; satisfied; contented; at rest.,
C as in Contents (pl. ) of Content,
C as in Content (n.) That which is contained; the thing or things held by a receptacle or included within specified limits; as, the contents of a cask or bale or of a room; the contents of a book.,
C as in Content (n.) Power of containing; capacity; extent; size.,
C as in Content (n.) Area or quantity of space or matter contained within certain limits; as, solid contents; superficial contents.,
C as in Content (a.) To satisfy the desires of; to make easy in any situation; to appease or quiet; to gratify; to please.,
C as in Content (a.) To satisfy the expectations of; to pay; to requite.,
C as in Content (n.) Rest or quietness of the mind in one's present condition; freedom from discontent; satisfaction; contentment; moderate happiness.,
C as in Content (n.) Acquiescence without examination.,
C as in Content (n.) That which contents or satisfies; that which if attained would make one happy.,
C as in Content (n.) An expression of assent to a bill or motion; an affirmative vote; also, a member who votes "Content.".,
C as in Contentation (n.) Content; satisfaction.,
C as in Contented (a.) Content; easy in mind; satisfied; quiet; willing.,
C as in Contentful (a.) Full of content.,
C as in Contention (n.) A violent effort or struggle to obtain, or to resist, something; contest; strife.,
C as in Contention (n.) Strife in words; controversy; altercation; quarrel; dispute; as, a bone of contention.,
C as in Contention (n.) Vehemence of endeavor; eagerness; ardor; zeal.,
C as in Contention (n.) A point maintained in an argument, or a line of argument taken in its support; the subject matter of discussion or strife; a position taken or contended for.,
C as in Contentious (a.) Fond of contention; given to angry debate; provoking dispute or contention; quarrelsome.,
C as in Contentious (a.) Relating to contention or strife; involving or characterized by contention.,
C as in Contentious (a.) Contested; litigated; litigious; having power to decide controversy.,
C as in Contentless (a.) Discontented; dissatisfied.,
C as in Contently (adv.) In a contented manner.,
C as in Contentment (v. t.) The state of being contented or satisfied; content.,
C as in Contentment (v. t.) The act or process of contenting or satisfying; as, the contentment of avarice is impossible.,
C as in Contentment (v. t.) Gratification; pleasure; satisfaction.,
C as in Contents (n. pl.) See Content, n.,
C as in Conterminable (a.) Having the same bounds; terminating at the same time or place; conterminous.,
C as in Conterminal (a.) Conterminous.,
C as in Conterminant (a.) Having the same limits; ending at the same time; conterminous.,
C as in Conterminate (a.) Having the same bounds; conterminous.,
C as in Conterminous (a.) Having the same bounds, or limits; bordering upon; contiguous.,
C as in Conterranean (a.) Alt. of Conterraneous,
C as in Conterraneous (a.) Of or belonging to the same country.,
C as in Contesseration (n.) An assemblage; a collection; harmonious union.,
C as in Contested (imp. & p. p.) of Contest,
C as in Contesting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Contest,
C as in Contest (v. t.) To make a subject of dispute, contention, litigation, or emulation; to contend for; to call in question; to controvert; to oppose; to dispute.,
C as in Contest (v. t.) To strive earnestly to hold or maintain; to struggle to defend; as, the troops contested every inch of ground.,
C as in Contest (v. t.) To make a subject of litigation; to defend, as a suit; to dispute or resist; as a claim, by course of law; to controvert.,
C as in Contest (v. i.) To engage in contention, or emulation; to contend; to strive; to vie; to emulate; -- followed usually by with.,
C as in Contest (n.) Earnest dispute; strife in argument; controversy; debate; altercation.,
C as in Contest (n.) Earnest struggle for superiority, victory, defense, etc.; competition; emulation; strife in arms; conflict; combat; encounter.,
C as in Contestable (a.) Capable of being contested; debatable.,
C as in Contestant (n.) One who contests; an opponent; a litigant; a disputant; one who claims that which has been awarded to another.,
C as in Contestation (n.) The act of contesting; emulation; rivalry; strife; dispute.,
C as in Contestation (n.) Proof by witness; attestation; testimony.,
C as in Contestingly (adv.) In a contending manner.,
C as in Contex (v. t.) To context.,
C as in Context (a.) Knit or woven together; close; firm.,
C as in Context (n.) The part or parts of something written or printed, as of Scripture, which precede or follow a text or quoted sentence, or are so intimately associated with it as to throw light upon its meaning.,
C as in Context (v. t.) To knit or bind together; to unite closely.,
C as in Contextural (a.) Pertaining to contexture or arrangement of parts; producing contexture; interwoven.,
C as in Contexture (n.) The arrangement and union of the constituent parts of a thing; a weaving together of parts; structural character of a thing; system; constitution; texture.,
C as in Contextured (a.) Formed into texture; woven together; arranged; composed.,
C as in Conticent (a.) Silent.,
C as in Contignation (n.) The act or process of framing together, or uniting, as beams in a fabric.,
C as in Contignation (n.) A framework or fabric, as of beams.,
C as in Contiguate (a.) Contiguous; touching.,
C as in Contiguity (n.) The state of being contiguous; intimate association; nearness; proximity.,
C as in Contiguous (a.) In actual contact; touching; also, adjacent; near; neighboring; adjoining.,
C as in Continence (n.) Alt. of Continency,
C as in Continency (n.) Self-restraint; self-command.,
C as in Continency (n.) The restraint which a person imposes upon his desires and passions; the act or power of refraining from indulgence of the sexual appetite, esp. from unlawful indulgence; sometimes, moderation in sexual indulgence.,
C as in Continency (n.) Uninterrupted course; continuity.,
C as in Continent (a.) Serving to restrain or limit; restraining; opposing.,
C as in Continent (a.) Exercising restraint as to the indulgence of desires or passions; temperate; moderate.,
C as in Continent (a.) Abstaining from sexual intercourse; exercising restraint upon the sexual appetite; esp., abstaining from illicit sexual intercourse; chaste.,
C as in Continent (a.) Not interrupted; connected; continuous; as, a continent fever.,
C as in Continent (a.) That which contains anything; a receptacle.,
C as in Continent (a.) One of the grand divisions of land on the globe; the main land; specifically (Phys. Geog.), a large body of land differing from an island, not merely in its size, but in its structure, which is that of a large basin bordered by mountain chains; as, the continent of North America.,
C as in Continental (a.) Of or pertaining to a continent.,
C as in Continental (a.) Of or pertaining to the main land of Europe, in distinction from the adjacent islands, especially England; as, a continental tour; a continental coalition.,
C as in Continental (a.) Of or pertaining to the confederated colonies collectively, in the time of the Revolutionary War; as, Continental money.,
C as in Continental (n.) A soldier in the Continental army, or a piece of the Continental currency. See Continental, a., 3.,
C as in Continently (adv.) In a continent manner; chastely; moderately; temperately.,
C as in Contingence (n.) See Contingency.,
C as in Contingencies (pl. ) of Contingency,
C as in Contingency (n.) Union or connection; the state of touching or contact.,
C as in Contingency (n.) The quality or state of being contingent or casual; the possibility of coming to pass.,
C as in Contingency (n.) An event which may or may not occur; that which is possible or probable; a fortuitous event; a chance.,
C as in Contingency (n.) An adjunct or accessory.,
C as in Contingency (n.) A certain possible event that may or may not happen, by which, when happening, some particular title may be affected.,
C as in Contingent (a.) Possible, or liable, but not certain, to occur; incidental; casual.,
C as in Contingent (a.) Dependent on that which is undetermined or unknown; as, the success of his undertaking is contingent upon events which he can not control.,
C as in Contingent (a.) Dependent for effect on something that may or may not occur; as, a contingent estate.,
C as in Contingent (n.) An event which may or may not happen; that which is unforeseen, undetermined, or dependent on something future; a contingency.,
C as in Contingent (n.) That which falls to one in a division or apportionment among a number; a suitable share; proportion; esp., a quota of troops.,
C as in Contingently (adv.) In a contingent manner; without design or foresight; accidentally.,
C as in Contingentness (n.) The state of being contingent; fortuitousness.,
C as in Continuable (a.) Capable of being continued,
C as in Continual (a.) Proceeding without interruption or cesstaion; continuous; unceasing; lasting; abiding.,
C as in Continual (a.) Occuring in steady and rapid succession; very frequent; often repeated.,
C as in Continually (adv.) Without cessation; unceasingly; continuously; as, the current flows continually.,
C as in Continually (adv.) In regular or repeated succession; very often.,
C as in Continuance (n.) A holding on, or remaining in a particular state; permanence, as of condition, habits, abode, etc.; perseverance; constancy; duration; stay.,
C as in Continuance (n.) Uninterrupted succession; continuation; constant renewal; perpetuation; propagation.,
C as in Continuance (n.) A holding together; continuity.,
C as in Continuance (n.) The adjournment of the proceedings in a cause from one day, or from one stated term of a court, to another.,
C as in Continuance (n.) The entry of such adjournment and the grounds thereof on the record.,
C as in Continuant (a.) Continuing; prolonged; sustained; as, a continuant sound.,
C as in Continuant (n.) A continuant sound; a letter whose sound may be prolonged.,
C as in Continuate (a.) Immediately united together; intimately connected.,
C as in Continuate (a.) Uninterrupted; unbroken; continual; continued.,
C as in Continuation (n.) That act or state of continuing; the state of being continued; uninterrupted extension or succession; prolongation; propagation.,
C as in Continuation (n.) That which extends, increases, supplements, or carries on; as, the continuation of a story.,
C as in Continuative (n.) A term or expression denoting continuance.,
C as in Continuative (n.) A word that continues the connection of sentences or subjects; a connective; a conjunction.,
C as in Continuator (n.) One who, or that which, continues; esp., one who continues a series or a work; a continuer.,
C as in Continued (imp. & p. p.) of Continue,
C as in Continuing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Continue,
C as in Continue (v. i.) To remain in a given place or condition; to remain in connection with; to abide; to stay.,
C as in Continue (v. i.) To be permanent or durable; to endure; to last.,
C as in Continue (v. i.) To be steadfast or constant in any course; to persevere; to abide; to endure; to persist; to keep up or maintain a particular condition, course, or series of actions; as, the army continued to advance.,
C as in Continue (v. t.) To unite; to connect.,
C as in Continue (v. t.) To protract or extend in duration; to preserve or persist in; to cease not.,
C as in Continue (v. t.) To carry onward or extend; to prolong or produce; to add to or draw out in length.,
C as in Continue (v. t.) To retain; to suffer or cause to remain; as, the trustees were continued; also, to suffer to live.,
C as in Continued (p. p. & a.) Having extension of time, space, order of events, exertion of energy, etc.; extended; protracted; uninterrupted; also, resumed after interruption; extending through a succession of issues, session, etc.; as, a continued story.,
C as in Continuedly (adv.) Continuously.,
C as in Continuer (n.) One who continues; one who has the power of perseverance or persistence.,
C as in Continuities (pl. ) of Continuity,
C as in Continuity (n.) the state of being continuous; uninterupted connection or succession; close union of parts; cohesion; as, the continuity of fibers.,
C as in Continuo (n.) Basso continuo, or continued bass.,
C as in Continuous (a.) Without break, cessation, or interruption; without intervening space or time; uninterrupted; unbroken; continual; unceasing; constant; continued; protracted; extended; as, a continuous line of railroad; a continuous current of electricity.,
C as in Continuous (a.) Not deviating or varying from uninformity; not interrupted; not joined or articulated.,
C as in Continuously (adv.) In a continuous maner; without interruption.,
C as in Contline (n.) The space between the strands on the outside of a rope.,
C as in Contline (n.) The space between the bilges of two casks stowed side by side.,
C as in Contorniate (n.) Alt. of Contorniate,
C as in Contorniate (n.) A species of medal or medallion of bronze, having a deep furrow on the contour or edge; -- supposed to have been struck in the days of Constantine and his successors.,
C as in Contorsion (n.) See Contortion.,
C as in Contort (v. t.) To twist, or twist together; to turn awry; to bend; to distort; to wrest.,
C as in Contorted (a.) Twisted, or twisted together.,
C as in Contorted (a.) Twisted back upon itself, as some parts of plants.,
C as in Contorted (a.) Arranged so as to overlap each other; as, petals in contorted or convolute aestivation.,
C as in Contortion (n.) A twisting; a writhing; wry motion; a twist; as, the contortion of the muscles of the face.,
C as in Contertionist (n.) One who makes or practices contortions.,
C as in Contortive (a.) Expressing contortion.,
C as in Contortuplicate (a.) Plaited lengthwise and twisted in addition, as the bud of the morning-glory.,
C as in Contour (n.) The outline of a figure or body, or the line or lines representing such an outline; the line that bounds; periphery.,
C as in Contour (n.) The outline of a horizontal section of the ground, or of works of fortification.,
C as in Contourne' (a.) Turned in a direction which is not the usual one; -- said of an animal turned to the sinister which is usually turned to the dexter, or the like.,
C as in Contourniated (a.) Having furrowed edges, as if turned in a lathe.,
C as in Contra () A Latin adverb and preposition, signifying against, contrary, in opposition, etc., entering as a prefix into the composition of many English words. Cf. Counter, adv. & pref.,
C as in Contraband (n.) Illegal or prohibited traffic.,
C as in Contraband (n.) Goods or merchandise the importation or exportation of which is forbidden.,
C as in Contraband (n.) A negro slave, during the Civil War, escaped to, or was brought within, the Union lines. Such slave was considered contraband of war.,
C as in Contraband (a.) Prohibited or excluded by law or treaty; forbidden; as, contraband goods, or trade.,
C as in Contraband (v. t.) To import illegally, as prohibited goods; to smuggle.,
C as in Contraband (v. t.) To declare prohibited; to forbid.,
C as in Contrabandism (n.) Traffic in contraband goods; smuggling.,
C as in Contrabandist (n.) One who traffics illegally; a smuggler.,
C as in Contrabass (n.) Double bass; -- applied to any instrument of the same deep range as the stringed double bass; as, the contrabass ophicleide; the contrabass tuba or bombardon.,
C as in Contrabasso (n.) The largest kind of bass viol. See Violone.,
C as in Contracted (imp. & p. p.) of Contract,
C as in Contracting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Contract,
C as in Contract (n.) To draw together or nearer; to reduce to a less compass; to shorten, narrow, or lessen; as, to contract one's sphere of action.,
C as in Contract (n.) To draw together so as to wrinkle; to knit.,
C as in Contract (n.) To bring on; to incur; to acquire; as, to contract a habit; to contract a debt; to contract a disease.,
C as in Contract (n.) To enter into, with mutual obligations; to make a bargain or covenant for.,
C as in Contract (n.) To betroth; to affiance.,
C as in Contract (n.) To shorten by omitting a letter or letters or by reducing two or more vowels or syllables to one.,
C as in Contract (v. i.) To be drawn together so as to be diminished in size or extent; to shrink; to be reduced in compass or in duration; as, iron contracts in cooling; a rope contracts when wet.,
C as in Contract (v. i.) To make an agreement; to covenant; to agree; to bargain; as, to contract for carrying the mail.,
C as in Contract (a.) Contracted; as, a contract verb.,
C as in Contract (a.) Contracted; affianced; betrothed.,
C as in Contract (n.) The agreement of two or more persons, upon a sufficient consideration or cause, to do, or to abstain from doing, some act; an agreement in which a party undertakes to do, or not to do, a particular thing; a formal bargain; a compact; an interchange of legal rights.,
C as in Contract (n.) A formal writing which contains the agreement of parties, with the terms and conditions, and which serves as a proof of the obligation.,
C as in Contract (n.) The act of formally betrothing a man and woman.,
C as in Contracted (a.) Drawn together; shrunken; wrinkled; narrow; as, a contracted brow; a contracted noun.,
C as in Contracted (a.) Narrow; illiberal; selfish; as, a contracted mind; contracted views.,
C as in Contracted (a.) Bargained for; betrothed; as, a contracted peace.,
C as in Contractedness (n.) The state of being contracted; narrowness; meanness; selfishness.,
C as in Contractibility (n.) Capability of being contracted; quality of being contractible; as, the contractibility and dilatability of air.,
C as in Contractible (a.) Capable of contraction.,
C as in Contractibleness (n.) Contractibility.,
C as in Contractile (a.) tending to contract; having the power or property of contracting, or of shrinking into shorter or smaller dimensions; as, the contractile tissues.,
C as in Contractility (n.) The quality or property by which bodies shrink or contract.,
C as in Contractility (n.) The power possessed by the fibers of living muscle of contracting or shortening.,
C as in Contraction (n.) The act or process of contracting, shortening, or shrinking; the state of being contracted; as, contraction of the heart, of the pupil of the eye, or of a tendion; the contraction produced by cold.,
C as in Contraction (n.) The process of shortening an operation.,
C as in Contraction (n.) The act of incurring or becoming subject to, as liabilities, obligation, debts, etc.; the process of becoming subject to; as, the contraction of a disease.,
C as in Contraction (n.) Something contracted or abbreviated, as a word or phrase; -- as, plenipo for plenipotentiary; crim. con. for criminal conversation, etc.,
C as in Contraction (n.) The shortening of a word, or of two words, by the omission of a letter or letters, or by reducing two or more vowels or syllables to one; as, ne'er for never; can't for can not; don't for do not; it's for it is.,
C as in Contraction (n.) A marriage contract.,
C as in Contractive (a.) Tending to contract; having the property or power or power of contracting.,
C as in Contractor (n.) One who contracts; one of the parties to a bargain; one who covenants to do anything for another; specifically, one who contracts to perform work on a rather large scale, at a certain price or rate, as in building houses or making a railroad.,
C as in Contracture (n.) A state of permanent rigidity or contraction of the muscles, generally of the flexor muscles.,
C as in Contradance (n.) A dance in which the partners are arranged face to face, or in opposite lines.,
C as in Contradicted (imp. & p. p.) of Contradict,
C as in Contradicting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Contradict,
C as in Contradict (v. t.) To assert the contrary of; to oppose in words; to take issue with; to gainsay; to deny the truth of, as of a statement or a speaker; to impugn.,
C as in Contradict (v. t.) To be contrary to; to oppose; to resist.,
C as in Contradict (v. i.) To oppose in words; to gainsay; to deny, or assert the contrary of, something.,
C as in Contradictable (a.) Capable of being contradicting.,
C as in Contradicter (n.) one who contradicts.,
C as in Contradiction (n.) An assertion of the contrary to what has been said or affirmed; denial of the truth of a statement or assertion; contrary declaration; gainsaying.,
C as in Contradiction (n.) Direct opposition or repugnancy; inconsistency; incongruity or contrariety; one who, or that which, is inconsistent.,
C as in Contradictional (a.) Contradictory; inconsistent; opposing.,
C as in Contradictions (a.) Filled with contradictions; inconsistent.,
C as in Contradictions (a.) Inclined to contradict or cavil,
C as in Contradictive (a.) Contradictory; inconsistent.,
C as in Contradictor (n.) A contradicter.,
C as in Contradictorily (adv.) In a contradictory manner.,
C as in Contradictoriness (n.) The quality of being contradictory; opposition; inconsistency.,
C as in Contradictory (a.) Affirming the contrary; implying a denial of what has been asserted; also, mutually contradicting; inconsistent.,
C as in Contradictory (a.) Opposing or opposed; repugnant.,
C as in Contradictories (pl. ) of Contradictory,
C as in Contradictory (n.) A proposition or thing which denies or opposes another; contrariety.,
C as in Contradictory (n.) propositions with the same terms, but opposed to each other both in quality and quantity.,
C as in Contradistinct (a.) Distinguished by opposite qualities.,
C as in Contradistinction (n.) Distinction by contrast.,
C as in Contradistinctive (a.) having the quality of contradistinction; distinguishing by contrast.,
C as in Contradistinguished (imp. & p. p.) of Contradistinguish,
C as in Contradistinguishing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Contradistinguish,
C as in Contradistinguish (v. t. ) To distinguish by a contrast of opposite qualities.,
C as in Contrafagetto (n.) The double bassoon, an octave deeper than the bassoon.,
C as in Contrafissure (n.) A fissure or fracture on the side opposite to that which received the blow, or at some distance from it.,
C as in Contrahent (a.) Entering into covenant; contracting; as, contrahent parties.,
C as in Contraindicant (n.) Something, as a symptom, indicating that the usual mode of treatment is not to be followed.,
C as in Contraindicated (imp. & p. p.) of Contraindicate,
C as in Contraindicating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Contraindicate,
C as in Contraindicate (v. t.) To indicate, as by a symptom, some method of treatment contrary to that which the general tenor of the case would seem to require.,
C as in Contraindication (n.) An indication or symptom which forbids the method of treatment usual in such cases.,
C as in Contralto (n.) The part sung by the highest male or lowest female voices; the alto or counter tenor.,
C as in Contralto (n.) the voice or singer performing this part; as, her voice is a contralto; she is a contralto.,
C as in Contralto (a.) Of or pertaining to a contralto, or to the part in music called contralto; as, a contralto voice.,
C as in Contramure (n.) An outer wall.,
C as in Contranatural (a.) Opposed to or against nature; unnatural.,
C as in Contraposition (n.) A placing over against; opposite position.,
C as in Contraposition (n.) A so-called immediate inference which consists in denying the original subject of the contradictory predicate; e.g.: Every S is P; therefore, no Not-P is S.,
C as in Contrapuntal (a.) Pertaining to, or according to the rules of, counterpoint.,
C as in Contrapuntist (n.) One skilled in counterpoint.,
C as in Contraremonstrant (n.) One who remonstrates in opposition or answer to a remonstrant.,
C as in Contrariant (a.) Contrary; opposed; antagonistic; inconsistent; contradictory.,
C as in Contrariantly (adv.) Contrarily.,
C as in Contraries (n.) Propositions which directly and destructively contradict each other, but of which the falsehood of one does not establish the truth of the other.,
C as in Contrarieties (pl. ) of Contrariety,
C as in Contrariety (n.) The state or quality of being contrary; opposition; repugnance; disagreement; antagonism.,
C as in Contrariety (n.) Something which is contrary to, or inconsistent with, something else; an inconsistency.,
C as in Contrarily (adv.) In a contrary manner; in opposition; on the other side; in opposite ways.,
C as in Contrariness (n.) state or quality of being contrary; opposition; inconsistency; contrariety; perverseness; obstinacy.,
C as in Contrarious (a.) Showing contrariety; repugnant; perverse.,
C as in Contrariously (adv.) Contrarily; oppositely.,
C as in Contrariwise (adv.) On the contrary; oppositely; on the other hand.,
C as in Contrariwise (adv.) In a contrary order; conversely.,
C as in Contrarotation (n.) Circular motion in a direction contrary to some other circular motion.,
C as in Contrary (a.) Opposite; in an opposite direction; in opposition; adverse; as, contrary winds.,
C as in Contrary (a.) Opposed; contradictory; repugnant; inconsistent.,
C as in Contrary (a.) Given to opposition; perverse; forward; wayward; as, a contrary disposition; a contrary child.,
C as in Contrary (a.) Affirming the opposite; so opposed as to destroy each other; as, contrary propositions.,
C as in Contraries (pl. ) of Contrary,
C as in Contrary (n.) A thing that is of contrary or opposite qualities.,
C as in Contrary (n.) An opponent; an enemy.,
C as in Contrary (n.) the opposite; a proposition, fact, or condition incompatible with another; as, slender proofs which rather show the contrary. See Converse, n., 1.,
C as in Contrary (n.) See Contraries.,
C as in Contrarry (a.) To contradict or oppose; to thwart.,
C as in Contrasted (imp. & p. p.) of Contrast,
C as in Contrasting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Contrast,
C as in Contrast (v. i.) To stand in opposition; to exhibit difference, unlikeness, or opposition of qualities.,
C as in Contrast (v. t.) To set in opposition, or over against, in order to show the differences between, or the comparative excellences and defects of; to compare by difference or contrariety of qualities; as, to contrast the present with the past.,
C as in Contrast (v. t.) To give greater effect to, as to a figure or other object, by putting it in some relation of opposition to another figure or object.,
C as in Contrast (n.) The act of contrasting, or the state of being contrasted; comparison by contrariety of qualities.,
C as in Contrast (n.) Opposition or dissimilitude of things or qualities; unlikeness, esp. as shown by juxtaposition or comparison.,
C as in Contrast (n.) The opposition of varied forms, colors, etc., which by such juxtaposition more vividly express each other's peculiarities.,
C as in Contrastimulant (a.) Counteracting the effects of stimulants; relating to a course of medical treatment based on a theory of contrastimulants.,
C as in Contrastimulant (n.) An agent which counteracts the effect of a stimulant.,
C as in Contrate (a.) Having cogs or teeth projecting parallel to the axis, instead of radiating from it.,
C as in Contratenor (n.) Counter tenor; contralto.,
C as in Contravallation (n.) A trench guarded with a parapet, constructed by besiegers, to secure themselves and check sallies of the besieged.,
C as in Contravened (imp. & p. p.) of Contravene,
C as in Contravening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Contravene,
C as in Contravene (v. t.) To meet in the way of opposition; to come into conflict with; to oppose; to contradict; to obstruct the operation of; to defeat.,
C as in Contravene (v. t.) To violate; to nullify; to be inconsistent with; as, to contravene a law.,
C as in Contravener (n.) One who contravenes.,
C as in Contravention (n.) The act of contravening; opposition; obstruction; transgression; violation.,
C as in Contraversion (n.) A turning to the opposite side; antistrophe.,
C as in Contrayerva (n.) A species of Dorstenia (D. Contrayerva), a South American plant, the aromatic root of which is sometimes used in medicine as a gentle stimulant and tonic.,
C as in Contrecoup (n.) A concussion or shock produced by a blow or other injury, in a part or region opposite to that at which the blow is received, often causing rupture or disorganisation of the parts affected.,
C as in Contretemps (n.) An unexpected and untoward accident; something inopportune or embarrassing; a hitch.,
C as in Contributable (a.) Capable of being contributed.,
C as in Contributary (a.) Contributory.,
C as in Contributary (a.) Tributary; contributing.,
C as in Contributed (imp. & p. p.) of Contribute,
C as in Contributing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Contribute,
C as in Contribute (v. t.) To give or grant i common with others; to give to a common stock or for a common purpose; to furnish or suply in part; to give (money or other aid) for a specified object; as, to contribute food or fuel for the poor.,
C as in Contribute (v. i.) To give a part to a common stock; to lend assistance or aid, or give something, to a common purpose; to have a share in any act or effect.,
C as in Contribute (v. i.) To give or use one's power or influence for any object; to assist.,
C as in Contribution (n.) The act of contributing.,
C as in Contribution (n.) That which is contributed; -- either the portion which an individual furnishes to the common stock, or the whole which is formed by the gifts of individuals.,
C as in Contribution (n.) An irregular and arbitrary imposition or tax leved on the people of a town or country.,
C as in Contribution (n.) Payment, by each of several jointly liable, of a share in a loss suffered or an amount paid by one of their number for the common benefit.,
C as in Contributional (a.) Pertaining to, or furnishing, a contribution.,
C as in Contributive (a.) Contributing, or tending to contribute.,
C as in Contributer (n.) One who, or that which, contributes; specifically, one who writes articles for a newspaper or magazine.,
C as in Contributory (a.) Contributing to the same stock or purpose; promoting the same end; bringing assistance to some joint design, or increase to some common stock; contributive.,
C as in Contributories (pl. ) of Contributory,
C as in Contributory (n.) One who contributes, or is liable to be called upon to contribute, as toward the discharge of a common indebtedness.,
C as in Contrist (v. t.) To make sad.,
C as in Contristate (v. t. & i.) To make sorrowful.,
C as in Contrite (a.) Thoroughly bruised or broken.,
C as in Contrite (a.) Broken down with grief and penitence; deeply sorrowful for sin because it is displeasing to God; humbly and thoroughly penitent.,
C as in Contrite (n.) A contrite person.,
C as in Contrite (v.) In a contrite manner.,
C as in Contriteness (n.) Deep sorrow and penitence for sin; contrition.,
C as in Contrition (n.) The act of grinding or ribbing to powder; attrition; friction; rubbing.,
C as in Contrition (n.) The state of being contrite; deep sorrow and repentance for sin, because sin is displeasing to God; humble penitence; through repentance.,
C as in Contriturate (v. t.) To triturate; to pulverize.,
C as in Contrivble (a.) Capable of being contrived, planned, invented, or devised.,
C as in Contrivance (n.) The act or faculty of contriving, inventing, devising, or planning.,
C as in Contrivance (n.) The thing contrived, invented, or planned; disposition of parts or causes by design; a scheme; plan; atrifice; arrangement.,
C as in Contrived (imp. & p. p.) of Contrive,
C as in Contriving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Contrive,
C as in Contrive (v. t.) To form by an exercise of ingenuity; to devise; to invent; to design; to plan.,
C as in Contrive (v. i.) To make devices; to form designs; to plan; to scheme; to plot.,
C as in Contrivement (n.) Contrivance; invention; arrangement; design; plan.,
C as in Contriver (n.) One who contrives, devises, plans, or schemas.,
C as in Control (n.) A duplicate book, register, or account, kept to correct or check another account or register; a counter register.,
C as in Control (n.) That which serves to check, restrain, or hinder; restraint.,
C as in Control (n.) Power or authority to check or restrain; restraining or regulating influence; superintendence; government; as, children should be under parental control.,
C as in Controlled (imp. & p. p.) of Control,
C as in Controlling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Control,
C as in Control (v. t.) To check by a counter register or duplicate account; to prove by counter statements; to confute.,
C as in Control (v. t.) To exercise restraining or governing influence over; to check; to counteract; to restrain; to regulate; to govern; to overpower.,
C as in Controllability (n.) Capability of being controlled; controllableness.,
C as in Controllable (a.) Capable of being controlled, checked, or restrained; amenable to command.,
C as in Controllableness (n.) Capability of being controlled.,
C as in Controller (n.) One who, or that which, controls or restraines; one who has power or authority to regulate or control; one who governs.,
C as in Controller (n.) An officer appointed to keep a counter register of accounts, or to examine, rectify, or verify accounts.,
C as in Controller (n.) An iron block, usually bolted to a ship's deck, for controlling the running out of a chain cable. The links of the cable tend to drop into hollows in the block, and thus hold fast until disengaged.,
C as in Controllership (n.) The office of a controller.,
C as in Controlment (n.) The power or act of controlling; the state of being restrained; control; restraint; regulation; superintendence.,
C as in Controlment (n.) Opposition; resistance; hostility.,
C as in Controversal (a.) Turning or looking opposite ways.,
C as in Controversal (a.) Controversial.,
C as in Controversary (a.) Controversial.,
C as in Controverse (n.) Controversy.,
C as in Controverse (v. t.) To dispute; to controvert.,
C as in Controverser (n.) A disputant.,
C as in Controversial (a.) Relating to, or consisting of, controversy; disputatious; polemical; as, controversial divinity.,
C as in Controversialist (n.) One who carries on a controversy; a disputant.,
C as in Controversially (adv.) In a controversial manner.,
C as in Controversion (n.) Act of controverting; controversy.,
C as in Controversor (n.) A controverser.,
C as in Controversies (pl. ) of Controversy,
C as in Controversy (n.) Contention; dispute; debate; discussion; agitation of contrary opinions.,
C as in Controversy (n.) Quarrel; strife; cause of variance; difference.,
C as in Controversy (n.) A suit in law or equity; a question of right.,
C as in Controverted (imp. & p. p.) of Controvert,
C as in Controverting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Controvert,
C as in Controvert (v. t.) To make matter of controversy; to dispute or oppose by reasoning; to contend against in words or writings; to contest; to debate.,
C as in Controverter (n.) One who controverts; a controversial writer; a controversialist.,
C as in Controvertible (a.) Capable of being controverted; disputable; admitting of question.,
C as in Controvertist (n.) One skilled in or given to controversy; a controversialist.,
C as in Contubernal (a.) Alt. of Contubernial,
C as in Contubernial (a.) Living or messing together; familiar; in companionship.,
C as in Contumacious (a.) Exhibiting contumacy; contemning authority; obstinate; perverse; stubborn; disobedient.,
C as in Contumacious (a.) Willfully disobedient to the summous or prders of a court.,
C as in Contumacies (pl. ) of Contumacy,
C as in Contumacy (n.) Stubborn perverseness; pertinacious resistance to authority.,
C as in Contumacy (n.) A willful contempt of, and disobedience to, any lawful summons, or to the rules and orders of court, as a refusal to appear in court when legally summoned.,
C as in Contumelious (a.) Exhibiting contumely; rudely contemptuous; insolent; disdainful.,
C as in Contumelious (a.) Shameful; disgraceful.,
C as in Contumely (n.) Rudeness compounded of haughtiness and contempt; scornful insolence; despiteful treatment; disdain; contemptuousness in act or speech; disgrace.,
C as in Contused (imp. & p. p.) of Contuse,
C as in Contusing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Contuse,
C as in Contuse (v. t.) To beat, pound, or together.,
C as in Contuse (v. t.) To bruise; to injure or disorganize a part without breaking the skin.,
C as in Contusion (n.) The act or process of beating, bruising, or pounding; the state of being beaten or bruised.,
C as in Contusion (n.) A bruise; an injury attended with more or less disorganization of the subcutaneous tissue and effusion of blood beneath the skin, but without apparent wound.,
C as in Conundrum (n.) A kind of riddle based upon some fanciful or fantastic resemblance between things quite unlike; a puzzling question, of which the answer is or involves a pun.,
C as in Conundrum (n.) A question to which only a conjectural answer can be made.,
C as in Conure (n.) An American parrakeet of the genus Conurus. Many species are known. See Parrakeet.,
C as in Conus (n.) A cone.,
C as in Conus (n.) A Linnean genus of mollusks having a conical shell. See Cone, n., 4.,
C as in Conusable (a.) Cognizable; liable to be tried or judged.,
C as in Conusant (a.) See Cognizant.,
C as in Conusor (n.) See Cognizor.,
C as in Convalesced (imp. & p. p.) of Convalesce,
C as in Convalescing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Convalesce,
C as in Convalesce (v. i.) To recover health and strength gradually, after sickness or weakness; as, a patient begins to convalesce.,
C as in Convalesced (a.) Convalescent.,
C as in Convalescence (n.) Alt. of Convalescency,
C as in Convalescency (n.) The recovery of heath and strength after disease; the state of a body renewing its vigor after sickness or weakness; the time between the subsidence of a disease and complete restoration to health.,
C as in Convalescent (a.) Recovering from sickness or debility; partially restored to health or strength.,
C as in Convalescent (a.) Of or pertaining to convalescence.,
C as in Convalescent (n.) One recovering from sickness.,
C as in Convalescently (adv.) In the manner of a convalescent; with increasing strength or vigor.,
C as in Convallamarin (n.) A white, crystalline, poisonous substance, regarded as a glucoside, extracted from the lily of the valley (Convallaria Majalis). Its taste is first bitter, then sweet.,
C as in Convallaria (n.) The lily of the valley.,
C as in Convallarin (n.) A white, crystalline glucoside, of an irritating taste, extracted from the convallaria or lily of the valley.,
C as in Convection (n.) The act or process of conveying or transmitting.,
C as in Convection (n.) A process of transfer or transmission, as of heat or electricity, by means of currents in liquids or gases, resulting from changes of temperature and other causes.,
C as in Convective (a.) Caused or accomplished by convection; as, a convective discharge of electricity.,
C as in Convectively (adv.) In a convective manner.,
C as in Convellent (a.) Tending to tear or pull up.,
C as in Convenable (a.) Capable of being convened or assembled.,
C as in Convenable (a.) Consistent; accordant; suitable; proper; as, convenable remedies.,
C as in Convenance (n.) That which is suitable, agreeable, or convenient.,
C as in Convened (imp. & p. p.) of Convene,
C as in Convenong (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Convene,
C as in Convene (v. i.) To come together; to meet; to unite.,
C as in Convene (v. i.) To come together, as in one body or for a public purpose; to meet; to assemble.,
C as in Convene (v. t.) To cause to assemble; to call together; to convoke.,
C as in Convene (v. t.) To summon judicially to meet or appear.,
C as in Convener (n.) One who convenes or meets with others.,
C as in Convener (n.) One who calls an assembly together or convenes a meeting; hence, the chairman of a committee or other organized body.,
C as in Convenience (n.) Alt. of Conveniency,
C as in Conveniency (n.) The state or quality of being convenient; fitness or suitableness, as of place, time, etc.; propriety.,
C as in Conveniency (n.) Freedom from discomfort, difficulty, or trouble; commodiousness; ease; accommodation.,
C as in Conveniency (n.) That which is convenient; that which promotes comfort or advantage; that which is suited to one's wants; an accommodation.,
C as in Conveniency (n.) A convenient or fit time; opportunity; as, to do something at one's convenience.,
C as in Convenient (v. i.) Fit or adapted; suitable; proper; becoming; appropriate.,
C as in Convenient (v. i.) Affording accommodation or advantage; well adapted to use; handly; as, a convenient house; convenient implements or tools.,
C as in Convenient (v. i.) Seasonable; timely; opportune; as, a convenient occasion; a convenient season.,
C as in Convenient (v. i.) Near at hand; easy of access.,
C as in Conveniently (adv.) In a convenient manner, form, or situation; without difficulty.,
C as in Convent (v. i.) A coming together; a meeting.,
C as in Convent (v. i.) An association or community of recluses devoted to a religious life; a body of monks or nuns.,
C as in Convent (v. i.) A house occupied by a community of religious recluses; a monastery or nunnery.,
C as in Convent (v. i.) To meet together; to concur.,
C as in Convent (v. i.) To be convenient; to serve.,
C as in Convent (v. t.) To call before a judge or judicature; to summon; to convene.,
C as in Conventical (a.) Of or from, or pertaining to, a convent.,
C as in Conventicle (n.) A small assembly or gathering; esp., a secret assembly.,
C as in Conventicle (n.) An assembly for religious worship; esp., such an assembly held privately, as in times of persecution, by Nonconformists or Dissenters in England, or by Covenanters in Scotland; -- often used opprobriously, as if those assembled were heretics or schismatics.,
C as in Conventicler (n.) One who supports or frequents conventicles.,
C as in Conventicling (a.) Belonging or going to, or resembling, a conventicle.,
C as in Convention (v. i.) The act of coming together; the state of being together; union; coalition.,
C as in Convention (v. i.) General agreement or concurrence; arbitrary custom; usage; conventionality.,
C as in Convention (v. i.) A meeting or an assembly of persons, esp. of delegates or representatives, to accomplish some specific object, -- civil, social, political, or ecclesiastical.,
C as in Convention (v. i.) An extraordinary assembly of the parkiament or estates of the realm, held without the king's writ, -- as the assembly which restored Charles II. to the throne, and that which declared the throne to be abdicated by James II.,
C as in Convention (v. i.) An agreement or contract less formal than, or preliminary to, a treaty; an informal compact, as between commanders of armies in respect to suspension of hostilities, or between states; also, a formal agreement between governments or sovereign powers; as, a postal convention between two governments.,
C as in Conventional (a.) Formed by agreement or compact; stipulated.,
C as in Conventional (a.) Growing out of, or depending on, custom or tacit agreement; sanctioned by general concurrence or usage; formal.,
C as in Conventional (a.) Based upon tradition, whether religious and historical or of artistic rules.,
C as in Conventional (a.) Abstracted; removed from close representation of nature by the deliberate selection of what is to be represented and what is to be rejected; as, a conventional flower; a conventional shell. Cf. Conventionalize, v. t.,
C as in Conventionalism (n.) That which is received or established by convention or arbitrary agreement; that which is in accordance with the fashion, tradition, or usage.,
C as in Conventionalism (n.) The principles or practice of conventionalizing. See Conventionalize, v. t.,
C as in Conventionalist (n.) One who adheres to a convention or treaty.,
C as in Conventionalist (n.) One who is governed by conventionalism.,
C as in Conventionalities (pl. ) of Conventionality,
C as in Conventionality (n.) The state of being conventional; adherence to social formalities or usages; that which is established by conventional use; one of the customary usages of social life.,
C as in Conventionalization (n.) The act of making conventional.,
C as in Conventionalization (n.) The state of being conventional.,
C as in Conventionalized (imp. & p. p.) of Conventionalizw,
C as in Conventionalizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Conventionalizw,
C as in Conventionalizw (v. t.) To make conventional; to bring under the influence of, or cause to conform to, conventional rules; to establish by usage.,
C as in Conventionalizw (v. t.) To represent by selecting the important features and those which are expressible in the medium employed, and omitting the others.,
C as in Conventionalizw (v. t.) To represent according to an established principle, whether religious or traditional, or based upon certain artistic rules of supposed importance.,
C as in Conventionalize (v. i.) To make designs in art, according to conventional principles. Cf. Conventionalize, v. t., 2.,
C as in Conventionalily (adv.) In a conventional manner.,
C as in Conventionary (a.) Acting under contract; settled by express agreement; as, conventionary tenants.,
C as in Conventioner (n.) One who belongs to a convention or assembly.,
C as in Conventionist (n.) One who enters into a convention, covenant, or contract.,
C as in Conventual (a.) Of or pertaining to a convent; monastic.,
C as in Conventual (n.) One who lives in a convent; a monk or nun; a recluse.,
C as in Converged (imp. & p. p.) of Converge,
C as in Converging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Converge,
C as in Converge (v. i.) To tend to one point; to incline and approach nearer together; as, lines converge.,
C as in Converge (v. t.) To cause to tend to one point; to cause to incline and approach nearer together.,
C as in Convergence (n.) Alt. of Convergency,
C as in Convergency (n.) The condition or quality of converging; tendency to one point.,
C as in Convergent (a.) tending to one point of focus; tending to approach each other; converging.,
C as in Converging (a.) Tending to one point; approaching each other; convergent; as, converging lines.,
C as in Conversable (a.) Qualified for conversation; disposed to converse; sociable; free in discourse.,
C as in Conversableness (n.) The quality of being conversable; disposition to converse; sociability.,
C as in Conversably (adv.) In a conversable manner.,
C as in Conversance (n.) The state or quality of being conversant; habit of familiarity; familiar acquaintance; intimacy.,
C as in Conversancy (n.) Conversance,
C as in Conversant (a.) Having frequent or customary intercourse; familiary associated; intimately acquainted.,
C as in Conversant (a.) Familiar or acquainted by use or study; well-informed; versed; -- generally used with with, sometimes with in.,
C as in Conversant (a.) Concerned; occupied.,
C as in Conversant (n.) One who converses with another; a convenser.,
C as in Conversantly (adv.) In a familiar manner.,
C as in Conversation (n.) General course of conduct; behavior.,
C as in Conversation (n.) Familiar intercourse; intimate fellowship or association; close acquaintance.,
C as in Conversation (n.) Commerce; intercourse; traffic.,
C as in Conversation (n.) Colloquial discourse; oral interchange of sentiments and observations; informal dialogue.,
C as in Conversation (n.) Sexual intercourse; as, criminal conversation.,
C as in Conversational (a.) Pertaining to conversation; in the manner of one conversing; as, a conversational style.,
C as in Conversationalist (n.) A conversationist.,
C as in Conversationed (a.) Acquainted with manners and deportment; behaved.,
C as in Conversationism (n.) A word or phrase used in conversation; a colloquialism.,
C as in Conversationist (n.) One who converses much, or who excels in conversation.,
C as in Conversative (a.) Relating to intercourse with men; social; -- opposed to contemplative.,
C as in Conversazioni (pl. ) of Conversazi-one,
C as in Conversazi-one (n.) A meeting or assembly for conversation, particularly on literary or scientific subjects.,
C as in Conversed (imp. & p. p.) of Converse,
C as in Conversing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Converse,
C as in Converse (v. i.) To keep company; to hold intimate intercourse; to commune; -- followed by with.,
C as in Converse (v. i.) To engage in familiar colloquy; to interchange thoughts and opinions in a free, informal manner; to chat; -- followed by with before a person; by on, about, concerning, etc., before a thing.,
C as in Converse (v. i.) To have knowledge of, from long intercourse or study; -- said of things.,
C as in Converse (n.) Frequent intercourse; familiar communion; intimate association.,
C as in Converse (n.) Familiar discourse; free interchange of thoughts or views; conversation; chat.,
C as in Converse (a.) Turned about; reversed in order or relation; reciprocal; as, a converse proposition.,
C as in Converse (n.) A proposition which arises from interchanging the terms of another, as by putting the predicate for the subject, and the subject for the predicate; as, no virtue is vice, no vice is virtue.,
C as in Converse (n.) A proposition in which, after a conclusion from something supposed has been drawn, the order is inverted, making the conclusion the supposition or premises, what was first supposed becoming now the conclusion or inference. Thus, if two sides of a sides of a triangle are equal, the angles opposite the sides are equal; and the converse is true, i.e., if these angles are equal, the two sides are equal.,
C as in Conversely (adv.) In a converse manner; with change of order or relation; reciprocally.,
C as in Converser (n.) One who engages in conversation.,
C as in Conversible (a.) Capable of being converted or reversed.,
C as in Conversion (n.) The act of turning or changing from one state or condition to another, or the state of being changed; transmutation; change.,
C as in Conversion (n.) The act of changing one's views or course, as in passing from one side, party, or from of religion to another; also, the state of being so changed.,
C as in Conversion (n.) An appropriation of, and dealing with the property of another as if it were one's own, without right; as, the conversion of a horse.,
C as in Conversion (n.) The act of interchanging the terms of a proposition, as by putting the subject in the place of the predicate, or the contrary.,
C as in Conversion (n.) A change or reduction of the form or value of a proposition; as, the conversion of equations; the conversion of proportions.,
C as in Conversion (n.) A change of front, as a body of troops attacked in the flank.,
C as in Conversion (n.) A change of character or use, as of smoothbore guns into rifles.,
C as in Conversion (n.) A spiritual and moral change attending a change of belief with conviction; a change of heart; a change from the service of the world to the service of God; a change of the ruling disposition of the soul, involving a transformation of the outward life.,
C as in Conversive (a.) Capable of being converted or changed.,
C as in Conversive (a.) Ready to converse; social.,
C as in Converted (imp. & p. p.) of Convert,
C as in Converting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Convert,
C as in Convert (v. t.) To cause to turn; to turn.,
C as in Convert (v. t.) To change or turn from one state or condition to another; to alter in form, substance, or quality; to transform; to transmute; as, to convert water into ice.,
C as in Convert (v. t.) To change or turn from one belief or course to another, as from one religion to another or from one party or sect to another.,
C as in Convert (v. t.) To produce the spiritual change called conversion in (any one); to turn from a bad life to a good one; to change the heart and moral character of (any one) from the controlling power of sin to that of holiness.,
C as in Convert (v. t.) To apply to any use by a diversion from the proper or intended use; to appropriate dishonestly or illegally.,
C as in Convert (v. t.) To exchange for some specified equivalent; as, to convert goods into money.,
C as in Convert (v. t.) To change (one proposition) into another, so that what was the subject of the first becomes the predicate of the second.,
C as in Convert (v. t.) To turn into another language; to translate.,
C as in Convert (v. i.) To be turned or changed in character or direction; to undergo a change, physically or morally.,
C as in Convert (n.) A person who is converted from one opinion or practice to another; a person who is won over to, or heartily embraces, a creed, religious system, or party, in which he has not previously believed; especially, one who turns from the controlling power of sin to that of holiness, or from unbelief to Christianity.,
C as in Convert (n.) A lay friar or brother, permitted to enter a monastery for the service of the house, but without orders, and not allowed to sing in the choir.,
C as in Convertend (n.) Any proposition which is subject to the process of conversion; -- so called in its relation to itself as converted, after which process it is termed the converse. See Converse, n. (Logic).,
C as in Converter (n.) One who converts; one who makes converts.,
C as in Converter (n.) A retort, used in the Bessemer process, in which molten cast iron is decarburized and converted into steel by a blast of air forced through the liquid metal.,
C as in Convertibility (n.) The condition or quality of being convertible; capability of being exchanged; convertibleness.,
C as in Convertible (a.) Capable of being converted; susceptible of change; transmutable; transformable.,
C as in Convertible (a.) Capable of being exchanged or interchanged; reciprocal; interchangeable.,
C as in Convertibleness (n.) The state of being convertible; convertibility.,
C as in Convertibly (adv.) In a convertible manner.,
C as in Convertite (n.) A convert.,
C as in Convex (a.) Rising or swelling into a spherical or rounded form; regularly protuberant or bulging; -- said of a spherical surface or curved line when viewed from without, in opposition to concave.,
C as in Convex (n.) A convex body or surface.,
C as in Convexed (a.) Made convex; protuberant in a spherical form.,
C as in Convexedly (dv.) In a convex form; convexly.,
C as in Convexedness (n.) Convexity.,
C as in Convexities (pl. ) of Convexity,
C as in Convexity (n.) The state of being convex; the exterior surface of a convex body; roundness.,
C as in Convexly (adv.) In a convex form; as, a body convexly shaped.,
C as in Convexness (n.) The state of being convex; convexity.,
C as in Convexo-concave (a.) Convex on one side, and concave on the other. The curves of the convex and concave sides may be alike or may be different. See Meniscus.,
C as in Convexo-convex (a.) Convex on both sides; double convex. See under Convex, a.,
C as in Convexo-plane (a.) Convex on one side, and flat on the other; plano-convex.,
C as in Conveyed (imp. & p. p.) of Convey,
C as in Conveying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Convey,
C as in Convey (v. t.) To carry from one place to another; to bear or transport.,
C as in Convey (v. t.) To cause to pass from one place or person to another; to serve as a medium in carrying (anything) from one place or person to another; to transmit; as, air conveys sound; words convey ideas.,
C as in Convey (v. t.) To transfer or deliver to another; to make over, as property; more strictly (Law), to transfer (real estate) or pass (a title to real estate) by a sealed writing.,
C as in Convey (v. t.) To impart or communicate; as, to convey an impression; to convey information.,
C as in Convey (v. t.) To manage with privacy; to carry out.,
C as in Convey (v. t.) To carry or take away secretly; to steal; to thieve.,
C as in Convey (v. t.) To accompany; to convoy.,
C as in Convey (v. i.) To play the thief; to steal.,
C as in Conveyable (a.) Capable of being conveyed or transferred.,
C as in Conveyance (n.) The act of conveying, carrying, or transporting; carriage.,
C as in Conveyance (n.) The instrument or means of carrying or transporting anything from place to place; the vehicle in which, or means by which, anything is carried from one place to another; as, stagecoaches, omnibuses, etc., are conveyances; a canal or aqueduct is a conveyance for water.,
C as in Conveyance (n.) The act or process of transferring, transmitting, handing down, or communicating; transmission.,
C as in Conveyance (n.) The act by which the title to property, esp. real estate, is transferred; transfer of ownership; an instrument in writing (as a deed or mortgage), by which the title to property is conveyed from one person to another.,
C as in Conveyance (n.) Dishonest management, or artifice.,
C as in Conveyancer (n.) One whose business is to draw up conveyances of property, as deeds, mortgages, leases, etc.,
C as in Conveyancing (n.) The business of a conveyancer; the act or business of drawing deeds, leases, or other writings, for transferring the title to property from one person to another.,
C as in Conveyer (n.) One who, or that which, conveys or carries, transmits or transfers.,
C as in Conveyer (n.) One given to artifices or secret practices; a juggler; a cheat; a thief.,
C as in Conveyor (n.) A contrivance for carrying objects from place to place; esp., one for conveying grain, coal, etc., -- as a spiral or screw turning in a pipe or trough, an endless belt with buckets, or a truck running along a rope.,
C as in Conviciate (v. i.) To utter reproaches; to raise a clamor; to rail.,
C as in Convicinities (pl. ) of Convicinity,
C as in Convicinity (n.) Immediate vicinity; neighborhood.,
C as in Convicious (a.) Expressing reproach; abusive; railing; taunting.,
C as in Convict (p.a.) Proved or found guilty; convicted.,
C as in Convict (n.) A person proved guilty of a crime alleged against him; one legally convicted or sentenced to punishment for some crime.,
C as in Convict (n.) A criminal sentenced to penal servitude.,
C as in Convicted (imp. & p. p.) of Convict,
C as in Convicting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Convict,
C as in Convict (v. t.) To prove or find guilty of an offense or crime charged; to pronounce guilty, as by legal decision, or by one's conscience.,
C as in Convict (v. t.) To prove or show to be false; to confute; to refute.,
C as in Convict (v. t.) To demonstrate by proof or evidence; to prove.,
C as in Convict (v. t.) To defeat; to doom to destruction.,
C as in Convict1ible (a.) Capable of being convicted.,
C as in Conviction (n.) The act of convicting; the act of proving, finding, or adjudging, guilty of an offense.,
C as in Conviction (n.) A judgment of condemnation entered by a court having jurisdiction; the act or process of finding guilty, or the state of being found guilty of any crime by a legal tribunal.,
C as in Conviction (n.) The act of convincing of error, or of compelling the admission of a truth; confutation.,
C as in Conviction (n.) The state of being convinced or convicted; strong persuasion or belief; especially, the state of being convicted of sin, or by one's conscience.,
C as in Convictism (n.) The policy or practice of transporting convicts to penal settlements.,
C as in Convictive (a.) Convincing.,
C as in Convinced (imp. & p. p.) of Convince,
C as in Convincing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Convince,
C as in Convince (v. t.) To overpower; to overcome; to subdue or master.,
C as in Convince (v. t.) To overcome by argument; to force to yield assent to truth; to satisfy by proof.,
C as in Convince (v. t.) To confute; to prove the fallacy of.,
C as in Convince (v. t.) To prove guilty; to convict.,
C as in Convincement (n.) Act of convincing, or state of being convinced; conviction.,
C as in Convincer (n.) One who, or that which, convinces; one who wins over by proof.,
C as in Convincible (a.) Capable of being convinced or won over.,
C as in Convincible (a.) Capable of being confuted and disproved by argument; refutable.,
C as in Convincingly (adv.) in a convincing manner; in a manner to compel assent.,
C as in Convincingness (n.) The power of convincing, or the quality of being convincing.,
C as in Convival (a.) pertaining to a feast or to festivity; convivial.,
C as in Convive (v. i.) To feast together; to be convivial.,
C as in Convive (n.) A quest at a banquet.,
C as in Convivial (a.) Of or relating to a feast or entertainment, or to eating and drinking, with accompanying festivity; festive; social; gay; jovial.,
C as in Convivialist (n.) A person of convivial habits.,
C as in Convivialities (pl. ) of Conviviality,
C as in Conviviality (n.) The good humor or mirth indulged in upon festive occasions; a convivial spirit or humor; festivity.,
C as in Convivially (adv.) In a convivial manner.,
C as in Convocated (imp. & p. p.) of Convocate,
C as in Convocating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Convocate,
C as in Convocate (v. t.) To convoke; to call together.,
C as in Convocation (n.) The act of calling or assembling by summons.,
C as in Convocation (n.) An assembly or meeting.,
C as in Convocation (n.) An assembly of the clergy, by their representatives, to consult on ecclesiastical affairs.,
C as in Convocation (n.) An academical assembly, in which the business of the university is transacted.,
C as in Convocational (a.) Of or pertaining to a convocation.,
C as in Convocationist (n.) An advocate or defender of convocation.,
C as in Convoked (imp. & p. p.) of Convoke,
C as in Convoking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Convoke,
C as in Convoke (v. t.) To call together; to summon to meet; to assemble by summons.,
C as in Convolute (a.) Rolled or wound together, one part upon another; -- said of the leaves of plants in aestivation.,
C as in Convoluted (a.) Having convolutions.,
C as in Convoluted (a.) Folded in tortuous windings.,
C as in Convolution (n.) The act of rolling anything upon itself, or one thing upon another; a winding motion.,
C as in Convolution (n.) The state of being rolled upon itself, or rolled or doubled together; a tortuous or sinuous winding or fold, as of something rolled or folded upon itself.,
C as in Convolution (n.) An irregular, tortuous folding of an organ or part; as, the convolutions of the intestines; the cerebral convolutions. See Brain.,
C as in Convolved (imp. & p. p.) of Convolve,
C as in Convolving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Convolve,
C as in Convolve (v. t.) To roll or wind together; to roll or twist one part on another.,
C as in Convolvulaceous (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the family of plants of which the bindweed and the morning-glory are common examples.,
C as in Convolvulin (n.) A glucoside occurring in jalap (the root of a convolvulaceous plant), and extracted as a colorless, tasteless, gummy mass of powerful purgative properties.,
C as in Convolvuli (pl. ) of Convolvulus,
C as in Convoluluses (pl. ) of Convolvulus,
C as in Convolvulus (n.) A large genus of plants having monopetalous flowers, including the common bindweed (C. arwensis), and formerly the morning-glory, but this is now transferred to the genus Ipomaea.,
C as in Convoyed (imp. & p. p.) of Convoy,
C as in Convoying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Convoy,
C as in Convoy (v. t.) To accompany for protection, either by sea or land; to attend for protection; to escort; as, a frigate convoys a merchantman.,
C as in Convoy (n.) The act of attending for defense; the state of being so attended; protection; escort.,
C as in Convoy (n.) A vessel or fleet, or a train or trains of wagons, employed in the transportation of munitions of war, money, subsistence, clothing, etc., and having an armed escort.,
C as in Convoy (n.) A protection force accompanying ships, etc., on their way from place to place, by sea or land; an escort, for protection or guidance.,
C as in Convoy (n.) Conveyance; means of transportation.,
C as in Convoy (n.) A drag or brake applied to the wheels of a carriage, to check their velocity in going down a hill.,
C as in Convulsed (imp. & p. p.) of Convulse,
C as in Convulsing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Convulse,
C as in Convulse (v. t.) To contract violently and irregulary, as the muscular parts of an animal body; to shake with irregular spasms, as in excessive laughter, or in agony from grief or pain.,
C as in Convulse (v. t.) To agitate greatly; to shake violently.,
C as in Convulsion (n.) An unnatural, violent, and unvoluntary contraction of the muscular parts of an animal body.,
C as in Convulsion (n.) Any violent and irregular motion or agitation; a violent shaking; a tumult; a commotion.,
C as in Convulsional (a.) Pertaining to, or having, convulsions; convulsionary.,
C as in Convulsionary (a.) Pertaining to convulsion; convulsive.,
C as in Convulsionary (n.) A convulsionist.,
C as in Convulsionist (n.) One who has convulsions; esp., one of a body of fanatics in France, early in the eighteenth century, who went into convulsions under the influence of religious emotion; as, the Convulsionists of St. Medard.,
C as in Convulsive (a.) Producing, or attended with, convulsions or spasms; characterized by convulsions; convulsionary.,
C as in Convulsively (adv.) in a convulsive manner.,
C as in Cony (n.) A rabbit, esp., the European rabbit (Lepus cuniculus),
C as in Cony (n.) The chief hare.,
C as in Cony (n.) A simpleton.,
C as in Cony (n.) An important edible West Indian fish (Epinephelus apua); the hind of Bermuda.,
C as in Cony (n.) A local name of the burbot.,
C as in Cony-catch (v. t.) To deceive; to cheat; to trick.,
C as in Cony-catcher (n.) A cheat; a sharper; a deceiver.,
C as in Conylene (n.) An oily substance, C8H14, obtained from several derivatives of conine.,
C as in Conyrine (n.) A blue, fluorescent, oily base (regarded as a derivative of pyridine), obtained from conine.,
C as in Cooed (imp. & p. p.) of Coo,
C as in Cooing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Coo,
C as in Coo (v. i.) To make a low repeated cry or sound, like the characteristic note of pigeons or doves.,
C as in Coo (v. i.) To show affection; to act in a loving way. See under Bill, v. i.,
C as in Cooey (n.) Alt. of Cooee,
C as in Cooee (n.) A peculiar whistling sound made by the Australian aborigenes as a call or signal.,
C as in Cook (v. i.) To make the noise of the cuckoo.,
C as in Cook (v. t.) To throw.,
C as in Cook (n.) One whose occupation is to prepare food for the table; one who dresses or cooks meat or vegetables for eating.,
C as in Cook (n.) A fish, the European striped wrasse.,
C as in Cooked (imp. & p. p.) of Cook,
C as in Cooking (p. pr & vb. n.) of Cook,
C as in Cook (v. t.) To prepare, as food, by boiling, roasting, baking, broiling, etc.; to make suitable for eating, by the agency of fire or heat.,
C as in Cook (v. t.) To concoct or prepare; hence, to tamper with or alter; to garble; -- often with up; as, to cook up a story; to cook an account.,
C as in Cook (v. i.) To prepare food for the table.,
C as in Cookbook (n.) A book of directions and receipts for cooking; a cookery book.,
C as in Cookee (n.) A female cook.,
C as in Cookery (n.) The art or process of preparing food for the table, by dressing, compounding, and the application of heat.,
C as in Cookery (n.) A delicacy; a dainty.,
C as in Cookey (n.) Alt. of Cookie,
C as in Cookie (n.) See Cooky.,
C as in Cookmaid (n.) A female servant or maid who dresses provisions and assists the cook.,
C as in Cookroom (n.) A room for cookery; a kitchen; the galley or caboose of a ship.,
C as in Cookshop (n.) An eating house.,
C as in Cookies (pl. ) of Cooky,
C as in Cooky (n.) A small, flat, sweetened cake of various kinds.,
C as in Cool (superl.) Moderately cold; between warm and cold; lacking in warmth; producing or promoting coolness.,
C as in Cool (superl.) Not ardent, warm, fond, or passionate; not hasty; deliberate; exercising self-control; self-possessed; dispassionate; indifferent; as, a cool lover; a cool debater.,
C as in Cool (superl.) Not retaining heat; light; as, a cool dress.,
C as in Cool (superl.) Manifesting coldness or dislike; chilling; apathetic; as, a cool manner.,
C as in Cool (superl.) Quietly impudent; negligent of propriety in matters of minor importance, either ignorantly or willfully; presuming and selfish; audacious; as, cool behavior.,
C as in Cool (superl.) Applied facetiously, in a vague sense, to a sum of money, commonly as if to give emphasis to the largeness of the amount.,
C as in Cool (n.) A moderate state of cold; coolness; -- said of the temperature of the air between hot and cold; as, the cool of the day; the cool of the morning or evening.,
C as in Cooled (imp. & p. p.) of Cool,
C as in Cooling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cool,
C as in Cool (v. t.) To make cool or cold; to reduce the temperature of; as, ice cools water.,
C as in Cool (v. t.) To moderate the heat or excitement of; to allay, as passion of any kind; to calm; to moderate.,
C as in Cool (v. i.) To become less hot; to lose heat.,
C as in Cool (v. i.) To lose the heat of excitement or passion; to become more moderate.,
C as in Cooler (n.) That which cools, or abates heat or excitement.,
C as in Cooler (n.) Anything in or by which liquids or other things are cooled, as an ice chest, a vessel for ice water, etc.,
C as in Cool-headed (a.) Having a temper not easily excited; free from passion.,
C as in Coolie (n.) Same as Cooly.,
C as in Cooling (p.a.) Adapted to cool and refresh; allaying heat.,
C as in Coolish (a.) Somewhat cool.,
C as in Coolly (a.) Coolish; cool.,
C as in Coolly (adv.) In a cool manner; without heat or excessive cold; without passion or ardor; calmly; deliberately; with indifference; impudently.,
C as in Coolness (n.) The state of being cool; a moderate degree of cold; a moderate degree, or a want, of passion; want of ardor, zeal, or affection; calmness.,
C as in Coolness (n.) Calm impudence; self-possession.,
C as in Coolung (n.) The great gray crane of India (Grus cinerea).,
C as in Coolies (pl. ) of Coolie,
C as in Cooly (n.) Alt. of Coolie,
C as in Coolie (n.) An East Indian porter or carrier; a laborer transported from the East Indies, China, or Japan, for service in some other country.,
C as in Coom (n.) Soot; coal dust; refuse matter, as the dirty grease which comes from axle boxes, or the refuse at the mouth of an oven.,
C as in Coomb (n.) A dry measure of four bushels, or half a quarter.,
C as in Coomb (n.) Alt. of Coombe,
C as in Coombe (n.) A hollow in a hillside. [Prov. Eng.] See Comb, Combe.,
C as in Coon (n.) A raccoon. See Raccoon.,
C as in Coontie (n.) A cycadaceous plant of Florida and the West Indies, the Zamia integrifolia, from the stems of which a kind of sago is prepared.,
C as in Coop (n.) A barrel or cask for liquor.,
C as in Coop (n.) An inclosure for keeping small animals; a pen; especially, a grated box for confining poultry.,
C as in Coop (n.) A cart made close with boards; a tumbrel.,
C as in Cooped (imp. & p. p.) of Coop,
C as in Cooping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Coop,
C as in Coop (v. t.) To confine in a coop; hence, to shut up or confine in a narrow compass; to cramp; -- usually followed by up, sometimes by in.,
C as in Coop (v. t.) To work upon in the manner of a cooper.,
C as in Coopee (n.) See Coupe.,
C as in Cooper (n.) One who makes barrels, hogsheads, casks, etc.,
C as in Coopered (imp. & p. p.) of Cooper,
C as in Coopering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cooper,
C as in Cooper (v. t.) To do the work of a cooper upon; as, to cooper a cask or barrel.,
C as in Cooperage (n.) Work done by a cooper.,
C as in Cooperage (n.) The price paid for coopers; work.,
C as in Cooperage (n.) A place where coopers' work is done.,
C as in Cooperant (a.) Operating together; as, cooperant forces.,
C as in Cooperated (imp. & p. p.) of Cooperate,
C as in Cooperating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cooperate,
C as in Cooperate (v. i.) To act or operate jointly with another or others; to concur in action, effort, or effect.,
C as in Cooperation (n.) The act of cooperating, or of operating together to one end; joint operation; concurrent effort or labor.,
C as in Cooperation (n.) The association of a number of persons for their benefit.,
C as in Cooperative (a.) Operating jointly to the same end.,
C as in Cooperator (n.) One who labors jointly with others to promote the same end.,
C as in Cooper (n.) Work done by a cooper in making or repairing barrels, casks, etc.; the business of a cooper.,
C as in Coopery (a.) Relating to a cooper; coopered.,
C as in Coopery (n.) The occupation of a cooper.,
C as in Coopt (v. t.) To choose or elect in concert with another.,
C as in Cooptate (v. t.) To choose; to elect; to coopt.,
C as in Cooptation (n.) The act of choosing; selection; choice.,
C as in Coordain (v. t.) To ordain or appoint for some purpose along with another.,
C as in Coordinance (n.) Joint ordinance.,
C as in Coordinate (a.) Equal in rank or order; not subordinate.,
C as in Coordinated (imp. & p. p.) of Coordinate,
C as in Coordinating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Coordinate,
C as in Coordinate (v. t.) To make coordinate; to put in the same order or rank; as, to coordinate ideas in classification.,
C as in Coordinate (v. t.) To give a common action, movement, or condition to; to regulate and combine so as to produce harmonious action; to adjust; to harmonize; as, to coordinate muscular movements.,
C as in Coordinate (n.) A thing of the same rank with another thing; one two or more persons or things of equal rank, authority, or importance.,
C as in Coordinate (n.) Lines, or other elements of reference, by means of which the position of any point, as of a curve, is defined with respect to certain fixed lines, or planes, called coordinate axes and coordinate planes. See Abscissa.,
C as in Coordinately (adv.) In a coordinate manner.,
C as in Coordinateness (n.) The state of being coordinate; equality of rank or authority.,
C as in Coordination (n.) The act of coordinating; the act of putting in the same order, class, rank, dignity, etc.; as, the coordination of the executive, the legislative, and the judicial authority in forming a government; the act of regulating and combining so as to produce harmonious results; harmonious adjustment; as, a coordination of functions.,
C as in Coordination (n.) The state of being coordinate, or of equal rank, dignity, power, etc.,
C as in Coordinative (a.) Expressing coordination.,
C as in Coot (n.) A wading bird with lobate toes, of the genus Fulica.,
C as in Coot (n.) The surf duck or scoter. In the United States all the species of (/demia are called coots. See Scoter.,
C as in Coot (n.) A stupid fellow; a simpleton; as, a silly coot.,
C as in Cooter (n.) A fresh-water tortoise (Pseudemus concinna) of Florida.,
C as in Cooter (n.) The box tortoise.,
C as in Cootfoot (n.) The phalarope; -- so called because its toes are like the coot's.,
C as in Coothay (n.) A striped satin made in India.,
C as in Cop (n.) The top of a thing; the head; a crest.,
C as in Cop (n.) A conical or conical-ended mass of coiled thread, yarn, or roving, wound upon a spindle, etc.,
C as in Cop (n.) A tube or quill upon which silk is wound.,
C as in Cop (n.) Same as Merlon.,
C as in Cop (n.) A policeman.,
C as in Copaiba (n.) Alt. of Copaiva,
C as in Copaiva (n.) A more or less viscid, yellowish liquid, the bitter oleoresin of several species of Copaifera, a genus of trees growing in South America and the West Indies. It is stimulant and diuretic, and is much used in affections of the mucous membranes; -- called also balsam of copaiba.,
C as in Copal () A resinous substance flowing spontaneously from trees of Zanzibar, Madagascar, and South America (Trachylobium Hornemannianum, T. verrucosum, and Hymenaea Courbaril), and dug from earth where forests have stood in Africa; -- used chiefly in making varnishes.,
C as in Coparcenaries (pl. ) of Coparcenary,
C as in Coparcenary (n.) Partnership in inheritance; joint heirship; joint right of succession to an inheritance.,
C as in Coparcener (n.) One who has an equal portion with others of an inheritance.,
C as in Coparceny (n.) An equal share of an inheritance.,
C as in Copart (v. t.) To share.,
C as in Copartment (n.) A compartment.,
C as in Copartner (n.) One who is jointly concerned with one or more persons in business, etc.; a partner; an associate; a partaker; a sharer.,
C as in Copartnership (n.) The state of being a copartner or of having a joint interest in any matter.,
C as in Copartnership (n.) A partnership or firm; as, A. and B. have this day formed a copartnership.,
C as in Copartneries (pl. ) of Copartnery,
C as in Copartnery (n.) the state of being copartners in any undertaking.,
C as in Copatain (a.) Having a high crown, or a point or peak at top.,
C as in Copatriot (n.) A joint patriot.,
C as in Cope (n.) A covering for the head.,
C as in Cope (n.) Anything regarded as extended over the head, as the arch or concave of the sky, the roof of a house, the arch over a door.,
C as in Cope (n.) An ecclesiastical vestment or cloak, semicircular in form, reaching from the shoulders nearly to the feet, and open in front except at the top, where it is united by a band or clasp. It is worn in processions and on some other occasions.,
C as in Cope (n.) An ancient tribute due to the lord of the soil, out of the lead mines in Derbyshire, England.,
C as in Cope (n.) The top part of a flask or mold; the outer part of a loam mold.,
C as in Cope (v. i.) To form a cope or arch; to bend or arch; to bow.,
C as in Cope (v. t.) To pare the beak or talons of (a hawk).,
C as in Coped (imp. & p. p.) of Cope,
C as in Coping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cope,
C as in Cope (v. i.) To exchange or barter.,
C as in Cope (v. i.) To encounter; to meet; to have to do with.,
C as in Cope (v. i.) To enter into or maintain a hostile contest; to struggle; to combat; especially, to strive or contend on equal terms or with success; to match; to equal; -- usually followed by with.,
C as in Cope (v. t.) To bargain for; to buy.,
C as in Cope (v. t.) To make return for; to requite; to repay.,
C as in Cope (v. t.) To match one's self against; to meet; to encounter.,
C as in Cope-chisel (n.) A narrow chisel adapted for cutting a groove.,
C as in Copeck (n.) A Russian copper coin. See Kopeck.,
C as in Coped (a.) Clad in a cope.,
C as in Copelata (n. pl.) See Larvalla.,
C as in Copeman (v. i.) A chapman; a dealer; a merchant.,
C as in Copepod (a.) Of or pertaining to the Copepoda.,
C as in Copepod (n.) One of the Copepoda.,
C as in Copepoda (n. pl.) An order of Entomostraca, including many minute Crustacea, both fresh-water and marine.,
C as in Copernican (a.) Pertaining to Copernicus, a Prussian by birth (b. 1473, d. 1543), who taught the world the solar system now received, called the Copernican system.,
C as in Copesmate (n.) An associate or companion; a friend; a partner.,
C as in Copestone (n.) A stone for coping. See Coping.,
C as in Copier (n.) One who copies; one who writes or transcribes from an original; a transcriber.,
C as in Copier (n.) An imitator; one who imitates an example; hence, a plagiarist.,
C as in Coping (n.) The highest or covering course of masonry in a wall, often with sloping edges to carry off water; -- sometimes called capping.,
C as in Copious (a.) Large in quantity or amount; plentiful; abundant; fruitful.,
C as in Copiously (adv.) In a copious manner.,
C as in Copiousness (n.) The state or quality of being copious; abudance; plenty; also, diffuseness in style.,
C as in Copist (n.) A copier.,
C as in Coplaner (a.) Situated in one plane.,
C as in Copland (n.) A piece of ground terminating in a point or acute angle.,
C as in Coportion (n.) Equal share.,
C as in Copped (a.) Rising to a point or head; conical; pointed; crested.,
C as in Coppel (n. & v.) See Cupel.,
C as in Copper (n.) A common metal of a reddish color, both ductile and malleable, and very tenacious. It is one of the best conductors of heat and electricity. Symbol Cu. Atomic weight 63.3. It is one of the most useful metals in itself, and also in its alloys, brass and bronze.,
C as in Copper (n.) A coin made of copper; a penny, cent, or other minor coin of copper.,
C as in Copper (n.) A vessel, especially a large boiler, made of copper.,
C as in Copper (n.) the boilers in the galley for cooking; as, a ship's coppers.,
C as in Coppered (imp. & p. p.) of Copper,
C as in Coppering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Copper,
C as in Copper (v. t.) To cover or coat with copper; to sheathe with sheets of copper; as, to copper a ship.,
C as in Copperas (n.) Green vitriol, or sulphate of iron; a green crystalline substance, of an astringent taste, used in making ink, in dyeing black, as a tonic in medicine, etc. It is made on a large scale by the oxidation of iron pyrites. Called also ferrous sulphate.,
C as in Copper-bottomed (a.) Having a bottom made of copper, as a tin boiler or other vessel, or sheathed with copper, as a ship.,
C as in Copper-faced (a.) Faced or covered with copper; as, copper-faced type.,
C as in Copper-fastened (a.) Fastened with copper bolts, as the planks of ships, etc.; as, a copper-fastened ship.,
C as in Copperhead (n.) A poisonous American serpent (Ancistrodon conotortrix), closely allied to the rattlesnake, but without rattles; -- called also copper-belly, and red viper.,
C as in Copperhead (n.) A nickname applied to a person in the Northern States who sympathized with the South during the Civil War.,
C as in Coppering (n.) The act of covering with copper.,
C as in Coppering (n.) An envelope or covering of copper.,
C as in Copperish (a.) Containing, or partaking of the nature of, copper; like copper; as, a copperish taste.,
C as in Copper-nickel (n.) Niccolite.,
C as in Copper-nose (n.) A red nose.,
C as in Copperplate (n.) A plate of polished copper on which a design or writing is engraved.,
C as in Copperplate (n.) An impression on paper taken from such a plate.,
C as in Coppersmith (n.) One whose occupation is to manufacture copper utensils; a worker in copper.,
C as in Copper works () A place where copper is wrought or manufactured.,
C as in Copperworm (n.) The teredo; -- so called because it injures the bottoms of vessels, where not protected by copper.,
C as in Copperworm (n.) The ringworm.,
C as in Coppery (a.) Mixed with copper; containing copper, or made of copper; like copper.,
C as in Coppice (n.) A grove of small growth; a thicket of brushwood; a wood cut at certain times for fuel or other purposes. See Copse.,
C as in Coppin (n.) A cop of thread.,
C as in Copple (n.) Something rising in a conical shape; specifically, a hill rising to a point.,
C as in Copple-crown (n.) A created or high-topped crown or head.,
C as in Coppled (a.) Rising to a point; conical; copped.,
C as in Copple dust () Cupel dust.,
C as in Copplestone (n.) A cobblestone.,
C as in Copps (n.) See Copse.,
C as in Copra (n.) The dried meat of the cocoanut, from which cocoanut oil is expressed.,
C as in Coprolite (n.) A piece of petrified dung; a fossil excrement.,
C as in Coprolitic (a.) Containing, pertaining to, or of the nature of, coprolites.,
C as in Coprophagan (n.) A kind of beetle which feeds upon dung.,
C as in Coprophagous (a.) Feeding upon dung, as certain insects.,
C as in Cop-rose (n.) The red, or corn, poppy.,
C as in Cops (n.) The connecting crook of a harrow.,
C as in Copse (n.) A wood of small growth; a thicket of brushwood. See Coppice.,
C as in Copse (v. t.) To trim or cut; -- said of small trees, brushwood, tufts of grass, etc.,
C as in Copse (v. t.) To plant and preserve, as a copse.,
C as in Copsewood (n.) Brushwood; coppice.,
C as in Copsy (a.) Characterized by copses.,
C as in Coptic (a.) Of or pertaining to the Copts.,
C as in Coptic (n.) The language of the Copts.,
C as in Copts (n. pl.) An Egyptian race thought to be descendants of the ancient Egyptians.,
C as in Copts (n. pl.) The principal sect of Christians in Egypt and the valley of the Nile.,
C as in Copula (n.) The word which unites the subject and predicate.,
C as in Copula (n.) The stop which connects the manuals, or the manuals with the pedals; -- called also coupler.,
C as in Copulate (a.) Joined; associated; coupled.,
C as in Copulate (a.) Joining subject and predicate; copulative.,
C as in Copulated (imp. & p. p.) of Copulate,
C as in Copulating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Copulate,
C as in Copulate (v. i.) To unite in sexual intercourse; to come together in the act of generation.,
C as in Copulation (n.) The act of coupling or joining; union; conjunction.,
C as in Copulation (n.) The coming together of male and female in the act of generation; sexual union; coition.,
C as in Copulative (a.) Serving to couple, unite, or connect; as, a copulative conjunction like "and".,
C as in Copulative (n.) Connection.,
C as in Copulative (n.) A copulative conjunction.,
C as in Copulatively (adv.) In a copulative manner.,
C as in Coplatry (a.) Pertaining to copulation; tending or serving to unite; copulative.,
C as in Coplatry (a.) Used in sexual union; as, the copulatory organs of insects.,
C as in Copies (pl. ) of Copy,
C as in Copy (n.) An abundance or plenty of anything.,
C as in Copy (n.) An imitation, transcript, or reproduction of an original work; as, a copy of a letter, an engraving, a painting, or a statue.,
C as in Copy (n.) An individual book, or a single set of books containing the works of an author; as, a copy of the Bible; a copy of the works of Addison.,
C as in Copy (n.) That which is to be imitated, transcribed, or reproduced; a pattern, model, or example; as, his virtues are an excellent copy for imitation.,
C as in Copy (n.) Manuscript or printed matter to be set up in type; as, the printers are calling for more copy.,
C as in Copy (n.) A writing paper of a particular size. Same as Bastard. See under Paper.,
C as in Copy (n.) Copyhold; tenure; lease.,
C as in Copied (imp. & p. p.) of Copy,
C as in Copying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Copy,
C as in Copy (n.) To make a copy or copies of; to write; print, engrave, or paint after an original; to duplicate; to reproduce; to transcribe; as, to copy a manuscript, inscription, design, painting, etc.; -- often with out, sometimes with off.,
C as in Copy (n.) To imitate; to attempt to resemble, as in manners or course of life.,
C as in Copy (v. i.) To make a copy or copies; to imitate.,
C as in Copy (v. i.) To yield a duplicate or transcript; as, the letter did not copy well.,
C as in Copyer (n.) See Copier.,
C as in Copygraph (n.) A contrivance for producing manifold copies of a writing or drawing.,
C as in Copyhold (n.) A tenure of estate by copy of court roll; or a tenure for which the tenant has nothing to show, except the rolls made by the steward of the lord's court.,
C as in Copyhold (n.) Land held in copyhold.,
C as in Copyholder (n.) One possessed of land in copyhold.,
C as in Copyholder (n.) A device for holding copy for a compositor.,
C as in Copyholder (n.) One who reads copy to a proof reader.,
C as in Copying (a. & n.) From Copy, v.,
C as in Copyist (n.) A copier; a transcriber; an imitator; a plagiarist.,
C as in Copyright (n.) The right of an author or his assignee, under statute, to print and publish his literary or artistic work, exclusively of all other persons. This right may be had in maps, charts, engravings, plays, and musical compositions, as well as in books.,
C as in Copyright (v. t.) To secure a copyright on.,
C as in Coquelicot (n.) The wild poppy, or red corn rose.,
C as in Coquelicot (n.) The color of the wild poppy; a color nearly red, like orange mixed with scarlet.,
C as in Coquetted (imp. & p. p.) of Coquet,
C as in Coquetting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Coquet,
C as in Coquet (v. t.) To attempt to attract the notice, admiration, or love of; to treat with a show of tenderness or regard, with a view to deceive and disappoint.,
C as in Coquet (v. i.) To trifle in love; to stimulate affection or interest; to play the coquette; to deal playfully instead of seriously; to play (with); as, we have coquetted with political crime.,
C as in Coquetries (pl. ) of Coquetry,
C as in Coquetry (n.) Attempts to attract admiration, notice, or love, for the mere gratification of vanity; trifling in love.,
C as in Coquette (n.) A vain, trifling woman, who endeavors to attract admiration from a desire to gratify vanity; a flirt; -- formerly sometimes applied also to men.,
C as in Coquette (n.) A tropical humming bird of the genus Lophornis, with very elegant neck plumes. Several species are known. See Illustration under Spangle, v. t.,
C as in Coquettish (a.) Practicing or exhibiting coquetry; alluring; enticing.,
C as in Coquettishly (adv.) In a coquettish manner.,
C as in Coquilla nut () The fruit of a Brazilian tree (Attalea funifera of Martius.).,
C as in Coquimbite (n.) A mineral consisting principally of sulphate of iron; white copperas; -- so called because found in the province of Coquimbo, Chili.,
C as in Coquina (n.) A soft, whitish, coral-like stone, formed of broken shells and corals, found in the southern United States, and used for roadbeds and for building material, as in the fort at St. Augustine, Florida.,
C as in Cor- () A prefix signifying with, together, etc. See Com-.,
C as in Cor (n.) A Hebrew measure of capacity; a homer.,
C as in Cora (n.) The Arabian gazelle (Gazella Arabica), found from persia to North Africa.,
C as in Coracle (n.) A boat made by covering a wicker frame with leather or oilcloth. It was used by the ancient Britons, and is still used by fisherman in Wales and some parts of Ireland. Also, a similar boat used in Thibet and in Egypt.,
C as in Coracoid (a.) Shaped like a crow's beak.,
C as in Coracoid (a.) Pertaining to a bone of the shoulder girdle in most birds, reptiles, and amphibians, which is reduced to a process of the scapula in most mammals.,
C as in Coracoid (n.) The coracoid bone or process.,
C as in Corage (n.) See Courage,
C as in Coral (n.) The hard parts or skeleton of various Anthozoa, and of a few Hydrozoa. Similar structures are also formed by some Bryozoa.,
C as in Coral (n.) The ovaries of a cooked lobster; -- so called from their color.,
C as in Coral (n.) A piece of coral, usually fitted with small bells and other appurtenances, used by children as a plaything.,
C as in Coraled (a.) Having coral; covered with coral.,
C as in Coral fish () Any bright-colored fish of the genera Chaetodon, Pomacentrus, Apogon, and related genera, which live among reef corals.,
C as in Corallaceous (a.) Like coral, or partaking of its qualities.,
C as in Corallian (n.) A deposit of coralliferous limestone forming a portion of the middle division of the oolite; -- called also coral-rag.,
C as in Coralliferous (a.) Containing or producing coral.,
C as in Coralliform (a.) resembling coral in form.,
C as in Coralligena (n. pl.) Same as Anthozoa.,
C as in Coralligenous (a.) producing coral; coralligerous; coralliferous.,
C as in Coralligerous (a.) Producing coral; coralliferous.,
C as in Corallin (n.) A yellow coal-tar dyestuff which probably consists chiefly of rosolic acid. See Aurin, and Rosolic acid under Rosolic.,
C as in Coralline (a.) Composed of corallines; as, coralline limestone.,
C as in Coralline (n.) A submarine, semicalcareous or calcareous plant, consisting of many jointed branches.,
C as in Coralline (n.) Formerly any slender coral-like animal; -- sometimes applied more particulary to bryozoan corals.,
C as in Corallinite (n.) A fossil coralline.,
C as in Corallite (n.) A mineral substance or petrifaction, in the form of coral.,
C as in Corallite (n.) One of the individual members of a compound coral; or that part formed by a single coral animal.,
C as in Coralloid (a.) Having the form of coral; branching like coral.,
C as in Coralloidal (a.) resembling coral; coralloid.,
C as in Corallum (n.) The coral or skeleton of a zoophyte, whether calcareous of horny, simple or compound. See Coral.,
C as in Coral-rag (n.) Same as Corallian.,
C as in Coralwort (n.) A cruciferous herb of certain species of Dentaria; -- called also toothwort, tooth violet, or pepper root.,
C as in Coranach (n.) A lamentation for the dead; a dirge.,
C as in Corant (n.) Alt. of Coranto,
C as in Coranto (n.) A sprightly but somewhat stately dance, now out of fashion.,
C as in Corb (n.) A basket used in coal mines, etc. see Corf.,
C as in Corb (n.) An ornament in a building; a corbel.,
C as in Corban (n.) An offering of any kind, devoted to God and therefore not to be appropriated to any other use; esp., an offering in fulfillment of a vow.,
C as in Corban (n.) An alms basket; a vessel to receive gifts of charity; a treasury of the church, where offerings are deposited.,
C as in Corbe (a.) Crooked.,
C as in Corbell (n.) A sculptured basket of flowers; a corbel.,
C as in Corbell (n.) Small gabions.,
C as in Corbel (n.) A bracket supporting a superincumbent object, or receiving the spring of an arch. Corbels were employed largely in Gothic architecture.,
C as in Corbel (v. t.) To furnish with a corbel or corbels; to support by a corbel; to make in the form of a corbel.,
C as in Corbel-table (n.) A horizontal row of corbels, with the panels or filling between them; also, less properly used to include the stringcourse on them.,
C as in Corbies (pl. ) of Corby,
C as in Corbie (n.) Alt. of Corby,
C as in Corby (n.) The raven.,
C as in Corby (n.) A raven, crow, or chough, used as a charge.,
C as in Corbiestep (n.) One of the steps in which a gable wall is often finished in place of a continuous slope; -- also called crowstep.,
C as in Corchorus (n.) The common name of the Kerria Japonica or Japan globeflower, a yellow-flowered, perennial, rosaceous plant, seen in old-fashioned gardens.,
C as in Corcle (n.) Alt. of Corcule,
C as in Corcule (n.) The heart of the seed; the embryo or germ.,
C as in Cord (n.) A string, or small rope, composed of several strands twisted together.,
C as in Cord (n.) A solid measure, equivalent to 128 cubic feet; a pile of wood, or other coarse material, eight feet long, four feet high, and four feet broad; -- originally measured with a cord or line.,
C as in Cord (n.) Fig.: Any moral influence by which persons are caught, held, or drawn, as if by a cord; an enticement; as, the cords of the wicked; the cords of sin; the cords of vanity.,
C as in Cord (n.) Any structure having the appearance of a cord, esp. a tendon or a nerve. See under Spermatic, Spinal, Umbilical, Vocal.,
C as in Cord (n.) See Chord.,
C as in Corded (imp. & p. p.) of Cord,
C as in Cording (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cord,
C as in Cord (v. t.) To bind with a cord; to fasten with cords; to connect with cords; to ornament or finish with a cord or cords, as a garment.,
C as in Cord (v. t.) To arrange (wood, etc.) in a pile for measurement by the cord.,
C as in Cordage (n.) Ropes or cords, collectively; hence, anything made of rope or cord, as those parts of the rigging of a ship which consist of ropes.,
C as in Cordal (n.) Same as Cordelle.,
C as in Cordate (a.) Heart-shaped; as, a cordate leaf.,
C as in Cordately (adv.) In a cordate form.,
C as in Corded (a.) Bound or fastened with cords.,
C as in Corded (a.) Piled in a form for measurement by the cord.,
C as in Corded (a.) Made of cords.,
C as in Corded (a.) Striped or ribbed with cords; as, cloth with a corded surface.,
C as in Corded (a.) Bound about, or wound, with cords.,
C as in Cordelier (n.) A Franciscan; -- so called in France from the girdle of knotted cord worn by all Franciscans.,
C as in Cordelier (n.) A member of a French political club of the time of the first Revolution, of which Danton and Marat were members, and which met in an old Cordelier convent in Paris.,
C as in Cordeling (a.) Twisting.,
C as in Cordelle (n.) A twisted cord; a tassel.,
C as in Cordial (a.) Proceeding from the heart.,
C as in Cordial (a.) Hearty; sincere; warm; affectionate.,
C as in Cordial (a.) Tending to revive, cheer, or invigorate; giving strength or spirits.,
C as in Cordial (n.) Anything that comforts, gladdens, and exhilarates.,
C as in Cordial (n.) Any invigorating and stimulating preparation; as, a peppermint cordial.,
C as in Cordial (n.) Aromatized and sweetened spirit, used as a beverage; a liqueur.,
C as in Cordialities (pl. ) of Cordiality,
C as in Cordiality (n.) Relation to the heart.,
C as in Cordiality (n.) Sincere affection and kindness; warmth of regard; heartiness.,
C as in Cordialize (v. t.) To make into a cordial.,
C as in Cordialize (v. t.) To render cordial; to reconcile.,
C as in Cordialize (v. i.) To grow cordial; to feel or express cordiality.,
C as in Cordially (adv.) In a cordial manner.,
C as in Cordialness (n.) Cordiality.,
C as in Cordierite (n.) See Iolite.,
C as in Cordoform (a.) Heart-shaped.,
C as in Cordillera (n.) A mountain ridge or chain.,
C as in Cordiner (n.) A cordwainer.,
C as in Cordon (n.) A cord or ribbon bestowed or borne as a badge of honor; a broad ribbon, usually worn after the manner of a baldric, constituting a mark of a very high grade in an honorary order. Cf. Grand cordon.,
C as in Cordon (n.) The cord worn by a Franciscan friar.,
C as in Cordon (n.) The coping of the scarp wall, which projects beyong the face of the wall a few inches.,
C as in Cordon (n.) A line or series of sentinels, or of military posts, inclosing or guarding any place or thing.,
C as in Cordon (n.) A rich and ornamental lace or string, used to secure a mantle in some costumes of state.,
C as in Cordonnet (n.) Doubled and twisted thread, made of coarse silk, and used for tassels, fringes, etc.,
C as in Cordovan (n.) Same as Cordwain. In England the name is applied to leather made from horsehide.,
C as in Corduroy (n.) A sort of cotton velveteen, having the surface raised in ridges.,
C as in Corduroy (n.) Trousers or breeches of corduroy.,
C as in Corduroy (v. t.) To form of logs laid side by side.,
C as in Cordwain (n.) A term used in the Middle Ages for Spanish leather (goatskin tanned and dressed), and hence, any leather handsomely finished, colored, gilded, or the like.,
C as in Cordwainer (n.) A worker in cordwain, or cordovan leather; a shoemaker.,
C as in Core (n.) A body of individuals; an assemblage.,
C as in Core (n.) A miner's underground working time or shift.,
C as in Core (n.) A Hebrew dry measure; a cor or homer.,
C as in Core (n.) The heart or inner part of a thing, as of a column, wall, rope, of a boil, etc.; especially, the central part of fruit, containing the kernels or seeds; as, the core of an apple or quince.,
C as in Core (n.) The center or inner part, as of an open space; as, the core of a square.,
C as in Core (n.) The most important part of a thing; the essence; as, the core of a subject.,
C as in Core (n.) The prtion of a mold which shapes the interior of a cylinder, tube, or other hollow casting, or which makes a hole in or through a casting; a part of the mold, made separate from and inserted in it, for shaping some part of the casting, the form of which is not determined by that of the pattern.,
C as in Core (n.) A disorder of sheep occasioned by worms in the liver.,
C as in Core (n.) The bony process which forms the central axis of the horns in many animals.,
C as in Cord (imp. & p. p.) of Core,
C as in Coring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Core,
C as in Core (v. t.) To take out the core or inward parts of; as, to core an apple.,
C as in Core (v. t.) To form by means of a core, as a hole in a casting.,
C as in Co-regent (n.) A joint regent or ruler.,
C as in Co-relation (n.) Corresponding relation.,
C as in Co-religionist (n.) One of the same religion with another.,
C as in Coreopsis (n.) A genus of herbaceous composite plants, having the achenes two-horned and remotely resembling some insect; tickseed. C. tinctoria, of the Western plains, the commonest plant of the genus, has been used in dyeing.,
C as in Corer (n.) That which cores; an instrument for coring fruit; as, an apple corer.,
C as in Co-respondent (n.) One who is called upon to answer a summons or other proceeding jointly with another.,
C as in Corves (pl. ) of Corf,
C as in Corf (n.) A basket.,
C as in Corf (n.) A large basket used in carrying or hoisting coal or ore.,
C as in Corf (n.) A wooden frame, sled, or low-wheeled wagon, to convey coal or ore in the mines.,
C as in Corfiote (n.) Alt. of Corfute,
C as in Corfute (n.) A native or inhabitant of Corfu, an island in the Mediterranean Sea.,
C as in Coriaceous (a.) Consisting of or resembling, leather; leatherlike; tough.,
C as in Coriaceous (a.) Stiff, like leather or parchment.,
C as in Coriander (n.) An umbelliferous plant, the Coriandrum sativum, the fruit or seeds of which have a strong smell and a spicy taste, and in medicine are considered as stomachic and carminative.,
C as in Coridine (n.) A colorless or yellowish oil, C10H15N, of a leathery odor, occuring in coal tar, Dippel's oil, tobacco smoke, etc., regarded as an organic base, homologous with pyridine. Also, one of a series of metameric compounds of which coridine is a type.,
C as in Corindon (n.) See Corrundum.,
C as in Corinne (n.) The common gazelle (Gazella dorcas). See Gazelle.,
C as in Corinth (n.) A city of Greece, famed for its luxury and extravagance.,
C as in Corinth (n.) A small fruit; a currant.,
C as in Corinthiac (a.) Pertaining to Corinth.,
C as in Corinthian (a.) Of or relating to Corinth.,
C as in Corinthian (a.) Of or pertaining to the Corinthian order of architecture, invented by the Greeks, but more commonly used by the Romans.,
C as in Corinthian (a.) Debauched in character or practice; impure.,
C as in Corinthian (a.) Of or pertaining to an amateur sailor or yachtsman; as, a corinthian race (one in which the contesting yachts must be manned by amateurs.),
C as in Corinthian (n.) A native or inhabitant of Corinth.,
C as in Corinthian (n.) A gay, licentious person.,
C as in Corium (n.) Armor made of leather, particularly that used by the Romans; used also by Enlish soldiers till the reign of Edward I.,
C as in Corium (n.) Same as Dermis.,
C as in Corium (n.) The deep layer of mucous membranes beneath the epithelium.,
C as in Corival (n.) A rival; a corrival.,
C as in Corival (v. t.) To rival; to pretend to equal.,
C as in Corivalry (n.) Alt. of Corivalship,
C as in Corivalship (n.) Joint rivalry.,
C as in Cork (n.) The outer layer of the bark of the cork tree (Quercus Suber), of which stoppers for bottles and casks are made. See Cutose.,
C as in Cork (n.) A stopper for a bottle or cask, cut out of cork.,
C as in Cork (n.) A mass of tabular cells formed in any kind of bark, in greater or less abundance.,
C as in Corked (imp. & p. p.) of Cork,
C as in Corking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cork,
C as in Cork (v. t.) To stop with a cork, as a bottle.,
C as in Cork (v. t.) To furnish or fit with cork; to raise on cork.,
C as in Corkage (n.) The charge made by innkeepers for drawing the cork and taking care of bottles of wine bought elsewhere by a guest.,
C as in Corked (a.) having acquired an unpleasant taste from the cork; as, a bottle of wine is corked.,
C as in Cork fossil () A variety of amianthus which is very light, like cork.,
C as in Corkiness (n.) The quality of being corky.,
C as in Corking pin () A pin of a large size, formerly used attaching a woman's headdress to a cork mold.,
C as in Corkscrew (n.) An instrument with a screw or a steel spiral for drawing corks from bottles.,
C as in Corkscrew (v. t.) To press forward in a winding way; as, to corkscrew one's way through a crowd.,
C as in Corkwing (n.) A fish; the goldsinny.,
C as in Corky (a.) Consisting of, or like, cork; dry shriveled up.,
C as in Corky (a.) Tasting of cork.,
C as in Corm (n.) A solid bulb-shaped root, as of the crocus. See Bulb.,
C as in Corm (n.) Same as Cormus, 2.,
C as in Cormogeny (n.) The embryological history of groups or families of individuals.,
C as in Cormophylogeny (n.) The phylogeny of groups or families of individuals.,
C as in Cormophytes (n. pl.) Alt. of Cormophyta,
C as in Cormophyta (n. pl.) A term proposed by Endlicher to include all plants with an axis containing vascular tissue and with foliage.,
C as in Cormorant (n.) Any species of Phalacrocorax, a genus of sea birds having a sac under the beak; the shag. Cormorants devour fish voraciously, and have become the emblem of gluttony. They are generally black, and hence are called sea ravens, and coalgeese.,
C as in Cormorant (n.) A voracious eater; a glutton, or gluttonous servant.,
C as in Cormoraut (a.) Ravenous; voracious.,
C as in Cormus (n.) See Corm.,
C as in Cormus (n.) A vegetable or animal made up of a number of individuals, such as, for example, would be formed by a process of budding from a parent stalk wherre the buds remain attached.,
C as in Corn (n.) A thickening of the epidermis at some point, esp. on the toes, by friction or pressure. It is usually painful and troublesome.,
C as in Corn (n.) A single seed of certain plants, as wheat, rye, barley, and maize; a grain.,
C as in Corn (n.) The various farinaceous grains of the cereal grasses used for food, as wheat, rye, barley, maize, oats.,
C as in Corn (n.) The plants which produce corn, when growing in the field; the stalks and ears, or the stalks, ears, and seeds, after reaping and before thrashing.,
C as in Corn (n.) A small, hard particle; a grain.,
C as in Corned (imp. & p. p.) of Corn,
C as in Corning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Corn,
C as in Corn (v. t.) To preserve and season with salt in grains; to sprinkle with salt; to cure by salting; now, specifically, to salt slightly in brine or otherwise; as, to corn beef; to corn a tongue.,
C as in Corn (v. t.) To form into small grains; to granulate; as, to corn gunpowder.,
C as in Corn (v. t.) To feed with corn or (in Sctland) oats; as, to corn horses.,
C as in Corn (v. t.) To render intoxicated; as, ale strong enough to corn one.,
C as in Cornage (n.) Anancient tenure of land, which obliged the tenant to give notice of an invasion by blowing a horn.,
C as in Cornamute (n.) A cornemuse.,
C as in Cornbind (n.) A weed that binds stalks of corn, as Convolvulus arvensis, Polygonum Convolvulus.,
C as in Corncob (n.) The cob or axis on which the kernels of Indian corn grow.,
C as in Corncrake (n.) A bird (Crex crex or C. pratensis) which frequents grain fields; the European crake or land rail; -- called also corn bird.,
C as in Corncrib (n.) A crib for storing corn.,
C as in Corncutter (n.) A machine for cutting up stalks of corn for food of cattle.,
C as in Corncutter (n.) An implement consisting of a long blade, attached to a handle at nearly a right angle, used for cutting down the stalks of Indian corn.,
C as in Corndodger (n.) A cake made of the meal of Indian corn, wrapped in a covering of husks or paper, and baked under the embers.,
C as in Corneas (pl. ) of Cornea,
C as in Cornea (n.) The transparent part of the coat of the eyeball which covers the iris and pupil and admits light to the interior. See Eye.,
C as in Corneal (a.) Pertaining to the cornea.,
C as in Cornel (n.) The cornelian cherry (Cornus Mas), a European shrub with clusters of small, greenish flowers, followed by very acid but edible drupes resembling cherries.,
C as in Cornel (n.) Any species of the genus Cornus, as C. florida, the flowering cornel; C. stolonifera, the osier cornel; C. Canadensis, the dwarf cornel, or bunchberry.,
C as in Cornelian (n.) Same as Carnelian.,
C as in Cornemuse (n.) A wind instrument nearly identical with the bagpipe.,
C as in Corneocalcareous (a.) Formed of a mixture of horny and calcareous materials, as some shells and corals.,
C as in Corneocalcareous (a.) Horny on one side and calcareous on the other.,
C as in Corneouss (a.) Of a texture resembling horn; horny; hard.,
C as in Corner (n.) The point where two converging lines meet; an angle, either external or internal.,
C as in Corner (n.) The space in the angle between converging lines or walls which meet in a point; as, the chimney corner.,
C as in Corner (n.) An edge or extremity; the part farthest from the center; hence, any quarter or part.,
C as in Corner (n.) A secret or secluded place; a remote or out of the way place; a nook.,
C as in Corner (n.) Direction; quarter.,
C as in Corner (n.) The state of things produced by a combination of persons, who buy up the whole or the available part of any stock or species of property, which compels those who need such stock or property to buy of them at their own price; as, a corner in a railway stock.,
C as in Cornered (imp. & p. p.) of Corner,
C as in Cornering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Corner,
C as in Corner (v. t.) To drive into a corner.,
C as in Corner (v. t.) To drive into a position of great difficulty or hopeless embarrassment; as, to corner a person in argument.,
C as in Corner (v. t.) To get command of (a stock, commodity, etc.), so as to be able to put one's own price on it; as, to corner the shares of a railroad stock; to corner petroleum.,
C as in Cornercap (n.) The chief ornament.,
C as in Cornered (p. a.) 1 Having corners or angles.,
C as in Cornered (p. a.) In a possition of great difficulty; brought to bay.,
C as in Cornerwise (adv.) With the corner in front; diagonally; not square.,
C as in Cornet (n.) An obsolete rude reed instrument (Ger. Zinken), of the oboe family.,
C as in Cornet (n.) A brass instrument, with cupped mouthpiece, and furnished with valves or pistons, now used in bands, and, in place of the trumpet, in orchestras. See Cornet-a-piston.,
C as in Cornet (n.) A certain organ stop or register.,
C as in Cornet (n.) A cap of paper twisted at the end, used by retailers to inclose small wares.,
C as in Cornet (n.) A troop of cavalry; -- so called from its being accompanied by a cornet player.,
C as in Cornet (n.) The standard of such a troop.,
C as in Cornet (n.) The lowest grade of commissioned officer in a British cavalry troop, who carried the standard. The office was abolished in 1871.,
C as in Cornet (n.) A headdress,
C as in Cornet (n.) A square cap anciently worn as a mark of certain professions.,
C as in Cornet (n.) A part of a woman's headdress, in the 16th century.,
C as in Cornet (n.) See Coronet, 2.,
C as in Cornets-a-piston (pl. ) of Cornet-a-piston,
C as in Cornet-a-piston (n.) A brass wind instrument, like the trumpet, furnished with valves moved by small pistons or sliding rods; a cornopean; a cornet.,
C as in Cornetcy (n.) The commission or rank of a cornet.,
C as in Corneter (n.) One who blows a cornet.,
C as in Corneule (n.) One of the corneas of a compound eye in the invertebrates.,
C as in Cornfield (n.) A field where corn is or has been growing; -- in England, a field of wheat, rye, barley, or oats; in America, a field of Indian corn.,
C as in Cornfloor (n.) A thrashing floor.,
C as in Cornflower (n.) A conspicuous wild flower (Centaurea Cyanus), growing in grainfields.,
C as in Cornic (a.) Pertaining to, derived from, or resembling, the dogwood (Cornus florida).,
C as in Cornice (n.) Any horizontal, molded or otherwise decorated projection which crowns or finishes the part to which it is affixed; as, the cornice of an order, pedestal, door, window, or house.,
C as in Corniced (a.) Having a cornice.,
C as in Cornicle (n.) A little horn.,
C as in Cornicular (n.) A secretary or clerk.,
C as in Cor/niculate (a.) Horned; having horns.,
C as in Cor/niculate (a.) Having processes resembling small horns.,
C as in Cornicula (pl. ) of Corniculum,
C as in Corniculum (n.) A small hornlike part or process.,
C as in Corniferous (a.) Of or pertaining to the lowest period of the Devonian age. (See the Diagram, under Geology.) The Corniferous period has been so called from the numerous seams of hornstone which characterize the later part of the period, as developed in the State of New York.,
C as in Cornific (a.) Producing horns; forming horn.,
C as in Cornification (n.) Conversion into, or formation of, horn; a becoming like horn.,
C as in Cornified (a.) Converted into horn; horny.,
C as in Corniform (a.) Having the shape of a horn; horn-shaped.,
C as in Cornigerous (a.) Horned; having horns; as, cornigerous animals.,
C as in Cornin (n.) A bitter principle obtained from dogwood (Cornus florida), as a white crystalline substance; -- called also cornic acid.,
C as in Cornin (n.) An extract from dogwood used as a febrifuge.,
C as in Corniplume (n.) A hornlike tuft of feathers on the head of some birds.,
C as in Cornish (a.) Of or pertaining to Cornwall, in England.,
C as in Cornish (n.) The dialect, or the people, of Cornwall.,
C as in Cornist (n.) A performer on the cornet or horn.,
C as in Cornloft (n.) A loft for corn; a granary.,
C as in Cornmuse (n.) A cornemuse.,
C as in Corni (-n/) di basseto (pl. ) of Corno di bassetto,
C as in Corno di bassetto () A tenor clarinet; -- called also basset horn, and sometimes confounded with the English horn, which is a tenor oboe.,
C as in Corni Inglesi (pl. ) of Corno Inglese,
C as in Corno Inglese () A reed instrument, related to the oboe, but deeper in pitch; the English horn.,
C as in Cornopean (n.) An obsolete name for the cornet-a-piston.,
C as in Cornsheller (n.) A machine that separates the kernels of corn from the cob.,
C as in Cornshuck (n.) The husk covering an ear of Indian corn.,
C as in Cornstalk (n.) A stalk of Indian corn.,
C as in Cornstarch (n.) Starch made from Indian corn, esp. a fine white flour used for puddings, etc.,
C as in Cornua (pl. ) of Cornu,
C as in Cornu (n.) A horn, or anything shaped like or resembling a horn.,
C as in Cornua Ammonis (pl. ) of Cornu Ammonis,
C as in Cornu Ammonis () A fossil shell, curved like a ram's horn; an obsolete name for an ammonite.,
C as in Cornucopias (pl. ) of Cornucopia,
C as in Cornucopia (n.) The horn of plenty, from which fruits and flowers are represented as issuing. It is an emblem of abundance.,
C as in Cornucopia (n.) A genus of grasses bearing spikes of flowers resembling the cornucopia in form.,
C as in Cornute (a.) Alt. of Cornuted,
C as in Cornuted (a.) Bearing horns; horned; horn-shaped.,
C as in Cornuted (a.) Cuckolded.,
C as in Cornute (v. t.) To bestow horns upon; to make a cuckold of; to cuckold.,
C as in Cornuto (n.) A man that wears the horns; a cuckold.,
C as in Cornutor (n.) A cuckold maker.,
C as in Corny (a.) Strong, stiff, or hard, like a horn; resembling horn.,
C as in Corny (a.) Producing corn or grain; furnished with grains of corn.,
C as in Corny (a.) Containing corn; tasting well of malt.,
C as in Corny (a.) Tipsy.,
C as in Corocore (n.) A kind of boat of various forms, used in the Indian Archipelago.,
C as in Corody (n.) An allowance of meat, drink, or clothing due from an abbey or other religious house for the sustenance of such of the king's servants as he may designate to receive it.,
C as in Corol (n.) A corolla.,
C as in Corolla (n.) The inner envelope of a flower; the part which surrounds the organs of fructification, consisting of one or more leaves, called petals. It is usually distinguished from the calyx by the fineness of its texture and the gayness of its colors. See the Note under Blossom.,
C as in Corollaceous (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, a corolla; having the form or texture of a corolla.,
C as in Corollaries (pl. ) of Corollary,
C as in Corollary (n.) That which is given beyond what is actually due, as a garland of flowers in addition to wages; surplus; something added or superfluous.,
C as in Corollary (n.) Something which follows from the demonstration of a proposition; an additional inference or deduction from a demonstrated proposition; a consequence.,
C as in Corollate (a.) Alt. of Corollated,
C as in Corollated (a.) Having a corolla or corollas; like a corolla.,
C as in Corollet (n.) A floret in an aggregate flower.,
C as in Corollifloral (a.) Alt. of Corolliflorous,
C as in Corolliflorous (a.) Having the stamens borne on the petals, and the latter free from the calyx. Compare Calycifloral and Thalamifloral.,
C as in Corolline (a.) Of or pertaining to a corolla.,
C as in Coromandel (n.) The west coast, or a portion of the west coast, of the Bay of Bengal.,
C as in Coronae (pl. ) of Corona,
C as in Coronas (pl. ) of Corona,
C as in Corona (n.) A crown or garland bestowed among the Romans as a reward for distinguished services.,
C as in Corona (n.) The projecting part of a Classic cornice, the under side of which is cut with a recess or channel so as to form a drip. See Illust. of Column.,
C as in Corona (n.) The upper surface of some part, as of a tooth or the skull; a crown.,
C as in Corona (n.) The shelly skeleton of a sea urchin.,
C as in Corona (n.) A peculiar luminous appearance, or aureola, which surrounds the sun, and which is seen only when the sun is totally eclipsed by the moon.,
C as in Corona (n.) An inner appendage to a petal or a corolla, often forming a special cup, as in the daffodil and jonquil.,
C as in Corona (n.) Any crownlike appendage at the top of an organ.,
C as in Corona (n.) A circle, usually colored, seen in peculiar states of the atmosphere around and close to a luminous body, as the sun or moon.,
C as in Corona (n.) A peculiar phase of the aurora borealis, formed by the concentration or convergence of luminous beams around the point in the heavens indicated by the direction of the dipping needle.,
C as in Corona (n.) A crown or circlet suspended from the roof or vaulting of churches, to hold tapers lighted on solemn occasions. It is sometimes formed of double or triple circlets, arranged pyramidically. Called also corona lucis.,
C as in Corona (n.) A character [/] called the pause or hold.,
C as in Coronach (n.) See Coranach.,
C as in Coronal (a.) Of or pertaining to a corona (in any of the senses).,
C as in Coronal (a.) Of or pertaining to a king's crown, or coronation.,
C as in Coronal (a.) Of or pertaining to the top of the head or skull.,
C as in Coronal (a.) Of or pertaining to the shell of a sea urchin.,
C as in Coronal (n.) A crown; wreath; garland.,
C as in Coronal (n.) The frontal bone, over which the ancients wore their coronae or garlands.,
C as in Coronamen (n.) The upper margin of a hoof; a coronet.,
C as in Coronary (a.) Of or pertaining to a crown; forming, or adapted to form, a crown or garland.,
C as in Coronary (a.) Resembling, or situated like, a crown or circlet; as, the coronary arteries and veins of the heart.,
C as in Coronary (n.) A small bone in the foot of a horse.,
C as in Coronary (n.) Informal shortening of coronary thrombosis, also used generally to mean heart attack.,
C as in Coronate (a.) Alt. of Coronated,
C as in Coronated (a.) Having or wearing a crown.,
C as in Coronated (a.) Having the coronal feathers lengthened or otherwise distinguished; -- said of birds.,
C as in Coronated (a.) Girt about the spire with a row of tubercles or spines; -- said of spiral shells.,
C as in Coronated (a.) Having a crest or a crownlike appendage.,
C as in Coronation (n.) The act or solemnity of crowning a sovereign; the act of investing a prince with the insignia of royalty, on his succeeding to the sovereignty.,
C as in Coronation (n.) The pomp or assembly at a coronation.,
C as in Coronel (n.) A colonel.,
C as in Coronel (n.) The iron head of a tilting spear, divided into two, three, or four blunt points.,
C as in Coroner (n.) An officer of the peace whose principal duty is to inquire, with the help of a jury, into the cause of any violent, sudden or mysterious death, or death in prison, usually on sight of the body and at the place where the death occurred.,
C as in Coronet (n.) An ornamental or honorary headdress, having the shape and character of a crown; particularly, a crown worn as the mark of high rank lower than sovereignty. The word is used by Shakespeare to denote also a kingly crown.,
C as in Coronet (n.) The upper part of a horse's hoof, where the horn terminates in skin.,
C as in Coronet (n.) The iron head of a tilting spear; a coronel.,
C as in Coroneted (a.) Wearing, or entitled to wear, a coronet; of noble birth or rank.,
C as in Coroniform (a.) Having the form of a crown or coronet; resembling a crown.,
C as in Coronilla (n.) A genus of plants related to the clover, having their flowers arranged in little heads or tufts resembling coronets.,
C as in Coronis (n.) In Greek grammar, a sign ['] sometimes placed over a contracted syllable.,
C as in Coronis (n.) The curved line or flourish at the end of a book or chapter; hence, the end.,
C as in Coronoid (a.) Resembling the beak of a crow; as, the coronoid process of the jaw, or of the ulna.,
C as in Coronule (n.) A coronet or little crown of a seed; the downy tuft on seeds. See Pappus.,
C as in Coroun (v. & n.) Crown.,
C as in Corozo (n.) Alt. of Corosso,
C as in Corosso (n.) The name in Central America for the seed of a true palm; also, a commercial name for the true ivory nut. See Ivory nut.,
C as in Corporace (n.) See Corporas.,
C as in Corporal (n.) A noncommissioned officer, next below a sergeant. In the United States army he is the lowest noncommissioned officer in a company of infantry. He places and relieves sentinels.,
C as in Corporal (a.) Belonging or relating to the body; bodily.,
C as in Corporal (a.) Having a body or substance; not spiritual; material. In this sense now usually written corporeal.,
C as in Corporal (a.) Alt. of Corporale,
C as in Corporale (a.) A fine linen cloth, on which the sacred elements are consecrated in the eucharist, or with which they are covered; a communion cloth.,
C as in Corporalities (pl. ) of Corporality,
C as in Corporality (n.) The state of being or having a body; bodily existence; corporeality; -- opposed to spirituality.,
C as in Corporality (n.) A confraternity; a guild.,
C as in Corporally (adv.) In or with the body; bodily; as, to be corporally present.,
C as in Corporalship (n.) A corporal's office.,
C as in Corporas (n.) The corporal, or communion cloth.,
C as in Corporate (a.) Formed into a body by legal enactment; united in an association, and endowed by law with the rights and liabilities of an individual; incorporated; as, a corporate town.,
C as in Corporate (a.) Belonging to a corporation or incorporated body.,
C as in Corporate (a.) United; general; collectively one.,
C as in Corporate (v. t.) To incorporate.,
C as in Corporate (v. i.) To become incorporated.,
C as in Corporately (adv.) In a corporate capacity; acting as a corporate body.,
C as in Corporately (adv.) In, or as regarda, the body.,
C as in Corporation (n.) A body politic or corporate, formed and authorized by law to act as a single person, and endowed by law with the capacity of succession; a society having the capacity of transacting business as an individual.,
C as in Corporator (n.) A member of a corporation, esp. one of the original members.,
C as in Corporature (n.) The state of being embodied; bodily existence.,
C as in Corporeal (a.) Having a body; consisting of, or pertaining to, a material body or substance; material; -- opposed to spiritual or immaterial.,
C as in Corporealism (n.) Materialism.,
C as in Corporealist (n.) One who denies the reality of spiritual existences; a materialist.,
C as in Corporealities (pl. ) of Corporeality,
C as in Corporeality (n.) The state of being corporeal; corporeal existence.,
C as in Corporeally (adv.) In the body; in a bodily form or manner.,
C as in Corporealness (n.) Corporeality; corporeity.,
C as in Corporeity (n.) The state of having a body; the state of being corporeal; materiality.,
C as in Corporify (v. t.) To embody; to form into a body.,
C as in Corposant (n.) St. Elmo's fire. See under Saint.,
C as in Corps (n. sing. & pl.) The human body, whether living or dead.,
C as in Corps (n. sing. & pl.) A body of men; esp., an organized division of the military establishment; as, the marine corps; the corps of topographical engineers; specifically, an army corps.,
C as in Corps (n. sing. & pl.) A body or code of laws.,
C as in Corps (n. sing. & pl.) The land with which a prebend or other ecclesiastical office is endowed.,
C as in Corpse (n.) A human body in general, whether living or dead; -- sometimes contemptuously.,
C as in Corpse (n.) The dead body of a human being; -- used also Fig.,
C as in Corpulence (n.) Alt. of Corpulency,
C as in Corpulency (n.) Excessive fatness; fleshiness; obesity.,
C as in Corpulency (n.) Thickness; density; compactness.,
C as in Corpulent (a.) Very fat; obese.,
C as in Corpulent (a.) Solid; gross; opaque.,
C as in Corpulently (adv.) In a corpulent manner.,
C as in Corpora (pl. ) of Corpus,
C as in Corpus (n.) A body, living or dead; the corporeal substance of a thing.,
C as in Corpora callosa (pl. ) of Corpus,
C as in Corpora lutea (pl. ) of Corpus,
C as in Corpora striata (pl. ) of Corpus,
C as in Corpuscle (n.) A minute particle; an atom; a molecule.,
C as in Corpuscle (n.) A protoplasmic animal cell; esp., such as float free, like blood, lymph, and pus corpuscles; or such as are imbedded in an intercellular matrix, like connective tissue and cartilage corpuscles. See Blood.,
C as in Corpuscular (a.) Pertaining to, or composed of, corpuscles, or small particles.,
C as in Corpuscularian (a.) Corpuscular.,
C as in Corpuscularian (n.) An adherent of the corpuscular philosophy.,
C as in Corpuscule (n.) A corpuscle.,
C as in Corpusculous (a.) Corpuscular.,
C as in Corrade (v. t.) To gnaw into; to wear away; to fret; to consume.,
C as in Corrade (v. t.) To erode, as the bed of a stream. See Corrosion.,
C as in Corradial (a.) Radiating to or from the same point.,
C as in Corradiate (v. t.) To converge to one point or focus, as light or rays.,
C as in Corradiation (n.) A conjunction or concentration of rays in one point.,
C as in Corral (n.) A pen for animals; esp., an inclosure made with wagons, by emigrants in the vicinity of hostile Indians, as a place of security for horses, cattle, etc.,
C as in Corraled (imp. & p. p.) of Corral,
C as in Corralling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Corral,
C as in Corral (v. t.) To surround and inclose; to coop up; to put into an inclosed space; -- primarily used with reference to securing horses and cattle in an inclosure of wagons while traversing the plains, but in the Southwestern United States now colloquially applied to the capturing, securing, or penning of anything.,
C as in Corrasion (n.) The erosion of the bed of a stream by running water, principally by attrition of the detritus carried along by the stream, but also by the solvent action of the water.,
C as in Corrasive (a.) Corrosive.,
C as in Correct (a.) Set right, or made straight; hence, conformable to truth, rectitude, or propriety, or to a just standard; not faulty or imperfect; free from error; as, correct behavior; correct views.,
C as in Corrected (imp. & p. p.) of Correct,
C as in Correcting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Correct,
C as in Correct (v. t.) To make right; to bring to the standard of truth, justice, or propriety; to rectify; as, to correct manners or principles.,
C as in Correct (v. t.) To remove or retrench the faults or errors of; to amend; to set right; as, to correct the proof (that is, to mark upon the margin the changes to be made, or to make in the type the changes so marked).,
C as in Correct (v. t.) To bring back, or attempt to bring back, to propriety in morals; to reprove or punish for faults or deviations from moral rectitude; to chastise; to discipline; as, a child should be corrected for lying.,
C as in Correct (v. t.) To counteract the qualities of one thing by those of another; -- said of whatever is wrong or injurious; as, to correct the acidity of the stomach by alkaline preparations.,
C as in Correctible (a.) Alt. of Correctable,
C as in Correctable (a.) Capable of being corrected.,
C as in Correctify (v. t.) To correct.,
C as in Correction (n.) The act of correcting, or making that right which was wrong; change for the better; amendment; rectification, as of an erroneous statement.,
C as in Correction (n.) The act of reproving or punishing, or that which is intended to rectify or to cure faults; punishment; discipline; chastisement.,
C as in Correction (n.) That which is substituted in the place of what is wrong; an emendation; as, the corrections on a proof sheet should be set in the margin.,
C as in Correction (n.) Abatement of noxious qualities; the counteraction of what is inconvenient or hurtful in its effects; as, the correction of acidity in the stomach.,
C as in Correction (n.) An allowance made for inaccuracy in an instrument; as, chronometer correction; compass correction.,
C as in Correctional (a.) Tending to, or intended for, correction; used for correction; as, a correctional institution.,
C as in Correctioner (n.) One who is, or who has been, in the house of correction.,
C as in Corrective (a.) Having the power to correct; tending to rectify; as, corrective penalties.,
C as in Corrective (a.) Qualifying; limiting.,
C as in Corrective (n.) That which has the power of correcting, altering, or counteracting what is wrong or injurious; as, alkalies are correctives of acids; penalties are correctives of immoral conduct.,
C as in Corrective (n.) Limitation; restriction.,
C as in Correctly (adv.) In a correct manner; exactly; acurately; without fault or error.,
C as in Correctness (n.) The state or quality of being correct; as, the correctness of opinions or of manners; correctness of taste; correctness in writing or speaking; the correctness of a text or copy.,
C as in Corrector (n.) One who, or that which, corrects; as, a corrector of abuses; a corrector of the press; an alkali is a corrector of acids.,
C as in Correctory (a.) Containing or making correction; corrective.,
C as in Correctress (n.) A woman who corrects.,
C as in Corregidor (n.) The chief magistrate of a Spanish town.,
C as in Correi (n.) A hollow in the side of a hill, where game usually lies.,
C as in Correlatable (a.) Such as can be correlated; as, correlatable phenomena.,
C as in Correlated (imp. & p. p.) of Correlate,
C as in Correlating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Correlate,
C as in Correlate (v. i.) To have reciprocal or mutual relations; to be mutually related.,
C as in Correlate (v. t.) To put in relation with each other; to connect together by the disclosure of a mutual relation; as, to correlate natural phenomena.,
C as in Correlate (n.) One who, or that which, stands in a reciprocal relation to something else, as father to son; a correlative.,
C as in Correlation (n.) Reciprocal relation; corresponding similarity or parallelism of relation or law; capacity of being converted into, or of giving place to, one another, under certain conditions; as, the correlation of forces, or of zymotic diseases.,
C as in Correlative (a.) Having or indicating a reciprocal relation.,
C as in Correlative (n.) One who, or that which, stands in a reciprocal relation, or is correlated, to some other person or thing.,
C as in Correlative (n.) The antecedent of a pronoun.,
C as in Correlatively (adv.) In a correlative relation.,
C as in Correlativeness (n.) Quality of being correlative.,
C as in Correligionist (n.) A co-religion/ist.,
C as in Correption (n.) Chiding; reproof; reproach.,
C as in Corresponded (imp. & p. p.) of Correspond,
C as in Corresponding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Correspond,
C as in Correspond (v. i.) To be like something else in the dimensions and arrangement of its parts; -- followed by with or to; as, concurring figures correspond with each other throughout.,
C as in Correspond (v. i.) To be adapted; to be congruous; to suit; to agree; to fit; to answer; -- followed by to.,
C as in Correspond (v. i.) To have intercourse or communion; especially, to hold intercourse or to communicate by sending and receiving letters; -- followed by with.,
C as in Correspondence (n.) Friendly intercourse; reciprocal exchange of civilities; especially, intercourse between persons by means of letters.,
C as in Correspondence (n.) The letters which pass between correspondents.,
C as in Correspondence (n.) Mutual adaptation, relation, or agreement, of one thing to another; agreement; congruity; fitness; relation.,
C as in Correspondencies (pl. ) of Correspondency,
C as in Correspondency (n.) Same as Correspondence, 3.,
C as in Correspondent (a.) Suitable; adapted; fit; corresponding; congruous; conformable; in accord or agreement; obedient; willing.,
C as in Correspondent (n.) One with whom intercourse is carried on by letter.,
C as in Correspondent (n.) One who communicates information, etc., by letter or telegram to a newspaper or periodical.,
C as in Correspondent (n.) One who carries on commercial intercourse by letter or telegram with a person or firm at a distance.,
C as in Correspondently (adv.) In a a corresponding manner; conformably; suitably.,
C as in Corresponding (a.) Answering; conformable; agreeing; suiting; as, corresponding numbers.,
C as in Corresponding (a.) Carrying on intercourse by letters.,
C as in Correspondingly (adv.) In a corresponding manner; conformably.,
C as in Corresponsive (a.) Corresponding; conformable; adapted.,
C as in Corridor (n.) A gallery or passageway leading to several apartments of a house.,
C as in Corridor (n.) The covered way lying round the whole compass of the fortifications of a place.,
C as in Corrie (n.) Same as Correi.,
C as in Corrigenda (pl. ) of Corrigendum,
C as in Corrigendum (n.) A fault or error to be corrected.,
C as in Corrigent (n.) A substance added to a medicine to mollify or modify its action.,
C as in Corrigibility (n.) Quality of being corrigible; capability of being corrected; corrigibleness.,
C as in Corrigible (a.) Capable of being set right, amended, or reformed; as, a corrigible fault.,
C as in Corrigible (a.) Submissive to correction; docile.,
C as in Corrigible (a.) Deserving chastisement; punishable.,
C as in Corrigible (a.) Having power to correct; corrective.,
C as in Corrigibleness (n.) The state or quality of being corrigible; corrigibility.,
C as in Corrival (n.) A fellow rival; a competitor; a rival; also, a companion.,
C as in Corrival (a.) Having rivaling claims; emulous; in rivalry.,
C as in Corrival (v. i. & t.) To compete with; to rival.,
C as in Corrivalry (n.) Corivalry.,
C as in Corrivalship (n.) Corivalry.,
C as in Corrivate (v. t.) To cause to flow together, as water drawn from several streams.,
C as in Corrivation (n.) The flowing of different streams into one.,
C as in Corroborant (a.) Strengthening; supporting; corroborating.,
C as in Corroborant (n.) Anything which gives strength or support; a tonic.,
C as in Corroborated (imp. & p. p.) of Corroborate,
C as in Corroborating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Corroborate,
C as in Corroborate (v. t.) To make strong, or to give additional strength to; to strengthen.,
C as in Corroborate (v. t.) To make more certain; to confirm; to establish.,
C as in Corroborate (a.) Corroborated.,
C as in Corroboration (n.) The act of corroborating, strengthening, or confirming; addition of strength; confirmation; as, the corroboration of an argument, or of information.,
C as in Corroboration (n.) That which corroborates.,
C as in Corroborative (a.) Tending to strengthen of confirm.,
C as in Corroborative (n.) A medicine that strengthens; a corroborant.,
C as in Corroboratory (a.) Tending to strengthen; corroborative; as, corroboratory facts.,
C as in Corroded (imp. & p. p.) of Corrode,
C as in Corroding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Corrode,
C as in Corrode (v. t.) To eat away by degrees; to wear away or diminish by gradually separating or destroying small particles of, as by action of a strong acid or a caustic alkali.,
C as in Corrode (v. t.) To consume; to wear away; to prey upon; to impair.,
C as in Corrode (v. i.) To have corrosive action; to be subject to corrosion.,
C as in Corrodent (a.) Corrosive.,
C as in Corrodent (n.) Anything that corrodes.,
C as in Corrodiate (v. t.) To eat away by degrees; to corrode.,
C as in Corrodibility (n.) The quality of being corrodible.,
C as in Corrodible (a.) Capable of being corroded; corrosible.,
C as in Corrosibility (n.) Corrodibility.,
C as in Corrosible (a.) Corrodible.,
C as in Corrosibleness (n.) The quality or state of being corrosible.,
C as in Corrosion (n.) The action or effect of corrosive agents, or the process of corrosive change; as, the rusting of iron is a variety of corrosion.,
C as in Corrosive (a.) Eating away; having the power of gradually wearing, changing, or destroying the texture or substance of a body; as, the corrosive action of an acid.,
C as in Corrosive (a.) Having the quality of fretting or vexing.,
C as in Corrosive (n.) That which has the quality of eating or wearing away gradually.,
C as in Corrosive (n.) That which has the power of fretting or irritating.,
C as in Corroval (n.) A dark brown substance of vegetable origin, allied to curare, and used by the natives of New Granada as an arrow poison.,
C as in Corrovaline (n.) A poisonous alkaloid extracted from corroval, and characterized by its immediate action in paralyzing the heart.,
C as in Corrugant (a.) Having the power of contracting into wrinkles.,
C as in Corrugate (a.) Wrinkled; crumpled; furrowed; contracted into ridges and furrows.,
C as in Corrugated (imp. & p. p.) of Corrugate,
C as in Corrugating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Corrugate,
C as in Corrugate (v. t.) To form or shape into wrinkles or folds, or alternate ridges and grooves, as by drawing, contraction, pressure, bending, or otherwise; to wrinkle; to purse up; as, to corrugate plates of iron; to corrugate the forehead.,
C as in Corrugation (n.) The act corrugating; contraction into wrinkles or alternate ridges and grooves.,
C as in Corrugator (n.) A muscle which contracts the skin of the forehead into wrinkles.,
C as in Corrugent (a.) Drawing together; contracting; -- said of the corrugator.,
C as in Corrump (v. t.) To corrupt. See Corrupt.,
C as in Corrumpable (a.) Corruptible.,
C as in Corrupt (a.) Changed from a sound to a putrid state; spoiled; tainted; vitiated; unsound.,
C as in Corrupt (a.) Changed from a state of uprightness, correctness, truth, etc., to a worse state; vitiated; depraved; debased; perverted; as, corrupt language; corrupt judges.,
C as in Corrupt (a.) Abounding in errors; not genuine or correct; as, the text of the manuscript is corrupt.,
C as in Corrupted (imp. & p. p.) of Corrupt,
C as in Corrupting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Corrupt,
C as in Corrupt (v. t.) To change from a sound to a putrid or putrescent state; to make putrid; to putrefy.,
C as in Corrupt (v. t.) To change from good to bad; to vitiate; to deprave; to pervert; to debase; to defile.,
C as in Corrupt (v. t.) To draw aside from the path of rectitude and duty; as, to corrupt a judge by a bribe.,
C as in Corrupt (v. t.) To debase or render impure by alterations or innovations; to falsify; as, to corrupt language; to corrupt the sacred text.,
C as in Corrupt (v. t.) To waste, spoil, or consume; to make worthless.,
C as in Corrupt (v. i.) To become putrid or tainted; to putrefy; to rot.,
C as in Corrupt (v. i.) To become vitiated; to lose putity or goodness.,
C as in Corrupter (n.) One who corrupts; one who vitiates or taints; as, a corrupter of morals.,
C as in Corruptful (a.) Tending to corrupt; full of corruption.,
C as in Corruptibility (n.) The quality of being corruptible; the possibility or liability of being corrupted; corruptibleness.,
C as in Corruptible (a.) Capable of being made corrupt; subject to decay.,
C as in Corruptible (a.) Capable of being corrupted, or morally vitiated; susceptible of depravation.,
C as in Corruptible (n.) That which may decay and perish; the human body.,
C as in Corruptingly (adv.) In a manner that corrupts.,
C as in Corruption (n.) The act of corrupting or making putrid, or state of being corrupt or putrid; decomposition or disorganization, in the process of putrefaction; putrefaction; deterioration.,
C as in Corruption (n.) The product of corruption; putrid matter.,
C as in Corruption (n.) The act of corrupting or of impairing integrity, virtue, or moral principle; the state of being corrupted or debased; loss of purity or integrity; depravity; wickedness; impurity; bribery.,
C as in Corruption (n.) The act of changing, or of being changed, for the worse; departure from what is pure, simple, or correct; as, a corruption of style; corruption in language.,
C as in Corruptionist (n.) One who corrupts, or who upholds corruption.,
C as in Corruptive (a.) Having the quality of taining or vitiating; tending to produce corruption.,
C as in Corruptless (a.) Not susceptible of corruption or decay; incorruptible.,
C as in Corruptly (adv.) In a corrupt manner; by means of corruption or corrupting influences; wrongfully.,
C as in Corruptness (n.) The quality of being corrupt.,
C as in Corruptress (n.) A woman who corrupts.,
C as in Corsac (n.) The corsak.,
C as in Corsage (n.) The waist or bodice of a lady's dress; as, a low corsage.,
C as in Corsage (n.) a flower or small arrangement of flowers worn by a person as a personal ornament. Typically worn by women on special occasions (as, at a ball or an anniversary celebration), a corsage may be worn pinned to the chest, or tied to the wrist. It is usually larger or more elaborate than a boutonniere.,
C as in Corsair (n.) A pirate; one who cruises about without authorization from any government, to seize booty on sea or land.,
C as in Corsair (n.) A piratical vessel.,
C as in Corsak (n.) A small foxlike mammal (Cynalopex corsac), found in Central Asia.,
C as in Corse (n.) A living body or its bulk.,
C as in Corse (n.) A corpse; the dead body of a human being.,
C as in Corselet (n.) Armor for the body, as, the body breastplate and backpiece taken together; -- also, used for the entire suit of the day, including breastplate and backpiece, tasset and headpiece.,
C as in Corselet (n.) The thorax of an insect.,
C as in Corsepresent (n.) An offering made to the church at the interment of a dead body.,
C as in Corset (n.) In the Middle Ages, a gown or basque of which the body was close fitting, worn by both men and women.,
C as in Corset (n.) An article of dress inclosing the chest and waist worn (chiefly by women) to support the body or to modify its shape; stays.,
C as in Corseted (imp. & p. p.) of Corset,
C as in Corseting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Corset,
C as in Corset (v. t.) To inclose in corsets.,
C as in Corslet (n.) A corselet.,
C as in Corsned (n.) The morsel of execration; a species of ordeal consisting in the eating of a piece of bread consecrated by imprecation. If the suspected person ate it freely, he was pronounced innocent; but if it stuck in his throat, it was considered as a proof of his guilt.,
C as in Cortege (n.) A train of attendants; a procession.,
C as in Cortes (n. pl.) The legislative assembly, composed of nobility, clergy, and representatives of cities, which in Spain and in Portugal answers, in some measure, to the Parliament of Great Britain.,
C as in Cortices (pl. ) of Cortex,
C as in Cortex (n.) Bark, as of a tree; hence, an outer covering.,
C as in Cortex (n.) Bark; rind; specifically, cinchona bark.,
C as in Cortex (n.) The outer or superficial part of an organ; as, the cortex or gray exterior substance of the brain.,
C as in Cortical (a.) Belonging to, or consisting of, bark or rind; resembling bark or rind; external; outer; superficial; as, the cortical substance of the kidney.,
C as in Corticate (a.) Alt. of Corticated,
C as in Corticated (a.) Having a special outer covering of a nature unlike the interior part.,
C as in Corticifer (n.) One of the Gorgoniacea; -- so called because the fleshy part surrounds a solid axis, like a bark.,
C as in Corticiferous (a.) Producing bark or something that resembling that resembles bark.,
C as in Corticiferous (a.) Having a barklike c/nenchyms.,
C as in Corticiform (a.) Resembling, or having the form of, bark or rind.,
C as in Corticine (n.) A material for carpeting or floor covering, made of ground cork and caoutchouc or India rubber.,
C as in Corticose (a.) Abounding in bark; resembling bark; barky.,
C as in Corticous (a.) Relating to, or resembling, bark; corticose.,
C as in Cortile (n.) An open internal courtyard inclosed by the walls of a large dwelling house or other large and stately building.,
C as in Corundums (pl. ) of Corundum,
C as in Corundum (n.) The earth alumina, as found native in a crystalline state, including sapphire, which is the fine blue variety; the oriental ruby, or red sapphire; the oriental amethyst, or purple sapphire; and adamantine spar, the hair-brown variety. It is the hardest substance found native, next to the diamond.,
C as in Coruscant (a.) Glittering in flashes; flashing.,
C as in Coruscate (v. i.) To glitter in flashes; to flash.,
C as in Coruscation (n.) A sudden flash or play of light.,
C as in Coruscation (n.) A flash of intellectual brilliancy.,
C as in Corve (n.) See Corf.,
C as in Corvee (n.) An obligation to perform certain services, as the repair of roads, for the lord or sovereign.,
C as in Corven () p. p. of Carve.,
C as in Corvet (n.) Alt. of Corvette,
C as in Corvette (n.) A war vessel, ranking next below a frigate, and having usually only one tier of guns; -- called in the United States navy a sloop of war.,
C as in Corvetto (n.) A curvet.,
C as in Corvine (a.) Of or pertaining to the crow; crowlike.,
C as in Corvorant (n.) See Cormorant.,
C as in Corybants (pl. ) of Corybant,
C as in Corybantes (pl. ) of Corybant,
C as in Corybant (n.) One of the priests of Cybele in Phrygia. The rites of the Corybants were accompanied by wild music, dancing, etc.,
C as in Corybantiasm (n.) A kind of frenzy in which the patient is tormented by fantastic visions and want of sleep.,
C as in Corybantic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the Corybantes or their rites; frantic; frenzied; as, a corybantic dance.,
C as in Corymb (n.) A flat-topped or convex cluster of flowers, each on its own footstalk, and arising from different points of a common axis, the outermost blossoms expanding first, as in the hawthorn.,
C as in Corymb (n.) Any flattish flower cluster, whatever be the order of blooming, or a similar shaped cluster of fruit.,
C as in Corymbed (a.) Corymbose.,
C as in Corymbiferous (a.) Bearing corymbs of flowers or fruit.,
C as in Corymbose (a.) Consisting of corymbs, or resembling them in form.,
C as in Corymbosely (adv.) In corymbs.,
C as in Coryphaenoid (a.) Belonging to, or like, the genus Coryphaena. See Dolphin.,
C as in Coryphee (n.) A ballet dancer.,
C as in Coryphene (n.) A fish of the genus Coryphaena. See Dolphin. (2),
C as in Corypheuses (pl. ) of Corypheus,
C as in Coryphei (pl. ) of Corypheus,
C as in Corypheus (n.) The conductor, chief, or leader of the dramatic chorus; hence, the chief or leader of a party or interest.,
C as in Coryphodon (n.) A genus of extinct mammals from the eocene tertiary of Europe and America. Its species varied in size between the tapir and rhinoceros, and were allied to those animals, but had short, plantigrade, five-toed feet, like the elephant.,
C as in Coryphodont (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, the genus Coryphodon.,
C as in Coryza (n.) Nasal catarrh.,
C as in Coscinomancy (n.) Divination by means of a suspended sieve.,
C as in Coscoroba (n.) A large, white, South American duck, of the genus Cascoroba, resembling a swan.,
C as in Cosecant (n.) The secant of the complement of an arc or angle. See Illust. of Functions.,
C as in Cosen (v. t.) See Cozen.,
C as in Cosenage (n.) See Cozenage.,
C as in Cosening (n.) Anything done deceitfully, and which could not be properly designated by any special name, whether belonging to contracts or not.,
C as in Cosentient (a.) Perceiving together.,
C as in Cosey (a.) See Cozy.,
C as in Cosher (v. t.) To levy certain exactions or tribute upon; to lodge and eat at the expense of. See Coshering.,
C as in Cosher (v. t.) To treat with hospitality; to pet.,
C as in Cosherer (n.) One who coshers.,
C as in Coshering (n.) A feudal prerogative of the lord of the soil entitling him to lodging and food at his tenant's house.,
C as in Cosier (n.) A tailor who botches his work.,
C as in Cosignificative (a.) Having the same signification.,
C as in Cosignitary (a.) Signing some important public document with another or with others; as, a treaty violated by one of the cosignitary powers.,
C as in Cosignitaries (pl. ) of Cosignitary,
C as in Cosignitary (n.) One who signs a treaty or public document along with others or another; as, the cosignitaries of the treaty of Berlin.,
C as in Cosily (adv.) See Cozily.,
C as in Cosinage (n.) Collateral relationship or kindred by blood; consanguinity.,
C as in Cosinage (n.) A writ to recover possession of an estate in lands, when a stranger has entered, after the death of the grandfather's grandfather, or other distant collateral relation.,
C as in Cosine (n.) The sine of the complement of an arc or angle. See Illust. of Functions.,
C as in Cosmetic (a.) Alt. of Cosmetical,
C as in Cosmetical (a.) Imparting or improving beauty, particularly the beauty of the complexion; as, a cosmetical preparation.,
C as in Cosmetic (n.) Any external application intended to beautify and improve the complexion.,
C as in Cosmic (a.) Alt. of Cosmical,
C as in Cosmical (a.) Pertaining to the universe, and having special reference to universal law or order, or to the one grand harmonious system of things; hence; harmonious; orderly.,
C as in Cosmical (a.) Pertaining to the solar system as a whole, and not to the earth alone.,
C as in Cosmical (a.) Characteristic of the cosmos or universe; inconceivably great; vast; as, cosmic speed.,
C as in Cosmical (a.) Rising or setting with the sun; -- the opposite of acronycal.,
C as in Cosmically (adv.) With the sun at rising or setting; as, a star is said to rise or set cosmically when it rises or sets with the sun.,
C as in Cosmically (adv.) Universally.,
C as in Cosmogonal (a.) Alt. of Cosmogonical,
C as in Cosmogonic (a.) Alt. of Cosmogonical,
C as in Cosmogonical (a.) Belonging to cosmogony.,
C as in Cosmogonist (n.) One who treats of the origin of the universe; one versed in cosmogony.,
C as in Cosmogonies (pl. ) of Cosmogony,
C as in Cosmogony (n.) The creation of the world or universe; a theory or account of such creation; as, the poetical cosmogony of Hesoid; the cosmogonies of Thales, Anaxagoras, and Plato.,
C as in Cosmographer (n.) One who describes the world or universe, including the heavens and the earth.,
C as in Cosmographic (a.) Alt. of Cosmographical,
C as in Cosmographical (a.) Of or pertaining to cosmography.,
C as in Cosmographically (adv.) In a cosmographic manner; in accordance with cosmography.,
C as in Cosmographies (pl. ) of Cosmography,
C as in Cosmography (n.) A description of the world or of the universe; or the science which teaches the constitution of the whole system of worlds, or the figure, disposition, and relation of all its parts.,
C as in Cosmolabe (n.) An instrument resembling the astrolabe, formerly used for measuring the angles between heavenly bodies; -- called also pantacosm.,
C as in Cosmolatry (n.) Worship paid to the world.,
C as in Cosmoline (n.) A substance obtained from the residues of the distillation of petroleum, essentially the same as vaseline, but of somewhat stiffer consistency, and consisting of a mixture of the higher paraffines; a kind of petroleum jelly.,
C as in Cosmological (a.) Of or pertaining to cosmology.,
C as in Cosmologist (n.) One who describes the universe; one skilled in cosmology.,
C as in Cosmology (n.) The science of the world or universe; or a treatise relating to the structure and parts of the system of creation, the elements of bodies, the modifications of material things, the laws of motion, and the order and course of nature.,
C as in Cosmometry (n.) The art of measuring the world or the universe.,
C as in Cosmoplastic (a.) Pertaining to a plastic force as operative in the formation of the world independently of God; world-forming.,
C as in Cosmopolitan (n.) Alt. of Cosmopolite,
C as in Cosmopolite (n.) One who has no fixed residence, or who is at home in every place; a citizen of the world.,
C as in Cosmopolitan (a.) Alt. of Cosmopolite,
C as in Cosmopolite (a.) Having no fixed residence; at home in any place; free from local attachments or prejudices; not provincial; liberal.,
C as in Cosmopolite (a.) Common everywhere; widely spread; found in all parts of the world.,
C as in Cosmopolitanism (n.) The quality of being cosmopolitan; cosmopolitism.,
C as in Cosmopolite (a. & n.) See Cosmopolitan.,
C as in Cosmopolitical (a.) Having the character of a cosmopolite.,
C as in Cosmopolitism (n.) The condition or character of a cosmopolite; disregard of national or local peculiarities and prejudices.,
C as in Cosmorama (n.) An exhibition in which a series of views in various parts of the world is seen reflected by mirrors through a series of lenses, with such illumination, etc., as will make the views most closely represent reality.,
C as in Cosmoramic (a.) Of or pertaining to a cosmorama.,
C as in Cosmos (n.) The universe or universality of created things; -- so called from the order and harmony displayed in it.,
C as in Cosmos (n.) The theory or description of the universe, as a system displaying order and harmony.,
C as in Cosmosphere (n.) An apparatus for showing the position of the earth, at any given time, with respect to the fixed stars. It consist of a hollow glass globe, on which are depicted the stars and constellations, and within which is a terrestrial globe.,
C as in Cosmotheism (n.) Same as Pantheism.,
C as in Cosmothetic (a.) Assuming or positing the actual existence or reality of the physical or external world.,
C as in Cosovereign (n.) A joint sovereign.,
C as in Coss (n.) A Hindoo measure of distance, varying from one and a half to two English miles.,
C as in Coss (n.) A thing (only in phrase below).,
C as in Cossack (n.) One of a warlike, pastoral people, skillful as horsemen, inhabiting different parts of the Russian empire and furnishing valuable contingents of irregular cavalry to its armies, those of Little Russia and those of the Don forming the principal divisions.,
C as in Cossas (n.) Plain India muslin, of various qualities and widths.,
C as in Cosset (n.) A lamb reared without the aid of the dam. Hence: A pet, in general.,
C as in Cosset (v. t.) To treat as a pet; to fondle.,
C as in Cossic (a.) Alt. of Cossical,
C as in Cossical (a.) Of or relating to algebra; as, cossic numbers, or the cossic art.,
C as in Cost (n.) A rib; a side; a region or coast.,
C as in Cost (n.) See Cottise.,
C as in Cost (imp. & p. p.) of Cost,
C as in Costing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cost,
C as in Cost (v. t.) To require to be given, expended, or laid out therefor, as in barter, purchase, acquisition, etc.; to cause the cost, expenditure, relinquishment, or loss of; as, the ticket cost a dollar; the effort cost his life.,
C as in Cost (v. t.) To require to be borne or suffered; to cause.,
C as in Cost (v. t.) The amount paid, charged, or engaged to be paid, for anything bought or taken in barter; charge; expense; hence, whatever, as labor, self-denial, suffering, etc., is requisite to secure benefit.,
C as in Cost (v. t.) Loss of any kind; detriment; pain; suffering.,
C as in Cost (v. t.) Expenses incurred in litigation.,
C as in Costa (n.) A rib of an animal or a human being.,
C as in Costa (n.) A rib or vein of a leaf, especially the midrib.,
C as in Costa (n.) The anterior rib in the wing of an insect.,
C as in Costa (n.) One of the riblike longitudinal ridges on the exterior of many corals.,
C as in Costage (n.) Expense; cost.,
C as in Costal (a.) Pertaining to the ribs or the sides of the body; as, costal nerves.,
C as in Costal (a.) Relating to a costa, or rib.,
C as in Costal-nerved (a.) Having the nerves spring from the midrib.,
C as in Costard (n.) An apple, large and round like the head.,
C as in Costard (n.) The head; -- used contemptuously.,
C as in Costardmonger (n.) A costermonger.,
C as in Costate (a.) Alt. of Costated,
C as in Costated (a.) Having ribs, or the appearance of ribs; (Bot.) having one or more longitudinal ribs.,
C as in Costean (v. i.) To search after lodes. See Costeaning.,
C as in Costeaning (n.) The process by which miners seek to discover metallic lodes. It consist in sinking small pits through the superficial deposits to the solid rock, and then driving from one pit to another across the direction of the vein, in such manner as to cross all the veins between the two pits.,
C as in Costellate (a.) Finely ribbed or costated.,
C as in Coster (n.) One who hawks about fruit, green vegetables, fish, etc.,
C as in Costermonger (n.) An apple seller; a hawker of, or dealer in, any kind of fruit or vegetables; a fruiterer.,
C as in Costiferous (a.) Rib-bearing, as the dorsal vertebrae.,
C as in Costive (a.) Retaining fecal matter in the bowels; having too slow a motion of the bowels; constipated.,
C as in Costive (a.) Reserved; formal; close; cold.,
C as in Costive (a.) Dry and hard; impermeable; unyielding.,
C as in Costively (adv.) In a costive manner.,
C as in Costiveness (n.) An unnatural retention of the fecal matter of the bowels; constipation.,
C as in Costiveness (n.) Inability to express one's self; stiffness.,
C as in Costless (a.) Costing nothing.,
C as in Costlewe (a.) Costly.,
C as in Costliness (n.) The quality of being costy; expensiveness; sumptuousness.,
C as in Costly (a.) Of great cost; expensive; dear.,
C as in Costly (a.) Gorgeous; sumptuous.,
C as in Costmary (n.) A garden plant (Chrysanthemum Balsamita) having a strong balsamic smell, and nearly allied to tansy. It is used as a pot herb and salad plant and in flavoring ale and beer. Called also alecost.,
C as in Costotome (n.) An instrument (chisel or shears) to cut the ribs and open the thoracic cavity, in post-mortem examinations and dissections.,
C as in Costrel (n.) A bottle of leather, earthenware, or wood, having ears by which it was suspended at the side.,
C as in Costume (n.) Dress in general; esp., the distinctive style of dress of a people, class, or period.,
C as in Costume (n.) Such an arrangement of accessories, as in a picture, statue, poem, or play, as is appropriate to the time, place, or other circumstances represented or described.,
C as in Costume (n.) A character dress, used at fancy balls or for dramatic purposes.,
C as in Costumer (n.) One who makes or deals in costumes, as for theaters, fancy balls, etc.,
C as in Co-sufferer (n.) One who suffers with another.,
C as in Cosupreme (n.) A partaker of supremacy; one jointly supreme.,
C as in Cosureties (pl. ) of Cosurety,
C as in Cosurety (n.) One who is surety with another.,
C as in Cosy (a.) See Cozy.,
C as in Cot (n.) A small house; a cottage or hut.,
C as in Cot (n.) A pen, coop, or like shelter for small domestic animals, as for sheep or pigeons; a cote.,
C as in Cot (n.) A cover or sheath; as, a roller cot (the clothing of a drawing roller in a spinning frame); a cot for a sore finger.,
C as in Cot (n.) A small, rudely-formed boat.,
C as in Cot (n.) A sleeping place of limited size; a little bed; a cradle; a piece of canvas extended by a frame, used as a bed.,
C as in Cotangent (n.) The tangent of the complement of an arc or angle. See Illust. of Functions.,
C as in Cotarnine (n.) A white, crystalline substance, C12H13NO3, obtained as a product of the decomposition of narcotine. It has weak basic properties, and is usually regarded as an alkaloid.,
C as in Cote (n.) A cottage or hut.,
C as in Cote (n.) A shed, shelter, or inclosure for small domestic animals, as for sheep or doves.,
C as in Cote (v. t.) To go side by side with; hence, to pass by; to outrun and get before; as, a dog cotes a hare.,
C as in Cote (v. t.) To quote.,
C as in Cotemporaneous (a.) Living or being at the same time; contemporaneous.,
C as in Cotemporary (a.) Living or being at the same time; contemporary.,
C as in Cotemporaries (pl. ) of Cotemporary,
C as in Cotemporary (n.) One who lives at the same time with another; a contemporary.,
C as in Cotenant (n.) A tenant in common, or a joint tenant.,
C as in Coterie (n.) A set or circle of persons who meet familiarly, as for social, literary, or other purposes; a clique.,
C as in Coterminous (a.) Bordering; conterminous; -- followed by with.,
C as in Cotgare (n.) Refuse wool.,
C as in Cothurn (n.) A buskin anciently used by tragic actors on the stage; hence, tragedy in general.,
C as in Cothurnate (a.) Alt. of Cothurnated,
C as in Cothurnated (a.) Wearing a cothurn.,
C as in Cothurnated (a.) Relating to tragedy; solemn; grave.,
C as in Cothurnus (n.) Same as Cothurn.,
C as in Coticular (a.) Pertaining to whetstones; like or suitable for whetstones.,
C as in Cotidal (a.) Marking an equality in the tides; having high tide at the same time.,
C as in Cotillon (n.) Alt. of Cotillion,
C as in Cotillion (n.) A brisk dance, performed by eight persons; a quadrille.,
C as in Cotillion (n.) A tune which regulates the dance.,
C as in Cotillion (n.) A kind of woolen material for women's skirts.,
C as in Cotillion (n.) A formal ball.,
C as in Cotinga (n.) A bird of the family Cotingidae, including numerous bright-colored South American species; -- called also chatterers.,
C as in Cotise (n.) See Cottise.,
C as in Cotised (a.) See Cottised.,
C as in Cotland (n.) Land appendant to a cot or cottage, or held by a cottager or cotter.,
C as in Cotquean (n.) A man who busies himself with affairs which properly belong to women.,
C as in Cotquean (n.) A she-cuckold; a cucquean; a henhussy.,
C as in Cotqueanity (n.) The condition, character, or conduct of a cotquean.,
C as in Cotrustee (n.) A joint trustee.,
C as in Cotswold (n.) An open country abounding in sheepcotes, as in the Cotswold hills, in Gloucestershire, England.,
C as in Cottage (n.) A small house; a cot; a hut.,
C as in Cottaged (a.) Set or covered with cottages.,
C as in Cottagely (a.) Cottagelike; suitable for a cottage; rustic.,
C as in Cottager (n.) One who lives in a cottage.,
C as in Cottager (n.) One who lives on the common, without paying any rent, or having land of his own.,
C as in Cotter (n.) Alt. of Cottar,
C as in Cottar (n.) A cottager; a cottier.,
C as in Cotter (n.) A piece of wood or metal, commonly wedge-shaped, used for fastening together parts of a machine or structure. It is driven into an opening through one or all of the parts. [See Illust.] In the United States a cotter is commonly called a key.,
C as in Cotter (n.) A toggle.,
C as in Cotter (v. t.) To fasten with a cotter.,
C as in Cottier (n.) In Great Britain and Ireland, a person who hires a small cottage, with or without a plot of land. Cottiers commonly aid in the work of the landlord's farm.,
C as in Cottise (n.) A diminutive of the bendlet, containing one half its area or one quarter the area of the bend. When a single cottise is used alone it is often called a cost. See also Couple-close.,
C as in Cottised (a.) Set between two cottises, -- said of a bend; or between two barrulets, -- said of a bar or fess.,
C as in Cottoid (a.) Like a fish of the genus Cottus.,
C as in Cottoid (n.) A fish belonging to, or resembling, the genus Cottus. See Sculpin.,
C as in Cottolene (n.) A product from cotton-seed, used as lard.,
C as in Cotton (n.) A soft, downy substance, resembling fine wool, consisting of the unicellular twisted hairs which grow on the seeds of the cotton plant. Long-staple cotton has a fiber sometimes almost two inches long; short-staple, from two thirds of an inch to an inch and a half.,
C as in Cotton (n.) The cotton plant. See Cotten plant, below.,
C as in Cotton (n.) Cloth made of cotton.,
C as in Cotton (v. i.) To rise with a regular nap, as cloth does.,
C as in Cotton (v. i.) To go on prosperously; to succeed.,
C as in Cotton (v. i.) To unite; to agree; to make friends; -- usually followed by with.,
C as in Cotton (v. i.) To take a liking to; to stick to one as cotton; -- used with to.,
C as in Cottonade (n.) A somewhat stout and thick fabric of cotton.,
C as in Cottonary (a.) Relating to, or composed of, cotton; cottony.,
C as in Cottonous (a.) Resembling cotton.,
C as in Cottontail (n.) The American wood rabbit (Lepus sylvaticus); -- also called Molly cottontail.,
C as in Cottonweed (n.) See Cudweed.,
C as in Cottonwood (n.) An American tree of the genus Populus or poplar, having the seeds covered with abundant cottonlike hairs; esp., the P. monilifera and P. angustifolia of the Western United States.,
C as in Cottony (a.) Covered with hairs or pubescence, like cotton; downy; nappy; woolly.,
C as in Cottony (a.) Of or pertaining to cotton; resembling cotton in appearance or character; soft, like cotton.,
C as in Cottrel (n.) A trammel, or hook to support a pot over a fire.,
C as in Cotyla (n.) Alt. of Cotyle,
C as in Cotyle (n.) A cuplike cavity or organ. Same as Acetabulum.,
C as in Cotyledon (n.) One of the patches of villi found in some forms of placenta.,
C as in Cotyledon (n.) A leaf borne by the caulicle or radicle of an embryo; a seed leaf.,
C as in Cotyledonal (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a cotyledon.,
C as in Cotyledonary (a.) Having a cotyledon; tufted; as, the cotyledonary placenta of the cow.,
C as in Cotyledonous (a.) Of or pertaining to a cotyledon or cotyledons; having a seed lobe.,
C as in Cotyliform (a.) Shaped like a cotyle or a cup.,
C as in Cotyligerous (a.) Having cotyles.,
C as in Cotyloid (a.) Shaped like a cup; as, the cotyloid cavity, which receives the head of the thigh bone.,
C as in Cotyloid (a.) Pertaining to a cotyloid cavity; as, the cotyloid ligament, or notch.,
C as in Coucal (n.) A large, Old World, ground cuckoo of the genus Centropus, of several species.,
C as in Couched (imp. & p. p.) of Couch,
C as in Couching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Couch,
C as in Couch (v. t.) To lay upon a bed or other resting place.,
C as in Couch (v. t.) To arrange or dispose as in a bed; -- sometimes followed by the reflexive pronoun.,
C as in Couch (v. t.) To lay or deposit in a bed or layer; to bed.,
C as in Couch (v. t.) To transfer (as sheets of partly dried pulp) from the wire cloth mold to a felt blanket, for further drying.,
C as in Couch (v. t.) To conceal; to include or involve darkly.,
C as in Couch (v. t.) To arrange; to place; to inlay.,
C as in Couch (v. t.) To put into some form of language; to express; to phrase; -- used with in and under.,
C as in Couch (v. t.) To treat by pushing down or displacing the opaque lens with a needle; as, to couch a cataract.,
C as in Couch (v. i.) To lie down or recline, as on a bed or other place of rest; to repose; to lie.,
C as in Couch (v. i.) To lie down for concealment; to hide; to be concealed; to be included or involved darkly.,
C as in Couch (v. i.) To bend the body, as in reverence, pain, labor, etc.; to stoop; to crouch.,
C as in Couch (v. t.) A bed or place for repose or sleep; particularly, in the United States, a lounge.,
C as in Couch (v. t.) Any place for repose, as the lair of a beast, etc.,
C as in Couch (v. t.) A mass of steeped barley spread upon a floor to germinate, in malting; or the floor occupied by the barley; as, couch of malt.,
C as in Couch (v. t.) A preliminary layer, as of color, size, etc.,
C as in Couchancy (n.) State of lying down for repose.,
C as in Couchant (v. t.) Lying down with head erect; squatting.,
C as in Couchant (v. t.) Lying down with the head raised, which distinguishes the posture of couchant from that of dormant, or sleeping; -- said of a lion or other beast.,
C as in Couche (v. t.) Not erect; inclined; -- said of anything that is usually erect, as an escutcheon.,
C as in Couche (v. t.) Lying on its side; thus, a chevron couche is one which emerges from one side of the escutcheon and has its apex on the opposite side, or at the fess point.,
C as in Couched (a.) Same as Couch/.,
C as in Couchee (v. t.) A reception held at the time of going to bed, as by a sovereign or great prince.,
C as in Coucher (n.) One who couches.,
C as in Coucher (n.) One who couches paper.,
C as in Coucher (n.) A factor or agent resident in a country for traffic.,
C as in Coucher (n.) The book in which a corporation or other body registers its particular acts.,
C as in Couch grass () See Quitch grass.,
C as in Couching (n.) The operation of putting down or displacing the opaque lens in cataract.,
C as in Couching (n.) Embroidering by laying the materials upon the surface of the foundation, instead of drawing them through.,
C as in Couchless (a.) Having no couch or bed.,
C as in Coudee (n.) A measure of length; the distance from the elbow to the end of the middle finger; a cubit.,
C as in Cougar (n.) An American feline quadruped (Felis concolor), resembling the African panther in size and habits. Its color is tawny, without spots; hence writers often called it the American lion. Called also puma, panther, mountain lion, and catamount. See Puma.,
C as in Coughed (imp. & p. p.) of Cough,
C as in Coughing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cough,
C as in Cough (v. i.) To expel air, or obstructing or irritating matter, from the lungs or air passages, in a noisy and violent manner.,
C as in Cough (v. t.) To expel from the lungs or air passages by coughing; -- followed by up; as, to cough up phlegm.,
C as in Cough (v. t.) To bring to a specified state by coughing; as, he coughed himself hoarse.,
C as in Cough (v. i.) A sudden, noisy, and violent expulsion of air from the chest, caused by irritation in the air passages, or by the reflex action of nervous or gastric disorder, etc.,
C as in Cough (v. i.) The more or less frequent repetition of coughing, constituting a symptom of disease.,
C as in Cougher (n.) One who coughs.,
C as in Couhage (n.) See Cowhage.,
C as in Could (imp.) Was, should be, or would be, able, capable, or susceptible. Used as an auxiliary, in the past tense or in the conditional present.,
C as in Coulee (n.) A stream,
C as in Coulee (n.) a stream of lava. Also, in the Western United States, the bed of a stream, even if dry, when deep and having inclined sides; distinguished from a caon, which has precipitous sides.,
C as in Coulisse (n.) A piece of timber having a groove in which something glides.,
C as in Coulisse (n.) One of the side scenes of the stage in a theater, or the space included between the side scenes.,
C as in Couloir (n.) A deep gorge; a gully.,
C as in Couloir (n.) A dredging machine for excavating canals, etc.,
C as in Coulomb (n.) The standard unit of quantity in electrical measurements. It is the quantity of electricity conveyed in one second by the current produced by an electro-motive force of one volt acting in a circuit having a resistance of one ohm, or the quantity transferred by one ampere in one second. Formerly called weber.,
C as in Coulter (n.) Same as Colter.,
C as in Coulterneb (n.) The puffin.,
C as in Coumaric (a.) Relating to, derived from, or like, the Dipterix odorata, a tree of Guiana.,
C as in Coumarin (n.) The concrete essence of the tonka bean, the fruit of Dipterix (formerly Coumarouna) odorata and consisting essentially of coumarin proper, which is a white crystalline substance, C9H6O2, of vanilla-like odor, regarded as an anhydride of coumaric acid, and used in flavoring. Coumarin in also made artificially.,
C as in Council (n.) An assembly of men summoned or convened for consultation, deliberation, or advice; as, a council of physicians for consultation in a critical case.,
C as in Council (n.) A body of man elected or appointed to constitute an advisory or a legislative assembly; as, a governor's council; a city council.,
C as in Council (n.) Act of deliberating; deliberation; consultation.,
C as in Councilist (n.) One who belong to a council; one who gives an opinion.,
C as in Councilmen (pl. ) of Councilman,
C as in Councilman (n.) A member of a council, especially of the common council of a city; a councilor.,
C as in Councilor (n.) A member of a council.,
C as in Co-une (v. t.) To combine or unite.,
C as in Co-unite (v. t.) To unite.,
C as in Co-unite (a.) United closely with another.,
C as in Counsel (n.) Interchange of opinions; mutual advising; consultation.,
C as in Counsel (n.) Examination of consequences; exercise of deliberate judgment; prudence.,
C as in Counsel (n.) Result of consultation; advice; instruction.,
C as in Counsel (n.) Deliberate purpose; design; intent; scheme; plan.,
C as in Counsel (n.) A secret opinion or purpose; a private matter.,
C as in Counsel (n.) One who gives advice, especially in legal matters; one professionally engaged in the trial or management of a cause in court; also, collectively, the legal advocates united in the management of a case; as, the defendant has able counsel.,
C as in Counseled (imp. & p. p.) of Counsel,
C as in Counselled () of Counsel,
C as in Counseling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Counsel,
C as in Counselling () of Counsel,
C as in Counsel (v. t.) To give advice to; to advice, admonish, or instruct, as a person.,
C as in Counsel (v. t.) To advise or recommend, as an act or course.,
C as in Counselable (a.) Willing to receive counsel or follow advice.,
C as in Counselable (a.) Suitable to be advised; advisable, wise.,
C as in Counselor (n.) One who counsels; an adviser.,
C as in Counselor (n.) A member of council; one appointed to advise a sovereign or chief magistrate. [See under Consilor.],
C as in Counselor (n.) One whose profession is to give advice in law, and manage causes for clients in court; a barrister.,
C as in Counselorship (n.) The function and rank or office of a counselor.,
C as in Counted (imp. & p. p.) of Count,
C as in Counting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Count,
C as in Count (v. t.) To tell or name one by one, or by groups, for the purpose of ascertaining the whole number of units in a collection; to number; to enumerate; to compute; to reckon.,
C as in Count (v. t.) To place to an account; to ascribe or impute; to consider or esteem as belonging.,
C as in Count (v. t.) To esteem; to account; to reckon; to think, judge, or consider.,
C as in Count (v. i.) To number or be counted; to possess value or carry weight; hence, to increase or add to the strength or influence of some party or interest; as, every vote counts; accidents count for nothing.,
C as in Count (v. i.) To reckon; to rely; to depend; -- with on or upon.,
C as in Count (v. i.) To take account or note; -- with,
C as in Count (v. i.) To plead orally; to argue a matter in court; to recite a count.,
C as in Count (v. t.) The act of numbering; reckoning; also, the number ascertained by counting.,
C as in Count (v. t.) An object of interest or account; value; estimation.,
C as in Count (v. t.) A formal statement of the plaintiff's case in court; in a more technical and correct sense, a particular allegation or charge in a declaration or indictment, separately setting forth the cause of action or prosecution.,
C as in Count (n.) A nobleman on the continent of Europe, equal in rank to an English earl.,
C as in Countable (a.) Capable of being numbered.,
C as in Counttenance (n.) Appearance or expression of the face; look; aspect; mien.,
C as in Counttenance (n.) The face; the features.,
C as in Counttenance (n.) Approving or encouraging aspect of face; hence, favor, good will, support; aid; encouragement.,
C as in Counttenance (n.) Superficial appearance; show; pretense.,
C as in Countenanced (imp. & p. p.) of Countenance,
C as in Countenancing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Countenance,
C as in Countenance (v. t.) To encourage; to favor; to approve; to aid; to abet.,
C as in Countenance (v. t.) To make a show of; to pretend.,
C as in Countenancer (n.) One who countenances, favors, or supports.,
C as in Counter (adv.) A prefix meaning contrary, opposite, in opposition; as, counteract, counterbalance, countercheck. See Counter, adv. & a.,
C as in Counter (v. t.) One who counts, or reckons up; a calculator; a reckoner.,
C as in Counter (v. t.) A piece of metal, ivory, wood, or bone, used in reckoning, in keeping account of games, etc.,
C as in Counter (v. t.) Money; coin; -- used in contempt.,
C as in Counter (v. t.) A prison; either of two prisons formerly in London.,
C as in Counter (v. t.) A telltale; a contrivance attached to an engine, printing press, or other machine, for the purpose of counting the revolutions or the pulsations.,
C as in Counter (v. t.) A table or board on which money is counted and over which business is transacted; a long, narrow table or bench, on which goods are laid for examination by purchasers, or on which they are weighed or measured.,
C as in Counter (adv.) Contrary; in opposition; in an opposite direction; contrariwise; -- used chiefly with run or go.,
C as in Counter (adv.) In the wrong way; contrary to the right course; as, a hound that runs counter.,
C as in Counter (adv.) At or against the front or face.,
C as in Counter (a.) Contrary; opposite; contrasted; opposed; adverse; antagonistic; as, a counter current; a counter revolution; a counter poison; a counter agent; counter fugue.,
C as in Counter (adv.) The after part of a vessel's body, from the water line to the stern, -- below and somewhat forward of the stern proper.,
C as in Counter (adv.) Same as Contra. Formerly used to designate any under part which served for contrast to a principal part, but now used as equivalent to counter tenor.,
C as in Counter (adv.) The breast, or that part of a horse between the shoulders and under the neck.,
C as in Counter (adv.) The back leather or heel part of a boot.,
C as in Counter (n.) An encounter.,
C as in Counter (v. i.) To return a blow while receiving one, as in boxing.,
C as in Counteracted (imp. & p. p.) of Counteract,
C as in Counteracting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Counteract,
C as in Counteract (v. t.) To act in opposition to; to hinder, defeat, or frustrate, by contrary agency or influence; as, to counteract the effect of medicines; to counteract good advice.,
C as in Counteraction (n.) Action in opposition; hindrance resistance.,
C as in Counteractive (a.) Tending to counteract.,
C as in Counteractive (n.) One who, or that which, counteracts.,
C as in Counteractibely (adv.) By counteraction.,
C as in Counterbalanced (imp. & p. p.) of Counterbalance,
C as in Counterbalancing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Counterbalance,
C as in Counterbalance (v. t.) To oppose with an equal weight or power; to counteract the power or effect of; to countervail; to equiponderate; to balance.,
C as in Counterbalance (n.) A weight, power, or agency, acting against or balancing another,
C as in Counterbalance (n.) A mass of metal in one side of a driving wheel or fly wheel, to balance the weight of a crank pin, etc., on the opposite side of the wheel,
C as in Counterbalance (n.) A counterpoise to balance the weight of anything, as of a drawbridge or a scale beam.,
C as in Counterbore (n.) A flat-bottomed cylindrical enlargement of the mouth of a hole, usually of slight depth, as for receiving a cylindrical screw head.,
C as in Counterbore (n.) A kind of pin drill with the cutting edge or edges normal to the axis; -- used for enlarging a hole, or for forming a flat-bottomed recess at its mouth.,
C as in Counterbore (v. t.) To form a counterbore in, by boring, turning, or drilling; to enlarge, as a hole, by means of a counterbore.,
C as in Counter brace () The brace of the fore-topsail on the leeward side of a vessel.,
C as in Counter brace () A brace, in a framed structure, which resists a strain of a character opposite to that which a main brace is designed to receive.,
C as in Counterbrace (v. t.) To brace in opposite directions; as, to counterbrace the yards, i. e., to brace the head yards one way and the after yards another.,
C as in Counterbrace (v. t.) To brace in such a way that opposite strains are resisted; to apply counter braces to.,
C as in Counterbuff (v. t.) To strike or drive back or in an opposite direction; to stop by a blow or impulse in front.,
C as in Counterbuff (n.) A blow in an opposite direction; a stroke that stops motion or cause a recoil.,
C as in Countercast (n.) A trick; a delusive contrivance.,
C as in Countercaster (n.) A caster of accounts; a reckoner; a bookkeeper; -- used contemptuously.,
C as in Counterchanged (imp. & p. p.) of Counterchange,
C as in Counterchanging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Counterchange,
C as in Counterchange (v. t.) To give and receive; to cause to change places; to exchange.,
C as in Counterchange (v. t.) To checker; to diversify, as in heraldic counterchanging. See Counterchaged, a., 2.,
C as in Counterchange (n.) Exchange; reciprocation.,
C as in Counterchanged (a.) Exchanged.,
C as in Counterchanged (a.) Having the tinctures exchanged mutually; thus, if the field is divided palewise, or and azure, and cross is borne counterchanged, that part of the cross which comes on the azure side will be or, and that on the or side will be azure.,
C as in Countercharge (n.) An opposing charge.,
C as in Countercharmed (imp. & p. p.) of Countercharm,
C as in Countercharming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Countercharm,
C as in Countercharm (v. t.) To destroy the effect of a charm upon.,
C as in Countercharm (n.) That which has the power of destroying the effect of a charm.,
C as in Counterchecked (imp. & p. p.) of Countercheck,
C as in Counterchecking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Countercheck,
C as in Countercheck (v. t.) To oppose or check by some obstacle; to check by a return check.,
C as in Countercheck (n.) A check; a stop; a rebuke, or censure to check a reprover.,
C as in Countercheck (n.) Any force or device designed to restrain another restraining force; a check upon a check.,
C as in Counterclaim (n.) A claim made by a person as an offset to a claim made on him.,
C as in Counter-compony (a.) See Compony.,
C as in Counter-couchant (a.) Lying down, with their heads in opposite directions; -- said of animals borne in a coat of arms.,
C as in Counter-courant (a.) Running in opposite directions; -- said of animals borne in a coast of arms.,
C as in Countercurrent (a.) Running in an opposite direction.,
C as in Countercurrent (n.) A current running in an opposite direction to the main current.,
C as in Counterdrew (imp.) of Counterdraw,
C as in Counterdrawn (p. p.) of Counterdraw,
C as in Counterdrawing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Counterdraw,
C as in Counterdraw (v. t.) To copy, as a design or painting, by tracing with a pencil on oiled paper, or other transparent substance.,
C as in Counterfaisance (n.) See Counterfesance.,
C as in Counterfeit (adv.) Representing by imitation or likeness; having a resemblance to something else; portrayed.,
C as in Counterfeit (adv.) Fabricated in imitation of something else, with a view to defraud by passing the false copy for genuine or original; as, counterfeit antiques; counterfeit coin.,
C as in Counterfeit (adv.) Assuming the appearance of something; false; spurious; deceitful; hypocritical; as, a counterfeit philanthropist.,
C as in Counterfeit (n.) That which resembles or is like another thing; a likeness; a portrait; a counterpart.,
C as in Counterfeit (n.) That which is made in imitation of something, with a view to deceive by passing the false for the true; as, the bank note was a counterfeit.,
C as in Counterfeit (n.) One who pretends to be what he is not; one who personates another; an impostor; a cheat.,
C as in Counterfeited (imp. & p. p.) of Counterfeit,
C as in Counterfeiting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Counterfeit,
C as in Counterfeit (v. t.) To imitate, or put on a semblance of; to mimic; as, to counterfeit the voice of another person.,
C as in Counterfeit (v. t.) To imitate with a view to deceiving, by passing the copy for that which is original or genuine; to forge; as, to counterfeit the signature of another, coins, notes, etc.,
C as in Counterfeit (v. i.) To carry on a deception; to dissemble; to feign; to pretend.,
C as in Counterfeit (v. i.) To make counterfeits.,
C as in Counterfeiter (n.) One who counterfeits; one who copies or imitates; especially, one who copies or forges bank notes or coin; a forger.,
C as in Counterfeiter (n.) One who assumes a false appearance or semblance; one who makes false pretenses.,
C as in Counterfeitly (adv.) By forgery; falsely.,
C as in Counterfesance (a.) The act of forging; forgery.,
C as in Counterfleury (a.) Counterflory.,
C as in Counterflory (a.) Adorned with flowers (usually fleurs-de-lis) so divided that the tops appear on one side and the bottoms on the others; -- said of any ordinary.,
C as in Counterfoil (n.) That part of a tally, formerly in the exchequer, which was kept by an officer in that court, the other, called the stock, being delivered to the person who had lent the king money on the account; -- called also counterstock.,
C as in Counterfoil (n.) The part of a writing (as the stub of a bank check) in which are noted the main particulars contained in the corresponding part, which has been issued.,
C as in Counterforce (n.) An opposing force.,
C as in Counterfort (n.) A kind of buttress of masonry to strengthen a revetment wall.,
C as in Counterfort (n.) A spur or projection of a mountain.,
C as in Countergage (n.) An adjustable gage, with double points for transferring measurements from one timber to another, as the breadth of a mortise to the place where the tenon is to be made.,
C as in Counterguard (n.) A low outwork before a bastion or ravelin, consisting of two lines of rampart parallel to the faces of the bastion, and protecting them from a breaching fire.,
C as in Counterirritant (n.) Alt. of Counterirritation,
C as in Counterirritation (n.) See Counter irritant, etc., under Counter, a.,
C as in Counterirritate (v. t.) To produce counter irritation in; to treat with one morbid process for the purpose of curing another.,
C as in Counterjumper (n.) A salesman in a shop; a shopman; -- used contemptuously.,
C as in Countermen (pl. ) of Counterman,
C as in Counterman (n.) A man who attends at the counter of a shop to sell goods.,
C as in Countermanded (imp. & p. p.) of Countermand,
C as in Countermanding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Countermand,
C as in Countermand (v. t.) To revoke (a former command); to cancel or rescind by giving an order contrary to one previously given; as, to countermand an order for goods.,
C as in Countermand (v. t.) To prohibit; to forbid.,
C as in Countermand (v. t.) To oppose; to revoke the command of.,
C as in Countermand (n.) A contrary order; revocation of a former order or command.,
C as in Countermandable (a.) Capable of being countermanded; revocable.,
C as in Countermarched (imp. & p. p.) of Countermarch,
C as in Countermarching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Countermarch,
C as in Countermarch (v. i.) To march back, or to march in reversed order.,
C as in Countermarch (n.) A marching back; retrocession.,
C as in Countermarch (n.) An evolution by which a body of troops change front or reverse the direction of march while retaining the same men in the front rank; also, a movement by which the rear rank becomes the front one, either with or without changing the right to the left.,
C as in Countermarch (n.) A change of measures; alteration of conduct.,
C as in Countermark (n.) A mark or token added to those already existing, in order to afford security or proof; as, an additional or special mark put upon a package of goods belonging to several persons, that it may not be opened except in the presence of all; a mark added to that of an artificer of gold or silver work by the Goldsmiths' Company of London, to attest the standard quality of the gold or silver; a mark added to an ancient coin or medal, to show either its change of value or that it was taken from an enemy.,
C as in Countermark (n.) An artificial cavity made in the teeth of horses that have outgrown their natural mark, to disguise their age.,
C as in Countermark (v. t.) To apply a countermark to; as, to countermark silverware; to countermark a horse's teeth.,
C as in Countermine (n.) An underground gallery excavated to intercept and destroy the mining of an enemy.,
C as in Countermine (n.) A stratagem or plot by which another sratagem or project is defeated.,
C as in Countermined (imp. & p. p.) of Countermine,
C as in Countermining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Countermine,
C as in Countermine (v. t.) To oppose by means of a countermine; to intercept with a countermine.,
C as in Countermine (v. t.) To frustrate or counteract by secret measures.,
C as in Countermine (v. i.) To make a countermine or counterplot; to plot secretly.,
C as in Countermove (v. t. & i.) To move in a contrary direction to.,
C as in Countermove () Alt. of Countermovement,
C as in Countermovement () A movement in opposition to another.,
C as in Countermure (n.) A wall raised behind another, to supply its place when breached or destroyed. [R.] Cf. Contramure.,
C as in Countermured (imp. & p. p.) of Countermure,
C as in Countermuring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Countermure,
C as in Countermure (v. t.) To fortify with a wall behind another wall.,
C as in Counternatural (a.) Contrary to nature.,
C as in Counter-paly (a.) Paly, and then divided fesswise, so that each vertical piece is cut into two, having the colors used alternately or counterchanged. Thus the escutcheon in the illustration may also be blazoned paly of six per fess counterchanged argent and azure.,
C as in Counterpane (n.) A coverlet for a bed, -- originally stitched or woven in squares or figures.,
C as in Counterpane (n.) A duplicate part or copy of an indenture, deed, etc., corresponding with the original; -- now called counterpart.,
C as in Counterpart (n.) A part corresponding to another part; anything which answers, or corresponds, to another; a copy; a duplicate; a facsimile.,
C as in Counterpart (n.) One of two corresponding copies of an instrument; a duplicate.,
C as in Counterpart (n.) A person who closely resembles another.,
C as in Counterpart (n.) A thing may be applied to another thing so as to fit perfectly, as a seal to its impression; hence, a thing which is adapted to another thing, or which supplements it; that which serves to complete or complement anything; hence, a person or thing having qualities lacking in another; an opposite.,
C as in Counterpassant (a.) Passant in opposite directions; -- said of two animals.,
C as in Counterplead (v. t.) To plead the contrary of; to plead against; to deny.,
C as in Counterplotted (imp. & p. p.) of Counterplot,
C as in Counterplotting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Counterplot,
C as in Counterplot (v. t.) To oppose, as another plot, by plotting; to attempt to frustrate, as a stratagem, by stratagem.,
C as in Counterplot (n.) A plot or artifice opposed to another.,
C as in Counterpoint (n.) An opposite point,
C as in Counterpoint (n.) The setting of note against note in harmony; the adding of one or more parts to a given canto fermo or melody,
C as in Counterpoint (n.) The art of polyphony, or composite melody, i. e., melody not single, but moving attended by one or more related melodies.,
C as in Counterpoint (n.) Music in parts; part writing; harmony; polyphonic music. See Polyphony.,
C as in Counterpoint (n.) A coverlet; a cover for a bed, often stitched or broken into squares; a counterpane. See 1st Counterpane.,
C as in Counterpoised (imp. & p. p.) of Counterpoise,
C as in Counterpoising (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Counterpoise,
C as in Counterpoise (v. t.) To act against with equal weight; to equal in weight; to balance the weight of; to counterbalance.,
C as in Counterpoise (v. t.) To act against with equal power; to balance.,
C as in Counterpoise (n.) A weight sufficient to balance another, as in the opposite scale of a balance; an equal weight.,
C as in Counterpoise (n.) An equal power or force acting in opposition; a force sufficient to balance another force.,
C as in Counterpoise (n.) The relation of two weights or forces which balance each other; equilibrium; equiponderance.,
C as in Counterpole (n.) The exact opposite.,
C as in Counterponderate (v. t.) To equal in weight; to counterpoise; to equiponderate.,
C as in Counterproved (imp. & p. p.) of Counterprove,
C as in Counterproving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Counterprove,
C as in Counterprove (v. t.) To take a counter proof of, or a copy in reverse, by taking an impression directly from the face of an original. See Counter proof, under Counter.,
C as in Counter-roll (n.) A duplicate roll (record or account) kept by an officer as a check upon another officer's roll.,
C as in Counterrolment (n.) A counter account. See Control.,
C as in Counter-salient (a.) Leaping from each other; -- said of two figures on a coast of arms.,
C as in Counterscale (n.) Counterbalance; balance, as of one scale against another.,
C as in Counterscarf (n.) The exterior slope or wall of the ditch; -- sometimes, the whole covered way, beyond the ditch, with its parapet and glacis; as, the enemy have lodged themselves on the counterscarp.,
C as in Countersealed (imp. & p. p.) of Counterseal,
C as in Countersealing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Counterseal,
C as in Counterseal (v. t.) To seal or ratify with another or others.,
C as in Countersecure (v. t.) To give additional security to or for.,
C as in Countershaft (n.) An intermediate shaft; esp., one which receives motion from a line shaft in a factory and transmits it to a machine.,
C as in Countersigned (imp. & p. p.) of Countersign,
C as in Countersigning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Countersign,
C as in Countersign (v. t.) To sign on the opposite side of (an instrument or writing); hence, to sign in addition to the signature of a principal or superior, in order to attest the authenticity of a writing.,
C as in Countersign (a.) The signature of a secretary or other officer to a writing signed by a principal or superior, to attest its authenticity.,
C as in Countersign (a.) A private signal, word, or phrase, which must be given in order to pass a sentry; a watchword.,
C as in Countersunk (imp. & p. p.) of Countersink,
C as in Countersinking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Countersink,
C as in Countersink (v. t.) To chamfer or form a depression around the top of (a hole in wood, metal, etc.) for the reception of the head of a screw or bolt below the surface, either wholly or in part; as, to countersink a hole for a screw.,
C as in Countersink (v. t.) To cause to sink even with or below the surface; as, to countersink a screw or bolt into woodwork.,
C as in Countersink (n.) An enlargement of the upper part of a hole, forming a cavity or depression for receiving the head of a screw or bolt.,
C as in Countersink (n.) A drill or cutting tool for countersinking holes.,
C as in Counterstand (n.) Resistance; opposition; a stand against.,
C as in Counterstep (n.) A contrary method of procedure; opposite course of action.,
C as in Counterstock (n.) See Counterfoil.,
C as in Counterstroke (n.) A stroke or blow in return.,
C as in Countersunk (p. p. & a.) Chamfered at the top; -- said of a hole.,
C as in Countersunk (p. p. & a.) Sunk into a chamfer; as, a countersunk bolt.,
C as in Countersunk (p. p. & a.) Beveled on the lower side, so as to fit a chamfered countersink; as, a countersunk nailhead.,
C as in Countersway (n.) A swaying in a contrary direction; an opposing influence.,
C as in Counter tenor () One of the middle parts in music, between the tenor and the treble; high tenor.,
C as in Counterterm (n.) A term or word which is the opposite of, or antithesis to, another; an antonym; -- the opposite of synonym; as, "foe" is the counterterm of "friend".,
C as in Countertime (n.) The resistance of a horse, that interrupts his cadence and the measure of his manege, occasioned by a bad horseman, or the bad temper of the horse.,
C as in Countertime (n.) Resistance; opposition.,
C as in Countertrippant (a.) Trippant in opposite directions. See Trippant.,
C as in Countertripping (a.) Same as Countertrippant.,
C as in Counterturn (n.) The critical moment in a play, when, contrary to expectation, the action is embroiled in new difficulties.,
C as in Countervailed (imp. & p. p.) of Countervail,
C as in Countervailing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Countervail,
C as in Countervail (v. t.) To act against with equal force, power, or effect; to thwart or overcome by such action; to furnish an equivalent to or for; to counterbalance; to compensate.,
C as in Countervail (n.) Power or value sufficient to obviate any effect; equal weight, strength, or value; equivalent; compensation; requital.,
C as in Countervallation (n.) See Contravallation.,
C as in Counterview (n.) An opposite or opposing view; opposition; a posture in which two persons front each other.,
C as in Counterview (n.) A position in which two dissimilar things illustrate each other by opposition; contrast.,
C as in Countervote (v. t.) To vote in opposition to; to balance or overcome by voting; to outvote.,
C as in Counterwait (v. t.) To wait or watch for; to be on guard against.,
C as in Counterweigh (v. t.) To weigh against; to counterbalance.,
C as in Counter weight (n.) A counterpoise.,
C as in Counterwheel (v. t.) To cause to wheel or turn in an opposite direction.,
C as in Counterwork (v. t.) To work in opposition to; to counteract.,
C as in Countesses (pl. ) of Countess,
C as in Countess (n.) The wife of an earl in the British peerage, or of a count in the Continental nobility; also, a lady possessed of the same dignity in her own right. See the Note under Count.,
C as in Countinghouse (v.) Alt. of Countingroom,
C as in Countingroom (v.) The house or room in which a merchant, trader, or manufacturer keeps his books and transacts business.,
C as in Countless (a.) Incapable of being counted; not ascertainable; innumerable.,
C as in Countor (v. t.) An advocate or professional pleader; one who counted for his client, that is, orally pleaded his cause.,
C as in Countour (n.) Alt. of Countourhouse,
C as in Countourhouse (n.) A merchant's office; a countinghouse.,
C as in Countre- () Same as prefix Counter-.,
C as in Countreplete (v. t.) To counterplead.,
C as in Countretaille (n.) A counter tally; correspondence (in sound).,
C as in Countrified (p. a.) Having the appearance and manners of a rustic; rude.,
C as in Countrify (v. t.) To give a rural appearance to; to cause to appear rustic.,
C as in Countries (pl. ) of Country,
C as in Country (adv.) A tract of land; a region; the territory of an independent nation; (as distinguished from any other region, and with a personal pronoun) the region of one's birth, permanent residence, or citizenship.,
C as in Country (adv.) Rural regions, as opposed to a city or town.,
C as in Country (adv.) The inhabitants or people of a state or a region; the populace; the public. Hence: (a) One's constituents. (b) The whole body of the electors of state; as, to dissolve Parliament and appeal to the country.,
C as in Country (adv.) A jury, as representing the citizens of a country.,
C as in Country (adv.) The inhabitants of the district from which a jury is drawn.,
C as in Country (adv.) The rock through which a vein runs.,
C as in Country (a.) Pertaining to the regions remote from a city; rural; rustic; as, a country life; a country town; the country party, as opposed to city.,
C as in Country (a.) Destitute of refinement; rude; unpolished; rustic; not urbane; as, country manners.,
C as in Country (a.) Pertaining, or peculiar, to one's own country.,
C as in Country-base (n.) Same as Prison base.,
C as in Country-dance (n.) See Contradance.,
C as in Countrymen (pl. ) of Countryman,
C as in Countryman (n.) An inhabitant or native of a region.,
C as in Countryman (n.) One born in the same country with another; a compatriot; -- used with a possessive pronoun.,
C as in Countryman (n.) One who dwells in the country, as distinguished from a townsman or an inhabitant of a city; a rustic; a husbandman or farmer.,
C as in Country seat () A dwelling in the country, used as a place of retirement from the city.,
C as in Countryside (n.) A particular rural district; a country neighborhood.,
C as in Countrywomen (pl. ) of Countrywoman,
C as in Countrywoman (n.) A woman born, or dwelling, in the country, as opposed to the city; a woman born or dwelling in the same country with another native or inhabitant.,
C as in Count-wheel (n.) The wheel in a clock which regulates the number of strokes.,
C as in Counties (pl. ) of County,
C as in County (n.) An earldom; the domain of a count or earl.,
C as in County (n.) A circuit or particular portion of a state or kingdom, separated from the rest of the territory, for certain purposes in the administration of justice and public affairs; -- called also a shire. See Shire.,
C as in County (n.) A count; an earl or lord.,
C as in Coup (n.) A sudden stroke; an unexpected device or stratagem; -- a term used in various ways to convey the idea of promptness and force.,
C as in Coupable (a.) Culpable.,
C as in Coupe (n.) The front compartment of a French diligence; also, the front compartment (usually for three persons) of a car or carriage on British railways.,
C as in Coupe (n.) A four-wheeled close carriage for two persons inside, with an outside seat for the driver; -- so called because giving the appearance of a larger carriage cut off.,
C as in Couped (a.) Cut off smoothly, as distinguished from erased; -- used especially for the head or limb of an animal. See Erased.,
C as in Coupee (n.) A motion in dancing, when one leg is a little bent, and raised from the floor, and with the other a forward motion is made.,
C as in Coupe-gorge (n.) Any position giving the enemy such advantage that the troops occupying it must either surrender or be cut to pieces.,
C as in Couple (a.) That which joins or links two things together; a bond or tie; a coupler.,
C as in Couple (a.) Two of the same kind connected or considered together; a pair; a brace.,
C as in Couple (a.) A male and female associated together; esp., a man and woman who are married or betrothed.,
C as in Couple (a.) See Couple-close.,
C as in Couple (a.) One of the pairs of plates of two metals which compose a voltaic battery; -- called a voltaic couple or galvanic couple.,
C as in Couple (a.) Two rotations, movements, etc., which are equal in amount but opposite in direction, and acting along parallel lines or around parallel axes.,
C as in Coupled (imp. & p. p.) of Couple,
C as in Coupling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Couple,
C as in Couple (v.) To link or tie, as one thing to another; to connect or fasten together; to join.,
C as in Couple (v.) To join in wedlock; to marry.,
C as in Couple (v. i.) To come together as male and female; to copulate.,
C as in Couple-beggar (n.) One who makes it his business to marry beggars to each other.,
C as in Couple-closes (pl. ) of Couple-close,
C as in Couple-close (n.) A diminutive of the chevron, containing one fourth of its surface. Couple-closes are generally borne one on each side of a chevron, and the blazoning may then be either a chevron between two couple-closes or chevron cottised.,
C as in Couple-close (n.) A pair of rafters framed together with a tie fixed at their feet, or with a collar beam.,
C as in Couplement (n.) Union; combination; a coupling; a pair.,
C as in Coupler (n.) One who couples; that which couples, as a link, ring, or shackle, to connect cars.,
C as in Couplet (n.) Two taken together; a pair or couple; especially two lines of verse that rhyme with each other.,
C as in Coupling (n.) The act of bringing or coming together; connection; sexual union.,
C as in Coupling (n.) A device or contrivance which serves to couple or connect adjacent parts or objects; as, a belt coupling, which connects the ends of a belt; a car coupling, which connects the cars in a train; a shaft coupling, which connects the ends of shafts.,
C as in Coupon (n.) A certificate of interest due, printed at the bottom of transferable bonds (state, railroad, etc.), given for a term of years, designed to be cut off and presented for payment when the interest is due; an interest warrant.,
C as in Coupon (n.) A section of a ticket, showing the holder to be entitled to some specified accomodation or service, as to a passage over a designated line of travel, a particular seat in a theater, or the like.,
C as in Coupure (n.) A passage cut through the glacis to facilitate sallies by the besieged.,
C as in Courage (n.) The heart; spirit; temper; disposition.,
C as in Courage (n.) Heart; inclination; desire; will.,
C as in Courage (n.) That quality of mind which enables one to encounter danger and difficulties with firmness, or without fear, or fainting of heart; valor; boldness; resolution.,
C as in Couage (v. t.) To inspire with courage.,
C as in Courageous (a.) Possessing, or characterized by, courage; brave; bold.,
C as in Courageously (adv.) In a courageous manner.,
C as in Courageousness (n.) The quality of being courageous; courage.,
C as in Courant (a.) Represented as running; -- said of a beast borne in a coat of arms.,
C as in Courant (p. pr.) A piece of music in triple time; also, a lively dance; a coranto.,
C as in Courant (p. pr.) A circulating gazette of news; a newspaper.,
C as in Couranto (n.) A sprightly dance; a coranto; a courant.,
C as in Courap (n.) A skin disease, common in India, in which there is perpetual itching and eruption, esp. of the groin, breast, armpits, and face.,
C as in Courb (a.) Curved; rounded.,
C as in Courb (v. i.) To bend; to stop; to bow.,
C as in Courbaril (n.) See Anime, n.,
C as in Courche (n.) A square piece of linen used formerly by women instead of a cap; a kerchief.,
C as in Courier (n.) A messenger sent with haste to convey letters or dispatches, usually on public business.,
C as in Courier (n.) An attendant on travelers, whose business it is to make arrangements for their convenience at hotels and on the way.,
C as in Courlan (n.) A South American bird, of the genus Aramus, allied to the rails.,
C as in Course (n.) The act of moving from one point to another; progress; passage.,
C as in Course (n.) The ground or path traversed; track; way.,
C as in Course (n.) Motion, considered as to its general or resultant direction or to its goal; line progress or advance.,
C as in Course (n.) Progress from point to point without change of direction; any part of a progress from one place to another, which is in a straight line, or on one direction; as, a ship in a long voyage makes many courses; a course measured by a surveyor between two stations; also, a progress without interruption or rest; a heat; as, one course of a race.,
C as in Course (n.) Motion considered with reference to manner; or derly progress; procedure in a certain line of thought or action; as, the course of an argument.,
C as in Course (n.) Customary or established sequence of events; recurrence of events according to natural laws.,
C as in Course (n.) Method of procedure; manner or way of conducting; conduct; behavior.,
C as in Course (n.) A series of motions or acts arranged in order; a succession of acts or practices connectedly followed; as, a course of medicine; a course of lectures on chemistry.,
C as in Course (n.) The succession of one to another in office or duty; order; turn.,
C as in Course (n.) That part of a meal served at one time, with its accompaniments.,
C as in Course (n.) A continuous level range of brick or stones of the same height throughout the face or faces of a building.,
C as in Course (n.) The lowest sail on any mast of a square-rigged vessel; as, the fore course, main course, etc.,
C as in Course (n.) The menses.,
C as in Coursed (imp. & p. p.) of Course,
C as in Coursing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Course,
C as in Course (v. t.) To run, hunt, or chase after; to follow hard upon; to pursue.,
C as in Course (v. t.) To cause to chase after or pursue game; as, to course greyhounds after deer.,
C as in Course (v. t.) To run through or over.,
C as in Course (v. i.) To run as in a race, or in hunting; to pursue the sport of coursing; as, the sportsmen coursed over the flats of Lancashire.,
C as in Course (v. i.) To move with speed; to race; as, the blood courses through the veins.,
C as in Coursed (a.) Hunted; as, a coursed hare.,
C as in Coursed (a.) Arranged in courses; as, coursed masonry.,
C as in Courser (n.) One who courses or hunts.,
C as in Courser (n.) A swift or spirited horse; a racer or a war horse; a charger.,
C as in Courser (n.) A grallatorial bird of Europe (Cursorius cursor), remarkable for its speed in running. Sometimes, in a wider sense, applied to running birds of the Ostrich family.,
C as in Coursey (n.) A space in the galley; a part of the hatches.,
C as in Coursing (n.) The pursuit or running game with dogs that follow by sight instead of by scent.,
C as in Court (n.) An inclosed space; a courtyard; an uncovered area shut in by the walls of a building, or by different building; also, a space opening from a street and nearly surrounded by houses; a blind alley.,
C as in Court (n.) The residence of a sovereign, prince, nobleman, or ether dignitary; a palace.,
C as in Court (n.) The collective body of persons composing the retinue of a sovereign or person high in authority; all the surroundings of a sovereign in his regal state.,
C as in Court (n.) Any formal assembling of the retinue of a sovereign; as, to hold a court.,
C as in Court (n.) Attention directed to a person in power; conduct or address designed to gain favor; courtliness of manners; civility; compliment; flattery.,
C as in Court (n.) The hall, chamber, or place, where justice is administered.,
C as in Court (n.) The persons officially assembled under authority of law, at the appropriate time and place, for the administration of justice; an official assembly, legally met together for the transaction of judicial business; a judge or judges sitting for the hearing or trial of causes.,
C as in Court (n.) A tribunal established for the administration of justice.,
C as in Court (n.) The judge or judges; as distinguished from the counsel or jury, or both.,
C as in Court (n.) The session of a judicial assembly.,
C as in Court (n.) Any jurisdiction, civil, military, or ecclesiastical.,
C as in Court (n.) A place arranged for playing the game of tennis; also, one of the divisions of a tennis court.,
C as in Courted (imp. & p. p.) of Court,
C as in Courting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Court,
C as in Court (v. t.) To endeavor to gain the favor of by attention or flattery; to try to ingratiate one's self with.,
C as in Court (v. t.) To endeavor to gain the affections of; to seek in marriage; to woo.,
C as in Court (v. t.) To attempt to gain; to solicit; to seek.,
C as in Court (v. t.) To invite by attractions; to allure; to attract.,
C as in Court (v. i.) To play the lover; to woo; as, to go courting.,
C as in Court-baron (n.) An inferior court of civil jurisdiction, attached to a manor, and held by the steward; a baron's court; -- now fallen into disuse.,
C as in Courtbred (a.) Bred, or educated, at court; polished; courtly.,
C as in Court-craft (n.) The artifices, intrigues, and plottings, at courts.,
C as in Court-cupboard (n.) A movable sideboard or buffet, on which plate and other articles of luxury were displayed on special ocasions.,
C as in Courteous (a.) Of courtlike manners; pertaining to, or expressive of, courtesy; characterized by courtesy; civil; obliging; well bred; polite; affable; complaisant.,
C as in Courteously (adv.) In a courteous manner.,
C as in Courteousness (n.) The quality of being courteous; politeness; courtesy.,
C as in Courtepy (n.) A short coat of coarse cloth.,
C as in Courter (n.) One who courts; one who plays the lover, or who solicits in marriage; one who flatters and cajoles.,
C as in Courtesan (n.) A woman who prostitutes herself for hire; a prostitute; a harlot.,
C as in Courtesanship (n.) Harlotry.,
C as in Courtesies (pl. ) of Courtesy,
C as in Courtesy (n.) Politeness; civility; urbanity; courtliness.,
C as in Courtesy (n.) An act of civility or respect; an act of kindness or favor performed with politeness.,
C as in Courtesy (n.) Favor or indulgence, as distinguished from right; as, a title given one by courtesy.,
C as in Courtesy (n.) An act of civility, respect, or reverence, made by women, consisting of a slight depression or dropping of the body, with bending of the knees.,
C as in Courtesied (imp. & p. p.) of Courtesy,
C as in Courtesying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Courtesy,
C as in Courtesy (v. i.) To make a respectful salutation or movement of respect; esp. (with reference to women), to bow the body slightly, with bending of the knes.,
C as in Courtesy (v. t.) To treat with civility.,
C as in Courtehouse (n.) A house in which established courts are held, or a house appropriated to courts and public meetings.,
C as in Courtehouse (n.) A county town; -- so called in Virginia and some others of the Southern States.,
C as in Courtier (n.) One who is in attendance at the court of a prince; one who has an appointment at court.,
C as in Courtier (n.) One who courts or solicits favor; one who flatters.,
C as in Courtiery (n.) The manners of a courtier; courtliness.,
C as in Court-leet (n.) A court of record held once a year, in a particular hundred, lordship, or manor, before the steward of the leet.,
C as in Courtlike (a.) After the manner of a court; elegant; polite; courtly.,
C as in Courtliness (n.) The quality of being courtly; elegance or dignity of manners.,
C as in Courtling (n.) A sycophantic courtier.,
C as in Courtly (a.) Relating or belonging to a court.,
C as in Courtly (a.) Elegant; polite; courtlike; flattering.,
C as in Courtly (a.) Disposed to favor the great; favoring the policy or party of the court; obsequious.,
C as in Courtly (adv.) In the manner of courts; politely; gracefully; elegantly.,
C as in Courts-martial (pl. ) of Court-martial,
C as in Court-martial (n.) A court consisting of military or naval officers, for the trial of one belonging to the army or navy, or of offenses against military or naval law.,
C as in Court-martialed (imp. & p. p.) of Court-martial,
C as in Court-martialing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Court-martial,
C as in Court-martial (v. t.) To subject to trial by a court-martial.,
C as in Court-plaster (n.) Sticking plaster made by coating taffeta or silk on one side with some adhesive substance, commonly a mixture of isinglass and glycerin.,
C as in Courtship (n.) The act of paying court, with the intent to solicit a favor.,
C as in Courtship (n.) The act of wooing in love; solicitation of woman to marriage.,
C as in Courtship (n.) Courtliness; elegance of manners; courtesy.,
C as in Courtship (n.) Court policy; the character of a courtier; artifice of a court; court-craft; finesse.,
C as in Court tennis () See under Tennis.,
C as in Courtyard (n.) A court or inclosure attached to a house.,
C as in Couscous (n.) A kind of food used by the natives of Western Africa, made of millet flour with flesh, and leaves of the baobab; -- called also lalo.,
C as in Couscousou (n.) A favorite dish in Barbary. See Couscous.,
C as in Cousin (n.) One collaterally related more remotely than a brother or sister; especially, the son or daughter of an uncle or aunt.,
C as in Cousin (n.) A title formerly given by a king to a nobleman, particularly to those of the council. In English writs, etc., issued by the crown, it signifies any earl.,
C as in Cousin (n.) Allied; akin.,
C as in Cousinage (n.) Relationship; kinship.,
C as in Cousin-german (n.) A first cousin. See Note under Cousin, 1.,
C as in Cousinhood (n.) The state or condition of a cousin; also, the collective body of cousins; kinsfolk.,
C as in Cousinly (a.) Like or becoming a cousin.,
C as in Cousinry (n.) A body or collection of cousins; the whole number of persons who stand in the relation of cousins to a given person or persons.,
C as in Cousinship (n.) The relationship of cousins; state of being cousins; cousinhood.,
C as in Coussinet (n.) A stone placed on the impost of a pier for receiving the first stone of an arch.,
C as in Coussinet (n.) That part of the Ionic capital between the abacus and quarter round, which forms the volute.,
C as in Couteau (n.) A knife; a dagger.,
C as in Couth (imp. & p. p.) Could; was able; knew or known; understood.,
C as in Couvade (n.) A custom, among certain barbarous tribes, that when a woman gives birth to a child her husband takes to his bed, as if ill.,
C as in Covariant (n.) A function involving the coefficients and the variables of a quantic, and such that when the quantic is lineally transformed the same function of the new variables and coefficients shall be equal to the old function multiplied by a factor. An invariant is a like function involving only the coefficients of the quantic.,
C as in Cove (n.) A retired nook; especially, a small, sheltered inlet, creek, or bay; a recess in the shore.,
C as in Cove (n.) A strip of prairie extending into woodland; also, a recess in the side of a mountain.,
C as in Cove (n.) A concave molding.,
C as in Cove (n.) A member, whose section is a concave curve, used especially with regard to an inner roof or ceiling, as around a skylight.,
C as in Coved (imp. & p. p.) of Cove,
C as in Coving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cove,
C as in Cove (v. t.) To arch over; to build in a hollow concave form; to make in the form of a cove.,
C as in Cove (v. t.) To brood, cover, over, or sit over, as birds their eggs.,
C as in Cove (n.) A boy or man of any age or station.,
C as in Covelline (n.) Alt. of Covellite,
C as in Covellite (n.) A native sulphide of copper, occuring in masses of a dark blue color; -- hence called indigo copper.,
C as in Covenable (a.) Fit; proper; suitable.,
C as in Covenably (adv.) Fitly; suitably.,
C as in Covenant (n.) A mutual agreement of two or more persons or parties, or one of the stipulations in such an agreement.,
C as in Covenant (n.) An agreement made by the Scottish Parliament in 1638, and by the English Parliament in 1643, to preserve the reformed religion in Scotland, and to extirpate popery and prelacy; -- usually called the "Solemn League and Covenant.",
C as in Covenant (n.) The promises of God as revealed in the Scriptures, conditioned on certain terms on the part of man, as obedience, repentance, faith, etc.,
C as in Covenant (n.) A solemn compact between members of a church to maintain its faith, discipline, etc.,
C as in Covenant (n.) An undertaking, on sufficient consideration, in writing and under seal, to do or to refrain from some act or thing; a contract; a stipulation; also, the document or writing containing the terms of agreement.,
C as in Covenant (n.) A form of action for the violation of a promise or contract under seal.,
C as in Covenanted (imp. & p. p.) of Covenant,
C as in Covenanting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Covenant,
C as in Covenant (v. i.) To agree (with); to enter into a formal agreement; to bind one's self by contract; to make a stipulation.,
C as in Covenant (v. t.) To grant or promise by covenant.,
C as in Covenantee (n.) The person in whose favor a covenant is made.,
C as in Covenanter (n.) One who makes a covenant.,
C as in Covenanter (n.) One who subscribed and defended the "Solemn League and Covenant." See Covenant.,
C as in Covenanting (a.) Belonging to a covenant. Specifically, belonging to the Scotch Covenanters.,
C as in Covenantor (n.) The party who makes a covenant.,
C as in Covenous (a.) See Covinous, and Covin.,
C as in Covent (n.) A convent or monastery.,
C as in Coventry (n.) A town in the county of Warwick, England.,
C as in Covered (imp. & p. p.) of Cover,
C as in Covering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cover,
C as in Cover (v. t.) To overspread the surface of (one thing) with another; as, to cover wood with paint or lacquer; to cover a table with a cloth.,
C as in Cover (v. t.) To envelop; to clothe, as with a mantle or cloak.,
C as in Cover (v. t.) To invest (one's self with something); to bring upon (one's self); as, he covered himself with glory.,
C as in Cover (v. t.) To hide sight; to conceal; to cloak; as, the enemy were covered from our sight by the woods.,
C as in Cover (v. t.) To brood or sit on; to incubate.,
C as in Cover (v. t.) To shelter, as from evil or danger; to protect; to defend; as, the cavalry covered the retreat.,
C as in Cover (v. t.) To remove from remembrance; to put away; to remit.,
C as in Cover (v. t.) To extend over; to be sufficient for; to comprehend, include, or embrace; to account for or solve; to counterbalance; as, a mortgage which fully covers a sum loaned on it; a law which covers all possible cases of a crime; receipts than do not cover expenses.,
C as in Cover (v. t.) To put the usual covering or headdress on.,
C as in Cover (v. t.) To copulate with (a female); to serve; as, a horse covers a mare; -- said of the male.,
C as in Cover (n.) Anything which is laid, set, or spread, upon, about, or over, another thing; an envelope; a lid; as, the cover of a book.,
C as in Cover (n.) Anything which veils or conceals; a screen; disguise; a cloak.,
C as in Cover (n.) Shelter; protection; as, the troops fought under cover of the batteries; the woods afforded a good cover.,
C as in Cover (n.) The woods, underbrush, etc., which shelter and conceal game; covert; as, to beat a cover; to ride to cover.,
C as in Cover (n.) The lap of a slide valve.,
C as in Cover (n.) A tablecloth, and the other table furniture; esp., the table furniture for the use of one person at a meal; as, covers were laid for fifty guests.,
C as in Cover (v. i.) To spread a table for a meal; to prepare a banquet.,
C as in Coverchief (n.) A covering for the head.,
C as in Covercle (n.) A small cover; a lid.,
C as in Covered (a.) Under cover; screened; sheltered; not exposed; hidden.,
C as in Coverer (n.) One who, or that which, covers.,
C as in Covering (n.) Anything which covers or conceals, as a roof, a screen, a wrapper, clothing, etc.,
C as in Coverlet (n.) The uppermost cover of a bed or of any piece of furniture.,
C as in Coverlid (n.) A coverlet.,
C as in Cover-point (n.) The fielder in the games of cricket and lacrosse who supports "point.",
C as in Coversed sine () The versed sine of the complement of an arc or angle. See Illust. of Functions.,
C as in Cover-shame (n.) Something used to conceal infamy.,
C as in Covert (v. t.) Covered over; private; hid; secret; disguised.,
C as in Covert (v. t.) Sheltered; not open or exposed; retired; protected; as, a covert nook.,
C as in Covert (v. t.) Under cover, authority or protection; as, a feme covert, a married woman who is considered as being under the protection and control of her husband.,
C as in Covert (a.) A place that covers and protects; a shelter; a defense.,
C as in Covert (a.) One of the special feathers covering the bases of the quills of the wings and tail of a bird. See Illust. of Bird.,
C as in Covert baron () Under the protection of a husband; married.,
C as in Covertly (adv.) Secretly; in private; insidiously.,
C as in Covertness (n.) Secrecy; privacy.,
C as in Coverture (n.) Covering; shelter; defense; hiding.,
C as in Coverture (n.) The condition of a woman during marriage, because she is considered under the cover, influence, power, and protection of her husband, and therefore called a feme covert, or femme couverte.,
C as in Covered (imp. & p. p.) of Covet,
C as in Coveting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Covet,
C as in Covet (v. t.) To wish for with eagerness; to desire possession of; -- used in a good sense.,
C as in Covet (v. t.) To long for inordinately or unlawfully; to hanker after (something forbidden).,
C as in Covet (v. i.) To have or indulge inordinate desire.,
C as in Covetable (a.) That may be coveted; desirable.,
C as in Coveter (n.) One who covets.,
C as in Covetise (v. t.) Avarice.,
C as in Covetiveness (n.) Acquisitiveness.,
C as in Covetous (v. t.) Very desirous; eager to obtain; -- used in a good sense.,
C as in Covetous (v. t.) Inordinately desirous; excessively eager to obtain and possess (esp. money); avaricious; -- in a bad sense.,
C as in Covetously (adv.) In a covetous manner.,
C as in Covetousness (n.) Strong desire.,
C as in Covetousness (n.) A strong or inordinate desire of obtaining and possessing some supposed good; excessive desire for riches or money; -- in a bad sense.,
C as in Covey (n.) A brood or hatch of birds; an old bird with her brood of young; hence, a small flock or number of birds together; -- said of game; as, a covey of partridges.,
C as in Covey (n.) A company; a bevy; as, a covey of girls.,
C as in Covey (v. i.) To brood; to incubate.,
C as in Covey (n.) A pantry.,
C as in Covin (n.) A collusive agreement between two or more persons to prejudice a third.,
C as in Covin (n.) Deceit; fraud; artifice.,
C as in Covinous (a.) Deceitful; collusive; fraudulent; dishonest.,
C as in Cow (n.) A chimney cap; a cowl,
C as in Cows (pl. ) of Cow,
C as in Kine (pl. ) of Cow,
C as in Cow (n.) The mature female of bovine animals.,
C as in Cow (n.) The female of certain large mammals, as whales, seals, etc.,
C as in Cowed (imp. & p. p.) of Cow,
C as in Cowing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cow,
C as in Cow (v. t.) To depress with fear; to daunt the spirits or courage of; to overawe.,
C as in Cow (n.) A wedge, or brake, to check the motion of a machine or car; a chock.,
C as in Cowage (n.) See Cowhage.,
C as in Cowan (n.) One who works as a mason without having served a regular apprenticeship.,
C as in Coward (a.) Borne in the escutcheon with his tail doubled between his legs; -- said of a lion.,
C as in Coward (a.) Destitute of courage; timid; cowardly.,
C as in Coward (a.) Belonging to a coward; proceeding from, or expressive of, base fear or timidity.,
C as in Coward (n.) A person who lacks courage; a timid or pusillanimous person; a poltroon.,
C as in Coward (v. t.) To make timorous; to frighten.,
C as in Cowardice (n.) Want of courage to face danger; extreme timidity; pusillanimity; base fear of danger or hurt; lack of spirit.,
C as in Cowardie (n.) Cowardice.,
C as in Cowardish (a.) Cowardly.,
C as in Cowardize (v. t. ) To render cowardly,
C as in Cowardliness (n.) Cowardice.,
C as in Cowardly (a.) Wanting courage; basely or weakly timid or fearful; pusillanimous; spiritless.,
C as in Cowardly (a.) Proceeding from fear of danger or other consequences; befitting a coward; dastardly; base; as, cowardly malignity.,
C as in Cowardly (adv.) In the manner of a coward.,
C as in Cowardship (n.) Cowardice.,
C as in Cowbane (n.) A poisonous umbelliferous plant; in England, the Cicuta virosa; in the United States, the Cicuta maculata and the Archemora rigida. See Water hemlock.,
C as in Cowberries (pl. ) of Cowberry,
C as in Cowberry (n.) A species of Vaccinium (V. Vitis-idaea), which bears acid red berries which are sometimes used in cookery; -- locally called mountain cranberry.,
C as in Cowbird (n.) The cow blackbird (Molothrus ater), an American starling. Like the European cuckoo, it builds no nest, but lays its eggs in the nests of other birds; -- so called because frequently associated with cattle.,
C as in Cowblakes (n. pl.) Dried cow dung used as fuel.,
C as in Cowboy (n.) A cattle herder; a drover; specifically, one of an adventurous class of herders and drovers on the plains of the Western and Southwestern United States.,
C as in Cowboy (n.) One of the marauders who, in the Revolutionary War infested the neutral ground between the American and British lines, and committed depredations on the Americans.,
C as in Cowcatxjer (n.) A strong inclined frame, usually of wrought-iron bars, in front of a locomotive engine, for catching or throwing off obstructions on a railway, as cattle; the pilot.,
C as in Cowdie (n.) See Kauri.,
C as in Cowered (imp. & p. p.) of Cower,
C as in Cowering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cower,
C as in Cower (v. i.) To stoop by bending the knees; to crouch; to squat; hence, to quail; to sink through fear.,
C as in Cower (v. t.) To cherish with care.,
C as in Cowfish (n.) The grampus.,
C as in Cowfish (n.) A California dolphin (Tursiops Gillii).,
C as in Cowfish (n.) A marine plectognath fish (Ostracoin quadricorne, and allied species), having two projections, like horns, in front; -- called also cuckold, coffer fish, trunkfish.,
C as in Cowhage (n.) A leguminous climbing plant of the genus Mucuna, having crooked pods covered with sharp hairs, which stick to the fingers, causing intolerable itching. The spiculae are sometimes used in medicine as a mechanical vermifuge.,
C as in Cowhearted (a.) Cowardly.,
C as in Cowherd (n.) One whose occupation is to tend cows.,
C as in Cowhide (n.) The hide of a cow.,
C as in Cowhide (n.) Leather made of the hide of a cow.,
C as in Cowhide (n.) A coarse whip made of untanned leather.,
C as in Cowhided (imp. & p. p.) of Cowhide,
C as in Cowhiding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cowhide,
C as in Cowhide (v. t.) To flog with a cowhide.,
C as in Cowish (v. t.) Timorous; fearful; cowardly.,
C as in Cowish (n.) An umbelliferous plant (Peucedanum Cous) with edible tuberous roots, found in Oregon.,
C as in Cowitch (n.) See Cowhage.,
C as in Cowl (n.) A monk's hood; -- usually attached to the gown. The name was also applied to the hood and garment together.,
C as in Cowl (n.) A cowl-shaped cap, commonly turning with the wind, used to improve the draft of a chimney, ventilating shaft, etc.,
C as in Cowl (n.) A wire cap for the smokestack of a locomotive.,
C as in Cowl (n.) A vessel carried on a pole between two persons, for conveyance of water.,
C as in Cowled (a.) Wearing a cowl; hooded; as, a cowled monk.,
C as in Cowleech (n.) One who heals diseases of cows; a cow doctor.,
C as in Cowleeching (n.) Healing the distemper of cows.,
C as in Cowlick (n.) A tuft of hair turned up or awry (usually over the forehead), as if licked by a cow.,
C as in Cowlike (a.) Resembling a cow.,
C as in Cowlstaff (n.) A staff or pole on which a vessel is supported between two persons.,
C as in Coworker (n.) One who works with another; a co/perator.,
C as in Cow parsley () An umbelliferous plant of the genus Chaerophyllum (C. temulum and C. sylvestre).,
C as in Cow parsnip () A coarse umbelliferous weed of the genus Heracleum (H. sphondylium in England, and H. lanatum in America).,
C as in Cowpea (n.) The seed of one or more leguminous plants of the genus Dolichos; also, the plant itself. Many varieties are cultivated in the southern part of the United States.,
C as in Cowper's glands () Two small glands discharging into the male urethra.,
C as in Cow-pilot (n.) A handsomely banded, coral-reef fish, of Florida and the West Indies (Pomacentrus saxatilis); -- called also mojarra.,
C as in Cowpock (n.) See Cowpox.,
C as in Cowpox (n.) A pustular eruptive disease of the cow, which, when communicated to the human system, as by vaccination, protects from the smallpox; vaccinia; -- called also kinepox, cowpock, and kinepock.,
C as in Cowquake (n.) A genus of plants (Briza); quaking grass.,
C as in Cowrie (n.) Same as Kauri.,
C as in Cowries (pl. ) of Cowry,
C as in Cowrie (n.) Alt. of Cowry,
C as in Cowry (n.) A marine shell of the genus Cypraea.,
C as in Cowslip (n.) A common flower in England (Primula veris) having yellow blossoms and appearing in early spring. It is often cultivated in the United States.,
C as in Cowslip (n.) In the United States, the marsh marigold (Caltha palustris), appearing in wet places in early spring and often used as a pot herb. It is nearer to a buttercup than to a true cowslip. See Illust. of Marsh marigold.,
C as in Cowslipped (a.) Adorned with cowslips.,
C as in Cow's lungwort () Mullein.,
C as in Cow tree () A tree (Galactodendron utile or Brosimum Galactodendron) of South America, which yields, on incision, a nourishing fluid, resembling milk.,
C as in Cowweed (n.) Same as Cow parsley.,
C as in Cowwheat (n.) A weed of the genus Melampyrum, with black seeds, found on European wheatfields.,
C as in Cox (n.) A coxcomb; a simpleton; a gull.,
C as in Coxa (n.) The first joint of the leg of an insect or crustacean.,
C as in Coxalgia (n.) Alt. of Coxalgy,
C as in Coxalgy (n.) Pain in the hip.,
C as in Coxcomb (n.) A strip of red cloth notched like the comb of a cock, which licensed jesters formerly wore in their caps.,
C as in Coxcomb (n.) The cap itself.,
C as in Coxcomb (n.) The top of the head, or the head itself,
C as in Coxcomb (n.) A vain, showy fellow; a conceited, silly man, fond of display; a superficial pretender to knowledge or accomplishments; a fop.,
C as in Coxcomb (n.) A name given to several plants of different genera, but particularly to Celosia cristata, or garden cockscomb. Same as Cockscomb.,
C as in Coxcombical (a.) Befitting or indicating a coxcomb; like a coxcomb; foppish; conceited.,
C as in Coxcombly (a.) like a coxcomb.,
C as in Coxcombry (n.) The manners of a coxcomb; foppishness.,
C as in Coxcomical (a.) Coxcombical.,
C as in Coxcomically (adv.) Conceitedly.,
C as in Coxswain (n.) See Cockswain.,
C as in Coy (a.) Quiet; still.,
C as in Coy (a.) Shrinking from approach or familiarity; reserved; bashful; shy; modest; -- usually applied to women, sometimes with an implication of coquetry.,
C as in Coy (a.) Soft; gentle; hesitating.,
C as in Coyed (imp. & p. p.) of Coy,
C as in Coying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Coy,
C as in Coy (v. t.) To allure; to entice; to decoy.,
C as in Coy (v. t.) To caress with the hand; to stroke.,
C as in Coy (v. i.) To behave with reserve or coyness; to shrink from approach or familiarity.,
C as in Coy (v. i.) To make difficulty; to be unwilling.,
C as in Coyish (a.) Somewhat coy or reserved.,
C as in Coyly (adv.) In a coy manner; with reserve.,
C as in Coyness (n.) The quality of being coy; feigned o/ bashful unwillingness to become familiar; reserve.,
C as in Coyote (n.) A carnivorous animal (Canis latrans), allied to the dog, found in the western part of North America; -- called also prairie wolf. Its voice is a snapping bark, followed by a prolonged, shrill howl.,
C as in Coypu (n.) A South American rodent (Myopotamus coypus), allied to the beaver. It produces a valuable fur called nutria.,
C as in Coystrel (n.) Same as Coistril.,
C as in Coz (n.) A contraction of cousin.,
C as in Cozened (imp. & p. p.) of Cozen,
C as in Cozening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cozen,
C as in Cozen (v. t.) To cheat; to defraud; to beguile; to deceive, usually by small arts, or in a pitiful way.,
C as in Cozen (v. i.) To deceive; to cheat; to act deceitfully.,
C as in Cozenage (n.) The art or practice of cozening; artifice; fraud.,
C as in Cozener (n.) One who cheats or defrauds.,
C as in Cozier (n.) See Cosier.,
C as in Cozily (adv.) Snugly; comfortably.,
C as in Coziness (n.) The state or quality of being cozy.,
C as in Cozy (superl.) Snug; comfortable; easy; contented.,
C as in Cozy (superl.) Chatty; talkative; sociable; familiar.,
C as in Cozy (a.) A wadded covering for a teakettle or other vessel to keep the contents hot.,
C as in Crab (n.) One of the brachyuran Crustacea. They are mostly marine, and usually have a broad, short body, covered with a strong shell or carapace. The abdomen is small and curled up beneath the body.,
C as in Crab (n.) The zodiacal constellation Cancer.,
C as in Crab (a.) A crab apple; -- so named from its harsh taste.,
C as in Crab (a.) A cudgel made of the wood of the crab tree; a crabstick.,
C as in Crab (a.) A movable winch or windlass with powerful gearing, used with derricks, etc.,
C as in Crab (a.) A form of windlass, or geared capstan, for hauling ships into dock, etc.,
C as in Crab (a.) A machine used in ropewalks to stretch the yarn.,
C as in Crab (a.) A claw for anchoring a portable machine.,
C as in Crab (v. t.) To make sour or morose; to embitter.,
C as in Crab (v. t.) To beat with a crabstick.,
C as in Crab (v. i.) To drift sidewise or to leeward, as a vessel.,
C as in Crab (a.) Sour; rough; austere.,
C as in Crabbed (n.) Characterized by or manifesting, sourness, peevishness, or moroseness; harsh; cross; cynical; -- applied to feelings, disposition, or manners.,
C as in Crabbed (n.) Characterized by harshness or roughness; unpleasant; -- applied to things; as, a crabbed taste.,
C as in Crabbed (n.) Obscure; difficult; perplexing; trying; as, a crabbed author.,
C as in Crabbed (n.) Cramped; irregular; as, crabbed handwriting.,
C as in Crabber (n.) One who catches crabs.,
C as in Crabbing (n.) The act or art of catching crabs.,
C as in Crabbing (n.) The fighting of hawks with each other.,
C as in Crabbing (n.) A process of scouring cloth between rolls in a machine.,
C as in Crabbish (a.) Somewhat sour or cross.,
C as in Crabby (a.) Crabbed; difficult, or perplexing.,
C as in Crabeater (n.) The cobia.,
C as in Crabeater (n.) An etheostomoid fish of the southern United States (Hadropterus nigrofasciatus).,
C as in Crabeater (n.) A small European heron (Ardea minuta, and other allied species).,
C as in Craber (n.) The water rat.,
C as in Crabfaced (a.) Having a sour, disagreeable countenance.,
C as in Crabsidle (v. i.) To move sidewise, as a crab. [Jocular].,
C as in Crabstick (n.) A stick, cane, or cudgel, made of the wood of the crab tree.,
C as in Crab tree () See under Crab.,
C as in Crab-yaws (n.) A disease in the West Indies. It is a kind of ulcer on the soles of the feet, with very hard edges. See Yaws.,
C as in Crache (v.) To scratch.,
C as in Cracked (imp. & p. p.) of Crack,
C as in Cracking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Crack,
C as in Crack (v. t.) To break or burst, with or without entire separation of the parts; as, to crack glass; to crack nuts.,
C as in Crack (v. t.) To rend with grief or pain; to affect deeply with sorrow; hence, to disorder; to distract; to craze.,
C as in Crack (v. t.) To cause to sound suddenly and sharply; to snap; as, to crack a whip.,
C as in Crack (v. t.) To utter smartly and sententiously; as, to crack a joke.,
C as in Crack (v. t.) To cry up; to extol; -- followed by up.,
C as in Crack (v. i.) To burst or open in chinks; to break, with or without quite separating into parts.,
C as in Crack (v. i.) To be ruined or impaired; to fail.,
C as in Crack (v. i.) To utter a loud or sharp, sudden sound.,
C as in Crack (v. i.) To utter vain, pompous words; to brag; to boast; -- with of.,
C as in Crack (n.) A partial separation of parts, with or without a perceptible opening; a chink or fissure; a narrow breach; a crevice; as, a crack in timber, or in a wall, or in glass.,
C as in Crack (n.) Rupture; flaw; breach, in a moral sense.,
C as in Crack (n.) A sharp, sudden sound or report; the sound of anything suddenly burst or broken; as, the crack of a falling house; the crack of thunder; the crack of a whip.,
C as in Crack (n.) The tone of voice when changed at puberty.,
C as in Crack (n.) Mental flaw; a touch of craziness; partial insanity; as, he has a crack.,
C as in Crack (n.) A crazy or crack-brained person.,
C as in Crack (n.) A boast; boasting.,
C as in Crack (n.) Breach of chastity.,
C as in Crack (n.) A boy, generally a pert, lively boy.,
C as in Crack (n.) A brief time; an instant; as, to be with one in a crack.,
C as in Crack (n.) Free conversation; friendly chat.,
C as in Crack (a.) Of superior excellence; having qualities to be boasted of.,
C as in Crack-brained (a.) Having an impaired intellect; whimsical; crazy.,
C as in Cracked (a.) Coarsely ground or broken; as, cracked wheat.,
C as in Cracked (a.) Crack-brained.,
C as in Cracker (n.) One who, or that which, cracks.,
C as in Cracker (n.) A noisy boaster; a swaggering fellow.,
C as in Cracker (n.) A small firework, consisting of a little powder inclosed in a thick paper cylinder with a fuse, and exploding with a sharp noise; -- often called firecracker.,
C as in Cracker (n.) A thin, dry biscuit, often hard or crisp; as, a Boston cracker; a Graham cracker; a soda cracker; an oyster cracker.,
C as in Cracker (n.) A nickname to designate a poor white in some parts of the Southern United States.,
C as in Cracker (n.) The pintail duck.,
C as in Cracker (n.) A pair of fluted rolls for grinding caoutchouc.,
C as in Crackle (v. i.) To make slight cracks; to make small, sharp, sudden noises, rapidly or frequently repeated; to crepitate; as, burning thorns crackle.,
C as in Crackle (n.) The noise of slight and frequent cracks or reports; a crackling.,
C as in Crackle (n.) A kind of crackling sound or r/le, heard in some abnormal states of the lungs; as, dry crackle; moist crackle.,
C as in Crackle (n.) A condition produced in certain porcelain, fine earthenware, or glass, in which the glaze or enamel appears to be cracked in all directions, making a sort of reticulated surface; as, Chinese crackle; Bohemian crackle.,
C as in Crackled (a.) Covered with minute cracks in the glaze; -- said of some kinds of porcelain and fine earthenware.,
C as in Crackleware (n.) See Crackle, n., 3.,
C as in Crackling (n.) The making of small, sharp cracks or reports, frequently repeated.,
C as in Crackling (n.) The well-browned, crisp rind of roasted pork.,
C as in Crackling (n.) Food for dogs, made from the refuse of tallow melting.,
C as in Cracknel (v. t.) A hard brittle cake or biscuit.,
C as in Cracksmen (pl. ) of Cracksman,
C as in Cracksman (n.) A burglar.,
C as in Cracovian (a.) Of or pertaining to Cracow in Poland.,
C as in Cracovienne (n.) A lively Polish dance, in 2-4 time.,
C as in Cracowes (n. pl.) Long-toed boots or shoes formerly worn in many parts of Europe; -- so called from Cracow, in Poland, where they were first worn in the fourteenth century.,
C as in Cradle (n.) A bed or cot for a baby, oscillating on rockers or swinging on pivots; hence, the place of origin, or in which anything is nurtured or protected in the earlier period of existence; as, a cradle of crime; the cradle of liberty.,
C as in Cradle (n.) Infancy, or very early life.,
C as in Cradle (n.) An implement consisting of a broad scythe for cutting grain, with a set of long fingers parallel to the scythe, designed to receive the grain, and to lay it evenly in a swath.,
C as in Cradle (n.) A tool used in mezzotint engraving, which, by a rocking motion, raises burrs on the surface of the plate, so preparing the ground.,
C as in Cradle (n.) A framework of timbers, or iron bars, moving upon ways or rollers, used to support, lift, or carry ships or other vessels, heavy guns, etc., as up an inclined plane, or across a strip of land, or in launching a ship.,
C as in Cradle (n.) A case for a broken or dislocated limb.,
C as in Cradle (n.) A frame to keep the bedclothes from contact with the person.,
C as in Cradle (n.) A machine on rockers, used in washing out auriferous earth; -- also called a rocker.,
C as in Cradle (n.) A suspended scaffold used in shafts.,
C as in Cradle (n.) The ribbing for vaulted ceilings and arches intended to be covered with plaster.,
C as in Cradle (n.) The basket or apparatus in which, when a line has been made fast to a wrecked ship from the shore, the people are brought off from the wreck.,
C as in Cradled (imp. & p. p.) of Cradle,
C as in Cradling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cradle,
C as in Cradle (v. t.) To lay to rest, or rock, as in a cradle; to lull or quiet, as by rocking.,
C as in Cradle (v. t.) To nurse or train in infancy.,
C as in Cradle (v. t.) To cut and lay with a cradle, as grain.,
C as in Cradle (v. t.) To transport a vessel by means of a cradle.,
C as in Cradle (v. i.) To lie or lodge, as in a cradle.,
C as in Cradling (n.) The act of using a cradle.,
C as in Cradling (n.) Cutting a cask into two pieces lengthwise, to enable it to pass a narrow place, the two parts being afterward united and rehooped.,
C as in Cradling (n.) The framework in arched or coved ceilings to which the laths are nailed.,
C as in Craft (n.) Strength; might; secret power.,
C as in Craft (n.) Art or skill; dexterity in particular manual employment; hence, the occupation or employment itself; manual art; a trade.,
C as in Craft (n.) Those engaged in any trade, taken collectively; a guild; as, the craft of ironmongers.,
C as in Craft (n.) Cunning, art, or skill, in a bad sense, or applied to bad purposes; artifice; guile; skill or dexterity employed to effect purposes by deceit or shrewd devices.,
C as in Craft (n.) A vessel; vessels of any kind; -- generally used in a collective sense.,
C as in Craft (v. t.) To play tricks; to practice artifice.,
C as in Craftily (adv.) With craft; artfully; cunningly.,
C as in Craftiness (n.) Dexterity in devising and effecting a purpose; cunning; artifice; stratagem.,
C as in Craftless (a.) Without craft or cunning.,
C as in Craftsmen (pl. ) of Craftsman,
C as in Craftsman (n.) One skilled in some trade or manual occupation; an artificer; a mechanic.,
C as in Craftsmanship (n.) The work of a craftsman.,
C as in Craftsmaster (n.) One skilled in his craft or trade; one of superior cunning.,
C as in Crafty (a.) Relating to, or characterized by, craft or skill; dexterous.,
C as in Crafty (a.) Possessing dexterity; skilled; skillful.,
C as in Crafty (a.) Skillful at deceiving others; characterized by craft; cunning; wily.,
C as in Crag (n.) A steep, rugged rock; a rough, broken cliff, or point of a rock, on a ledge.,
C as in Crag (n.) A partially compacted bed of gravel mixed with shells, of the Tertiary age.,
C as in Crag (n.) The neck or throat,
C as in Crag (n.) The neck piece or scrag of mutton.,
C as in Cragged (a.) Full of crags, or steep, broken //cks; abounding with prominences, points, and inequalities; rough; rugged.,
C as in Cradgedness (n.) The quality or state of being cragged; cragginess.,
C as in Cragginess (n.) The state of being craggy.,
C as in Craggy (a.) Full of crags; rugged with projecting points of rocks; as, the craggy side of a mountain.,
C as in Cragsmen (pl. ) of Cragsman,
C as in Cragsman (n.) One accustomed to climb rocks or crags; esp., one who makes a business of climbing the cliffs overhanging the sea to get the eggs of sea birds or the birds themselves.,
C as in Craie (n.) See Crare.,
C as in Craig flounder () The pole flounder.,
C as in Crail (n.) A creel or osier basket.,
C as in Crake (v. t. & i.) To cry out harshly and loudly, like the bird called crake.,
C as in Crake (v. t. & i.) To boast; to speak loudly and boastfully.,
C as in Crake (n.) A boast. See Crack, n.,
C as in Crake (n.) Any species or rail of the genera Crex and Porzana; -- so called from its singular cry. See Corncrake.,
C as in Crakeberry (n.) See Crowberry.,
C as in Craker (n.) One who boasts; a braggart.,
C as in Crammed (imp. & p. p.) of Cram,
C as in Cramming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cram,
C as in Cram (v. t.) To press, force, or drive, particularly in filling, or in thrusting one thing into another; to stuff; to crowd; to fill to superfluity; as, to cram anything into a basket; to cram a room with people.,
C as in Cram (v. t.) To fill with food to satiety; to stuff.,
C as in Cram (v. t.) To put hastily through an extensive course of memorizing or study, as in preparation for an examination; as, a pupil is crammed by his tutor.,
C as in Cram (v. i.) To eat greedily, and to satiety; to stuff.,
C as in Cram (v. i.) To make crude preparation for a special occasion, as an examination, by a hasty and extensive course of memorizing or study.,
C as in Cram (n.) The act of cramming.,
C as in Cram (n.) Information hastily memorized; as, a cram from an examination.,
C as in Cram (n.) A warp having more than two threads passing through each dent or split of the reed.,
C as in Crambo (a.) A game in which one person gives a word, to which another finds a rhyme.,
C as in Crambo (a.) A word rhyming with another word.,
C as in Crammer (n.) One who crams; esp., one who prepares a pupil hastily for an examination, or a pupil who is thus prepared.,
C as in Cramoisie (a.) Alt. of Cramoisy,
C as in Cramoisy (a.) Crimson.,
C as in Cramp (n.) That which confines or contracts; a restraint; a shackle; a hindrance.,
C as in Cramp (n.) A device, usually of iron bent at the ends, used to hold together blocks of stone, timbers, etc.; a cramp iron.,
C as in Cramp (n.) A rectangular frame, with a tightening screw, used for compressing the joints of framework, etc.,
C as in Cramp (n.) A piece of wood having a curve corresponding to that of the upper part of the instep, on which the upper leather of a boot is stretched to give it the requisite shape.,
C as in Cramp (n.) A spasmodic and painful involuntary contraction of a muscle or muscles, as of the leg.,
C as in Cramped (imp. & p. p.) of Cramp,
C as in Cramping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cramp,
C as in Cramp (v. t.) To compress; to restrain from free action; to confine and contract; to hinder.,
C as in Cramp (v. t.) To fasten or hold with, or as with, a cramp.,
C as in Cramp (v. t.) to bind together; to unite.,
C as in Cramp (v. t.) To form on a cramp; as, to cramp boot legs.,
C as in Cramp (v. t.) To afflict with cramp.,
C as in Cramp (n.) Knotty; difficult.,
C as in Crampet (n.) A cramp iron or cramp ring; a chape, as of a scabbard.,
C as in Crampfish (n.) The torpedo, or electric ray, the touch of which gives an electric shock. See Electric fish, and Torpedo.,
C as in Cramp iron () See Cramp, n., 2.,
C as in Crampit (n.) See Crampet.,
C as in Crampon (n.) An a/rial rootlet for support in climbing, as of ivy.,
C as in Cramponee (a.) Having a cramp or square piece at the end; -- said of a cross so furnished.,
C as in Crampoons (n.) A clutch formed of hooked pieces of iron, like double calipers, for raising stones, lumber, blocks of ice, etc.,
C as in Crampoons (n.) Iron instruments with sharp points, worn on the shoes to assist in gaining or keeping a foothold.,
C as in Crampy () Affected with cramp.,
C as in Crampy () Productive of, or abounding in, cramps.,
C as in Cran (n.) Alt. of Crane,
C as in Crane (n.) A measure for fresh herrings, -- as many as will fill a barrel.,
C as in Cranage (n.) The liberty of using a crane, as for loading and unloading vessels.,
C as in Cranage (n.) The money or price paid for the use of a crane.,
C as in Cranberries (pl. ) of Cranberry,
C as in Cranberry (n.) A red, acid berry, much used for making sauce, etc.; also, the plant producing it (several species of Vaccinum or Oxycoccus.) The high cranberry or cranberry tree is a species of Viburnum (V. Opulus), and the other is sometimes called low cranberry or marsh cranberry to distinguish it.,
C as in Cranch (v. t.) See Craunch.,
C as in Crane (n.) A wading bird of the genus Grus, and allied genera, of various species, having a long, straight bill, and long legs and neck.,
C as in Crane (n.) A machine for raising and lowering heavy weights, and, while holding them suspended, transporting them through a limited lateral distance. In one form it consists of a projecting arm or jib of timber or iron, a rotating post or base, and the necessary tackle, windlass, etc.; -- so called from a fancied similarity between its arm and the neck of a crane See Illust. of Derrick.,
C as in Crane (n.) An iron arm with horizontal motion, attached to the side or back of a fireplace, for supporting kettles, etc., over a fire.,
C as in Crane (n.) A siphon, or bent pipe, for drawing liquors out of a cask.,
C as in Crane (n.) A forked post or projecting bracket to support spars, etc., -- generally used in pairs. See Crotch, 2.,
C as in Craned (imp. & p. p.) of Crane,
C as in Craning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Crane,
C as in Crane (v. t.) To cause to rise; to raise or lift, as by a crane; -- with up.,
C as in Crane (v. t.) To stretch, as a crane stretches its neck; as, to crane the neck disdainfully.,
C as in Crane (v. i.) to reach forward with head and neck, in order to see better; as, a hunter cranes forward before taking a leap.,
C as in Crane's-bill (n.) The geranium; -- so named from the long axis of the fruit, which resembles the beak of a crane.,
C as in Crane's-bill (n.) A pair of long-beaked forceps.,
C as in Crang (n.) See Krang.,
C as in Crania (n.) A genus of living Brachiopoda; -- so called from its fancied resemblance to the cranium or skull.,
C as in Cranial (a.) Of or pertaining to the cranium.,
C as in Cranioclasm (n.) The crushing of a child's head, as with the cranioclast or craniotomy forceps in cases of very difficult delivery.,
C as in Cranioclast (n.) An instrument for crushing the head of a fetus, to facilitate delivery in difficult eases.,
C as in Craniofacial (a.) Of or pertaining to the cranium and face; as, the craniofacial angle.,
C as in Craniognomy (n.) The science of the form and characteristics of the skull.,
C as in Craniological (a.) Of or pertaining to craniology.,
C as in Craniologist (n.) One proficient in craniology; a phrenologist.,
C as in Craniology (n.) The department of science (as of ethnology or archaeology) which deals with the shape, size, proportions, indications, etc., of skulls; the study of skulls.,
C as in Craniometer (n.) An instrument for measuring the size of skulls.,
C as in Craniometric (a.) Alt. of Craniometrical,
C as in Craniometrical (a.) Pertaining to craniometry.,
C as in Craniometry (n.) The art or act of measuring skulls.,
C as in Cranioscopist (n.) One skilled in, or who practices, cranioscopy.,
C as in Cranioscopy (n.) Scientific examination of the cranium.,
C as in Craniota (n. pl.) A comprehensive division of the Vertebrata, including all those that have a skull.,
C as in Craniotomy (n.) The operation of opening the fetal head, in order to effect delivery.,
C as in Craniums (pl. ) of Cranium,
C as in Crania (pl. ) of Cranium,
C as in Cranium (n.) The skull of an animal; especially, that part of the skull, either cartilaginous or bony, which immediately incloses the brain; the brain case or brainpan. See Skull.,
C as in Crank (n.) A bent portion of an axle, or shaft, or an arm keyed at right angles to the end of a shaft, by which motion is imparted to or received from it; also used to change circular into reciprocating motion, or reciprocating into circular motion. See Bell crank.,
C as in Crank (n.) Any bend, turn, or winding, as of a passage.,
C as in Crank (n.) A twist or turn in speech; a conceit consisting in a change of the form or meaning of a word.,
C as in Crank (n.) A twist or turn of the mind; caprice; whim; crotchet; also, a fit of temper or passion.,
C as in Crank (n.) A person full of crotchets; one given to fantastic or impracticable projects; one whose judgment is perverted in respect to a particular matter.,
C as in Crank (n.) A sick person; an invalid.,
C as in Crank (n.) Sick; infirm.,
C as in Crank (n.) Liable to careen or be overset, as a ship when she is too narrow, or has not sufficient ballast, or is loaded too high, to carry full sail.,
C as in Crank (n.) Full of spirit; brisk; lively; sprightly; overconfident; opinionated.,
C as in Crank (n.) To run with a winding course; to double; to crook; to wind and turn.,
C as in Crankbird (n.) A small European woodpecker (Picus minor).,
C as in Cranked (a.) Formed with, or having, a bend or crank; as, a cranked axle.,
C as in Crankiness (n.) Crankness.,
C as in Crankle (v. t.) To break into bends, turns, or angles; to crinkle.,
C as in Crankle (v. i.) To bend, turn, or wind.,
C as in Crankle (n.) A bend or turn; a twist; a crinkle.,
C as in Crankness (n.) Liability to be overset; -- said of a ship or other vessel.,
C as in Crankness (n.) Sprightliness; vigor; health.,
C as in Cranky (a.) Full of spirit; crank.,
C as in Cranky (a.) Addicted to crotchets and whims; unreasonable in opinions; crotchety.,
C as in Cranky (a.) Unsteady; easy to upset; crank.,
C as in Crannied (a.) Having crannies, chinks, or fissures; as, a crannied wall.,
C as in Crannog (n.) Alt. of Crannoge,
C as in Crannoge (n.) One of the stockaded islands in Scotland and Ireland which in ancient times were numerous in the lakes of both countries. They may be regarded as the very latest class of prehistoric strongholds, reaching their greatest development in early historic times, and surviving through the Middle Ages. See also Lake dwellings, under Lake.,
C as in Crannies (pl. ) of Cranny,
C as in Cranny (n.) A small, narrow opening, fissure, crevice, or chink, as in a wall, or other substance.,
C as in Cranny (n.) A tool for forming the necks of bottles, etc.,
C as in Crannied (imp. & p. p.) of Cranny,
C as in Crannying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cranny,
C as in Cranny (v. i.) To crack into, or become full of, crannies.,
C as in Cranny (v. i.) To haunt, or enter by, crannies.,
C as in Cranny (a.) Quick; giddy; thoughtless.,
C as in Crantara (n.) The fiery cross, used as a rallying signal in the Highlands of Scotland.,
C as in Crants (n.) A garland carried before the bier of a maiden.,
C as in Crapaudine (n.) Turning on pivots at the top and bottom; -- said of a door.,
C as in Crapaudine (n.) An ulcer on the coronet of a horse.,
C as in Crape (n.) A thin, crimped stuff, made of raw silk gummed and twisted on the mill. Black crape is much used for mourning garments, also for the dress of some clergymen.,
C as in Craped (imp. & p. p.) of Crape,
C as in Craping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Crape,
C as in Crape (n.) To form into ringlets; to curl; to crimp; to friz; as, to crape the hair; to crape silk.,
C as in Crapefish (n.) Salted codfish hardened by pressure.,
C as in Crapnel (n.) A hook or drag; a grapnel.,
C as in Crappie (n.) A kind of fresh-water bass of the genus Pomoxys, found in the rivers of the Southern United States and Mississippi valley. There are several species.,
C as in Crapple (n.) A claw.,
C as in Craps (n.) A gambling game with dice.,
C as in Crapula (n.) Alt. of Crapule,
C as in Crapule (n.) Same as Crapulence.,
C as in Crapulence (n.) The sickness occasioned by intemperance; surfeit.,
C as in Crapulent (a.) Alt. of Crapulous,
C as in Crapulous (a.) Surcharged with liquor; sick from excessive indulgence in liquor; drunk; given to excesses.,
C as in Crapy (a.) Resembling crape.,
C as in Crare (n.) A slow unwieldy trading vessel.,
C as in Crase (v. t.) To break in pieces; to crack.,
C as in Crashed (imp. & p. p.) of Crash,
C as in Crashing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Crash,
C as in Crash (v. t. ) To break in pieces violently; to dash together with noise and violence.,
C as in Crash (v. i.) To make a loud, clattering sound, as of many things falling and breaking at once; to break in pieces with a harsh noise.,
C as in Crash (v. i.) To break with violence and noise; as, the chimney in falling crashed through the roof.,
C as in Crash (n.) A loud, sudden, confused sound, as of many things falling and breaking at once.,
C as in Crash (n.) Ruin; failure; sudden breaking down, as of a business house or a commercial enterprise.,
C as in Crash (n.) Coarse, heavy, narrow linen cloth, used esp. for towels.,
C as in Crashing (n.) The noise of many things falling and breaking at once.,
C as in Crasis (n.) A mixture of constituents, as of the blood; constitution; temperament.,
C as in Crasis (n.) A contraction of two vowels (as the final and initial vowels of united words) into one long vowel, or into a diphthong; synaeresis; as, cogo for coago.,
C as in Craspedota (n. pl.) The hydroid or naked-eyed medusae. See Hydroidea.,
C as in Craspedote (a.) Of or pertaining to the Craspedota.,
C as in Crass (a.) Gross; thick; dense; coarse; not elaborated or refined.,
C as in Crassament (a.) Alt. of Crassamentum,
C as in Crassamentum (a.) A semisolid mass or clot, especially that formed in coagulation of the blood.,
C as in Crassiment (n.) See Crassament.,
C as in Crassitude (n.) Grossness; coarseness; thickness; density.,
C as in Crassness (n.) Grossness.,
C as in Crastination (n.) Procrastination; a putting off till to-morrow.,
C as in Crataegus (n.) A genus of small, hardy trees, including the hawthorn, much used for ornamental purposes.,
C as in Cratch (n.) A manger or open frame for hay; a crib; a rack.,
C as in Crate (n.) A large basket or hamper of wickerwork, used for the transportation of china, crockery, and similar wares.,
C as in Crate (n.) A box or case whose sides are of wooden slats with interspaces, -- used especially for transporting fruit.,
C as in Crated (imp. & p. p.) of Crate,
C as in Crating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Crate,
C as in Crate (v. t.) To pack in a crate or case for transportation; as, to crate a sewing machine; to crate peaches.,
C as in Crater (n.) The basinlike opening or mouth of a volcano, through which the chief eruption comes; similarly, the mouth of a geyser, about which a cone of silica is often built up.,
C as in Crater (n.) The pit left by the explosion of a mine.,
C as in Crater (n.) A constellation of the southen hemisphere; -- called also the Cup.,
C as in Crateriform (a.) Having the form of a shallow bowl; -- said of a corolla.,
C as in Craterous (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, a crater.,
C as in Craunched (imp. & p. p.) of Craunch,
C as in Craunching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Craunch,
C as in Craunch (v. t. & i.) To crush with the teeth; to chew with violence and noise; to crunch.,
C as in Cravat (n.) A neckcloth; a piece of silk, fine muslin, or other cloth, worn by men about the neck.,
C as in Cravatted (a.) Wearing a cravat.,
C as in Craved (imp. & p. p.) of Crave,
C as in Craving (p pr. & vb. n.) of Crave,
C as in Crave (v. t.) To ask with earnestness or importunity; to ask with submission or humility; to beg; to entreat; to beseech; to implore.,
C as in Crave (v. t.) To call for, as a gratification; to long for; hence, to require or demand; as, the stomach craves food.,
C as in Crave (v. i.) To desire strongly; to feel an insatiable longing; as, a craving appetite.,
C as in Craven (a.) Cowardly; fainthearted; spiritless.,
C as in Craven (n.) A recreant; a coward; a weak-hearted, spiritless fellow. See Recreant, n.,
C as in Cravened (imp. & p. p.) of Craven,
C as in Cravening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Craven,
C as in Craven (v. t.) To make recreant, weak, spiritless, or cowardly.,
C as in Craver (n.) One who craves or begs.,
C as in Craving (n.) Vehement or urgent desire; longing for; beseeching.,
C as in Craw (n.) The crop of a bird.,
C as in Craw (n.) The stomach of an animal.,
C as in -fishes (pl. ) of Crayfish,
C as in -fish (pl. ) of Crayfish,
C as in Crawfish (n.) Alt. of Crayfish,
C as in Crayfish (n.) Any crustacean of the family Astacidae, resembling the lobster, but smaller, and found in fresh waters. Crawfishes are esteemed very delicate food both in Europe and America. The North American species are numerous and mostly belong to the genus Cambarus. The blind crawfish of the Mammoth Cave is Cambarus pellucidus. The common European species is Astacus fluviatilis.,
C as in Crawford (n.) A Crawford peach; a well-known freestone peach, with yellow flesh, first raised by Mr. William Crawford, of New Jersey.,
C as in Crawled (imp. & p. p.) of Crawl,
C as in Crawling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Crawl,
C as in Crawl (v. i.) To move slowly by drawing the body along the ground, as a worm; to move slowly on hands and knees; to creep.,
C as in Crawl (v. i.) to move or advance in a feeble, slow, or timorous manner.,
C as in Crawl (v. i.) To advance slowly and furtively; to insinuate one's self; to advance or gain influence by servile or obsequious conduct.,
C as in Crawl (v. i.) To have a sensation as of insect creeping over the body; as, the flesh crawls. See Creep, v. i., 7.,
C as in Crawl (n.) The act or motion of crawling; slow motion, as of a creeping animal.,
C as in Crawl (n.) A pen or inclosure of stakes and hurdles on the seacoast, for holding fish.,
C as in Crawler (n.) One who, or that which, crawls; a creeper; a reptile.,
C as in Crawly (a.) Creepy.,
C as in Cray (n.) Alt. of Crayer,
C as in Crayer (n.) See Crare.,
C as in Crayfish (n.) See Crawfish.,
C as in Crayon (n.) An implement for drawing, made of clay and plumbago, or of some preparation of chalk, usually sold in small prisms or cylinders.,
C as in Crayon (n.) A crayon drawing.,
C as in Crayon (n.) A pencil of carbon used in producing electric light.,
C as in Crayoned (imp. & p. p.) of Crayon,
C as in Crayoning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Crayon,
C as in Crayon (v. t.) To sketch, as with a crayon; to sketch or plan.,
C as in Crazed (imp. & p. p.) of Craze,
C as in Crazing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Craze,
C as in Craze (v. t.) To break into pieces; to crush; to grind to powder. See Crase.,
C as in Craze (v. t.) To weaken; to impair; to render decrepit.,
C as in Craze (v. t.) To derange the intellect of; to render insane.,
C as in Craze (v. i.) To be crazed, or to act or appear as one that is crazed; to rave; to become insane.,
C as in Craze (v. i.) To crack, as the glazing of porcelain or pottery.,
C as in Craze (n.) Craziness; insanity.,
C as in Craze (n.) A strong habitual desire or fancy; a crotchet.,
C as in Craze (n.) A temporary passion or infatuation, as for same new amusement, pursuit, or fashion; as, the bric-a-brac craze; the aesthetic craze.,
C as in Crazedness (n.) A broken state; decrepitude; an impaired state of the intellect.,
C as in Craze-mill (n.) Alt. of Crazing-mill,
C as in Crazing-mill (n.) A mill for grinding tin ore.,
C as in Crazily (adv.) In a crazy manner.,
C as in Craziness (n.) The state of being broken down or weakened; as, the craziness of a ship, or of the limbs.,
C as in Craziness (n.) The state of being broken in mind; imbecility or weakness of intellect; derangement.,
C as in Crazy (a.) Characterized by weakness or feebleness; decrepit; broken; falling to decay; shaky; unsafe.,
C as in Crazy (a.) Broken, weakened, or dissordered in intellect; shattered; demented; deranged.,
C as in Crazy (a.) Inordinately desirous; foolishly eager.,
C as in Creable (a.) Capable of being created.,
C as in Creaght (n.) A drove or herd.,
C as in Creaght (v. i.) To graze.,
C as in Creaked (imp. & p. p.) of Creak,
C as in Creaking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Creak,
C as in Creak (v. i.) To make a prolonged sharp grating or squeaking sound, as by the friction of hard substances; as, shoes creak.,
C as in Creak (v. t.) To produce a creaking sound with.,
C as in Creak (n.) The sound produced by anything that creaks; a creaking.,
C as in Creaking (n.) A harsh grating or squeaking sound, or the act of making such a sound.,
C as in Cream (n.) The rich, oily, and yellowish part of milk, which, when the milk stands unagitated, rises, and collects on the surface. It is the part of milk from which butter is obtained.,
C as in Cream (n.) The part of any liquor that rises, and collects on the surface.,
C as in Cream (n.) A delicacy of several kinds prepared for the table from cream, etc., or so as to resemble cream.,
C as in Cream (n.) A cosmetic; a creamlike medicinal preparation.,
C as in Cream (n.) The best or choicest part of a thing; the quintessence; as, the cream of a jest or story; the cream of a collection of books or pictures.,
C as in Creamed (imp. & p. p.) of Cream,
C as in Creaming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cream,
C as in Cream (v. t.) To skim, or take off by skimming, as cream.,
C as in Cream (v. t.) To take off the best or choicest part of.,
C as in Cream (v. t.) To furnish with, or as with, cream.,
C as in Cream (v. i.) To form or become covered with cream; to become thick like cream; to assume the appearance of cream; hence, to grow stiff or formal; to mantle.,
C as in Creamcake (n.) A kind of cake filled with custard made of cream, eggs, etc.,
C as in Cream-colored (a.) Of the color of cream; light yellow.,
C as in Creameries (pl. ) of Creamery,
C as in Creamery (n.) A place where butter and cheese are made, or where milk and cream are put up in cans for market.,
C as in Creamery (n.) A place or apparatus in which milk is set for raising cream.,
C as in Creamery (n.) An establishment where cream is sold.,
C as in Cream-faced (a.) White or pale, as the effect of fear, or as the natural complexion.,
C as in Cream-fruit (n.) A plant of Sierra Leone which yields a wholesome, creamy juice.,
C as in Creaminess (n.) The quality of being creamy.,
C as in Cream laid () See under Laid.,
C as in Cream-slice (n.) A wooden knife with a long thin blade, used in handling cream or ice cream.,
C as in Cream-white (a.) As white as cream.,
C as in Creamy (a.) Full of, or containing, cream; resembling cream, in nature, appearance, or taste; creamlike; unctuous.,
C as in Creance (n.) Faith; belief; creed.,
C as in Creance (n.) A fine, small line, fastened to a hawk's leash, when it is first lured.,
C as in Creance (v. i. & t.) To get on credit; to borrow.,
C as in Creant (a.) Creative; formative.,
C as in Crease (n.) See Creese.,
C as in Crease (n.) A line or mark made by folding or doubling any pliable substance; hence, a similar mark, however produced.,
C as in Crease (n.) One of the lines serving to define the limits of the bowler and the striker.,
C as in Creased (imp. & p. p.) of Crease,
C as in Creasing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Crease,
C as in Crease (v. t.) To make a crease or mark in, as by folding or doubling.,
C as in Creaser (n.) A tool, or a sewing-machine attachment, for making lines or creases on leather or cloth, as guides to sew by.,
C as in Creaser (n.) A tool for making creases or beads, as in sheet iron, or for rounding small tubes.,
C as in Creaser (n.) A tool for making the band impression distinct on the back.,
C as in Creasing (n.) A layer of tiles forming a corona for a wall.,
C as in Creasote (n.) See Creosote.,
C as in Creasy (a.) Full of creases.,
C as in Creat (n.) An usher to a riding master.,
C as in Creatable (a.) That may be created.,
C as in Create (a.) Created; composed; begotten.,
C as in Created (imp. & p. p.) of Create,
C as in Creating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Create,
C as in Create (v. t.) To bring into being; to form out of nothing; to cause to exist.,
C as in Create (v. t.) To effect by the agency, and under the laws, of causation; to be the occasion of; to cause; to produce; to form or fashion; to renew.,
C as in Create (v. t.) To invest with a new form, office, or character; to constitute; to appoint; to make; as, to create one a peer.,
C as in Creatic (a.) Relating to, or produced by, flesh or animal food; as, creatic nausea.,
C as in Creatin (n.) A white, crystalline, nitrogenous substance found abundantly in muscle tissue.,
C as in Creatinin (n.) A white, crystalline, nitrogenous body closely related to creatin but more basic in its properties, formed from the latter by the action of acids, and occurring naturally in muscle tissue and in urine.,
C as in Creation (n.) The act of creating or causing to exist. Specifically, the act of bringing the universe or this world into existence.,
C as in Creation (n.) That which is created; that which is produced or caused to exist, as the world or some original work of art or of the imagination; nature.,
C as in Creation (n.) The act of constituting or investing with a new character; appointment; formation.,
C as in Creational (a.) Of or pertaining to creation.,
C as in Creationism (n.) The doctrine that a soul is specially created for each human being as soon as it is formed in the womb; -- opposed to traducianism.,
C as in Creative (a.) Having the power to create; exerting the act of creation.,
C as in Creativeness (n.) The quality of being creative.,
C as in Cretor (n.) One who creates, produces, or constitutes. Specifically, the Supreme Being.,
C as in Creatorship (n.) State or condition of a creator.,
C as in Creatress (n.) She who creates.,
C as in Creatrix (n.) A creatress.,
C as in Creatural (a.) Belonging to a creature; having the qualities of a creature.,
C as in Creature (n.) Anything created; anything not self-existent; especially, any being created with life; an animal; a man.,
C as in Creature (n.) A human being, in pity, contempt, or endearment; as, a poor creature; a pretty creature.,
C as in Creature (n.) A person who owes his rise and fortune to another; a servile dependent; an instrument; a tool.,
C as in Creature (n.) A general term among farmers for horses, oxen, etc.,
C as in Cratureless (a.) Without created beings; alone.,
C as in Creaturely (a.) Creatural; characteristic of a creature.,
C as in Creatureship (n.) The condition of being a creature.,
C as in Creaturize (v. t.) To make like a creature; to degrade,
C as in Creaze (n.) The tin ore which collects in the central part of the washing pit or buddle.,
C as in Crebricostate (a.) Marked with closely set ribs or ridges.,
C as in Crebrisulcate (a.) Marked with closely set transverse furrows.,
C as in Crebritude (n.) Frequency.,
C as in Crebrous (a.) Frequent; numerous.,
C as in Cr/che (n.) A public nursery, where the young children of poor women are cared for during the day, while their mothers are at work.,
C as in Credence (n.) Reliance of the mind on evidence of facts derived from other sources than personal knowledge; belief; credit; confidence.,
C as in Credence (n.) That which gives a claim to credit, belief, or confidence; as, a letter of credence.,
C as in Credence (n.) The small table by the side of the altar or communion table, on which the bread and wine are placed before being consecrated.,
C as in Credence (n.) A cupboard, sideboard, or cabinet, particularly one intended for the display of rich vessels or plate, and consisting chiefly of open shelves for that purpose.,
C as in Credence (v. t.) To give credence to; to believe.,
C as in Credenda (pl. ) of Credendum,
C as in Credendum (n.) A thing to be believed; an article of faith; -- distinguished from agendum, a practical duty.,
C as in Credent (a.) Believing; giving credence; credulous.,
C as in Credent (a.) Having credit or authority; credible.,
C as in Credential (a.) Giving a title or claim to credit or confidence; accrediting.,
C as in Credential (n.) That which gives a title to credit or confidence.,
C as in Credential (n.) Testimonials showing that a person is entitled to credit, or has right to exercise official power, as the letters given by a government to an ambassador or envoy, or a certificate that one is a duly elected delegate.,
C as in Credibility (n.) The quality of being credible; credibleness; as, the credibility of facts; the credibility of witnesses.,
C as in Credible (a.) Capable of being credited or believed; worthy of belief; entitled to confidence; trustworthy.,
C as in Credibleness (n.) The quality or state of being credible; worthiness of belief; credibility.,
C as in Credibly (adv.) In a manner inducing belief; as, I have been credibly informed of the event.,
C as in Credit (n.) Reliance on the truth of something said or done; belief; faith; trust; confidence.,
C as in Credit (n.) Reputation derived from the confidence of others; esteem; honor; good name; estimation.,
C as in Credit (n.) A ground of, or title to, belief or confidence; authority derived from character or reputation.,
C as in Credit (n.) That which tends to procure, or add to, reputation or esteem; an honor.,
C as in Credit (n.) Influence derived from the good opinion, confidence, or favor of others; interest.,
C as in Credit (n.) Trust given or received; expectation of future playment for property transferred, or of fulfillment or promises given; mercantile reputation entitling one to be trusted; -- applied to individuals, corporations, communities, or nations; as, to buy goods on credit.,
C as in Credit (n.) The time given for payment for lands or goods sold on trust; as, a long credit or a short credit.,
C as in Credit (n.) The side of an account on which are entered all items reckoned as values received from the party or the category named at the head of the account; also, any one, or the sum, of these items; -- the opposite of debit; as, this sum is carried to one's credit, and that to his debit; A has several credits on the books of B.,
C as in Credited (imp. & p. p.) of Credit,
C as in Crediting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Credit,
C as in Credit (v. t.) To confide in the truth of; to give credence to; to put trust in; to believe.,
C as in Credit (v. t.) To bring honor or repute upon; to do credit to; to raise the estimation of.,
C as in Credit (v. t.) To enter upon the credit side of an account; to give credit for; as, to credit the amount paid; to set to the credit of; as, to credit a man with the interest paid on a bond.,
C as in Creditable (a.) Worthy of belief.,
C as in Creditable (a.) Deserving or possessing reputation or esteem; reputable; estimable.,
C as in Creditable (a.) Bringing credit, reputation, or honor; honorable; as, such conduct is highly creditable to him.,
C as in Creditableness (n.) The quality of being creditable.,
C as in Creditably (adv.) In a creditable manner; reputably; with credit.,
C as in Credit foncier () A company licensed for the purpose of carrying out improvements, by means of loans and advances upon real securities.,
C as in Credit mobilier () A joint stock company, formed for general banking business, or for the construction of public works, by means of loans on personal estate, after the manner of the credit foncier on real estate. In practice, however, this distinction has not been strictly observed.,
C as in Creditor (n.) One who credits, believes, or trusts.,
C as in Creditor (n.) One who gives credit in business matters; hence, one to whom money is due; -- correlative to debtor.,
C as in Creditress (n.) Alt. of Creditrix,
C as in Creditrix (n.) A female creditor.,
C as in Credo (n.) The creed, as sung or read in the Roman Catholic church.,
C as in Credulity (n.) Readiness of belief; a disposition to believe on slight evidence.,
C as in Credulous (a.) Apt to believe on slight evidence; easily imposed upon; unsuspecting.,
C as in Credulous (a.) Believed too readily.,
C as in Credulously (adv.) With credulity.,
C as in Credulousness (n.) Readiness to believe on slight evidence; credulity.,
C as in Creed (v. t.) A definite summary of what is believed; esp., a summary of the articles of Christian faith; a confession of faith for public use; esp., one which is brief and comprehensive.,
C as in Creed (v. t.) Any summary of principles or opinions professed or adhered to.,
C as in Creed (v. t.) To believe; to credit.,
C as in Creedless (a.) Without a creed.,
C as in Creek (n.) A small inlet or bay, narrower and extending further into the land than a cove; a recess in the shore of the sea, or of a river.,
C as in Creek (n.) A stream of water smaller than a river and larger than a brook.,
C as in Creek (n.) Any turn or winding.,
C as in Creekfish (n.) The chub sucker.,
C as in Creeks (n. pl.) A tribe or confederacy of North American Indians, including the Muskogees, Seminoles, Uchees, and other subordinate tribes. They formerly inhabited Georgia, Florida, and Alabama.,
C as in Creeky (a.) Containing, or abounding in, creeks; characterized by creeks; like a creek; winding.,
C as in Creel (n.) An osier basket, such as anglers use.,
C as in Creel (n.) A bar or set of bars with skewers for holding paying-off bobbins, as in the roving machine, throstle, and mule.,
C as in Crept (imp.) of Creep,
C as in Crope () of Creep,
C as in Crept (p. p.) of Creep,
C as in Creeping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Creep,
C as in Creep (v. t.) To move along the ground, or on any other surface, on the belly, as a worm or reptile; to move as a child on the hands and knees; to crawl.,
C as in Creep (v. t.) To move slowly, feebly, or timorously, as from unwillingness, fear, or weakness.,
C as in Creep (v. t.) To move in a stealthy or secret manner; to move imperceptibly or clandestinely; to steal in; to insinuate itself or one's self; as, age creeps upon us.,
C as in Creep (v. t.) To slip, or to become slightly displaced; as, the collodion on a negative, or a coat of varnish, may creep in drying; the quicksilver on a mirror may creep.,
C as in Creep (v. t.) To move or behave with servility or exaggerated humility; to fawn; as, a creeping sycophant.,
C as in Creep (v. t.) To grow, as a vine, clinging to the ground or to some other support by means of roots or rootlets, or by tendrils, along its length.,
C as in Creep (v. t.) To have a sensation as of insects creeping on the skin of the body; to crawl; as, the sight made my flesh creep. See Crawl, v. i., 4.,
C as in Creep (v. i.) To drag in deep water with creepers, as for recovering a submarine cable.,
C as in Creep (n.) The act or process of creeping.,
C as in Creep (n.) A distressing sensation, or sound, like that occasioned by the creeping of insects.,
C as in Creep (n.) A slow rising of the floor of a gallery, occasioned by the pressure of incumbent strata upon the pillars or sides; a gradual movement of mining ground.,
C as in Creeper (n.) One who, or that which, creeps; any creeping thing.,
C as in Creeper (n.) A plant that clings by rootlets, or by tendrils, to the ground, or to trees, etc.; as, the Virginia creeper (Ampelopsis quinquefolia).,
C as in Creeper (n.) A small bird of the genus Certhia, allied to the wrens. The brown or common European creeper is C. familiaris, a variety of which (var. Americana) inhabits America; -- called also tree creeper and creeptree. The American black and white creeper is Mniotilta varia.,
C as in Creeper (n.) A kind of patten mounted on short pieces of iron instead of rings; also, a fixture with iron points worn on a shoe to prevent one from slipping.,
C as in Creeper (n.) A spurlike device strapped to the boot, which enables one to climb a tree or pole; -- called often telegraph creepers.,
C as in Creeper (n.) A small, low iron, or dog, between the andirons.,
C as in Creeper (n.) An instrument with iron hooks or claws for dragging at the bottom of a well, or any other body of water, and bringing up what may lie there.,
C as in Creeper (n.) Any device for causing material to move steadily from one part of a machine to another, as an apron in a carding machine, or an inner spiral in a grain screen.,
C as in Creeper (n.) Crockets. See Crocket.,
C as in Creephole (n.) A hole or retreat into which an animal may creep, to escape notice or danger.,
C as in Creephole (n.) A subterfuge; an excuse.,
C as in Creepie (n.) A low stool.,
C as in Creepiness (n.) An uneasy sensation as of insects creeping on the skin.,
C as in Creeping (a.) Crawling, or moving close to the ground.,
C as in Creeping (a.) Growing along, and clinging to, the ground, or to a wall, etc., by means of rootlets or tendrils.,
C as in Creepingly (adv.) by creeping slowly; in the manner of a reptile; insidiously; cunningly.,
C as in Creeple (n.) A creeping creature; a reptile.,
C as in Creeple (n.) One who is lame; a cripple.,
C as in Creepy (a.) Crawly; having or producing a sensation like that caused by insects creeping on the skin.,
C as in Crees (n. pl.) An Algonquin tribe of Indians, inhabiting a large part of British America east of the Rocky Mountains and south of Hudson's Bay.,
C as in Creese (n.) A dagger or short sword used by the Malays, commonly having a serpentine blade.,
C as in Cremaillere (n.) An indented or zigzaged line of intrenchment.,
C as in Cremaster (n.) A thin muscle which serves to draw up the testicle.,
C as in Cremaster (n.) The apex of the last abdominal segment of an insect.,
C as in Cremasteric (a.) Of or pertaining to the cremaster; as, the cremasteric artery.,
C as in Cremate (v. t.) To burn; to reduce to ashes by the action of fire, either directly or in an oven or retort; to incremate or incinerate; as, to cremate a corpse, instead of burying it.,
C as in Cremation (n.) A burning; esp., the act or practice of cremating the dead.,
C as in Cremationist (n.) One who advocates the practice of cremation.,
C as in Cremator (n.) One who, or that which, cremates or consumes to ashes.,
C as in Crematoriums (pl. ) of Crematory,
C as in Crematories (pl. ) of Crematory,
C as in Crematorium (n.) Alt. of Crematory,
C as in Crematory (n.) A furnace for cremating corpses; a building containing such a furnace.,
C as in Crematory (a.) Pertaining to, or employed in, cremation.,
C as in Cremocarp (n.) The peculiar fruit of fennel, carrot, parsnip, and the like, consisting of a pair of carpels pendent from a supporting axis.,
C as in Cremona (n.) A superior kind of violin, formerly made at Cremona, in Italy.,
C as in Cremor (n.) Cream; a substance resembling cream; yeast; scum.,
C as in Cremosin (n.) See Crimson.,
C as in Crems (n.) See Krems.,
C as in Crenate (a.) Alt. of Crenated,
C as in Crenated (a.) Having the margin cut into rounded teeth notches, or scallops.,
C as in Crenation (n.) A rounded tooth on the edge of a leaf.,
C as in Crenation (n.) The condition of being crenate.,
C as in Crenature (n.) A rounded tooth or notch of a crenate leaf, or any part that is crenate; -- called also crenelle.,
C as in Crenature (n.) The state of being crenated or notched.,
C as in Crenel (n.) See Crenelle.,
C as in Crenelated (imp. & p. p.) of Crenelate,
C as in Crenelating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Crenelate,
C as in Crenelate (v. t.) To furnish with crenelles.,
C as in Crenelate (v. t.) To indent; to notch; as, a crenelated leaf.,
C as in Crenelation (n.) The act of crenelating, or the state of being crenelated; an indentation or an embrasure.,
C as in Crenelle (n.) Alt. of Crenel,
C as in Crenel (n.) An embrasure or indentation in a battlement; a loophole in a fortress; an indentation; a notch. See Merlon, and Illust. of Battlement.,
C as in Crenel (n.) Same as Crenature.,
C as in Crenelled (a.) Same as Crenate.,
C as in Crengle (n.) Alt. of Crenkle,
C as in Crenkle (n.) See Cringle.,
C as in Crenulate (a.) Alt. of Crenulated,
C as in Crenulated (a.) Minutely crenate.,
C as in Crenulation (n.) A minute crenation.,
C as in Crenulation (n.) The state of being minutely scalloped.,
C as in Creole (n.) One born of European parents in the American colonies of France or Spain or in the States which were once such colonies, esp. a person of French or Spanish descent, who is a native inhabitant of Louisiana, or one of the States adjoining, bordering on the Gulf of of Mexico.,
C as in Creole (a.) Of or pertaining to a Creole or the Creoles.,
C as in Creolean (a.) Alt. of Creolian,
C as in Creolian (a.) Pertaining to, or characteristic of, the Creoles.,
C as in Creolian (n. ) A Creole.,
C as in Creosol (n.) A colorless liquid resembling phenol or carbolic acid, homologous with pyrocatechin, and obtained from beechwood tar and gum guaiacum.,
C as in Creosote (n.) Wood-tar oil; an oily antiseptic liquid, of a burning smoky taste, colorless when pure, but usually colored yellow or brown by impurity or exposure. It is a complex mixture of various phenols and their ethers, and is obtained by the distillation of wood tar, especially that of beechwood.,
C as in Creosoted (imp. & p. p.) of Creosote,
C as in Creosoting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Creosote,
C as in Creosote (v. t.) To saturate or impregnate with creosote, as timber, for the prevention of decay.,
C as in Crepance (n.) Alt. of Crepane,
C as in Crepane (n.) An injury in a horse's leg, caused by the shoe of one hind foot striking and cutting the other leg. It sometimes forms an ulcer.,
C as in Crepe (n.) Same as Crape.,
C as in Crepitant (a.) Having a crackling sound; crackling; rattling.,
C as in Crepitated (imp. & p. p.) of Crepitate,
C as in Crepitating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Crepitate,
C as in Crepitate (v.) To make a series of small, sharp, rapidly repeated explosions or sounds, as salt in fire; to crackle; to snap.,
C as in Crepitation (n.) The act of crepitating or crackling.,
C as in Crepitation (n.) A grating or crackling sensation or sound, as that produced by rubbing two fragments of a broken bone together, or by pressing upon cellular tissue containing air.,
C as in Crepitation (n.) A crepitant rale.,
C as in Crepitus (n.) The noise produced by a sudden discharge of wind from the bowels.,
C as in Crepitus (n.) Same as Crepitation, 2.,
C as in Crepon (n.) A thin stuff made of the finest wool or silk, or of wool and silk.,
C as in Crept () imp. & p. p. of Creep.,
C as in Crepuscle (n.) Alt. of Crepuscule,
C as in Crepuscule (n.) Twilight.,
C as in Crepuscular (a.) Alt. of Crepusculous,
C as in Crepusculous (a.) Pertaining to twilight; glimmering; hence, imperfectly clear or luminous.,
C as in Crepusculous (a.) Flying in the twilight or evening, or before sunrise; -- said certain birds and insects.,
C as in Crepusculine (a.) Crepuscular.,
C as in Crescence (n.) Increase; enlargement.,
C as in Crescendo (a. & adv.) With a constantly increasing volume of voice; with gradually increasing strength and fullness of tone; -- a direction for the performance of music, indicated by the mark, or by writing the word on the score.,
C as in Crescendo (n.) A gradual increase in the strength and fullness of tone with which a passage is performed.,
C as in Crescendo (n.) A passage to be performed with constantly increasing volume of tone.,
C as in Crescent (n.) The increasing moon; the moon in her first quarter, or when defined by a concave and a convex edge; also, applied improperly to the old or decreasing moon in a like state.,
C as in Crescent (n.) Anything having the shape of a crescent or new moon.,
C as in Crescent (n.) A representation of the increasing moon, often used as an emblem or badge,
C as in Crescent (n.) A symbol of Artemis, or Diana.,
C as in Crescent (n.) The ancient symbol of Byzantium or Constantinople.,
C as in Crescent (n.) The emblem of the Turkish Empire, adopted after the taking of Constantinople.,
C as in Crescent (n.) Any one of three orders of knighthood; the first instituted by Charles I., king of Naples and Sicily, in 1268; the second by Rene of Anjou, in 1448; and the third by the Sultan Selim III., in 1801, to be conferred upon foreigners to whom Turkey might be indebted for valuable services.,
C as in Crescent (n.) The emblem of the increasing moon with horns directed upward, when used in a coat of arms; -- often used as a mark of cadency to distinguish a second son and his descendants.,
C as in Crescent (a.) Shaped like a crescent.,
C as in Crescent (a.) Increasing; growing.,
C as in Crescent (v. t.) To form into a crescent, or something resembling a crescent.,
C as in Crescent (v. t.) To adorn with crescents.,
C as in Crescentic (a.) Crescent-shaped.,
C as in Crescentwise (adv.) In the form of a crescent; like a crescent.,
C as in Crescive (a.) Increasing; growing.,
C as in Cresol (n.) Any one of three metameric substances, CH3.C6H4.OH, homologous with and resembling phenol. They are obtained from coal tar and wood tar, and are colorless, oily liquids or solids. [Called also cresylic acid.],
C as in Cresorcin (n.) Same as Isorcin.,
C as in Cresses (pl. ) of Cress,
C as in Cress (n.) A plant of various species, chiefly cruciferous. The leaves have a moderately pungent taste, and are used as a salad and antiscorbutic.,
C as in Cresselle (n.) A wooden rattle sometimes used as a substitute for a bell, in the Roman Catholic church, during the latter part of Holy Week, or the last week of Lent.,
C as in Cresset (n.) An open frame or basket of iron, filled with combustible material, to be burned as a beacon; an open lamp or firrepan carried on a pole in nocturnal processions.,
C as in Cresset (n.) A small furnace or iron cage to hold fire for charring the inside of a cask, and making the staves flexible.,
C as in Cressy (a.) Abounding in cresses.,
C as in Crest (n.) A tuft, or other excrescence or natural ornament, growing on an animal's head; the comb of a cock; the swelling on the head of a serpent; the lengthened feathers of the crown or nape of bird, etc.,
C as in Crest (n.) The plume of feathers, or other decoration, worn on a helmet; the distinctive ornament of a helmet, indicating the rank of the wearer; hence, also, the helmet.,
C as in Crest (n.) A bearing worn, not upon the shield, but usually above it, or separately as an ornament for plate, liveries, and the like. It is a relic of the ancient cognizance. See Cognizance, 4.,
C as in Crest (n.) The upper curve of a horse's neck.,
C as in Crest (n.) The ridge or top of a wave.,
C as in Crest (n.) The summit of a hill or mountain ridge.,
C as in Crest (n.) The helm or head, as typical of a high spirit; pride; courage.,
C as in Crest (n.) The ornamental finishing which surmounts the ridge of a roof, canopy, etc.,
C as in Crest (n.) The top line of a slope or embankment.,
C as in Crested (imp. & p. p.) of Crest,
C as in Cresting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Crest,
C as in Crest (v. t.) To furnish with, or surmount as, a crest; to serve as a crest for.,
C as in Crest (v. t.) To mark with lines or streaks, like, or regarded as like, waving plumes.,
C as in Crest (v. i.) To form a crest.,
C as in Crested (a.) Having a crest.,
C as in Crested (a.) Having a crest of feathers or hair upon the head.,
C as in Crested (a.) Bearing any elevated appendage like a crest, as an elevated line or ridge, or a tuft.,
C as in Crestfallen (a.) With hanging head; hence, dispirited; dejected; cowed.,
C as in Crestfallen (a.) Having the crest, or upper part of the neck, hanging to one side; -- said of a horse.,
C as in Cresting (n.) An ornamental finish on the top of a wall or ridge of a roof.,
C as in Crestless (a.) Without a crest or escutcheon; of low birth.,
C as in Cresylic (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, cresol, creosote, etc.,
C as in Cretaceous (a.) Having the qualities of chalk; abounding with chalk; chalky; as, cretaceous rocks and formations. See Chalk.,
C as in Cretaceously (adv.) In a chalky manner; as chalk.,
C as in Cretan (a.) Pertaining to Crete, or Candia.,
C as in Cretan (n.) A native or inhabitant of Crete or Candia.,
C as in Crete (n.) A Cretan,
C as in Cretian (a. & n.) See Cretan.,
C as in Cretic (n.) A poetic foot, composed of one short syllable between two long ones (- / -).,
C as in Creticism (n.) Falsehood; lying; cretism.,
C as in Cretin (n.) One afflicted with cretinism.,
C as in Cretinism (n.) A condition of endemic or inherited idiocy, accompanied by physical degeneracy and deformity (usually with goiter), frequent in certain mountain valleys, esp. of the Alps.,
C as in Cretinous (a.) Having the characteristics of a cretin.,
C as in Cretism (n.) A Cretan practice; lying; a falsehood.,
C as in Cretonne (n.) A strong white fabric with warp of hemp and weft of flax.,
C as in Cretonne (n.) A fabric with cotton warp and woolen weft.,
C as in Cretonne (n.) A kind of chintz with a glossy surface.,
C as in Cretose (a.) Chalky; cretaceous.,
C as in Creutzer (n.) See Kreutzer.,
C as in Creux (n.) Used in English only in the expression en creux. Thus, engraving en creux is engraving in intaglio, or by sinking or hollowing out the design.,
C as in Crevalle (n.) The cavally or jurel.,
C as in Crevalle (n.) The pompano (Trachynotus Carolinus).,
C as in Crevasse (n.) A deep crevice or fissure, as in embankment; one of the clefts or fissure by which the mass of a glacier is divided.,
C as in Crevasse (n.) A breach in the levee or embankment of a river, caused by the pressure of the water, as on the lower Mississippi.,
C as in Crevet (n.) A crucible or melting pot; a cruset.,
C as in Crevice (n.) A narrow opening resulting from a split or crack or the separation of a junction; a cleft; a fissure; a rent.,
C as in Crevice (v. t.) To crack; to flaw.,
C as in Creviced (a.) Having a crevice or crevices; as, a creviced structure for storing ears of corn.,
C as in Crevis (n.) The crawfish.,
C as in Crew (n.) The Manx shearwater.,
C as in Crew (n.) A company of people associated together; an assemblage; a throng.,
C as in Crew (n.) The company of seamen who man a ship, vessel, or at; the company belonging to a vessel or a boat.,
C as in Crew (n.) In an extended sense, any small body of men associated for a purpose; a gang; as (Naut.), the carpenter's crew; the boatswain's crew.,
C as in Crew () imp. of Crow,
C as in Crewel (n.) Worsted yarn,, slackly twisted, used for embroidery.,
C as in Crewelwork (n.) Embroidery in crewels, commonly done upon some plain material, such as linen.,
C as in Crewet (n.) See Cruet.,
C as in Crib (n.) A manger or rack; a feeding place for animals.,
C as in Crib (n.) A stall for oxen or other cattle.,
C as in Crib (n.) A small inclosed bedstead or cot for a child.,
C as in Crib (n.) A box or bin, or similar wooden structure, for storing grain, salt, etc.; as, a crib for corn or oats.,
C as in Crib (n.) A hovel; a hut; a cottage.,
C as in Crib (n.) A structure or frame of timber for a foundation, or for supporting a roof, or for lining a shaft.,
C as in Crib (n.) A structure of logs to be anchored with stones; -- used for docks, pier, dams, etc.,
C as in Crib (n.) A small raft of timber.,
C as in Crib (n.) A small theft; anything purloined;; a plagiaris/; hence, a translation or key, etc., to aid a student in preparing or reciting his lessons.,
C as in Crib (n.) A miner's luncheon.,
C as in Crib (n.) The discarded cards which the dealer can use in scoring points in cribbage.,
C as in Cribbed (imp. & p. p.) of Crib,
C as in Cribbing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Crib,
C as in Crib (v. t.) To shut up or confine in a narrow habitation; to cage; to cramp.,
C as in Crib (v. t.) To pilfer or purloin; hence, to steal from an author; to appropriate; to plagiarize; as, to crib a line from Milton.,
C as in Crib (v. i.) To crowd together, or to be confined, as in a crib or in narrow accommodations.,
C as in Crib (v. i.) To make notes for dishonest use in recitation or examination.,
C as in Crib (v. i.) To seize the manger or other solid object with the teeth and draw in wind; -- said of a horse.,
C as in Cribbage (v. t.) A game of cards, played by two or four persons, in which there is a crib. (See Crib, 11.) It is characterized by a great variety of chances.,
C as in Criber (n.) Alt. of Crib-biter,
C as in Crib-biter (n.) A horse that has the habit of cribbing.,
C as in Cribbing (n.) The act of inclosing or confining in a crib or in close quarters.,
C as in Cribbing (n.) Purloining; stealing; plagiarizing.,
C as in Cribbing (n.) A framework of timbers and plank backing for a shaft lining, to prevent caving, percolation of water, etc.,
C as in Cribbing (n.) A vicious habit of a horse; crib-biting. The horse lays hold of the crib or manger with his teeth and draws air into the stomach with a grunting sound.,
C as in Crib-biting (n.) Same as Cribbing, 4.,
C as in Cribble (n.) A coarse sieve or screen.,
C as in Cribble (n.) Coarse flour or meal.,
C as in Cribbled (imp. & p. p.) of Cribble,
C as in Cribbling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cribble,
C as in Cribble (v. t.) To cause to pass through a sieve or riddle; to sift.,
C as in Cribble (a.) Coarse; as, cribble bread.,
C as in Cribellum (n.) A peculiar perforated organ of certain spiders (Ciniflonidae), used for spinning a special kind of silk.,
C as in Cribrate (a.) Cribriform.,
C as in Cribration (n.) The act or process of separating the finer parts of drugs from the coarser by sifting.,
C as in Cribriform (a.) Resembling, or having the form of, a sieve; pierced with holes; as, the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone; a cribriform compress.,
C as in Cribrose (a.) Perforated like a sieve; cribriform.,
C as in Cric (n.) The ring which turns inward and condenses the flame of a lamp.,
C as in Crick (n.) The creaking of a door, or a noise resembling it.,
C as in Crick (n.) A painful, spasmodic affection of the muscles of some part of the body, as of the neck or back, rendering it difficult to move the part.,
C as in Crick (n.) A small jackscrew.,
C as in Cricket (n.) An orthopterous insect of the genus Gryllus, and allied genera. The males make chirping, musical notes by rubbing together the basal parts of the veins of the front wings.,
C as in Cricket (n.) A low stool.,
C as in Cricket (n.) A game much played in England, and sometimes in America, with a ball, bats, and wickets, the players being arranged in two contesting parties or sides.,
C as in Cricket (n.) A small false roof, or the raising of a portion of a roof, so as to throw off water from behind an obstacle, such as a chimney.,
C as in Cricket (v. i.) To play at cricket.,
C as in Cricketer (n.) One who plays at cricket.,
C as in Cricoid (a.) Resembling a ring; -- said esp. of the cartilage at the larynx, and the adjoining parts.,
C as in Cricothyroid (a.) Of or pertaining both to the cricoid and the thyroid cartilages.,
C as in Cried () imp. & p. p. of Cry.,
C as in Crier (n.) One who cries; one who makes proclamation.,
C as in Crier (n.) an officer who proclaims the orders or directions of a court, or who gives public notice by loud proclamation; as, a town-crier.,
C as in Crime (n.) Any violation of law, either divine or human; an omission of a duty commanded, or the commission of an act forbidden by law.,
C as in Crime (n.) Gross violation of human law, in distinction from a misdemeanor or trespass, or other slight offense. Hence, also, any aggravated offense against morality or the public welfare; any outrage or great wrong.,
C as in Crime (n.) Any great wickedness or sin; iniquity.,
C as in Crime (n.) That which occasion crime.,
C as in Crimeful (a.) Criminal; wicked; contrary to law, right, or dury.,
C as in Crimeless (a.) Free from crime; innocent.,
C as in Criminal (a.) Guilty of crime or sin.,
C as in Criminal (a.) Involving a crime; of the nature of a crime; -- said of an act or of conduct; as, criminal carelessness.,
C as in Criminal (a.) Relating to crime; -- opposed to civil; as, the criminal code.,
C as in Criminal (n.) One who has commited a crime; especially, one who is found guilty by verdict, confession, or proof; a malefactor; a felon.,
C as in Criminalist (n.) One versed in criminal law.,
C as in Criminality (n.) The quality or state of being criminal; that which constitutes a crime; guiltiness; guilt.,
C as in Criminally (adv.) In violation of law; wickedly.,
C as in Criminalness (n.) Criminality.,
C as in Criminated (imp. & p. p.) of Criminate,
C as in Criminating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Criminate,
C as in Criminate (v. t. ) To accuse of, or charge with, a crime.,
C as in Criminate (v. t. ) To involve in a crime or in its consequences; to render liable to a criminal charge.,
C as in Crimination (n.) The act of accusing; accusation; charge; complaint.,
C as in Criminative (a.) Charging with crime; accusing; criminatory.,
C as in Criminatory (a.) Relating to, or involving, crimination; accusing; as, a criminatory conscience.,
C as in Criminology (n.) A treatise on crime or the criminal population.,
C as in Criminous (a.) Criminal; involving great crime or grave charges; very wicked; heinous.,
C as in Crimosin (n.) See Crimson.,
C as in Crimped (imp. & p. p.) of Crimp,
C as in Crimping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Crimp,
C as in Crimp (v. t.) To fold or plait in regular undulation in such a way that the material will retain the shape intended; to give a wavy appearance to; as, to crimp the border of a cap; to crimp a ruffle. Cf. Crisp.,
C as in Crimp (v. t.) To pinch and hold; to seize.,
C as in Crimp (v. t.) to entrap into the military or naval service; as, to crimp seamen.,
C as in Crimp (v. t.) To cause to contract, or to render more crisp, as the flesh of a fish, by gashing it, when living, with a knife; as, to crimp skate, etc.,
C as in Crimp (a.) Easily crumbled; friable; brittle.,
C as in Crimp (a.) Weak; inconsistent; contradictory.,
C as in Crimp (n.) A coal broker.,
C as in Crimp (n.) One who decoys or entraps men into the military or naval service.,
C as in Crimp (n.) A keeper of a low lodging house where sailors and emigrants are entrapped and fleeced.,
C as in Crimp (n.) Hair which has been crimped; -- usually in pl.,
C as in Crimp (n.) A game at cards.,
C as in Crimpage (n.) The act or practice of crimping; money paid to a crimp for shipping or enlisting men.,
C as in Crimper (n.) One who, or that which, crimps,
C as in Crimper (n.) A curved board or frame over which the upper of a boot or shoe is stretched to the required shape.,
C as in Crimper (n.) A device for giving hair a wavy appearance.,
C as in Crimper (n.) A machine for crimping or ruffling textile fabrics.,
C as in Crimpled (imp. & p. p.) of Crimple,
C as in Crimpling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Crimple,
C as in Crimple (v. t.) To cause to shrink or draw together; to contract; to curl.,
C as in Crimpy (a.) Having a crimped appearance; frizzly; as, the crimpy wool of the Saxony sheep.,
C as in Crimson (n.) A deep red color tinged with blue; also, red color in general.,
C as in Crimson (a.) Of a deep red color tinged with blue; deep red.,
C as in Crimsoned (imp. & p. p.) of Crimson,
C as in Crimsoning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Crimson,
C as in Crimson (v. t.) To dye with crimson or deep red; to redden.,
C as in Crimson (b. t.) To become crimson; to blush.,
C as in Crinal (a.) Of or pertaining to the hair.,
C as in Crinated (a.) Having hair; hairy.,
C as in Crinatory (a.) Crinitory.,
C as in Crincum (n.) A twist or bend; a turn; a whimsey.,
C as in Crincum-crancum (n.) A twist; a whimsey or whim.,
C as in Crined (a.) Having the hair of a different tincture from the rest of the body; as, a charge crined of a red tincture.,
C as in Crinel (n.) Alt. of Crinet,
C as in Crinet (n.) A very fine, hairlike feather.,
C as in Crnged (imp. & p. p.) of Cringe,
C as in Cringing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cringe,
C as in Cringe (v. t.) To draw one's self together as in fear or servility; to bend or crouch with base humility; to wince; hence; to make court in a degrading manner; to fawn.,
C as in Cringe (v. t.) To contract; to draw together; to cause to shrink or wrinkle; to distort.,
C as in Cringe (n.) Servile civility; fawning; a shrinking or bowing, as in fear or servility.,
C as in Cringeling (n.) One who cringes meanly; a fawner.,
C as in Cringer (n.) One who cringes.,
C as in Cringingly (adv.) In a cringing manner.,
C as in Cringle (n.) A withe for fastening a gate.,
C as in Cringle (n.) An iron or pope thimble or grommet worked into or attached to the edges and corners of a sail; -- usually in the plural. The cringles are used for making fast the bowline bridles, earings, etc.,
C as in Crinicultural (a.) Relating to the growth of hair.,
C as in Crinigerous (a.) Bearing hair; hairy.,
C as in Crinital (a.) Same as Crinite, 1.,
C as in Crinite (a.) Having the appearance of a tuft of hair; having a hairlike tail or train.,
C as in Crinite (a.) Bearded or tufted with hairs.,
C as in Crinitory (a.) Of or relating to hair; as, a crinitory covering.,
C as in Crinkled (imp. & p. p.) of Crinkle,
C as in Crinkling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Crinkle,
C as in Crinkle (v. t.) To form with short turns, bends, or wrinkles; to mold into inequalities or sinuosities; to cause to wrinkle or curl.,
C as in Crinkle (v. i.) To turn or wind; to run in and out in many short bends or turns; to curl; to run in waves; to wrinkle; also, to rustle, as stiff cloth when moved.,
C as in Crinkle (n.) A winding or turn; wrinkle; sinuosity.,
C as in Crinkled (a.) Having short bends, turns, or wrinkles; wrinkled; wavy; zigzag.,
C as in Crinkly (a.) Having crinkles; wavy; wrinkly.,
C as in Crinoid (a.) Crinoidal.,
C as in Crinoid (n.) One of the Crinoidea.,
C as in Crinoidal (a.) Of pertaining to crinoids; consisting of, or containing, crinoids.,
C as in Crinoidea (n. pl.) A large class of Echinodermata, including numerous extinct families and genera, but comparatively few living ones. Most of the fossil species, like some that are recent, were attached by a jointed stem. See Blastoidea, Cystoidea, Comatula.,
C as in Crinoidean (n.) One of the Crinoidea.,
C as in Crinoline (n.) A kind of stiff cloth, used chiefly by women, for underskirts, to expand the gown worn over it; -- so called because originally made of hair.,
C as in Crinoline (n.) A lady's skirt made of any stiff material; latterly, a hoop skirt.,
C as in Crinose (a.) Hairy.,
C as in Crinosity (n.) Hairiness.,
C as in Crinum (n.) A genus of bulbous plants, of the order Amaryllidace/, cultivated as greenhouse plants on account of their beauty.,
C as in Criosphinx (n.) A sphinx with the head of a ram.,
C as in Cripple (n.) One who creeps, halts, or limps; one who has lost, or never had, the use of a limb or limbs; a lame person; hence, one who is partially disabled.,
C as in Cripple (a.) Lame; halting.,
C as in Crippled (imp. & p. p.) of Cripple,
C as in Crippling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cripple,
C as in Cripple (v. t.) To deprive of the use of a limb, particularly of a leg or foot; to lame.,
C as in Cripple (v. t.) To deprive of strength, activity, or capability for service or use; to disable; to deprive of resources; as, to be financially crippled.,
C as in Crippled (a.) Lamed; lame; disabled; impeded.,
C as in Crippleness (n.) Lameness.,
C as in Crippler (n.) A wooden tool used in graining leather.,
C as in Crippling (n.) Spars or timbers set up as a support against the side of a building.,
C as in Cripply (a.) Lame; disabled; in a crippled condition.,
C as in Crises (pl. ) of Crisis,
C as in Crisis (n.) The point of time when it is to be decided whether any affair or course of action must go on, or be modified or terminate; the decisive moment; the turning point.,
C as in Crisis (n.) That change in a disease which indicates whether the result is to be recovery or death; sometimes, also, a striking change of symptoms attended by an outward manifestation, as by an eruption or sweat.,
C as in Crisp (a.) Curling in stiff curls or ringlets; as, crisp hair.,
C as in Crisp (a.) Curled with the ripple of the water.,
C as in Crisp (a.) Brittle; friable; in a condition to break with a short, sharp fracture; as, crisp snow.,
C as in Crisp (a.) Possessing a certain degree of firmness and freshness; in a fresh, unwilted condition.,
C as in Crisp (a.) Lively; sparking; effervescing.,
C as in Crisp (a.) Brisk; crackling; cheerful; lively.,
C as in Crisped (imp. & p. p.) of Crisp,
C as in Crisping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Crisp,
C as in Crisp (a.) To curl; to form into ringlets, as hair, or the nap of cloth; to interweave, as the branches of trees.,
C as in Crisp (a.) To cause to undulate irregularly, as crape or water; to wrinkle; to cause to ripple. Cf. Crimp.,
C as in Crisp (a.) To make crisp or brittle, as in cooking.,
C as in Crisp (v. i.) To undulate or ripple. Cf. Crisp, v. t.,
C as in Crisp (n.) That which is crisp or brittle; the state of being crisp or brittle; as, burned to a crisp; specifically, the rind of roasted pork; crackling.,
C as in Crispate (a.) Alt. of Crispated,
C as in Crispated (a.) Having a crisped appearance; irregularly curled or twisted.,
C as in Crispation (n.) The act or process of curling, or the state of being curled.,
C as in Crispation (n.) A very slight convulsive or spasmodic contraction of certain muscles, external or internal.,
C as in Crispature (n.) The state of being crispate.,
C as in Crisper (n.) One who, or that which, crisps or curls; an instrument for making little curls in the nap of cloth, as in chinchilla.,
C as in Crispin (n.) A shoemaker; -- jocularly so called from the patron saint of the craft.,
C as in Crispin (n.) A member of a union or association of shoemakers.,
C as in Crisply (adv.) In a crisp manner.,
C as in Crispness (n.) The state or quality of being crisp.,
C as in Crispy (a.) Formed into short, close ringlets; frizzed; crisp; as, crispy locks.,
C as in Crispy (a.) Crisp; brittle; as, a crispy pie crust.,
C as in Crissal (a.) Pertaining to the crissum; as, crissal feathers.,
C as in Crissal (a.) Having highly colored under tail coverts; as, the crissal thrasher.,
C as in Crisscross (n.) A mark or cross, as the signature of a person who is unable to write.,
C as in Crisscross (n.) A child's game played on paper or on a slate, consisting of lines arranged in the form of a cross.,
C as in Crisscross (v. t.) To mark or cover with cross lines; as, a paper was crisscrossed with red marks.,
C as in Crisscross (adv.) In opposite directions; in a way to cross something else; crossing one another at various angles and in various ways.,
C as in Crisscross (adv.) With opposition or hindrance; at cross purposes; contrarily; as, things go crisscross.,
C as in Crisscross-row (n.) See Christcross-row.,
C as in Crissa (pl. ) of Crissum,
C as in Crissum (n.) That part of a bird, or the feathers, surrounding the cloacal opening; the under tail coverts.,
C as in Cristate (a.) Crested.,
C as in Criteria (pl. ) of Criterion,
C as in Criterions (pl. ) of Criterion,
C as in Criterion (n.) A standard of judging; any approved or established rule or test, by which facts, principles opinions, and conduct are tried in forming a correct judgment respecting them.,
C as in Crith (n.) The unit for estimating the weight of a/riform substances; -- the weight of a liter of hydrogen at 0/ centigrade, and with a tension of 76 centimeters of mercury. It is 0.0896 of a gram, or 1.38274 grains.,
C as in Crithomancu (n.) A kind of divination by means of the dough of the cakes offered in the ancient sacrifices, and the meal strewed over the victims.,
C as in Critic (n.) One skilled in judging of the merits of literary or artistic works; a connoisseur; an adept; hence, one who examines literary or artistic works, etc., and passes judgment upon them; a reviewer.,
C as in Critic (n.) One who passes a rigorous or captious judgment; one who censures or finds fault; a harsh examiner or judge; a caviler; a carper.,
C as in Critic (n.) The art of criticism.,
C as in Critic (n.) An act of criticism; a critique.,
C as in Critic (a.) Of or pertaining to critics or criticism; critical.,
C as in Critic (v. i.) To criticise; to play the critic.,
C as in Critical (n.) Qualified to criticise, or pass judgment upon, literary or artistic productions.,
C as in Critical (n.) Pertaining to criticism or the critic's art; of the nature of a criticism; accurate; as, critical knowledge; a critical dissertation.,
C as in Critical (n.) Inclined to make nice distinctions, or to exercise careful judgment and selection; exact; nicely judicious.,
C as in Critical (n.) Inclined to criticise or find fault; fastidious; captious; censorious; exacting.,
C as in Critical (n.) Characterized by thoroughness and a reference to principles, as becomes a critic; as, a critical analysis of a subject.,
C as in Critical (n.) Pertaining to, or indicating, a crisis, turning point, or specially important juncture; important as regards consequences; hence, of doubtful issue; attended with risk; dangerous; as, the critical stage of a fever; a critical situation.,
C as in Critically (adv.) In a critical manner; with nice discernment; accurately; exactly.,
C as in Critically (adv.) At a crisis; at a critical time; in a situation, place, or condition of decisive consequence; as, a fortification critically situated.,
C as in Criticalness (n.) The state or quality of being critical, or of occurring at a critical time.,
C as in Criticalness (n.) Accuracy in examination or decision; exactness.,
C as in Criticaster (n.) A contemptible or vicious critic.,
C as in Criticisable (a.) Capable of being criticised.,
C as in Criticised (imp. & p. p.) of Criticise,
C as in Criticising (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Criticise,
C as in Criticise (v. t.) To examine and judge as a critic; to pass literary or artistic judgment upon; as, to criticise an author; to criticise a picture.,
C as in Criticise (v. t.) To express one's views as to the merit or demerit of; esp., to animadvert upon; to find fault with; as, to criticise conduct.,
C as in Criticise (v. i.) To act as a critic; to pass literary or artistic judgment; to play the critic; -- formerly used with on or upon.,
C as in Criticise (v. i.) To discuss the merits or demerits of a thing or person; esp., to find fault.,
C as in Criticiser (n.) One who criticises; a critic.,
C as in Criticism (n.) The rules and principles which regulate the practice of the critic; the art of judging with knowledge and propriety of the beauties and faults of a literary performance, or of a production in the fine arts; as, dramatic criticism.,
C as in Criticism (n.) The act of criticising; a critical judgment passed or expressed; a critical observation or detailed examination and review; a critique; animadversion; censure.,
C as in Critique (n.) The art of criticism.,
C as in Critique (n.) A critical examination or estimate of a work of literature or art; a critical dissertation or essay; a careful and through analysis of any subject; a criticism; as, Kant's "Critique of Pure Reason.",
C as in Critique (n.) A critic; one who criticises.,
C as in Critique (v.) To criticise or pass judgment upon.,
C as in Crizzel (n.) A kind of roughness on the surface of glass, which clouds its transparency.,
C as in Croaked (imp. & p. p.) of Croak,
C as in Croaking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Croak,
C as in Croak (v. i.) To make a low, hoarse noise in the throat, as a frog, a raven, or a crow; hence, to make any hoarse, dismal sound.,
C as in Croak (v. i.) To complain; especially, to grumble; to forebode evil; to utter complaints or forebodings habitually.,
C as in Croak (v. t.) To utter in a low, hoarse voice; to announce by croaking; to forebode; as, to croak disaster.,
C as in Croak (n.) The coarse, harsh sound uttered by a frog or a raven, or a like sound.,
C as in Croaker (n.) One who croaks, murmurs, grumbles, or complains unreasonably; one who habitually forebodes evil.,
C as in Croaker (n.) A small American fish (Micropogon undulatus), of the Atlantic coast.,
C as in Croaker (n.) An American fresh-water fish (Aplodinotus grunniens); -- called also drum.,
C as in Croaker (n.) The surf fish of California.,
C as in Croat (n.) A native of Croatia, in Austria; esp., one of the native Slavic race.,
C as in Croat (n.) An irregular soldier, generally from Croatia.,
C as in Croatian (a.) Of or pertaining to Croatia.,
C as in Croatian (n.) A Croat.,
C as in Crocein (n.) A name given to any one of several yellow or scarlet dyestuffs of artificial production and complex structure. In general they are diazo and sulphonic acid derivatives of benzene and naphthol.,
C as in Croceous (a.) Of, pertaining to, or like, saffron; deep reddish yellow.,
C as in Crocetin (n.) A dyestuff, obtained from the Chinese crocin, which produces a brilliant yellow.,
C as in Croche (n.) A little bud or knob at the top of a deer's antler.,
C as in Crochet (n.) A kind of knitting done by means of a hooked needle, with worsted, silk, or cotton; crochet work. Commonly used adjectively.,
C as in Crocheted (imp. & p. p.) of Crochet,
C as in Crocheting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Crochet,
C as in Crochet (v. t. & i.) To knit with a crochet needle or hook; as, to crochet a shawl.,
C as in Crociary (n.) One who carries the cross before an archbishop.,
C as in Crocidolite (n.) A mineral occuring in silky fibers of a lavender blue color. It is related to hornblende and is essentially a silicate of iron and soda; -- called also blue asbestus. A silicified form, in which the fibers penetrating quartz are changed to oxide of iron, is the yellow brown tiger-eye of the jewelers.,
C as in Crocin (n.) The coloring matter of Chinese yellow pods, the fruit of Gardenia grandiflora.,
C as in Crocin (n.) A red powder (called also polychroite), which is made from the saffron (Crocus sativus). See Polychroite.,
C as in Crock (n.) The loose black particles collected from combustion, as on pots and kettles, or in a chimney; soot; smut; also, coloring matter which rubs off from cloth.,
C as in Crocked (imp. & p. p.) of Crock,
C as in Crocking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Crock,
C as in Crock (v. t.) To soil by contact, as with soot, or with the coloring matter of badly dyed cloth.,
C as in Crock (v. i.) To give off crock or smut.,
C as in Crock (n.) A low stool.,
C as in Crock (n.) Any piece of crockery, especially of coarse earthenware; an earthen pot or pitcher.,
C as in Crock (v. t.) To lay up in a crock; as, to crock butter.,
C as in Crocker (n.) A potter.,
C as in Crockery (n.) Earthenware; vessels formed of baked clay, especially the coarser kinds.,
C as in Crocket (n.) An ornament often resembling curved and bent foliage, projecting from the sloping edge of a gable, spire, etc.,
C as in Crocket (n.) A croche, or knob, on the top of a stag's antler.,
C as in Crocketed (a.) Ornamented with crockets.,
C as in Crocketing (n.) Ornamentation with crockets.,
C as in Crocky (a.) Smutty.,
C as in Crocodile (n.) A large reptile of the genus Crocodilus, of several species. They grow to the length of sixteen or eighteen feet, and inhabit the large rivers of Africa, Asia, and America. The eggs, laid in the sand, are hatched by the sun's heat. The best known species is that of the Nile (C. vulgaris, or C. Niloticus). The Florida crocodile (C. Americanus) is much less common than the alligator and has longer jaws. The name is also sometimes applied to the species of other related genera, as the gavial and the alligator.,
C as in Crocodile (n.) A fallacious dilemma, mythically supposed to have been first used by a crocodile.,
C as in Crocodilia (n. pl.) An order of reptiles including the crocodiles, gavials, alligators, and many extinct kinds.,
C as in Crocodilian (a.) Like, or pertaining to, the crocodile; characteristic of the crocodile.,
C as in Crocodilian (n.) One of the Crocodilia.,
C as in Crocodility (n.) A caption or sophistical mode of arguing.,
C as in Crocoisite (n.) Same as Crocoite.,
C as in Crocoite (n.) Lead chromate occuring in crystals of a bright hyacinth red color; -- called also red lead ore.,
C as in Croconate (n.) A salt formed by the union of croconic acid with a base.,
C as in Croconic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling saffron; having the color of saffron; as, croconic acid.,
C as in Croconic (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, croconic acid.,
C as in Crocose (n.) A white crystalline sugar, metameric with glucose, obtained from the coloring matter of saffron.,
C as in Crocus (n.) A genus of iridaceous plants, with pretty blossoms rising separately from the bulb or corm. C. vernus is one of the earliest of spring-blooming flowers; C. sativus produces the saffron, and blossoms in the autumn.,
C as in Crocus (n.) A deep yellow powder; the oxide of some metal calcined to a red or deep yellow color; esp., the oxide of iron (Crocus of Mars or colcothar) thus produced from salts of iron, and used as a polishing powder.,
C as in Croesus (n.) A king of Lydia who flourished in the 6th century b. c., and was renowned for his vast wealth; hence, a common appellation for a very rich man; as, he is a veritable Croesus.,
C as in Croft (n.) A small, inclosed field, adjoining a house; a small farm.,
C as in Crofter (n.) One who rents and tills a small farm or helding; as, the crofters of Scotland.,
C as in Crefting (n.) Croftland.,
C as in Crefting (n.) Exposing linen to the sun, on the grass, in the process of bleaching.,
C as in Croftland (n.) Land of superior quality, on which successive crops are raised.,
C as in Crois (n.) See Cross, n.,
C as in Croisade (n.) Alt. of Croisado,
C as in Croisado (n.) A holy war; a crusade.,
C as in Croise (n.) A pilgrim bearing or wearing a cross.,
C as in Croise (n.) A crusader.,
C as in Croissante (a.) Terminated with crescent; -- said of a cross the ends of which are so terminated.,
C as in Croker (n.) A cultivator of saffron; a dealer in saffron.,
C as in Croma (n.) A quaver.,
C as in Cromlech (n.) A monument of rough stones composed of one or more large ones supported in a horizontal position upon others. They are found chiefly in countries inhabited by the ancient Celts, and are of a period anterior to the introduction of Christianity into these countries.,
C as in Cromorna (n.) A certain reed stop in the organ, of a quality of tone resembling that of the oboe.,
C as in Crone (n.) An old ewe.,
C as in Crone (n.) An old woman; -- usually in contempt.,
C as in Crone (n.) An old man; especially, a man who talks and acts like an old woman.,
C as in Cronel (n.) The iron head of a tilting spear.,
C as in Cronet (n.) The coronet of a horse.,
C as in Cronian (a.) Saturnian; -- applied to the North Polar Sea.,
C as in Cronstedtite (n.) A mineral consisting principally of silicate of iron, and crystallizing in hexagonal prisms with perfect basal cleavage; -- so named from the Swedish mineralogist Cronstedt.,
C as in Cronies (pl. ) of Crony,
C as in Crony (n.) A crone.,
C as in Crony (n.) An intimate companion; a familiar frend,
C as in Croodle (v. i.) To cower or cuddle together, as from fear or cold; to lie close and snug together, as pigs in straw.,
C as in Croodle (v. i.) To fawn or coax.,
C as in Croodle (v. i.) To coo.,
C as in Crook (n.) A bend, turn, or curve; curvature; flexure.,
C as in Crook (n.) Any implement having a bent or crooked end.,
C as in Crook (n.) The staff used by a shepherd, the hook of which serves to hold a runaway sheep.,
C as in Crook (n.) A bishop's staff of office. Cf. Pastoral staff.,
C as in Crook (n.) A pothook.,
C as in Crook (n.) An artifice; trick; tricky device; subterfuge.,
C as in Crook (n.) A small tube, usually curved, applied to a trumpet, horn, etc., to change its pitch or key.,
C as in Crook (n.) A person given to fraudulent practices; an accomplice of thieves, forgers, etc.,
C as in Crooked (imp. & p. p.) of Crook,
C as in Crooking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Crook,
C as in Crook (n.) To turn from a straight line; to bend; to curve.,
C as in Crook (n.) To turn from the path of rectitude; to pervert; to misapply; to twist.,
C as in Crook (v. i.) To bend; to curve; to wind; to have a curvature.,
C as in Crookback (n.) A crooked back; one who has a crooked or deformed back; a hunchback.,
C as in Crookack (a.) Hunched.,
C as in Crookbill (n.) A New Zealand plover (Anarhynchus frontalis), remarkable for having the end of the beak abruptly bent to the right.,
C as in Crooked (a.) Characterized by a crook or curve; not straight; turning; bent; twisted; deformed.,
C as in Crooked (a.) Not straightforward; deviating from rectitude; distorted from the right.,
C as in Crooked (a.) False; dishonest; fraudulent; as, crooked dealings.,
C as in Crookedly (adv.) In a curved or crooked manner; in a perverse or untoward manner.,
C as in Crookedness (n.) The condition or quality of being crooked; hence, deformity of body or of mind; deviation from moral rectitude; perverseness.,
C as in Crooken (v. t.) To make crooked.,
C as in Crookes tube () A vacuum tube in which the exhaustion is carried to a very high degree, with the production of a distinct class of effects; -- so called from W. Crookes who introduced it.,
C as in Croon (v. i.) To make a continuous hollow moan, as cattle do when in pain.,
C as in Croon (v. i.) To hum or sing in a low tone; to murmur softly.,
C as in Crooned (imp. & p. p.) of Croon,
C as in Crooning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Croon,
C as in Croon (v. t.) To sing in a low tone, as if to one's self; to hum.,
C as in Croon (v. t.) To soothe by singing softly.,
C as in Croon (n.) A low, continued moan; a murmur.,
C as in Croon (n.) A low singing; a plain, artless melody.,
C as in Crop (n.) The pouchlike enlargement of the gullet of birds, serving as a receptacle for food; the craw.,
C as in Crop (n.) The top, end, or highest part of anything, especially of a plant or tree.,
C as in Crop (n.) That which is cropped, cut, or gathered from a single felld, or of a single kind of grain or fruit, or in a single season; especially, the product of what is planted in the earth; fruit; harvest.,
C as in Crop (n.) Grain or other product of the field while standing.,
C as in Crop (n.) Anything cut off or gathered.,
C as in Crop (n.) Hair cut close or short, or the act or style of so cutting; as, a convict's crop.,
C as in Crop (n.) A projecting ornament in carved stone. Specifically, a finial.,
C as in Crop (n.) Tin ore prepared for smelting.,
C as in Crop (n.) Outcrop of a vein or seam at the surface.,
C as in Crop (n.) A riding whip with a loop instead of a lash.,
C as in Cropped (imp. & p. p.) of Crop,
C as in Cropping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Crop,
C as in Crop (v. t.) To cut off the tops or tips of; to bite or pull off; to browse; to pluck; to mow; to reap.,
C as in Crop (v. t.) Fig.: To cut off, as if in harvest.,
C as in Crop (v. t.) To cause to bear a crop; as, to crop a field.,
C as in Crop (v. i.) To yield harvest.,
C as in Crop-ear (n.) A person or animal whose ears are cropped.,
C as in Crop-eared (a.) Having the ears cropped.,
C as in Cropful (a.) Having a full crop or belly; satiated.,
C as in Cropper (n.) One that crops.,
C as in Cropper (n.) A variety of pigeon with a large crop; a pouter.,
C as in Cropper (n.) A machine for cropping, as for shearing off bolts or rod iron, or for facing cloth.,
C as in Cropper (n.) A fall on one's head when riding at full speed, as in hunting; hence, a sudden failure or collapse.,
C as in Cropsick (a.) Sick from excess in eating or drinking.,
C as in Crop-tailed (a.) Having the tail cropped.,
C as in Croquet (n.) An open-air game in which two or more players endeavor to drive wooden balls, by means of mallets, through a series of hoops or arches set in the ground according to some pattern.,
C as in Croquet (n.) The act of croqueting.,
C as in Croqueted (imp. & p. p.) of Croquet,
C as in Croqueting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Croquet,
C as in Croquet (v. t.) In the game of croquet, to drive away an opponent's ball, after putting one's own in contact with it, by striking one's own ball with the mallet.,
C as in Cro-quette (n.) A ball of minced meat, fowl, rice, or other ingredients, highly seasoned, and fried.,
C as in Crore (n.) Ten millions; as, a crore of rupees (which is nearly $5,000,000).,
C as in Crosier (n.) The pastoral staff of a bishop (also of an archbishop, being the symbol of his office as a shepherd of the flock of God.,
C as in Crosiered (a.) Bearing a crosier.,
C as in Croslet (n.) See Crosslet.,
C as in Cross (n.) A gibbet, consisting of two pieces of timber placed transversely upon one another, in various forms, as a T, or +, with the horizontal piece below the upper end of the upright, or as an X. It was anciently used in the execution of criminals.,
C as in Cross (n.) The sign or mark of the cross, made with the finger, or in ink, etc., or actually represented in some material; the symbol of Christ's death; the ensign and chosen symbol of Christianity, of a Christian people, and of Christendom.,
C as in Cross (n.) Affiction regarded as a test of patience or virtue; trial; disappointment; opposition; misfortune.,
C as in Cross (n.) A piece of money stamped with the figure of a cross, also, that side of such a piece on which the cross is stamped; hence, money in general.,
C as in Cross (n.) An appendage or ornament or anything in the form of a cross; a badge or ornamental device of the general shape of a cross; hence, such an ornament, even when varying considerably from that form; thus, the Cross of the British Order of St. George and St. Michael consists of a central medallion with seven arms radiating from it.,
C as in Cross (n.) A monument in the form of a cross, or surmounted by a cross, set up in a public place; as, a market cross; a boundary cross; Charing Cross in London.,
C as in Cross (n.) A common heraldic bearing, of which there are many varieties. See the Illustration, above.,
C as in Cross (n.) The crosslike mark or symbol used instead of a signature by those unable to write.,
C as in Cross (n.) Church lands.,
C as in Cross (n.) A line drawn across or through another line.,
C as in Cross (n.) A mixing of breeds or stock, especially in cattle breeding; or the product of such intermixture; a hybrid of any kind.,
C as in Cross (n.) An instrument for laying of offsets perpendicular to the main course.,
C as in Cross (n.) A pipe-fitting with four branches the axes of which usually form's right angle.,
C as in Cross (a.) Not parallel; lying or falling athwart; transverse; oblique; intersecting.,
C as in Cross (a.) Not accordant with what is wished or expected; interrupting; adverse; contrary; thwarting; perverse.,
C as in Cross (a.) Characterized by, or in a state of, peevishness, fretfulness, or ill humor; as, a cross man or woman.,
C as in Cross (a.) Made in an opposite direction, or an inverse relation; mutually inverse; interchanged; as, cross interrogatories; cross marriages, as when a brother and sister marry persons standing in the same relation to each other.,
C as in Cross (prep.) Athwart; across.,
C as in Crossed (imp. & p. p.) of Cross,
C as in Crossing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cross,
C as in Cross (v. t.) To put across or athwart; to cause to intersect; as, to cross the arms.,
C as in Cross (v. t.) To lay or draw something, as a line, across; as, to cross the letter t.,
C as in Cross (v. t.) To pass from one side to the other of; to pass or move over; to traverse; as, to cross a stream.,
C as in Cross (v. t.) To pass, as objects going in an opposite direction at the same time.,
C as in Cross (v. t.) To run counter to; to thwart; to obstruct; to hinder; to clash or interfere with.,
C as in Cross (v. t.) To interfere and cut off; to debar.,
C as in Cross (v. t.) To make the sign of the cross upon; -- followed by the reflexive pronoun; as, he crossed himself.,
C as in Cross (v. t.) To cancel by marking crosses on or over, or drawing a line across; to erase; -- usually with out, off, or over; as, to cross out a name.,
C as in Cross (v. t.) To cause to interbreed; -- said of different stocks or races; to mix the breed of.,
C as in Cross (v. i.) To lie or be athwart.,
C as in Cross (v. i.) To move or pass from one side to the other, or from place to place; to make a transit; as, to cross from New York to Liverpool.,
C as in Cross (v. i.) To be inconsistent.,
C as in Cross (v. i.) To interbreed, as races; to mix distinct breeds.,
C as in Cross-armed (a.) With arms crossed.,
C as in Cross-banded (a.) A term used when a narrow ribbon of veneer is inserted into the surface of any piece of furniture, wainscoting, etc., so that the grain of it is contrary to the general surface.,
C as in Crossbar (n.) A transverse bar or piece, as a bar across a door, or as the iron bar or stock which passes through the shank of an anchor to insure its turning fluke down.,
C as in Crossbarred (a.) Secured by, or furnished with, crossbars.,
C as in Crossbarred (a.) Made or patterned in lines crossing each other; as, crossbarred muslin.,
C as in Crossbeak (n.) Same as Crossbill.,
C as in Crossbeam (n.) A girder.,
C as in Crossbeam (n.) A beam laid across the bitts, to which the cable is fastened when riding at anchor.,
C as in Cross-bearer (n.) A subdeacon who bears a cross before an archbishop or primate on solemn occasions.,
C as in Crossbill () A bill brought by a defendant, in an equity or chancery suit, against the plaintiff, respecting the matter in question in that suit.,
C as in Crossbill (n.) A bird of the genus Loxia, allied to the finches. Their mandibles are strongly curved and cross each other; the crossbeak.,
C as in Cross-birth (n.) Any preternatural labor, in which the body of the child lies across the pelvis of the mother, so that the shoulder, arm, or trunk is the part first presented at the mouth of the uterus.,
C as in Crossbite (n.) A deception; a cheat.,
C as in Crossbite (b. t.) To deceive; to trick; to gull.,
C as in Crossbones (n. pl.) A representation of two of the leg bones or arm bones of a skeleton, laid crosswise, often surmounted with a skull, and serving as a symbol of death.,
C as in Crossbow (n.) A weapon, used in discharging arrows, formed by placing a bow crosswise on a stock.,
C as in Crossbower (n.) A crossbowman.,
C as in Crossbowman (n.) One who shoots with a crossbow. See Arbalest.,
C as in Crossbred (a.) Produced by mixing distinct breeds; mongrel.,
C as in Crossbreed (n.) A breed or an animal produced from parents of different breeds; a new variety, as of plants, combining the qualities of two parent varieties or stocks.,
C as in Crossbreed (n.) Anything partaking of the natures of two different things; a hybrid.,
C as in Cross-bun (n.) A bun or cake marked with a cross, and intended to be eaten on Good Friday.,
C as in Cross-crosslet (n.) A cross having the three upper ends crossed, so as to from three small crosses.,
C as in Crosscut (v. t.) To cut across or through; to intersect.,
C as in Crosscut (n.) A short cut across; a path shorter than by the high road.,
C as in Crosscut (n.) A level driven across the course of a vein, or across the main workings, as from one gangway to another.,
C as in Cross-days (n. pl.) The three days preceding the Feast of the Ascension.,
C as in Crossette (n.) A return in one of the corners of the architrave of a door or window; -- called also ancon, ear, elbow.,
C as in Crossette (n.) The shoulder of a joggled keystone.,
C as in Cross-examination (n.) The interrogating or questioning of a witness by the party against whom he has been called and examined. See Examination.,
C as in Cross-examined (imp. & p. p.) of Cross-examine,
C as in Cross-examining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cross-examine,
C as in Cross-examine (v. t.) To examine or question, as a witness who has been called and examined by the opposite party.,
C as in Cross-examiner (n.) One who cross-examines or conducts a crosse-examination.,
C as in Cross-eye (n.) See Strabismus.,
C as in Cross-eyed (a.) Affected with strabismus; squint-eyed; squinting.,
C as in Crossfish (n.) A starfish.,
C as in Crossflow (v. i.) To flow across, or in a contrary direction.,
C as in Cross-garnet (n.) A hinge having one strap perpendicular and the other strap horizontal giving it the form of an Egyptian or T cross.,
C as in Crossgrained (a.) Having the grain or fibers run diagonally, or more or less transversely an irregularly, so as to interfere with splitting or planing.,
C as in Crossgrained (a.) Perverse; untractable; contrary.,
C as in Crossnath (v. t.) To shade by means of crosshatching.,
C as in Crosshatching (n.) In drawing and line engraving, shading with lines that cross one another at an angle.,
C as in Crosshead (n.) A beam or bar across the head or end of a rod, etc., or a block attached to it and carrying a knuckle pin; as the solid crosspiece running between parallel slides, which receives motion from the piston of a steam engine and imparts it to the connecting rod, which is hinged to the crosshead.,
C as in Crossing (v. t.) The act by which anything is crossed; as, the crossing of the ocean.,
C as in Crossing (v. t.) The act of making the sign of the cross.,
C as in Crossing (v. t.) The act of interbreeding; a mixing of breeds.,
C as in Crossing (v. t.) Intersection, as of two paths or roads.,
C as in Crossing (v. t.) A place where anything (as a stream) is crossed; a paved walk across a street.,
C as in Crossing (v. t.) Contradiction; thwarting; obstruction.,
C as in Crossjack (n.) The lowest square sail, or the lower yard of the mizzenmast.,
C as in CRosslegged (a.) Having the legs crossed.,
C as in Crosslet (n.) A small cross.,
C as in Crosslet (n.) A crucible.,
C as in Crosslet (a.) Crossed again; -- said of a cross the arms of which are crossed. SeeCross-crosslet.,
C as in Crossly (adv.) Athwart; adversely; unfortunately; peevishly; fretfully; with ill humor.,
C as in Crossness (n.) The quality or state of being cross; peevishness; fretfulness; ill humor.,
C as in Crossopterygian (a.) Of or pertaining to the Crossopterygii.,
C as in Crossopterygian (n.) One of the Crossopterygii.,
C as in Crossopterygii (n. pl.) An order of ganoid fishes including among living species the bichir (Polypterus). See Brachioganoidei.,
C as in Crosspatch (n.) An ill-natured person.,
C as in Cross-pawl (n.) Same as Cross-spale.,
C as in Crosspiece (n.) A piece of any structure which is fitted or framed crosswise.,
C as in Crosspiece (n.) A bar or timber connecting two knightheads or two bitts.,
C as in Cross-purpose (n.) A counter or opposing purpose; hence, that which is inconsistent or contradictory.,
C as in Cross-purpose (n.) A conversational game, in which questions and answers are made so as to involve ludicrous combinations of ideas.,
C as in Cross-questioned (imp. & p. p.) of Cross-question,
C as in Cross-questioning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cross-question,
C as in Cross-question (v. t.) To cross-examine; to subject to close questioning.,
C as in Cross-reading (n.) The reading of the lines of a newspaper directly across the page, instead of down the columns, thus producing a ludicrous combination of ideas.,
C as in Crossroad (n.) A road that crosses another; an obscure road intersecting or avoiding the main road.,
C as in Crossrow (n.) The alphabet; -- called also Christcross-row.,
C as in Crossrow (n.) A row that crosses others.,
C as in Crossruff (n.) The play in whist where partners trump each a different suit, and lead to each other for that purpose; -- called also seesaw.,
C as in Cross-spale (n.) Alt. of Cross-spall,
C as in Cross-spall (n.) One of the temporary wooden braces, placed horizontally across a frame to hold it in position until the deck beams are in; a cross-pawl.,
C as in Cross-springer (n.) One of the ribs in a groined arch, springing from the corners in a diagonal direction. [See Illustr. of Groined vault.],
C as in Cross-staff (n.) An instrument formerly used at sea for taking the altitudes of celestial bodies.,
C as in Cross-staff (n.) A surveyor's instrument for measuring offsets.,
C as in Cross-stitch (n.) A form of stitch, where the stitches are diagonal and in pairs, the thread of one stitch crossing that of the other.,
C as in Cross-stone (n.) See Harmotome, and Staurotide.,
C as in Cross-tail (n.) A bar connecting the ends of the side rods or levers of a backaction or side-lever engine.,
C as in Cross-tie (n.) A sleeper supporting and connecting the rails, and holding them in place.,
C as in Cross-tining (n.) A mode of harrowing crosswise, or transversely to the ridges.,
C as in Crosstrees (n. pl.) Pieces of timber at a masthead, to which are attached the upper shrouds. At the head of lower masts in large vessels, they support a semicircular platform called the "top.",
C as in Cross-vaulting (n.) Vaulting formed by the intersection of two or more simple vaults.,
C as in Crossway (n.) See Crossroad.,
C as in Cross-week (n.) Rogation week, when the cross was borne in processions.,
C as in Crosswise (adv.) In the form of a cross; across; transversely.,
C as in Crosswort (n.) A name given to several inconspicuous plants having leaves in whorls of four, as species of Crucianella, Valantia, etc.,
C as in Crotalaria (n.) A genus of leguminous plants; rattlebox.,
C as in Crotaline (a.) Resembling, or pertaining to, the Crotalidae, or Rattlesnake family.,
C as in Crotalo (n.) A Turkish musical instrument.,
C as in Crotalum (n.) A kind of castanet used by the Corybantes.,
C as in Crotalus (n.) A genus of poisonous serpents, including the rattlesnakes.,
C as in Crotaphite (n.) The temple or temporal fossa. Also used adjectively.,
C as in Crotaphitic (n.) Pertaining to the temple; temporal.,
C as in Crotches (pl. ) of Crotch,
C as in Crotch (n.) The angle formed by the parting of two legs or branches; a fork; the point where a trunk divides; as, the crotch of a tree.,
C as in Crotch (n.) A stanchion or post of wood or iron, with two arms for supporting a boom, spare yards, etc.; -- called also crane and crutch.,
C as in Crotched (a.) Having a crotch; forked.,
C as in Crotched (a.) Cross; peevish.,
C as in Crotchet (n.) A forked support; a crotch.,
C as in Crotchet (n.) A time note, with a stem, having one fourth the value of a semibreve, one half that of a minim, and twice that of a quaver; a quarter note.,
C as in Crotchet (n.) An indentation in the glacis of the covered way, at a point where a traverse is placed.,
C as in Crotchet (n.) The arrangement of a body of troops, either forward or rearward, so as to form a line nearly perpendicular to the general line of battle.,
C as in Crotchet (n.) A bracket. See Bracket.,
C as in Crotchet (n.) An instrument of a hooked form, used in certain cases in the extraction of a fetus.,
C as in Crotchet (n.) A perverse fancy; a whim which takes possession of the mind; a conceit.,
C as in Crotchet (v. i.) To play music in measured time.,
C as in Crotcheted (a.) Marked or measured by crotchets; having musical notation.,
C as in Crotchetiness (n.) The state or character of being crotchety, or whimsical.,
C as in Crotchety (a.) Given to crotchets; subject to whims; as, a crotchety man.,
C as in Croton (n.) A genus of euphorbiaceous plants belonging to tropical countries.,
C as in Croton bug () A small, active, winged species of cockroach (Ectobia Germanica), the water bug. It is common aboard ships, and in houses in cities, esp. in those with hot-water pipes.,
C as in Crotonic (a.) Of or pertaining to, or derived from, a plant of the genus Croton, or from croton oil.,
C as in Crotonine (n.) A supposed alkaloid obtained from croton oil by boiling it with water and magnesia, since found to be merely a magnesia soap of the oil.,
C as in Crotonylene (n.) A colorless, volatile, pungent liquid, C4H6, produced artificially, and regarded as an unsaturated hydrocarbon of the acetylene series, and analogous to crotonic acid.,
C as in Crottles (n. pl.) A name given to various lichens gathered for dyeing.,
C as in Crouched (imp. & p. p.) of Crouch,
C as in Crouching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Crouch,
C as in Crouch (v. i.) To bend down; to stoop low; to lie close to the ground with the logs bent, as an animal when waiting for prey, or in fear.,
C as in Crouch (v. i.) To bend servilely; to stoop meanly; to fawn; to cringe.,
C as in Crouch (v. t.) To sign with the cross; to bless.,
C as in Crouch (v. t.) To bend, or cause to bend, as in humility or fear.,
C as in Crouched (a.) Marked with the sign of the cross.,
C as in Croud (n.) See Crowd, a violin.,
C as in Crouke (n.) A crock; a jar.,
C as in Croup (n.) The hinder part or buttocks of certain quadrupeds, especially of a horse; hence, the place behind the saddle.,
C as in Croup (n.) An inflammatory affection of the larynx or trachea, accompanied by a hoarse, ringing cough and stridulous, difficult breathing; esp., such an affection when associated with the development of a false membrane in the air passages (also called membranous croup). See False croup, under False, and Diphtheria.,
C as in Croupade (n.) A leap in which the horse pulls up his hind legs toward his belly.,
C as in Croupal (a.) Croupy.,
C as in Crouper (n.) See Crupper.,
C as in Croupier (n.) One who presides at a gaming table and collects the stakes.,
C as in Croupier (n.) One who, at a public dinner party, sits at the lower end of the table as assistant chairman.,
C as in Croupous (a.) Relating to or resembling croup; especially, attended with the formation of a deposit or membrane like that found in membranous croup; as, croupous laryngitis.,
C as in Croupy (a.) Of or pertaining to croup; resembling or indicating croup; as, a croupy cough.,
C as in Crouse (a.) Brisk; lively; bold; self-complacent.,
C as in Croustade (n.) Bread baked in a mold, and scooped out, to serve minces upon.,
C as in Crout (n.) See Sourkrout.,
C as in Crouton (n.) Bread cut in various forms, and fried lightly in butter or oil, to garnish hashes, etc.,
C as in Crew (imp.) of Crow,
C as in Crowed () of Crow,
C as in Crowed (p. p.) of Crow,
C as in Crown () of Crow,
C as in Crowing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Crow,
C as in Crow (v. i.) To make the shrill sound characteristic of a cock, either in joy, gayety, or defiance.,
C as in Crow (v. i.) To shout in exultation or defiance; to brag.,
C as in Crow (v. i.) To utter a sound expressive of joy or pleasure.,
C as in Crow (v. i.) A bird, usually black, of the genus Corvus, having a strong conical beak, with projecting bristles. It has a harsh, croaking note. See Caw.,
C as in Crow (v. i.) A bar of iron with a beak, crook, or claw; a bar of iron used as a lever; a crowbar.,
C as in Crow (v. i.) The cry of the cock. See Crow, v. i., 1.,
C as in Crow (v. i.) The mesentery of a beast; -- so called by butchers.,
C as in Crowbar (n.) A bar of iron sharpened at one end, and used as a lever.,
C as in Crowberry (n.) A heathlike plant of the genus Empetrum, and its fruit, a black, scarcely edible berry; -- also called crakeberry.,
C as in Crowded (imp. & p. p.) of Crowd,
C as in Crowding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Crowd,
C as in Crowd (v. t.) To push, to press, to shove.,
C as in Crowd (v. t.) To press or drive together; to mass together.,
C as in Crowd (v. t.) To fill by pressing or thronging together; hence, to encumber by excess of numbers or quantity.,
C as in Crowd (v. t.) To press by solicitation; to urge; to dun; hence, to treat discourteously or unreasonably.,
C as in Crowd (v. i.) To press together or collect in numbers; to swarm; to throng.,
C as in Crowd (v. i.) To urge or press forward; to force one's self; as, a man crowds into a room.,
C as in Crowd (v. t.) A number of things collected or closely pressed together; also, a number of things adjacent to each other.,
C as in Crowd (v. t.) A number of persons congregated or collected into a close body without order; a throng.,
C as in Crowd (v. t.) The lower orders of people; the populace; the vulgar; the rabble; the mob.,
C as in Crowd (n.) An ancient instrument of music with six strings; a kind of violin, being the oldest known stringed instrument played with a bow.,
C as in Crowd (v. t.) To play on a crowd; to fiddle.,
C as in Crowder (n.) One who plays on a crowd; a fiddler.,
C as in Crowder (n.) One who crowds or pushes.,
C as in Crowdy (n.) A thick gruel of oatmeal and milk or water; food of the porridge kind.,
C as in Crowflower (n.) A kind of campion; according to Gerarde, the Lychnis Flos-cuculi.,
C as in Crowfoot (n.) The genus Ranunculus, of many species; some are common weeds, others are flowering plants of considerable beauty.,
C as in Crowfoot (n.) A number of small cords rove through a long block, or euphroe, to suspend an awning by.,
C as in Crowfoot (n.) A caltrop.,
C as in Crowfoot (n.) A tool with a side claw for recovering broken rods, etc.,
C as in Crowkeeper (n.) A person employed to scare off crows; hence, a scarecrow.,
C as in Crown () p. p. of Crow.,
C as in Crown (n.) A wreath or garland, or any ornamental fillet encircling the head, especially as a reward of victory or mark of honorable distinction; hence, anything given on account of, or obtained by, faithful or successful effort; a reward.,
C as in Crown (n.) A royal headdress or cap of sovereignty, worn by emperors, kings, princes, etc.,
C as in Crown (n.) The person entitled to wear a regal or imperial crown; the sovereign; -- with the definite article.,
C as in Crown (n.) Imperial or regal power or dominion; sovereignty.,
C as in Crown (n.) Anything which imparts beauty, splendor, honor, dignity, or finish.,
C as in Crown (n.) Highest state; acme; consummation; perfection.,
C as in Crown (n.) The topmost part of anything; the summit.,
C as in Crown (n.) The topmost part of the head (see Illust. of Bird.); that part of the head from which the hair descends toward the sides and back; also, the head or brain.,
C as in Crown (n.) The part of a hat above the brim.,
C as in Crown (n.) The part of a tooth which projects above the gum; also, the top or grinding surface of a tooth.,
C as in Crown (n.) The vertex or top of an arch; -- applied generally to about one third of the curve, but in a pointed arch to the apex only.,
C as in Crown (n.) Same as Corona.,
C as in Crown (n.) That part of an anchor where the arms are joined to the shank.,
C as in Crown (n.) The rounding, or rounded part, of the deck from a level line.,
C as in Crown (n.) The bights formed by the several turns of a cable.,
C as in Crown (n.) The upper range of facets in a rose diamond.,
C as in Crown (n.) The dome of a furnace.,
C as in Crown (n.) The area inclosed between two concentric perimeters.,
C as in Crown (n.) A round spot shaved clean on the top of the head, as a mark of the clerical state; the tonsure.,
C as in Crown (n.) A size of writing paper. See under Paper.,
C as in Crown (n.) A coin stamped with the image of a crown; hence,a denomination of money; as, the English crown, a silver coin of the value of five shillings sterling, or a little more than $1.20; the Danish or Norwegian crown, a money of account, etc., worth nearly twenty-seven cents.,
C as in Crown (n.) An ornaments or decoration representing a crown; as, the paper is stamped with a crown.,
C as in Crowned (imp. & p. p.) of Crown,
C as in Crowning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Crown,
C as in Crown (n.) To cover, decorate, or invest with a crown; hence, to invest with royal dignity and power.,
C as in Crown (n.) To bestow something upon as a mark of honor, dignity, or recompense; to adorn; to dignify.,
C as in Crown (n.) To form the topmost or finishing part of; to complete; to consummate; to perfect.,
C as in Crown (n.) To cause to round upward; to make anything higher at the middle than at the edges, as the face of a machine pulley.,
C as in Crown (n.) To effect a lodgment upon, as upon the crest of the glacis, or the summit of the breach.,
C as in Crowned (p. p. & a.) Having or wearing a crown; surmounted, invested, or adorned, with a crown, wreath, garland, etc.; honored; rewarded; completed; consummated; perfected.,
C as in Crowned (p. p. & a.) Great; excessive; supreme.,
C as in Crowner (n.) One who, or that which, crowns.,
C as in Crowner (n.) A coroner.,
C as in Crownet (n.) A coronet.,
C as in Crownet (n.) The ultimate end and result of an undertaking; a chief end.,
C as in Crown-imperial (n.) A spring-blooming plant (Fritillaria imperialis) of the Lily family, having at the top of the stalk a cluster of pendent bell-shaped flowers surmounted with a tuft of green leaves.,
C as in Crownless (a.) Without a crown.,
C as in Crownlet (n.) A coronet.,
C as in Crown office () The criminal branch of the Court of King's or Queen's Bench, commonly called the crown side of the court, which takes cognizance of all criminal cases.,
C as in Crownpiece (n.) A piece or part which passes over the head, as in a bridle.,
C as in Crownpiece (n.) A coin [In sense (b) properly crown piece.] See Crown, 19.,
C as in Crown-post (n.) Same as King-post.,
C as in Crown-saw (n.) A saw in the form of a hollow cylinder, with teeth on the end or edge, and operated by a rotative motion.,
C as in Crown side () See Crown office.,
C as in Crown wheel () A wheel with cogs or teeth set at right angles to its plane; -- called also a contrate wheel or face wheel.,
C as in Crownwork (n.) A work consisting of two or more bastioned fronts, with their outworks, covering an enceinte, a bridgehead, etc., and connected by wings with the main work or the river bank.,
C as in Crow-quill (n.) A quill of the crow, or a very fine pen made from such a quill.,
C as in Crows (n. pl.) A tribe of Indians of the Dakota stock, living in Montana; -- also called Upsarokas.,
C as in Crow's-feet (pl. ) of Crow's-foot,
C as in Crow's-foot (n.) The wrinkles that appear, as the effect of age or dissipation, under and around the outer corners of the eyes.,
C as in Crow's-foot (n.) A caltrop.,
C as in Crow's-foot (n.) Same as Bird's-mouth.,
C as in Crow-silk (n.) A filamentous fresh-water alga (Conferva rivularis of Linnaeus, Rhizoclonium rivulare of Kutzing).,
C as in Crow's-nest (n.) A box or perch near the top of a mast, esp. in whalers, to shelter the man on the lookout.,
C as in Crowstep (n.) See Corriestep.,
C as in Crowstone (n.) The top stone of the gable end of a house.,
C as in Crowth (n.) An ancient musical instrument. See 4th Crowd.,
C as in Crowtoe (n.) The Lotus corniculatus.,
C as in Crowtoe (n.) An unidentified plant, probably the crowfoot.,
C as in Crow-trodden (a.) Marked with crow's-feet, or wrinkles, about the eyes.,
C as in Croylstone (n.) Crystallized cawk, in which the crystals are small.,
C as in Croys (n.) See Cross, n.,
C as in Croze (n.) A cooper's tool for making the grooves for the heads of casks, etc.; also, the groove itself.,
C as in Crozier (n.) See Crosier.,
C as in Croziered (a.) Crosiered.,
C as in Crucial (a.) Having the form of a cross; appertaining to a cross; cruciform; intersecting; as, crucial ligaments; a crucial incision.,
C as in Crucial (a.) Severe; trying or searching, as if bringing to the cross; decisive; as, a crucial test.,
C as in Crucian carp () A kind of European carp (Carasius vulgaris), inferior to the common carp; -- called also German carp.,
C as in Cruciate (a.) Tormented.,
C as in Cruciate (a.) Having the leaves or petals arranged in the form of a cross; cruciform.,
C as in Cruciate (v. t.) To torture; to torment. [Obs.] See Excruciate.,
C as in Cruciation (n.) The act of torturing; torture; torment.,
C as in Crucible (n.) A vessel or melting pot, composed of some very refractory substance, as clay, graphite, platinum, and used for melting and calcining substances which require a strong degree of heat, as metals, ores, etc.,
C as in Crucible (n.) A hollow place at the bottom of a furnace, to receive the melted metal.,
C as in Crucible (n.) A test of the most decisive kind; a severe trial; as, the crucible of affliction.,
C as in Crucifer (n.) Any plant of the order Cruciferae.,
C as in Cruciferous (a.) Bearing a cross.,
C as in Cruciferous (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a family of plants which have four petals arranged like the arms of a cross, as the mustard, radish, turnip, etc.,
C as in Crucifier (n.) One who crucifies; one who subjects himself or another to a painful trial.,
C as in Crucifixes (pl. ) of Crucifix,
C as in Crucifix (n.) A representation in art of the figure of Christ upon the cross; esp., the sculptured figure affixed to a real cross of wood, ivory, metal, or the like, used by the Roman Catholics in their devotions.,
C as in Crucifix (n.) The cross or religion of Christ.,
C as in Crucifixion (n.) The act of nailing or fastening a person to a cross, for the purpose of putting him to death; the use of the cross as a method of capital punishment.,
C as in Crucifixion (n.) The state of one who is nailed or fastened to a cross; death upon a cross.,
C as in Crucifixion (n.) Intense suffering or affliction; painful trial.,
C as in Cruciform (a.) Cross-shaped; (Bot.) having four parts arranged in the form of a cross.,
C as in Crucified (imp. & p. p.) of Crucify,
C as in Crucifying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Crucify,
C as in Crucify (v. t.) To fasten to a cross; to put to death by nailing the hands and feet to a cross or gibbet.,
C as in Crucify (v. t.) To destroy the power or ruling influence of; to subdue completely; to mortify.,
C as in Crucify (v. t.) To vex or torment.,
C as in Crucigerous (a.) Bearing the cross; marked with the figure of a cross.,
C as in Crud (n.) See Curd.,
C as in Cruddle (v. i.) To curdle.,
C as in Crude (superl.) In its natural state; not cooked or prepared by fire or heat; undressed; not altered, refined, or prepared for use by any artificial process; raw; as, crude flesh.,
C as in Crude (superl.) Unripe; not mature or perfect; immature.,
C as in Crude (superl.) Not reduced to order or form; unfinished; not arranged or prepared; ill-considered; immature.,
C as in Crude (superl.) Undigested; unconcocted; not brought into a form to give nourishment.,
C as in Crude (superl.) Having, or displaying, superficial and undigested knowledge; without culture or profundity; as, a crude reasoner.,
C as in Crude (superl.) Harsh and offensive, as a color; tawdry or in bad taste, as a combination of colors, or any design or work of art.,
C as in Crudely (adv.) In a crude, immature manner.,
C as in Crudeness (n.) A crude, undigested, or unprepared state; rawness; unripeness; immatureness; unfitness for a destined use or purpose; as, the crudeness of iron ore; crudeness of theories or plans.,
C as in Crudities (pl. ) of Crudity,
C as in Crudity (n.) The condition of being crude; rawness.,
C as in Crudity (n.) That which is in a crude or undigested state; hence, superficial, undigested views, not reduced to order or form.,
C as in Crudle (v. i.) See Cruddle.,
C as in Crudy (a.) Coagulated.,
C as in Crudy (a.) Characterized by crudeness; raw.,
C as in Cruel (n.) See Crewel.,
C as in Cruel (a.) Disposed to give pain to others; willing or pleased to hurt, torment, or afflict; destitute of sympathetic kindness and pity; savage; inhuman; hard-hearted; merciless.,
C as in Cruel (a.) Causing, or fitted to cause, pain, grief, or misery.,
C as in Cruel (a.) Attended with cruetly; painful; harsh.,
C as in Cruelly (adv.) In a cruel manner.,
C as in Cruelly (adv.) Extremely; very.,
C as in Cruelness (n.) Cruelty.,
C as in Cruels (n. pl.) Glandular scrofulous swellings in the neck.,
C as in Cruelties (pl. ) of Cruelty,
C as in Cruelty (n.) The attribute or quality of being cruel; a disposition to give unnecessary pain or suffering to others; inhumanity; barbarity.,
C as in Cruelty (n.) A cruel and barbarous deed; inhuman treatment; the act of willfully causing unnecessary pain.,
C as in Cruentate (a.) Smeared with blood.,
C as in Cruentous (a.) Bloody; cruentate.,
C as in Cruet (n.) A bottle or vessel; esp., a vial or small glass bottle for holding vinegar, oil, pepper, or the like, for the table; a caster.,
C as in Cruet (n.) A vessel used to hold wine, oil, or water for the service of the altar.,
C as in Cruise (n.) See Cruse, a small bottle.,
C as in Cruised (imp. & p. p.) of Cruise,
C as in Cruising (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cruise,
C as in Cruise (v. i.) To sail back and forth on the ocean; to sail, as for the potection of commerce, in search of an enemy, for plunder, or for pleasure.,
C as in Cruise (v. i.) To wander hither and thither on land.,
C as in Cruise (n.) A voyage made in various directions, as of an armed vessel, for the protection of other vessels, or in search of an enemy; a sailing to and fro, as for exploration or for pleasure.,
C as in Cruiser (n.) One who, or a vessel that, cruises; -- usually an armed vessel.,
C as in Cruive (n.) A kind of weir or dam for trapping salmon; also, a hovel.,
C as in Crull (a.) Curly; curled.,
C as in Cruller (n.) A kind of sweet cake cut in strips and curled or twisted, and fried crisp in boiling fat.,
C as in Crumb (n.) A small fragment or piece; especially, a small piece of bread or other food, broken or cut off.,
C as in Crumb (n.) Fig.: A little; a bit; as, a crumb of comfort.,
C as in Crumb (n.) The soft part of bread.,
C as in Crumbed (imp. & p. p.) of Crumb,
C as in Crumbing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Crumb,
C as in Crumb (v. t.) To break into crumbs or small pieces with the fingers; as, to crumb bread.,
C as in Crumbcloth (n.) A cloth to be laid under a dining table to receive falling fragments, and keep the carpet or floor clean.,
C as in Crumbled (imp. & p. p.) of Crumble,
C as in Crumbling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Crumble,
C as in Crumble (v. t.) To break into small pieces; to cause to fall in pieces.,
C as in Crumble (v. i.) To fall into small pieces; to break or part into small fragments; hence, to fall to decay or ruin; to become disintegrated; to perish.,
C as in Crumbly (a.) EAsily crumbled; friable; brittle.,
C as in Crumenal (n.) A purse.,
C as in Crummable (a.) Capable of being crumbed or broken into small pieces.,
C as in Crummy (a.) Full of crumb or crumbs.,
C as in Crummy (a.) Soft, as the crumb of bread is; not crusty.,
C as in Crump (a.) Crooked; bent.,
C as in Crump (a.) Hard or crusty; dry baked; as, a crump loaf.,
C as in Crumpet (n.) A kind of large, thin muffin or cake, light and spongy, and cooked on a griddle or spider.,
C as in Crumpled (imp. & p. p.) of Crumple,
C as in Crumpling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Crumple,
C as in Crumple (v. t.) To draw or press into wrinkles or folds; to crush together; to rumple; as, to crumple paper.,
C as in Crumple (v. i.) To contract irregularly; to show wrinkles after being crushed together; as, leaves crumple.,
C as in Crumpy (a.) Brittle; crisp.,
C as in Crunched (imp. & p. p.) of Crunch,
C as in Crunching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Crunch,
C as in Crunch (v. i.) To chew with force and noise; to craunch.,
C as in Crunch (v. i.) To grind or press with violence and noise.,
C as in Crunch (v. i.) To emit a grinding or craunching noise.,
C as in Crunch (v. t.) To crush with the teeth; to chew with a grinding noise; to craunch; as, to crunch a biscuit.,
C as in Crunk (v. i.) Alt. of Crunkle,
C as in Crunkle (v. i.) To cry like a crane.,
C as in Crunodal (a.) Possessing, or characterized by, a crunode; -- used of curves.,
C as in Crunode (n.) A point where one branch of a curve crosses another branch. See Double point, under Double, a.,
C as in Cruor (n.) The coloring matter of the blood; the clotted portion of coagulated blood, containing the coloring matter; gore.,
C as in Cruorin (n.) The coloring matter of the blood in the living animal; haemoglobin.,
C as in Crup (a.) Short; brittle; as, crup cake.,
C as in Crup (n.) See Croup, the rump of a horse.,
C as in Crupper (n.) The buttocks or rump of a horse.,
C as in Crupper (n.) A leather loop, passing under a horse's tail, and buckled to the saddle to keep it from slipping forwards.,
C as in Crupper (v. t.) To fit with a crupper; to place a crupper upon; as, to crupper a horse.,
C as in Crura (n. pl.) See Crus.,
C as in Crural (a.) Of or pertaining to the thigh or leg, or to any of the parts called crura; as, the crural arteries; crural arch; crural canal; crural ring.,
C as in Crura (pl. ) of Crus,
C as in Crus (n.) That part of the hind limb between the femur, or thigh, and the ankle, or tarsus; the shank.,
C as in Crus (n.) Often applied, especially in the plural, to parts which are supposed to resemble a pair of legs; as, the crura of the diaphragm, a pair of muscles attached to it; crura cerebri, two bundles of nerve fibers in the base of the brain, connecting the medulla and the forebrain.,
C as in Crusade (n.) Any one of the military expeditions undertaken by Christian powers, in the 11th, 12th, and 13th centuries, for the recovery of the Holy Land from the Mohammedans.,
C as in Crusade (n.) Any enterprise undertaken with zeal and enthusiasm; as, a crusade against intemperance.,
C as in Crusade (n.) A Portuguese coin. See Crusado.,
C as in Crusaded (imp. & p. p.) of Crusade,
C as in Crusading (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Crusade,
C as in Crusade (v. i.) To engage in a crusade; to attack in a zealous or hot-headed manner.,
C as in Crusader (n.) One engaged in a crusade; as, the crusaders of the Middle Ages.,
C as in Crusading (a.) Of or pertaining to a crusade; as, a crusading spirit.,
C as in Crusado (n.) An old Portuguese coin, worth about seventy cents.,
C as in Cruse (n.) A cup or dish.,
C as in Cruse (n.) A bottle for holding water, oil, honey, etc.,
C as in Cruset (n.) A goldsmith's crucible or melting pot.,
C as in Crushed (imp. & p. p.) of Crush,
C as in Crushing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Crush,
C as in Crush (v. t.) To press or bruise between two hard bodies; to squeeze, so as to destroy the natural shape or integrity of the parts, or to force together into a mass; as, to crush grapes.,
C as in Crush (v. t.) To reduce to fine particles by pounding or grinding; to comminute; as, to crush quartz.,
C as in Crush (v. t.) To overwhelm by pressure or weight; to beat or force down, as by an incumbent weight.,
C as in Crush (v. t.) To oppress or burden grievously.,
C as in Crush (v. t.) To overcome completely; to subdue totally.,
C as in Crush (v. i.) To be or become broken down or in, or pressed into a smaller compass, by external weight or force; as, an eggshell crushes easily.,
C as in Crush (n.) A violent collision or compression; a crash; destruction; ruin.,
C as in Crush (n.) Violent pressure, as of a crowd; a crowd which produced uncomfortable pressure; as, a crush at a peception.,
C as in Crusher (n.) One who, or that which, crushes.,
C as in Crushing (a.) That crushes; overwhelming.,
C as in Crust (n.) The hard external coat or covering of anything; the hard exterior surface or outer shell; an incrustation; as, a crust of snow.,
C as in Crust (n.) The hard exterior or surface of bread, in distinction from the soft part or crumb; or a piece of bread grown dry or hard.,
C as in Crust (n.) The cover or case of a pie, in distinction from the soft contents.,
C as in Crust (n.) The dough, or mass of doughy paste, cooked with a potpie; -- also called dumpling.,
C as in Crust (n.) The exterior portion of the earth, formerly universally supposed to inclose a molten interior.,
C as in Crust (n.) The shell of crabs, lobsters, etc.,
C as in Crust (n.) A hard mass, made up of dried secretions blood, or pus, occurring upon the surface of the body.,
C as in Crust (n.) An incrustation on the interior of wine bottles, the result of the ripening of the wine; a deposit of tartar, etc. See Beeswing.,
C as in Crusted (imp. & p. p.) of Crust,
C as in Crusting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Crust,
C as in Crust (n.) To cover with a crust; to cover or line with an incrustation; to incrust.,
C as in Crust (v. i.) To gather or contract into a hard crust; to become incrusted.,
C as in Crusta (n.) A crust or shell.,
C as in Crusta (n.) A gem engraved, or a plate embossed in low relief, for inlaying a vase or other object.,
C as in Crustacea (n. pl.) One of the classes of the arthropods, including lobsters and crabs; -- so called from the crustlike shell with which they are covered.,
C as in Crustacean (a.) Of or pertaining to the Crustacea; crustaceous.,
C as in Crustacean (n.) An animal belonging to the class Crustacea.,
C as in Crustaceological (a.) Pertaining to crustaceology.,
C as in Crustaceologist (n.) One versed in crustaceology; a crustalogist.,
C as in Crustaceology (n.) That branch of Zoology which treats of the Crustacea; malacostracology; carcinology.,
C as in Crustaceous (a.) Pertaining to, or of the nature of, crust or shell; having a crustlike shell.,
C as in Crustaceous (a.) Belonging to the Crustacea; crustacean.,
C as in Crustaceousness (n.) The state or quality of being crustaceous or having a crustlike shell.,
C as in Crustal (a.) Relating to a crust.,
C as in Crustalogical (a.) Pertaining to crustalogy.,
C as in Crustalogist (n.) One versed in crustalogy.,
C as in Crustalogy (n.) Crustaceology.,
C as in Crustated (a.) Covered with a crust; as, crustated basalt.,
C as in Crustation (n.) An adherent crust; an incrustation.,
C as in Crusted (a.) Incrusted; covered with, or containing, crust; as, old, crusted port wine.,
C as in Crustific (a.) Producing or forming a crust or skin.,
C as in Crustily (adv.) In a crusty or surly manner; morosely.,
C as in Crustiness (n.) The state or quality of having crust or being like crust; hardness.,
C as in Crustiness (n.) The quality of being crusty or surly.,
C as in Crusty (a.) Having the nature of crust; pertaining to a hard covering; as, a crusty coat; a crusty surface or substance.,
C as in Crusty (a.) Having a hard exterior, or a short, rough manner, though kind at heart; snappish; peevish; surly.,
C as in Crut (n.) The rough, shaggy part of oak bark.,
C as in Crutches (pl. ) of Crutch,
C as in Crutch (n.) A staff with a crosspiece at the head, to be placed under the arm or shoulder, to support the lame or infirm in walking.,
C as in Crutch (n.) A form of pommel for a woman's saddle, consisting of a forked rest to hold the leg of the rider.,
C as in Crutch (n.) A knee, or piece of knee timber,
C as in Crutch (n.) A forked stanchion or post; a crotch. See Crotch.,
C as in Crutch (v. t.) To support on crutches; to prop up.,
C as in Crutched (a.) Supported upon crutches.,
C as in Crutched (a.) Marked with the sign of the cross; crouched.,
C as in Cruth (n.) See 4th Crowd.,
C as in Cruxes (pl. ) of Crux,
C as in Cruces (pl. ) of Crux,
C as in Crux (n.) Anything that is very puzzling or difficult to explain.,
C as in Cruzado (n.) A coin. See Crusado.,
C as in Crwth (n.) See 4th Crowd.,
C as in Cried (imp. & p. p.) of Cry,
C as in Crying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cry,
C as in Cry (v. i.) To make a loud call or cry; to call or exclaim vehemently or earnestly; to shout; to vociferate; to proclaim; to pray; to implore.,
C as in Cry (v. i.) To utter lamentations; to lament audibly; to express pain, grief, or distress, by weeping and sobbing; to shed tears; to bawl, as a child.,
C as in Cry (v. i.) To utter inarticulate sounds, as animals.,
C as in Cry (v. t.) To utter loudly; to call out; to shout; to sound abroad; to declare publicly.,
C as in Cry (v. t.) To cause to do something, or bring to some state, by crying or weeping; as, to cry one's self to sleep.,
C as in Cry (v. t.) To make oral and public proclamation of; to declare publicly; to notify or advertise by outcry, especially things lost or found, goods to be sold, ets.; as, to cry goods, etc.,
C as in Cry (v. t.) to publish the banns of, as for marriage.,
C as in Cries (pl. ) of Cry,
C as in Cry (v. i.) A loud utterance; especially, the inarticulate sound produced by one of the lower animals; as, the cry of hounds; the cry of wolves.,
C as in Cry (v. i.) Outcry; clamor; tumult; popular demand.,
C as in Cry (v. i.) Any expression of grief, distress, etc., accompanied with tears or sobs; a loud sound, uttered in lamentation.,
C as in Cry (v. i.) Loud expression of triumph or wonder or of popular acclamation or favor.,
C as in Cry (v. i.) Importunate supplication.,
C as in Cry (v. i.) Public advertisement by outcry; proclamation, as by hawkers of their wares.,
C as in Cry (v. i.) Common report; fame.,
C as in Cry (v. i.) A word or phrase caught up by a party or faction and repeated for effect; as, the party cry of the Tories.,
C as in Cry (v. i.) A pack of hounds.,
C as in Cry (v. i.) A pack or company of persons; -- in contempt.,
C as in Cry (v. i.) The crackling noise made by block tin when it is bent back and forth.,
C as in Cryal (n.) The heron,
C as in Cryer (n.) The female of the hawk; a falcon-gentil.,
C as in Crying (a.) Calling for notice; compelling attention; notorious; heinous; as, a crying evil.,
C as in Cryohydrate (n.) A substance, as salt, ammonium chloride, etc., which crystallizes with water of crystallization only at low temperatures, or below the freezing point of water.,
C as in Cryolite (n.) A fluoride of sodium and aluminum, found in Greenland, in white cleavable masses; -- used as a source of soda and alumina.,
C as in Cryophorus (n.) An instrument used to illustrate the freezing of water by its own evaporation. The ordinary form consists of two glass bulbs, connected by a tube of the same material, and containing only a quantity of water and its vapor, devoid of air. The water is in one of the bulbs, and freezes when the other is cooled below 32 Fahr.,
C as in Crypt (n.) A vault wholly or partly under ground; especially, a vault under a church, whether used for burial purposes or for a subterranean chapel or oratory.,
C as in Crypt (n.) A simple gland, glandular cavity, or tube; a follicle; as, the crypts of Lieberk/hn, the simple tubular glands of the small intestines.,
C as in Cryptal (a.) Of or pertaining to crypts.,
C as in Cryptic (a.) Alt. of Cryptical,
C as in Cryptical (a.) Hidden; secret; occult.,
C as in Cryptically (adv.) Secretly; occultly.,
C as in Cryptidine (n.) One of the quinoline bases, obtained from coal tar as an oily liquid, C11H11N; also, any one of several substances metameric with, and resembling, cryptidine proper.,
C as in Cryptobranchiata (n. pl.) A division of the Amphibia; the Derotremata.,
C as in Cryptobranchiata (n. pl.) A group of nudibranch mollusks.,
C as in Cryptobranchiate (a.) Having concealed or rudimentary gills.,
C as in Cryptocrystalline (a.) Indistinctly crystalline; -- applied to rocks and minerals, whose state of aggregation is so fine that no distinct particles are visible, even under the microscope.,
C as in Cryptogam (n.) A plant belonging to the Cryptogamia.,
C as in Cryptogamiae (pl. ) of Cryptogamia,
C as in Cryptogamia (n.) The series or division of flowerless plants, or those never having true stamens and pistils, but propagated by spores of various kinds.,
C as in Cryptogamian (a.) Alt. of Cryptogamous,
C as in Cryptogamic (a.) Alt. of Cryptogamous,
C as in Cryptogamous (a.) Of or pertaining to the series Cryptogamia, or to plants of that series.,
C as in Cryptogamist (n.) One skilled in cryptogamic botany.,
C as in Cryptogram (n.) A cipher writing. Same as Cryptograph.,
C as in Cryptograph (n.) Cipher; something written in cipher.,
C as in Cryptographal (a.) Pertaining to cryptography; cryptographical.,
C as in Cryptographer (n.) One who writes in cipher, or secret characters.,
C as in Cryptographic (a.) Alt. of Cryptographical,
C as in Cryptographical (a.) Relating to cryptography; written in secret characters or in cipher, or with sympathetic ink.,
C as in Cryptographist (n.) Same as Cryptographer.,
C as in Cryptography (n.) The act or art of writing in secret characters; also, secret characters, or cipher.,
C as in Cryptology (n.) Secret or enigmatical language.,
C as in Cryptonym (n.) A secret name; a name by which a person is known only to the initiated.,
C as in Cryptopine (n.) A colorless crystalline alkaloid obtained in small quantities from opium.,
C as in Crypturi (n. pl.) An order of flying, drom/ognathous birds, including the tinamous of South America. See Tinamou.,
C as in Crystal (n.) The regular form which a substance tends to assume in solidifying, through the inherent power of cohesive attraction. It is bounded by plane surfaces, symmetrically arranged, and each species of crystal has fixed axial ratios. See Crystallization.,
C as in Crystal (n.) The material of quartz, in crystallization transparent or nearly so, and either colorless or slightly tinged with gray, or the like; -- called also rock crystal. Ornamental vessels are made of it. Cf. Smoky quartz, Pebble; also Brazilian pebble, under Brazilian.,
C as in Crystal (n.) A species of glass, more perfect in its composition and manufacture than common glass, and often cut into ornamental forms. See Flint glass.,
C as in Crystal (n.) The glass over the dial of a watch case.,
C as in Crystal (n.) Anything resembling crystal, as clear water, etc.,
C as in Crystal (a.) Consisting of, or like, crystal; clear; transparent; lucid; pellucid; crystalline.,
C as in Crystallin (n.) See Gobulin.,
C as in Crystalline (a.) Consisting, or made, of crystal.,
C as in Crystalline (a.) Formed by crystallization; like crystal in texture.,
C as in Crystalline (a.) Imperfectly crystallized; as, granite is only crystalline, while quartz crystal is perfectly crystallized.,
C as in Crystalline (a.) Fig.: Resembling crystal; pure; transparent; pellucid.,
C as in Crystalline (n.) A crystalline substance.,
C as in Crystalline (n.) See Aniline.,
C as in Crystallite (n.) A minute mineral form like those common in glassy volcanic rocks and some slags, not having a definite crystalline outline and not referable to any mineral species, but marking the first step in the crystallization process. According to their form crystallites are called trichites, belonites, globulites, etc.,
C as in Crystallizable (a.) Capable of being crystallized; that may be formed into crystals.,
C as in Crystallization (n.) The act or process by which a substance in solidifying assumes the form and structure of a crystal, or becomes crystallized.,
C as in Crystallization (n.) The body formed by crystallizing; as, silver on precipitation forms arborescent crystallizations.,
C as in Crystallized (imp. & p. p.) of Crystallize,
C as in Crystallizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Crystallize,
C as in Crystallize (v. t.) To cause to form crystals, or to assume the crystalline form.,
C as in Crystallize (v. i.) To be converted into a crystal; to take on a crystalline form, through the action of crystallogenic or cohesive attraction.,
C as in Crystallogenic (a.) Alt. of Crystallogenical,
C as in Crystallogenical (a.) Pertaining to the production of crystals; crystal-producing; as, crystallogenic attraction.,
C as in Crystallogeny (n.) The science which pertains to the production of crystals.,
C as in Crystallographer (n.) One who describes crystals, or the manner of their formation; one versed in crystallography.,
C as in Crystallographic (a.) Alt. of Crystallographical,
C as in Crystallographical (a.) Pertaining to crystallography.,
C as in Crystallographically (adv.) In the manner of crystallography.,
C as in Crystallography (n.) The doctrine or science of crystallization, teaching the system of forms among crystals, their structure, and their methods of formation.,
C as in Crystallography (n.) A discourse or treatise on crystallization.,
C as in Crystalloid (a.) Crystal-like; transparent like crystal.,
C as in Crystalloid (n.) A body which, in solution, diffuses readily through animal membranes, and generally is capable of being crystallized; -- opposed to colloid.,
C as in Crystalloid (n.) One of the microscopic particles resembling crystals, consisting of protein matter, which occur in certain plant cells; -- called also protein crystal.,
C as in Cristallology (n.) The science of the crystalline structure of inorganic bodies.,
C as in Crystallomancy (n.) Divination by means of a crystal or other transparent body, especially a beryl.,
C as in Crystallometry (n.) The art of measuring crystals.,
C as in Crystallurgy (n.) Crystallization.,
C as in Ctenocyst (n.) An organ of the Ctenophora, supposed to be sensory.,
C as in Ctenoid (a.) Having a comblike margin, as a ctenoid scale,
C as in Ctenoid (a.) Pertaining to the Ctenoidei.,
C as in Ctenoid (n.) A ctenoidean.,
C as in Ctenoidean (a.) Relating to the Ctenoidei.,
C as in Ctenoidean (n.) One of the Ctenoidei.,
C as in Ctenoidei (n. pl.) A group of fishes, established by Agassiz, characterized by having scales with a pectinated margin, as in the perch. The group is now generally regarded as artificial.,
C as in Ctenophora (n. pl.) A class of Coelenterata, commonly ellipsoidal in shape, swimming by means of eight longitudinal rows of paddles. The separate paddles somewhat resemble combs.,
C as in Ctenophore (n.) One of the Ctenophora.,
C as in Ctenophoric (a.) Alt. of Ctenophorous,
C as in Ctenophorous (a.) Of or pertaining to the Ctenophora.,
C as in Ctenostomata (n. pl.) A suborder of Bryozoa, usually having a circle of bristles below the tentacles.,
C as in Cub (n.) A young animal, esp. the young of the bear.,
C as in Cub (n.) Jocosely or in contempt, a boy or girl, esp. an awkward, rude, ill-mannered boy.,
C as in Cubbed (imp. & p. p.) of Cub,
C as in Cubbing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cub,
C as in Cub (v. t. & i.) To bring forth; -- said of animals, or in contempt, of persons.,
C as in Cub (n.) A stall for cattle.,
C as in Cub (n.) A cupboard.,
C as in Cub (v. t.) To shut up or confine.,
C as in Cuban (a.) Of or pertaining to Cuba or its inhabitants.,
C as in Cuban (n.) A native or an inhabitant of Cuba.,
C as in Cubation (n.) The act of lying down; a reclining.,
C as in Cubatory (a.) Lying down; recumbent.,
C as in Cubature (n.) The process of determining the solid or cubic contents of a body.,
C as in Cubbridge-head (n.) A bulkhead on the forecastle and half deck of a ship.,
C as in Cubby (n.) Alt. of Cubbyhole,
C as in Cubbyhole (n.) A snug or confined place.,
C as in Cubdrawn (a.) Sucked by cubs.,
C as in Cube (n.) A regular solid body, with six equal square sides.,
C as in Cube (n.) The product obtained by taking a number or quantity three times as a factor; as, 4x4=16, and 16x4=64, the cube of 4.,
C as in Cubed (imp. & p. p.) of Cube,
C as in Cubing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cube,
C as in Cube (v. t.) To raise to the third power; to obtain the cube of.,
C as in Cubeb (n.) The small, spicy berry of a species of pepper (Piper Cubeba; in med., Cubeba officinalis), native in Java and Borneo, but now cultivated in various tropical countries. The dried unripe fruit is much used in medicine as a stimulant and purgative.,
C as in Cubebic (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, cubebs; as, cubebic acid (a soft olive-green resin extracted from cubebs).,
C as in Cubhood (n.) The state of being a cub.,
C as in Cubic (a.) Alt. of Cubical,
C as in Cubical (a.) Having the form or properties of a cube; contained, or capable of being contained, in a cube.,
C as in Cubical (a.) Isometric or monometric; as, cubic cleavage. See Crystallization.,
C as in Cubic (n.) A curve of the third degree.,
C as in Cubically (adv.) In a cubical method.,
C as in Cubicalness (n.) The quality of being cubical.,
C as in Cubicle (n.) A loding room; esp., a sleeping place partitioned off from a large dormitory.,
C as in Cubicular (a.) Belonging to a chamber or bedroom.,
C as in Cubiform (a.) Of the form of a cube.,
C as in Cubile (n.) The lowest course of stones in a building.,
C as in Cubilose (n.) A mucilagenous secretion of certain birds found as the characteristic ingredient of edible bird's-nests.,
C as in Cubit (n.) The forearm; the ulna, a bone of the arm extending from elbow to wrist.,
C as in Cubit (n.) A measure of length, being the distance from the elbow to the extremity of the middle finger.,
C as in Cubital (a.) Of or pertaining to the cubit or ulna; as, the cubital nerve; the cubital artery; the cubital muscle.,
C as in Cubital (a.) Of the length of a cubit.,
C as in Cubital (n.) A sleeve covering the arm from the elbow to the hand.,
C as in Cubited (a.) Having the measure of a cubit.,
C as in Cubless (a.) Having no cubs.,
C as in Cuboid (a.) Cube-shaped, or nearly so; as, the cuboid bone of the foot.,
C as in Cuboid (n.) The bone of the tarsus, which, in man and most mammals, supports the metatarsals of the fourth and fifth toes.,
C as in Cuboidal (a.) Cuboid.,
C as in Cubo-octahedral (a.) Presenting a combination of a cube and an octahedron.,
C as in Cubo-octahedron (n.) A combination of a cube and octahedron, esp. one in which the octahedral faces meet at the middle of the cubic edges.,
C as in Cuca (n.) See Coca.,
C as in Cucking stool () A kind of chair formerly used for punishing scolds, and also dishonest tradesmen, by fastening them in it, usually in front of their doors, to be pelted and hooted at by the mob, but sometimes to be taken to the water and ducked; -- called also a castigatory, a tumbrel, and a trebuchet; and often, but not so correctly, a ducking stool.,
C as in Cuckold (n.) A man whose wife is unfaithful; the husband of an adulteress.,
C as in Cuckold (n.) A West Indian plectognath fish (Ostracion triqueter).,
C as in Cuckold (n.) The cowfish.,
C as in Cuckolded (imp. & p. p.) of Cuckold,
C as in Cuckolding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cuckold,
C as in Cuckold (v. t.) To make a cuckold of, as a husband, by seducing his wife, or by her becoming an adulteress.,
C as in Cuckoldize (v. t.) To cuckold.,
C as in Cuckoldly (a.) Having the qualities of a cuckold; mean-spirited; sneaking.,
C as in Cuckoldom (n.) The state of a cuckold; cuckolds, collectively.,
C as in Cuckoldry (n.) The state of being a cuckold; the practice of making cuckolds.,
C as in Cuckold's knot () A hitch or knot, by which a rope is secured to a spar, the two parts of the rope being crossed and seized together; -- called also cuckold's neck.,
C as in Cuckoo (n.) A bird belonging to Cuculus, Coccyzus, and several allied genera, of many species.,
C as in Cuckoobud (n.) A species of Ranunculus (R. bulbosus); -- called also butterflower, buttercup, kingcup, goldcup.,
C as in Cuckooflower (n.) A species of Cardamine (C. pratensis), or lady's smock. Its leaves are used in salads. Also, the ragged robin (Lychnis Flos-cuculi).,
C as in Cuckoopint (n.) A plant of the genus Arum (A. maculatum); the European wake-robin.,
C as in Cucquean (n.) A woman whose husband is unfaithful to her.,
C as in Cucujo (n.) The fire beetle of Mexico and the West Indies.,
C as in Cucullate (a.) Alt. of Cucullated,
C as in Cucullated (a.) Hooded; cowled; covered, as with a hood.,
C as in Cucullated (a.) Having the edges toward the base rolled inward, as the leaf of the commonest American blue violet.,
C as in Cucullated (a.) Having the prothorax elevated so as to form a sort of hood, receiving the head, as in certain insects.,
C as in Cucullated (a.) Having a hoodlike crest on the head, as certain birds, mammals, and reptiles.,
C as in Cuculoid (a.) Like or belonging to the cuckoos (Cuculidae).,
C as in Cucumber (n.) A creeping plant, and its fruit, of several species of the genus Cucumis, esp. Cucumis sativus, the unripe fruit of which is eaten either fresh or picked. Also, similar plants or fruits of several other genera. See below.,
C as in Cucumiform (a.) Having the form of a cucumber; having the form of a cylinder tapered and rounded at the ends, and either straight or curved.,
C as in Cucumis (n.) A genus of plants including the cucumber, melon, and same kinds of gourds.,
C as in Cucurbit (n.) Alt. of Cucurbite,
C as in Cucurbite (n.) A vessel or flask for distillation, used with, or forming part of, an alembic; a matrass; -- originally in the shape of a gourd, with a wide mouth. See Alembic.,
C as in Cucurbitaceous (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a family of plants of which the cucumber, melon, and gourd are common examples.,
C as in Cucurbitive (a.) Having the shape of a gourd seed; -- said of certain small worms.,
C as in Cud (n.) That portion of food which is brought up into the mouth by ruminating animals from their first stomach, to be chewed a second time.,
C as in Cud (n.) A portion of tobacco held in the mouth and chewed; a quid.,
C as in Cud (n.) The first stomach of ruminating beasts.,
C as in Cudbear (n.) A powder of a violet red color, difficult to moisten with water, used for making violet or purple dye. It is prepared from certain species of lichen, especially Lecanora tartarea.,
C as in Cudbear (n.) A lichen (Lecanora tartarea), from which the powder is obtained.,
C as in Cudden (n.) A clown; a low rustic; a dolt.,
C as in Cudden (n.) The coalfish. See 3d Cuddy.,
C as in Cuddled (imp. & p. p.) of Cuddle,
C as in Cuddling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cuddle,
C as in Cuddle (v. i.) To lie close or snug; to crouch; to nestle.,
C as in Cuddle (v. t.) To embrace closely; to fondle.,
C as in Cuddle (n.) A close embrace.,
C as in Cuddy (n.) An ass; esp., one driven by a huckster or greengrocer.,
C as in Cuddy (n.) A blockhead; a lout.,
C as in Cuddy (n.) A lever mounted on a tripod for lifting stones, leveling up railroad ties, etc.,
C as in Cuddy (n.) A small cabin: also, the galley or kitchen of a vessel.,
C as in Cuddy (n.) The coalfish (Pollachius carbonarius).,
C as in Cudgel (n.) A staff used in cudgel play, shorter than the quarterstaff, and wielded with one hand; hence, any heavy stick used as a weapon.,
C as in Cudgeled (imp. & p. p.) of Cudgel,
C as in Cudgelled () of Cudgel,
C as in Cudgeling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cudgel,
C as in Cudgelling () of Cudgel,
C as in Cudgel (v. t.) To beat with a cudgel.,
C as in Cudgeler (n.) One who beats with a cudgel.,
C as in Cudweed (n.) A small composite plant with cottony or silky stem and leaves, primarily a species of Gnaphalium, but the name is now given to many plants of different genera, as Filago, Antennaria, etc.; cottonweed.,
C as in Cue (n.) The tail; the end of a thing; especially, a tail-like twist of hair worn at the back of the head; a queue.,
C as in Cue (n.) The last words of a play actor's speech, serving as an intimation for the next succeeding player to speak; any word or words which serve to remind a player to speak or to do something; a catchword.,
C as in Cue (n.) A hint or intimation.,
C as in Cue (n.) The part one has to perform in, or as in, a play.,
C as in Cue (n.) Humor; temper of mind.,
C as in Cue (n.) A straight tapering rod used to impel the balls in playing billiards.,
C as in Cue (v. t.) To form into a cue; to braid; to twist.,
C as in Cue (n.) A small portion of bread or beer; the quantity bought with a farthing or half farthing.,
C as in Cuerpo (n.) The body.,
C as in Cuffed (imp. & p. p.) of Cuff,
C as in Cuffing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cuff,
C as in Cuff (v. t.) To strike; esp., to smite with the palm or flat of the hand; to slap.,
C as in Cuff (v. t.) To buffet.,
C as in Cuff (v. i.) To fight; to scuffle; to box.,
C as in Cuff (n.) A blow; esp.,, a blow with the open hand; a box; a slap.,
C as in Cuff (n.) The fold at the end of a sleeve; the part of a sleeve turned back from the hand.,
C as in Cuff (n.) Any ornamental appendage at the wrist, whether attached to the sleeve of the garment or separate; especially, in modern times, such an appendage of starched linen, or a substitute for it of paper, or the like.,
C as in Cuffy (n.) A name for a negro.,
C as in Cufic (a.) Of or pertaining to the older characters of the Arabic language.,
C as in Cuinage (n.) The stamping of pigs of tin, by the proper officer, with the arms of the duchy of Cornwall.,
C as in Cuirasses (pl. ) of Cuirass,
C as in Cuirass (n.) A piece of defensive armor, covering the body from the neck to the girdle,
C as in Cuirass (n.) The breastplate taken by itself.,
C as in Cuirass (n.) An armor of bony plates, somewhat resembling a cuirass.,
C as in Cuirassed (a.) Wearing a cuirass.,
C as in Cuirassed (a.) Having a covering of bony plates, resembling a cuirass; -- said of certain fishes.,
C as in Cuirassier (n.) A soldier armed with a cuirass.,
C as in Cuish (n.) Defensive armor for the thighs.,
C as in Cuisine (n.) The kitchen or cooking department.,
C as in Cuisine (n.) Manner or style of cooking.,
C as in Culasse (n.) The lower faceted portion of a brilliant-cut diamond.,
C as in Culdee (n.) One of a class of anchorites who lived in various parts of Scotland, Ireland, and Wales.,
C as in Culs-de-sac (pl. ) of Cul-de-sac,
C as in Cul-de-sac (n.) A passage with only one outlet, as a street closed at one end; a blind alley; hence, a trap.,
C as in Cul-de-sac (n.) a position in which an army finds itself with no way of exit but to the front.,
C as in Cul-de-sac (n.) Any bag-shaped or tubular cavity, vessel, or organ, open only at one end.,
C as in Culerage (n.) See Culrage.,
C as in Culex (n.) A genus of dipterous insects, including the gnat and mosquito.,
C as in Culiciform (a.) Gnat-shaped.,
C as in Culinarily (adv.) In the manner of a kitchen; in connection with a kitchen or cooking.,
C as in Culinary (a.) Relating to the kitchen, or to the art of cookery; used in kitchens; as, a culinary vessel; the culinary art.,
C as in Culled (imp. & p. p.) of Cull,
C as in Culling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cull,
C as in Cull (v. t.) To separate, select, or pick out; to choose and gather or collect; as, to cull flowers.,
C as in Cull (n.) A cully; a dupe; a gull. See Cully.,
C as in Cullender (n.) A strainer. See Colander.,
C as in Culler (n.) One who picks or chooses; esp., an inspector who selects wares suitable for market.,
C as in Cullet (v. t.) Broken glass for remelting.,
C as in Cullet (n.) A small central plane in the back of a cut gem. See Collet, 3 (b).,
C as in Cullibility (n.) Gullibility.,
C as in Cullible (a.) Easily deceived; gullible.,
C as in Culling (n.) The act of one who culls.,
C as in Culling (n.) Anything separated or selected from a mass.,
C as in Cullion (n.) A mean wretch; a base fellow; a poltroon; a scullion.,
C as in Cullionly (a.) Mean; base.,
C as in Cullis (n.) A strong broth of meat, strained and made clear for invalids; also, a savory jelly.,
C as in Cullises (pl. ) of Cullis,
C as in Cullis (n.) A gutter in a roof; a channel or groove.,
C as in Culls (v. t.) Refuse timber, from which the best part has been culled out.,
C as in Culls (v. t.) Any refuse stuff, as rolls not properly baked.,
C as in Cullies (pl. ) of Cully,
C as in Cully (n.) A person easily deceived, tricked, or imposed on; a mean dupe; a gull.,
C as in Cully (n.) To trick, cheat, or impose on; to deceive.,
C as in Cullyism (n.) The state of being a cully.,
C as in Culm (n.) The stalk or stem of grain and grasses (including the bamboo), jointed and usually hollow.,
C as in Culm (n.) Mineral coal that is not bituminous; anthracite, especially when found in small masses.,
C as in Culm (n.) The waste of the Pennsylvania anthracite mines, consisting of fine coal, dust, etc., and used as fuel.,
C as in Culmen (n.) Top; summit; acme.,
C as in Culmen (n.) The dorsal ridge of a bird's bill.,
C as in Culmiferous (a.) Having jointed stems or culms.,
C as in Culmiferous (a.) Containing, or abounding in, culm or glance coal.,
C as in Culminal (a.) Pertaining to a culmen.,
C as in Culminant (a.) Being vertical, or at the highest point of altitude; hence, predominant.,
C as in Culminated (imp. & p. p.) of Culminate,
C as in Culminating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Culminate,
C as in Culminate (v. i.) To reach its highest point of altitude; to come to the meridian; to be vertical or directly overhead.,
C as in Culminate (v. i.) To reach the highest point, as of rank, size, power, numbers, etc.,
C as in Culminate (a.) Growing upward, as distinguished from a lateral growth; -- applied to the growth of corals.,
C as in Culmination (n.) The attainment of the highest point of altitude reached by a heavently body; passage across the meridian; transit.,
C as in Culmination (n.) Attainment or arrival at the highest pitch of glory, power, etc.,
C as in Culpa (n.) Negligence or fault, as distinguishable from dolus (deceit, fraud), which implies intent, culpa being imputable to defect of intellect, dolus to defect of heart.,
C as in Culpabilities (pl. ) of Culpability,
C as in Culpability (n.) The state of being culpable.,
C as in Culpable (a.) Deserving censure; worthy of blame; faulty; immoral; criminal.,
C as in Culpable (a.) Guilty; as, culpable of a crime.,
C as in Culpatory (a.) Expressing blame; censuring; reprehensory; inculpating.,
C as in Culpe (n.) Blameworthiness.,
C as in Culpon (n.) A shred; a fragment; a strip of wood.,
C as in Culprit (p. p.) One accused of, or arraigned for, a crime, as before a judge.,
C as in Culprit (p. p.) One quilty of a fault; a criminal.,
C as in Culrage (n.) Smartweed (Polygonum Hydropiper).,
C as in Cult (n .) Attentive care; homage; worship.,
C as in Cult (n .) A system of religious belief and worship.,
C as in Cultch (n.) Empty oyster shells and other substances laid down on oyster grounds to furnish points for the attachment of the spawn of the oyster.,
C as in Culter (n.) A colter. See Colter.,
C as in Cultirostral (a.) Having a bill shaped like the colter of a plow, or like a knife, as the heron, stork, etc.,
C as in Cultirostres (n. pl.) A tribe of wading birds including the stork, heron, crane, etc.,
C as in Cultivable (a.) Capable of being cultivated or tilled.,
C as in Cultivatable (a.) Cultivable.,
C as in Cultivated (imp. & p. p.) of Cultivate,
C as in Cultivating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cultivate,
C as in Cultivate (v. t.) To bestow attention, care, and labor upon, with a view to valuable returns; to till; to fertilize; as, to cultivate soil.,
C as in Cultivate (v. t.) To direct special attention to; to devote time and thought to; to foster; to cherish.,
C as in Cultivate (v. t.) To seek the society of; to court intimacy with.,
C as in Cultivate (v. t.) To improve by labor, care, or study; to impart culture to; to civilize; to refine.,
C as in Cultivate (v. t.) To raise or produce by tillage; to care for while growing; as, to cultivate corn or grass.,
C as in Cultivation (n.) The art or act of cultivating; improvement for agricultural purposes or by agricultural processes; tillage; production by tillage.,
C as in Cultivation (n.) Bestowal of time or attention for self-improvement or for the benefit of others; fostering care.,
C as in Cultivation (n.) The state of being cultivated; advancement in physical, intellectual, or moral condition; refinement; culture.,
C as in Cultivator (n.) One who cultivates; as, a cultivator of the soil; a cultivator of literature.,
C as in Cultivator (n.) An agricultural implement used in the tillage of growing crops, to loosen the surface of the earth and kill the weeds; esp., a triangular frame set with small shares, drawn by a horse and by handles.,
C as in Cultrate (a.) Alt. of Cultrated,
C as in Cultrated (a.) Sharp-edged and pointed; shaped like a pruning knife, as the beak of certain birds.,
C as in Cultriform (a.) Shaped like a pruning knife; cultrate.,
C as in Cultrivorous (a.) Devouring knives; swallowing, or pretending to swallow, knives; -- applied to persons who have swallowed, or have seemed to swallow, knives with impunity.,
C as in Culturable (a.) Capable of, or fit for, being cultivated; capable or becoming cultured.,
C as in Cultural (a.) Of or pertaining to culture.,
C as in Culture (n.) The act or practice of cultivating, or of preparing the earth for seed and raising crops by tillage; as, the culture of the soil.,
C as in Culture (n.) The act of, or any labor or means employed for, training, disciplining, or refining the moral and intellectual nature of man; as, the culture of the mind.,
C as in Culture (n.) The state of being cultivated; result of cultivation; physical improvement; enlightenment and discipline acquired by mental and moral training; civilization; refinement in manners and taste.,
C as in Cultured (imp. & p. p.) of Culture,
C as in Culturing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Culture,
C as in Culture (v. t.) To cultivate; to educate.,
C as in Cultured (a.) Under culture; cultivated.,
C as in Cultured (a.) Characterized by mental and moral training; disciplined; refined; well-educated.,
C as in Cultureless (a.) Having no culture.,
C as in Culturist (n.) A cultivator.,
C as in Culturist (n.) One who is an advocate of culture.,
C as in Cultuses (pl. ) of Cultus,
C as in Cultus (n. sing. & pl.) Established or accepted religious rites or usages of worship; state of religious development. Cf. Cult, 2.,
C as in Cultus cod () See Cod, and Buffalo cod, under Buffalo.,
C as in Culver (n.) A dove.,
C as in Culver (n.) A culverin.,
C as in Culverhouse (n.) A dovecote.,
C as in Culverin (n.) A long cannon of the 16th century, usually an 18-pounder with serpent-shaped handles.,
C as in Culverkey (n.) A bunch of the keys or samaras of the ash tree.,
C as in Culverkey (n.) An English meadow plant, perhaps the columbine or the bluebell squill (Scilla nutans).,
C as in Culvert (n.) A transverse drain or waterway of masonry under a road, railroad, canal, etc.; a small bridge.,
C as in Culvertail (n.) Dovetail.,
C as in Culvertailed (a.) United or fastened by a dovetailed joint.,
C as in Cumacea (n. pl.) An order of marine Crustacea, mostly of small size.,
C as in Cumbent (a.) Lying down; recumbent.,
C as in Cumbered (imp. & p. p.) of Cumber,
C as in Cumbering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cumber,
C as in Cumber (v. t.) To rest upon as a troublesome or useless weight or load; to be burdensome or oppressive to; to hinder or embarrass in attaining an object, to obstruct or occupy uselessly; to embarrass; to trouble.,
C as in Cumber (v.) Trouble; embarrassment; distress.,
C as in Cumbersome (a.) Burdensome or hindering, as a weight or drag; embarrassing; vexatious; cumbrous.,
C as in Cumbersome (a.) Not easily managed; as, a cumbersome contrivance or machine.,
C as in Cumbrance (n.) Encumbrance.,
C as in Cumbrian (a.) Pertaining to Cumberland, England, or to a system of rocks found there.,
C as in Cumbrous (a.) Rendering action or motion difficult or toilsome; serving to obstruct or hinder; burdensome; clogging.,
C as in Cumbrous (a.) Giving trouble; vexatious.,
C as in Cumene (n.) A colorless oily hydrocarbon, C6H5.C3H7, obtained by the distillation of cuminic acid; -- called also cumol.,
C as in Cumfrey (n.) See Comfrey.,
C as in Cumic (a.) See Cuming.,
C as in Cumidine (n.) A strong, liquid, organic base, C3H7.C6H4.NH2, homologous with aniline.,
C as in Cumin (n.) A dwarf umbelliferous plant, somewhat resembling fennel (Cuminum Cyminum), cultivated for its seeds, which have a bitterish, warm taste, with an aromatic flavor, and are used like those of anise and caraway.,
C as in Cuminic (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, cumin, or from oil of caraway; as, cuminic acid.,
C as in Cuminil (n .) A substance, analogous to benzil, obtained from oil of caraway.,
C as in Cuminol (n.) A liquid, C3H7.C6H4.CHO, obtained from oil of caraway; -- called also cuminic aldehyde.,
C as in Cummin (n.) Same as Cumin.,
C as in Cumshaw (n.) A present or bonus; -- originally applied to that paid on ships which entered the port of Canton.,
C as in Cumshaw (v. t.) To give or make a present to.,
C as in Cumu-cirro-stratus (n.) Nimbus, or rain cloud. See Nimbus, and Cloud.,
C as in Cumulated (imp. & p. p.) of Cumulate,
C as in Cumulating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cumulate,
C as in Cumulate (v. t.) To gather or throw into a heap; to heap together; to accumulate.,
C as in Cumulation (n.) The act of heaping together; a heap. See Accumulation.,
C as in Cumulatist (n.) One who accumulates; one who collects.,
C as in Cumulative (a.) Composed of parts in a heap; forming a mass; aggregated.,
C as in Cumulative (a.) Augmenting, gaining, or giving force, by successive additions; as, a cumulative argument, i. e., one whose force increases as the statement proceeds.,
C as in Cumulative (a.) Tending to prove the same point to which other evidence has been offered; -- said of evidence.,
C as in Cumulative (a.) Given by same testator to the same legatee; -- said of a legacy.,
C as in Cumulose (a.) Full of heaps.,
C as in Cumulostratus (n.) A form of cloud. See Cloud.,
C as in Cumuli (pl. ) of Cumulus,
C as in Cumulus (n.) One of the four principal forms of clouds. SeeCloud.,
C as in Cun (v. t.) To con (a ship).,
C as in Cun (v. t.) To know. See Con.,
C as in Cunabula (n. pl.) The earliest abode; original dwelling place; originals; as, the cunabula of the human race.,
C as in Cunabula (n. pl.) The extant copies of the first or earliest printed books, or of such as were printed in the 15th century.,
C as in Cunctation (n.) Delay; procrastination.,
C as in Cunctative (a.) Slow; tardy; dilatory; causing delay.,
C as in Cunctator (n.) One who delays or lingers.,
C as in Cunctipotent (a.) All-powerful; omnipotent.,
C as in Cund (v. t.) To con (a ship).,
C as in Cundurango (n.) The bark of a South American vine (Gonolobus Condurango) of the Milkweed family. It has been supposed, but erroneously, to be a cure for cancer.,
C as in Cuneal () Relating to a wedge; wedge-shaped.,
C as in Cuneate (a.) Alt. of Cuneated,
C as in Cuneated (a.) Wedge-shaped,
C as in Cuneated (a.) wedge-shaped, with the point at the base; as, a cuneate leaf.,
C as in Cuneatic (a.) Cuneiform.,
C as in Cuneiform (a.) Alt. of Cuniform,
C as in Cuniform (a.) Wedge-shaped; as, a cuneiform bone; -- especially applied to the wedge-shaped or arrowheaded characters of ancient Persian and Assyrian inscriptions. See Arrowheaded.,
C as in Cuniform (a.) Pertaining to, or versed in, the ancient wedge-shaped characters, or the inscriptions in them.,
C as in Cuneiform (n.) Alt. of Cuniform,
C as in Cuniform (n.) The wedge-shaped characters used in ancient Persian and Assyrian inscriptions.,
C as in Cuniform (n.) One of the three tarsal bones supporting the first, second third metatarsals. They are usually designated as external, middle, and internal, or ectocuniform, mesocuniform, and entocuniform, respectively.,
C as in Cuniform (n.) One of the carpal bones usually articulating with the ulna; -- called also pyramidal and ulnare.,
C as in Cunette (n.) A drain trench, in a ditch or moat; -- called also cuvette.,
C as in Cunner (n.) A small edible fish of the Atlantic coast (Ctenolabrus adspersus); -- called also chogset, burgall, blue perch, and bait stealer.,
C as in Cunner (n.) A small shellfish; the limpet or patella.,
C as in Cunning (a.) Knowing; skillful; dexterous.,
C as in Cunning (a.) Wrought with, or exhibiting, skill or ingenuity; ingenious; curious; as, cunning work.,
C as in Cunning (a.) Crafty; sly; artful; designing; deceitful.,
C as in Cunning (a.) Pretty or pleasing; as, a cunning little boy.,
C as in Cunning (a.) Knowledge; art; skill; dexterity.,
C as in Cunning (a.) The faculty or act of using stratagem to accomplish a purpose; fraudulent skill or dexterity; deceit; craft.,
C as in Cunningly (adv.) In a cunning manner; with cunning.,
C as in Cunningman (n.) A fortune teller; one who pretends to reveal mysteries.,
C as in Cunningness (n.) Quality of being cunning; craft.,
C as in Cup (n.) A small vessel, used commonly to drink from; as, a tin cup, a silver cup, a wine cup; especially, in modern times, the pottery or porcelain vessel, commonly with a handle, used with a saucer in drinking tea, coffee, and the like.,
C as in Cup (n.) The contents of such a vessel; a cupful.,
C as in Cup (n.) Repeated potations; social or excessive indulgence in intoxicating drinks; revelry.,
C as in Cup (n.) That which is to be received or indured; that which is allotted to one; a portion.,
C as in Cup (n.) Anything shaped like a cup; as, the cup of an acorn, or of a flower.,
C as in Cup (n.) A cupping glass or other vessel or instrument used to produce the vacuum in cupping.,
C as in Cupped (imp. & p. p.) of Cup,
C as in Cupping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cup,
C as in Cup (v. t.) To supply with cups of wine.,
C as in Cup (v. t.) To apply a cupping apparatus to; to subject to the operation of cupping. See Cupping.,
C as in Cup (v. t.) To make concave or in the form of a cup; as, to cup the end of a screw.,
C as in Cupbearer (n.) One whose office it is to fill and hand the cups at an entertainment.,
C as in Cupbearer (n.) One of the attendants of a prince or noble, permanently charged with the performance of this office for his master.,
C as in Cupboard (n.) A board or shelf for cups and dishes.,
C as in Cupboard (n.) A small closet in a room, with shelves to receive cups, dishes, food, etc.; hence, any small closet.,
C as in Cupboard (v. t.) To collect, as into a cupboard; to hoard.,
C as in Cupel (n.) A shallow porous cup, used in refining precious metals, commonly made of bone ashes (phosphate of lime).,
C as in Cupelled (imp. & p. p.) of Cupel,
C as in Cupelling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cupel,
C as in Cupel (v. t.) To refine by means of a cupel.,
C as in Cupellation (n.) The act or process of refining gold or silver, etc., in a cupel.,
C as in Cupfuls (pl. ) of Cupful,
C as in Cupful (n.) As much as a cup will hold.,
C as in Cup-gall (n.) A kind of oak-leaf gall. See Gall.,
C as in Cupid (n .) The god of love, son of Venus; usually represented as a naked, winged boy with bow and arrow.,
C as in Cupidity (n.) A passionate desire; love.,
C as in Cupidity (n.) Eager or inordinate desire, especially for wealth; greed of gain; avarice; covetousness,
C as in Cup-moss (n.) A kind of lichen, of the genus Cladonia.,
C as in Cupolas (pl. ) of Cupola,
C as in Cupola (n.) A roof having a rounded form, hemispherical or nearly so; also, a ceiling having the same form. When on a large scale it is usually called dome.,
C as in Cupola (n.) A small structure standing on the top of a dome; a lantern.,
C as in Cupola (n.) A furnace for melting iron or other metals in large quantity, -- used chiefly in foundries and steel works.,
C as in Cupola (n.) A revolving shot-proof turret for heavy ordnance.,
C as in Cupola (n.) The top of the spire of the cochlea of the ear.,
C as in Cupper (n.) One who performs the operation of cupping.,
C as in Cupping (n.) The operation of drawing blood to or from the surface of the person by forming a partial vacuum over the spot. Also, sometimes, a similar operation for drawing pus from an abscess.,
C as in Cupreous (a.) Consisting of copper or resembling copper; coppery.,
C as in Cupric (a.) Of, pertaining to, or derived from, copper; containing copper; -- said of those compounds of copper in which this element is present in its lowest proportion.,
C as in Cupriferous (a.) Containing copper; as, cupriferous silver.,
C as in Cuprite (n.) The red oxide of copper; red copper; an important ore of copper, occurring massive and in isometric crystals.,
C as in Cuproid (n.) A solid related to a tetrahedron, and contained under twelve equal triangles.,
C as in Cup-rose (n.) Red poppy. See Cop-rose.,
C as in Cuprous (a.) Of, pertaining to, or derived from, copper; containing copper; -- said of those compounds of copper in which this element is present in its highest proportion.,
C as in Cuprum (n.) Copper.,
C as in Cupulate (a.) Having or bearing cupules; cupuliferous.,
C as in Cupule (n.) A cuplet or little cup, as of the acorn; the husk or bur of the filbert, chestnut, etc.,
C as in Cupule (n.) A sucker or acetabulum.,
C as in Cupuliferous (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the family of plants of which the oak and the chestnut are examples, -- trees bearing a smooth, solid nut inclosed in some kind of cup or bur; bearing, or furnished with, a cupule.,
C as in Cur (n.) A mongrel or inferior dog.,
C as in Cur (n.) A worthless, snarling fellow; -- used in contempt.,
C as in Curability (n.) The state of being curable; curableness.,
C as in Curable (v. t.) Capable of being cured; admitting remedy.,
C as in Curacao (n.) Alt. of Curacoa,
C as in Curacoa (n.) A liqueur, or cordial, flavored with orange peel, cinnamon, and mace; -- first made at the island of Curaccao.,
C as in Curacies (pl. ) of Curacy,
C as in Curacy (n.) The office or employment of a curate.,
C as in Curare (n.) Alt. of Curari,
C as in Curari (n.) A black resinoid extract prepared by the South American Indians from the bark of several species of Strychnos (S. toxifera, etc.). It sometimes has little effect when taken internally, but is quickly fatal when introduced into the blood, and used by the Indians as an arrow poison.,
C as in Curarine (n.) A deadly alkaloid extracted from the curare poison and from the Strychnos toxifera. It is obtained in crystalline colorless salts.,
C as in Curarize (v. t.) To poison with curare.,
C as in Curassow (n.) A large gallinaceous bird of the American genera Crax, Ourax, etc., of the family Cracidae.,
C as in Curat (n.) A cuirass or breastplate.,
C as in Curate (n.) One who has the cure of souls; originally, any clergyman, but now usually limited to one who assists a rector or vicar.,
C as in Curateship (n.) A curacy.,
C as in Curation (n.) Cure; healing.,
C as in Curative (v. t.) Relating to, or employed in, the cure of diseases; tending to cure.,
C as in Curator (n.) One who has the care and superintendence of anything, as of a museum; a custodian; a keeper.,
C as in Curator (n.) One appointed to act as guardian of the estate of a person not legally competent to manage it, or of an absentee; a trustee; a guardian.,
C as in Curatorship (n.) The office of a curator.,
C as in Curatrix (n.) A woman who cures.,
C as in Curatrix (n.) A woman who is a guardian or custodian.,
C as in Curbed (imp. & p. p.) of Curb,
C as in Curbing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Curb,
C as in Curb (v. t.) To bend or curve,
C as in Curb (v. t.) To guide and manage, or restrain, as with a curb; to bend to one's will; to subject; to subdue; to restrain; to confine; to keep in check.,
C as in Curb (v. t.) To furnish wich a curb, as a well; also, to restrain by a curb, as a bank of earth.,
C as in Curb (v. i.) To bend; to crouch; to cringe.,
C as in Curb (n.) That which curbs, restrains, or subdues; a check or hindrance; esp., a chain or strap attached to the upper part of the branches of a bit, and capable of being drawn tightly against the lower jaw of the horse.,
C as in Curb (n.) An assemblage of three or more pieces of timber, or a metal member, forming a frame around an opening, and serving to maintain the integrity of that opening; also, a ring of stone serving a similar purpose, as at the eye of a dome.,
C as in Curb (n.) A frame or wall round the mouth of a well; also, a frame within a well to prevent the earth caving in.,
C as in Curb (n.) A curbstone.,
C as in Curb (n.) A swelling on the back part of the hind leg of a horse, just behind the lowest part of the hock joint, generally causing lameness.,
C as in Curbless (a.) Having no curb or restraint.,
C as in Curb roof () A roof having a double slope, or composed, on each side, of two parts which have unequal inclination; a gambrel roof.,
C as in Curbstone (n.) A stone /et along a margin as a and protection, as along the edge of a sidewalk next the roadway; an edge stone.,
C as in Curch (n.) See Courche.,
C as in Curculios (pl. ) of Curculio,
C as in Curculio (n.) One of a large group of beetles (Rhynchophora) of many genera; -- called also weevils, snout beetles, billbeetles, and billbugs. Many of the species are very destructive, as the plum curculio, the corn, grain, and rice weevils, etc.,
C as in Curculionidous (a.) Pertaining to the Curculionideae, or weevil tribe.,
C as in Curcuma (n.) A genus of plants of the order Scitamineae, including the turmeric plant (Curcuma longa).,
C as in Curcumin (n.) The coloring principle of turmeric, or curcuma root, extracted as an orange yellow crystalline substance, C14H14O4, with a green fluorescence.,
C as in Curd (n.) The coagulated or thickened part of milk, as distinguished from the whey, or watery part. It is eaten as food, especially when made into cheese.,
C as in Curd (n.) The coagulated part of any liquid.,
C as in Curd (n.) The edible flower head of certain brassicaceous plants, as the broccoli and cauliflower.,
C as in Curded (imp. & p. p.) of Curd,
C as in Curding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Curd,
C as in Curd (v. t.) To cause to coagulate or thicken; to cause to congeal; to curdle.,
C as in Curd (v. i.) To become coagulated or thickened; to separate into curds and whey,
C as in Curdiness (n.) The state of being curdy.,
C as in Curdle (v. i.) To change into curd; to coagulate; as, rennet causes milk to curdle.,
C as in Curdle (v. i.) To thicken; to congeal.,
C as in Curdled (imp. & p. p.) of Curdle,
C as in Curdling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Curdle,
C as in Curdle (v. t.) To change into curd; to cause to coagulate.,
C as in Curdle (v. t.) To congeal or thicken.,
C as in Curdless (a.) Destitute of curd.,
C as in Curdy (a.) Like curd; full of curd; coagulated.,
C as in Cure (n.) Care, heed, or attention.,
C as in Cure (n.) Spiritual charge; care of soul; the office of a parish priest or of a curate; hence, that which is committed to the charge of a parish priest or of a curate; a curacy; as, to resign a cure; to obtain a cure.,
C as in Cure (n.) Medical or hygienic care; remedial treatment of disease; a method of medical treatment; as, to use the water cure.,
C as in Cure (n.) Act of healing or state of being healed; restoration to health from disease, or to soundness after injury.,
C as in Cure (n.) Means of the removal of disease or evil; that which heals; a remedy; a restorative.,
C as in Cured (imp. & p. p.) of Cure,
C as in Curing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cure,
C as in Cure (v. t.) To heal; to restore to health, soundness, or sanity; to make well; -- said of a patient.,
C as in Cure (v. t.) To subdue or remove by remedial means; to remedy; to remove; to heal; -- said of a malady.,
C as in Cure (v. t.) To set free from (something injurious or blameworthy), as from a bad habit.,
C as in Cure (v. t.) To prepare for preservation or permanent keeping; to preserve, as by drying, salting, etc.; as, to cure beef or fish; to cure hay.,
C as in Cure (v. i.) To pay heed; to care; to give attention.,
C as in Cure (v. i.) To restore health; to effect a cure.,
C as in Cure (v. i.) To become healed.,
C as in Cure (n.) A curate; a pardon.,
C as in Cureall (n.) A remedy for all diseases, or for all ills; a panacea.,
C as in Cureless (a.) Incapable of cure; incurable.,
C as in Curer (n.) One who cures; a healer; a physician.,
C as in Curer (n.) One who prepares beef, fish, etc., for preservation by drying, salting, smoking, etc.,
C as in Curette (n.) A scoop or ring with either a blunt or a cutting edge, for removing substances from the walls of a cavity, as from the eye, ear, or womb.,
C as in Curfew (n.) The ringing of an evening bell, originally a signal to the inhabitants to cover fires, extinguish lights, and retire to rest, -- instituted by William the Conqueror; also, the bell itself.,
C as in Curfew (n.) A utensil for covering the fire.,
C as in Curle (pl. ) of Curia,
C as in Curia (n.) One of the thirty parts into which the Roman people were divided by Romulus.,
C as in Curia (n.) The place of assembly of one of these divisions.,
C as in Curia (n.) The place where the meetings of the senate were held; the senate house.,
C as in Curia (n.) The court of a sovereign or of a feudal lord; also; his residence or his household.,
C as in Curia (n.) Any court of justice.,
C as in Curia (n.) The Roman See in its temporal aspects, including all the machinery of administration; -- called also curia Romana.,
C as in Curialism (n.) The view or doctrine of the ultramontane party in the Latin Church.,
C as in Curialist (n.) One who belongs to the ultramontane party in the Latin Church.,
C as in Curialistic (a.) Pertaining to a court.,
C as in Curialistic (a.) Relating or belonging to the ultramontane party in the Latin Church.,
C as in Curiality (n.) The privileges, prerogatives, or retinue of a court.,
C as in Curiet (n.) A cuirass.,
C as in Curing () p. a. & vb. n. of Cure.,
C as in Curios (pl. ) of Curio,
C as in Curio (n.) Any curiosity or article of virtu.,
C as in Curiologic (a.) Pertaining to a rude kind of hieroglyphics, in which a thing is represented by its picture instead of by a symbol.,
C as in Curiosities (pl. ) of Curiosity,
C as in Curiosity (n.) The state or quality or being curious; nicety; accuracy; exactness; elaboration.,
C as in Curiosity (n.) Disposition to inquire, investigate, or seek after knowledge; a desire to gratify the mind with new information or objects of interest; inquisitiveness.,
C as in Curiosity (n.) That which is curious, or fitted to excite or reward attention.,
C as in Curiosos (pl. ) of Curioso,
C as in Curioso (n.) A virtuoso.,
C as in Curious (a.) Difficult to please or satisfy; solicitous to be correct; careful; scrupulous; nice; exact.,
C as in Curious (a.) Exhibiting care or nicety; artfully constructed; elaborate; wrought with elegance or skill.,
C as in Curious (a.) Careful or anxious to learn; eager for knowledge; given to research or inquiry; habitually inquisitive; prying; -- sometimes with after or of.,
C as in Curious (a.) Exciting attention or inquiry; awakening surprise; inviting and rewarding inquisitiveness; not simple or plain; strange; rare.,
C as in Curiously (adv.) In a curious manner.,
C as in Curiousness (n.) Carefulness; painstaking.,
C as in Curiousness (n.) The state of being curious; exactness of workmanship; ingenuity of contrivance.,
C as in Curiousness (n.) Inquisitiveness; curiosity.,
C as in Curled (imp. & p. p.) of Curl,
C as in Curling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Curl,
C as in Curl (n.) To twist or form into ringlets; to crisp, as the hair.,
C as in Curl (n.) To twist or make onto coils, as a serpent's body.,
C as in Curl (n.) To deck with, or as with, curls; to ornament.,
C as in Curl (n.) To raise in waves or undulations; to ripple.,
C as in Curl (n.) To shape (the brim) into a curve.,
C as in Curl (v. i.) To contract or bend into curls or ringlets, as hair; to grow in curls or spirals, as a vine; to be crinkled or contorted; to have a curly appearance; as, leaves lie curled on the ground.,
C as in Curl (v. i.) To move in curves, spirals, or undulations; to contract in curving outlines; to bend in a curved form; to make a curl or curls.,
C as in Curl (v. i.) To play at the game called curling.,
C as in Curl (v.) A ringlet, especially of hair; anything of a spiral or winding form.,
C as in Curl (v.) An undulating or waving line or streak in any substance, as wood, glass, etc.; flexure; sinuosity.,
C as in Curl (v.) A disease in potatoes, in which the leaves, at their first appearance, seem curled and shrunken.,
C as in Curled (a.) Having curls; curly; sinuous; wavy; as, curled maple (maple having fibers which take a sinuous course).,
C as in Curledness (n.) State of being curled; curliness.,
C as in Curler (n.) One who, or that which, curls.,
C as in Curler (n.) A player at the game called curling.,
C as in Curlew (n.) A wading bird of the genus Numenius, remarkable for its long, slender, curved bill.,
C as in Curliness (n.) State of being curly.,
C as in Curling (n.) The act or state of that which curls; as, the curling of smoke when it rises; the curling of a ringlet; also, the act or process of one who curls something, as hair, or the brim of hats.,
C as in Curling (n.) A scottish game in which heavy weights of stone or iron are propelled by hand over the ice towards a mark.,
C as in Curlingly (adv.) With a curl, or curls.,
C as in Curly (a.) Curling or tending to curl; having curls; full of ripples; crinkled.,
C as in Curlycue (n.) Some thing curled or spiral,, as a flourish made with a pen on paper, or with skates on the ice; a trick; a frolicsome caper.,
C as in Curmudgeon (n.) An avaricious, grasping fellow; a miser; a niggard; a churl.,
C as in Curmudgeonly (a.) Like a curmudgeon; niggardly; churlish; as, a curmudgeonly fellow.,
C as in Curmurring (n.) Murmuring; grumbling; -- sometimes applied to the rumbling produced by a slight attack of the gripes.,
C as in Curr (v. i.) To coo.,
C as in Currant (n.) A small kind of seedless raisin, imported from the Levant, chiefly from Zante and Cephalonia; -- used in cookery.,
C as in Currant (n.) The acid fruit or berry of the Ribes rubrum or common red currant, or of its variety, the white currant.,
C as in Currant (n.) A shrub or bush of several species of the genus Ribes (a genus also including the gooseberry); esp., the Ribes rubrum.,
C as in Currencies (pl. ) of Currency,
C as in Currency (n.) A continued or uninterrupted course or flow like that of a stream; as, the currency of time.,
C as in Currency (n.) The state or quality of being current; general acceptance or reception; a passing from person to person, or from hand to hand; circulation; as, a report has had a long or general currency; the currency of bank notes.,
C as in Currency (n.) That which is in circulation, or is given and taken as having or representing value; as, the currency of a country; a specie currency; esp., government or bank notes circulating as a substitute for metallic money.,
C as in Currency (n.) Fluency; readiness of utterance.,
C as in Currency (n.) Current value; general estimation; the rate at which anything is generally valued.,
C as in Current (a.) Running or moving rapidly.,
C as in Current (a.) Now passing, as time; as, the current month.,
C as in Current (a.) Passing from person to person, or from hand to hand; circulating through the community; generally received; common; as, a current coin; a current report; current history.,
C as in Current (a.) Commonly estimated or acknowledged.,
C as in Current (a.) Fitted for general acceptance or circulation; authentic; passable.,
C as in Current (a.) A flowing or passing; onward motion. Hence: A body of fluid moving continuously in a certain direction; a stream; esp., the swiftest part of it; as, a current of water or of air; that which resembles a stream in motion; as, a current of electricity.,
C as in Current (a.) General course; ordinary procedure; progressive and connected movement; as, the current of time, of events, of opinion, etc.,
C as in Currently (adv.) In a current manner; generally; commonly; as, it is currently believed.,
C as in Currentness (n.) The quality of being current; currency; circulation; general reception.,
C as in Currentness (n.) Easiness of pronunciation; fluency.,
C as in Curricle (n.) A small or short course.,
C as in Curricle (n.) A two-wheeled chaise drawn by two horses abreast.,
C as in Curriculums (pl. ) of Curriculum,
C as in Curricula (pl. ) of Curriculum,
C as in Curriculum (n.) A race course; a place for running.,
C as in Curriculum (n.) A course; particularly, a specified fixed course of study, as in a university.,
C as in Currie (n. & v.) See 2d & 3d Curry.,
C as in Curried (n.) Dressed by currying; cleaned; prepared.,
C as in Curried (n.) Prepared with curry; as, curried rice, fowl, etc.,
C as in Currier (n.) One who curries and dresses leather, after it is tanned.,
C as in Currish (a.) Having the qualities, or exhibiting the characteristics, of a cur; snarling; quarrelsome; snappish; churlish; hence, also malicious; malignant; brutal.,
C as in Curried (imp. & p. p.) of Curry,
C as in Currying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Curry,
C as in Curry (v. t.) To dress or prepare for use by a process of scraping, cleansing, beating, smoothing, and coloring; -- said of leather.,
C as in Curry (v. t.) To dress the hair or coat of (a horse, ox, or the like) with a currycomb and brush; to comb, as a horse, in order to make clean.,
C as in Curry (v. t.) To beat or bruise; to drub; -- said of persons.,
C as in Curry (n.) A kind of sauce much used in India, containing garlic, pepper, ginger, and other strong spices.,
C as in Curry (n.) A stew of fowl, fish, or game, cooked with curry.,
C as in Curry (v. t.) To flavor or cook with curry.,
C as in Currycomb (n.) A kind of card or comb having rows of metallic teeth or serrated ridges, used in currying a horse.,
C as in Currycomb (v. t.) To comb with a currycomb.,
C as in Cursed (imp. & p. p.) of Curse,
C as in Curst () of Curse,
C as in Cursing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Curse,
C as in Curse (v. t.) To call upon divine or supernatural power to send injury upon; to imprecate evil upon; to execrate.,
C as in Curse (v. t.) To bring great evil upon; to be the cause of serious harm or unhappiness to; to furnish with that which will be a cause of deep trouble; to afflict or injure grievously; to harass or torment.,
C as in Curse (v. i.) To utter imprecations or curses; to affirm or deny with imprecations; to swear.,
C as in Curse (v. t.) An invocation of, or prayer for, harm or injury; malediction.,
C as in Curse (v. t.) Evil pronounced or invoked upon another, solemnly, or in passion; subjection to, or sentence of, divine condemnation.,
C as in Curse (v. t.) The cause of great harm, evil, or misfortune; that which brings evil or severe affliction; torment.,
C as in Cursed (a.) Deserving a curse; execrable; hateful; detestable; abominable.,
C as in Cursedly (adv.) In a cursed manner; miserably; in a manner to be detested; enormously.,
C as in Cursedness (n.) The state of being under a curse or of being doomed to execration or to evil.,
C as in Cursedness (n.) Wickedness; sin; cursing.,
C as in Cursedness (n.) Shrewishness.,
C as in Curser (n.) One who curses.,
C as in Curship (n.) The state of being a cur; one who is currish.,
C as in Cursitating (a.) Moving about slightly.,
C as in Cursitor (n.) A courier or runner.,
C as in Cursitor (n.) An officer in the Court of Chancery, whose business is to make out original writs.,
C as in Cursive (a.) Running; flowing.,
C as in Cursive (n.) A character used in cursive writing.,
C as in Cursive (n.) A manuscript, especially of the New Testament, written in small, connected characters or in a running hand; -- opposed to uncial.,
C as in Cursor (n.) Any part of a mathematical instrument that moves or slides backward and forward upon another part.,
C as in Cursorary (a.) Cursory; hasty.,
C as in Cursores (n. pl.) An order of running birds including the ostrich, emu, and allies; the Ratitaae.,
C as in Cursores (n. pl.) A group of running spiders; the wolf spiders.,
C as in Cursorial (a.) Adapted to running or walking, and not to prehension; as, the limbs of the horse are cursorial. See Illust. of Aves.,
C as in Cursorial (a.) Of or pertaining to the Cursores.,
C as in Cursorily (adv.) In a running or hasty manner; carelessly.,
C as in Cursoriness (n.) The quality of being cursory; superficial performance; as, cursoriness of view.,
C as in Cursory (a.) Running about; not stationary.,
C as in Cursory (a.) Characterized by haste; hastily or superficially performed; slight; superficial; careless.,
C as in Curst () imp. & p. p. of Curse.,
C as in Curst (a.) Froward; malignant; mischievous; malicious; snarling.,
C as in Curstfully (adv.) Peevishly; vexatiously; detestably.,
C as in Curstness (n.) Peevishness; malignity; frowardness; crabbedness; surliness.,
C as in Curt (a.) Characterized by excessive brevity; short; rudely concise; as, curt limits; a curt answer.,
C as in Curtailed (imp. & p. p.) of Curtail,
C as in Curtailing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Curtail,
C as in Curtail (v. t.) To cut off the end or tail, or any part, of; to shorten; to abridge; to diminish; to reduce.,
C as in Curtail (n.) The scroll termination of any architectural member, as of a step, etc.,
C as in Curtail dog () A dog with a docked tail; formerly, the dog of a person not qualified to course, which, by the forest laws, must have its tail cut short, partly as a mark, and partly from a notion that the tail is necessary to a dog in running; hence, a dog not fit for sporting.,
C as in Curtailer (n.) One who curtails.,
C as in Curtailment (n.) The act or result of curtailing or cutting off.,
C as in Curtain (n.) A hanging screen intended to darken or conceal, and admitting of being drawn back or up, and reclosed at pleasure; esp., drapery of cloth or lace hanging round a bed or at a window; in theaters, and like places, a movable screen for concealing the stage.,
C as in Curtain (n.) That part of the rampart and parapet which is between two bastions or two gates. See Illustrations of Ravelin and Bastion.,
C as in Curtain (n.) That part of a wall of a building which is between two pavilions, towers, etc.,
C as in Curtain (n.) A flag; an ensign; -- in contempt.,
C as in Curtained (imp. & p. p.) of Curtain,
C as in Curtaining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Curtain,
C as in Curtain (v. t.) To inclose as with curtains; to furnish with curtains.,
C as in Curtal (a.) Curt; brief; laconic.,
C as in Curtal (n.) A horse with a docked tail; hence, anything cut short.,
C as in Curtal ax () Alt. of Curtelasse,
C as in Curtle ax () Alt. of Curtelasse,
C as in Curtelasse () A corruption of Cutlass.,
C as in Curtal friar () A friar who acted as porter at the gate of a monastery.,
C as in Curtana (n.) The pointless sword carried before English monarchs at their coronation, and emblematically considered as the sword of mercy; -- also called the sword of Edward the Confessor.,
C as in Curtate (a.) Shortened or reduced; -- said of the distance of a planet from the sun or earth, as measured in the plane of the ecliptic, or the distance from the sun or earth to that point where a perpendicular, let fall from the planet upon the plane of the ecliptic, meets the ecliptic.,
C as in Curtation (n.) The interval by which the curtate distance of a planet is less than the true distance.,
C as in Curtein (n.) Same as Curtana.,
C as in Curtes (a.) Courteous.,
C as in Curtesies (pl. ) of Curtesy,
C as in Curtesy (n.) the life estate which a husband has in the lands of his deceased wife, which by the common law takes effect where he has had issue by her, born alive, and capable of inheriting the lands.,
C as in Curtilage (n.) A yard, courtyard, or piece of ground, included within the fence surrounding a dwelling house.,
C as in Curtly (adv.) In a curt manner.,
C as in Curtness (n.) The quality of bing curt.,
C as in Curtsy (n.) Same as Courtesy, an act of respect.,
C as in Curule (a.) Of or pertaining to a chariot.,
C as in Curule (a.) Of or pertaining to a kind of chair appropriated to Roman magistrates and dignitaries; pertaining to, having, or conferring, the right to sit in the curule chair; hence, official.,
C as in Cururo (n.) A Chilian burrowing rodent of the genus Spalacopus.,
C as in Curval (p. pr.) Alt. of Curvant,
C as in Curvant (p. pr.) Bowed; bent; curved.,
C as in Curvate (a.) Alt. of Curvated,
C as in Curvated (a.) Bent in a regular form; curved.,
C as in Curvation (n.) The act of bending or crooking.,
C as in Curvative (a.) Having the margins only a little curved; -- said of leaves.,
C as in Curvature (n.) The act of curving, or the state of being bent or curved; a curving or bending, normal or abnormal, as of a line or surface from a rectilinear direction; a bend; a curve.,
C as in Curvature (n.) The amount of degree of bending of a mathematical curve, or the tendency at any point to depart from a tangent drawn to the curve at that point.,
C as in Curve (a.) Bent without angles; crooked; curved; as, a curve line; a curve surface.,
C as in Curve (a.) A bending without angles; that which is bent; a flexure; as, a curve in a railway or canal.,
C as in Curve (a.) A line described according to some low, and having no finite portion of it a straight line.,
C as in Curved (imp. & p. p.) of Curve,
C as in Curving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Curve,
C as in Curve (a.) To bend; to crook; as, to curve a line; to curve a pipe; to cause to swerve from a straight course; as, to curve a ball in pitching it.,
C as in Curve (v. i.) To bend or turn gradually from a given direction; as, the road curves to the right.,
C as in Curvedness (n.) The state of being curved.,
C as in Curvet (n.) A particular leap of a horse, when he raises both his fore legs at once, equally advanced, and, as his fore legs are falling, raises his hind legs, so that all his legs are in the air at once.,
C as in Curvet (n.) A prank; a frolic.,
C as in Curveted (imp. & p. p.) of Curvet,
C as in -vetted () of Curvet,
C as in Curveting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Curvet,
C as in -vetting () of Curvet,
C as in Curvet (n.) To make a curvet; to leap; to bound.,
C as in Curvet (n.) To leap and frisk; to frolic.,
C as in Curvet (v. t.) To cause to curvet.,
C as in Curvicaudate (a.) Having a curved or crooked tail.,
C as in Curvicostate (a.) Having bent ribs.,
C as in Curvidentate (a.) Having curved teeth.,
C as in Curviform (a.) Having a curved form.,
C as in Curvilinead (n.) An instrument for drawing curved lines.,
C as in Curvilineal (a.) Alt. of Curvilinear,
C as in Curvilinear (a.) Consisting of, or bounded by, curved lines; as, a curvilinear figure.,
C as in Curvilinearity (n.) The state of being curvilinear or of being bounded by curved lines.,
C as in Curvilinearly (adv.) In a curvilinear manner.,
C as in Curvinerved (a.) Having the ribs or the veins of the leaves curved; -- called also curvinervate and curve-veined.,
C as in Curvirostral (a.) Having a crooked beak, as the crossbill.,
C as in Curvirostres (n. pl.) A group of passerine birds, including the creepers and nuthatches.,
C as in Curviserial (a.) Distributed in a curved line, as leaves along a stem.,
C as in Curvity (n.) The state of being curved; a bending in a regular form; crookedness.,
C as in Curvograph (n.) An arcograph.,
C as in Cushat (n.) The ringdove or wood pigeon.,
C as in Cushewbird (n.) The galeated curassow. See Curassow.,
C as in Cushion (n.) A case or bag stuffed with some soft and elastic material, and used to sit or recline upon; a soft pillow or pad.,
C as in Cushion (n.) Anything resembling a cushion in properties or use,
C as in Cushion (n.) a pad on which gilders cut gold leaf,
C as in Cushion (n.) a mass of steam in the end of the cylinder of a steam engine to receive the impact of the piston,
C as in Cushion (n.) the elastic edge of a billiard table.,
C as in Cushion (n.) A riotous kind of dance, formerly common at weddings; -- called also cushion dance.,
C as in Cushioned (imp. & p. p.) of Cushion,
C as in Cushioning (p. pr. & vb.) of Cushion,
C as in Cushion (v. t.) To seat or place on, or as on a cushion.,
C as in Cushion (v. t.) To furnish with cushions; as, to cushion a chaise.,
C as in Cushion (v. t.) To conceal or cover up, as under a cushion.,
C as in Cushionet (n.) A little cushion.,
C as in Cushionless (a.) Hot furnished with a cushion.,
C as in Cushiony (a.) Like a cushion; soft; pliable.,
C as in Cushite (n.) A descendant of Cush, the son of Ham and grandson of Noah.,
C as in Cusk (n.) A large, edible, marine fish (Brosmius brosme), allied to the cod, common on the northern coasts of Europe and America; -- called also tusk and torsk.,
C as in Cuskin (n.) A kind of drinking cup.,
C as in Cusp (n.) A triangular protection from the intrados of an arch, or from an inner curve of tracery.,
C as in Cusp (n.) The beginning or first entrance of any house in the calculations of nativities, etc.,
C as in Cusp (n.) The point or horn of the crescent moon or other crescent-shaped luminary.,
C as in Cusp (n.) A multiple point of a curve at which two or more branches of the curve have a common tangent.,
C as in Cusp (n.) A prominence or point, especially on the crown of a tooth.,
C as in Cusp (n.) A sharp and rigid point.,
C as in Cusped (imp. & p. p.) of Cusp,
C as in Cusping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cusp,
C as in Cusp (v. t.) To furnish with a cusp or cusps.,
C as in Cuspated (a.) Ending in a point.,
C as in Cuspid (n.) One of the canine teeth; -- so called from having but one point or cusp on the crown. See Tooth.,
C as in Cuspidal (a.) Ending in a point.,
C as in Cuspidate (v. t.) To make pointed or sharp.,
C as in Cuspidate (a.) Alt. of Cuspidated,
C as in Cuspidated (a.) Having a sharp end, like the point of a spear; terminating in a hard point; as, a cuspidate leaf.,
C as in Cuspidor (n.) Any ornamental vessel used as a spittoon; hence, to avoid the common term, a spittoon of any sort.,
C as in Cuspis (n.) A point; a sharp end.,
C as in Custard (n.) A mixture of milk and eggs, sweetened, and baked or boiled.,
C as in Custode (n.) See Custodian.,
C as in Custodial (a.) Relating to custody or guardianship.,
C as in Custodian (n.) One who has care or custody, as of some public building; a keeper or superintendent.,
C as in Custodianship (n.) Office or duty of a custodian.,
C as in Custodier (n.) A custodian.,
C as in Custody (n.) A keeping or guarding; care, watch, inspection, for keeping, preservation, or security.,
C as in Custody (n.) Judicial or penal safe-keeping.,
C as in Custody (n.) State of being guarded and watched to prevent escape; restraint of liberty; confinement; imprisonment.,
C as in Custom (n.) Frequent repetition of the same act; way of acting common to many; ordinary manner; habitual practice; usage; method of doing or living.,
C as in Custom (n.) Habitual buying of goods; practice of frequenting, as a shop, manufactory, etc., for making purchases or giving orders; business support.,
C as in Custom (n.) Long-established practice, considered as unwritten law, and resting for authority on long consent; usage. See Usage, and Prescription.,
C as in Custom (n.) Familiar aquaintance; familiarity.,
C as in Custom (v. t.) To make familiar; to accustom.,
C as in Custom (v. t.) To supply with customers.,
C as in Custom (v. i.) To have a custom.,
C as in Custom (n.) The customary toll, tax, or tribute.,
C as in Custom (n.) Duties or tolls imposed by law on commodities, imported or exported.,
C as in Custom (v. t.) To pay the customs of.,
C as in Customable (a.) Customary.,
C as in Customable (a.) Subject to the payment of customs; dutiable.,
C as in Customableness (n.) Quality of being customable; conformity to custom.,
C as in Customably (adv.) Usually.,
C as in Customarily (adv.) In a customary manner; habitually.,
C as in Customariness (n.) Quality of being customary.,
C as in Customary (a.) Agreeing with, or established by, custom; established by common usage; conventional; habitual.,
C as in Customary (a.) Holding or held by custom; as, customary tenants; customary service or estate.,
C as in Customary (n.) A book containing laws and usages, or customs; as, the Customary of the Normans.,
C as in Customer (n.) One who collect customs; a toll gatherer.,
C as in Customer (n.) One who regularly or repeatedly makes purchases of a trader; a purchaser; a buyer.,
C as in Customer (n.) A person with whom a business house has dealings; as, the customers of a bank.,
C as in Customer (n.) A peculiar person; -- in an indefinite sense; as, a queer customer; an ugly customer.,
C as in Customer (n.) A lewd woman.,
C as in Customhouse (n.) The building where customs and duties are paid, and where vessels are entered or cleared.,
C as in Custodes (pl. ) of Custos,
C as in Custos (n.) A keeper; a custodian; a superintendent.,
C as in Custrel (n.) An armor-bearer to a knight.,
C as in Custrel (n.) See Costrel.,
C as in Custumary (a.) See Customary.,
C as in Cut (imp. & p. p.) of Cut,
C as in Cutting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cut,
C as in Cut (v. t.) To separate the parts of with, or as with, a sharp instrument; to make an incision in; to gash; to sever; to divide.,
C as in Cut (v. t.) To sever and cause to fall for the purpose of gathering; to hew; to mow or reap.,
C as in Cut (v. t.) To sever and remove by cutting; to cut off; to dock; as, to cut the hair; to cut the nails.,
C as in Cut (v. t.) To castrate or geld; as, to cut a horse.,
C as in Cut (v. t.) To form or shape by cutting; to make by incision, hewing, etc.; to carve; to hew out.,
C as in Cut (v. t.) To wound or hurt deeply the sensibilities of; to pierce; to lacerate; as, sarcasm cuts to the quick.,
C as in Cut (v. t.) To intersect; to cross; as, one line cuts another at right angles.,
C as in Cut (v. t.) To refuse to recognize; to ignore; as, to cut a person in the street; to cut one's acquaintance.,
C as in Cut (v. t.) To absent one's self from; as, to cut an appointment, a recitation. etc.,
C as in Cut (v. i.) To do the work of an edged tool; to serve in dividing or gashing; as, a knife cuts well.,
C as in Cut (v. i.) To admit of incision or severance; to yield to a cutting instrument.,
C as in Cut (v. i.) To perform the operation of dividing, severing, incising, intersecting, etc.; to use a cutting instrument.,
C as in Cut (v. i.) To make a stroke with a whip.,
C as in Cut (v. i.) To interfere, as a horse.,
C as in Cut (v. i.) To move or make off quickly.,
C as in Cut (v. i.) To divide a pack of cards into two portion to decide the deal or trump, or to change the order of the cards to be dealt.,
C as in Cut (n.) An opening made with an edged instrument; a cleft; a gash; a slash; a wound made by cutting; as, a sword cut.,
C as in Cut (n.) A stroke or blow or cutting motion with an edged instrument; a stroke or blow with a whip.,
C as in Cut (n.) That which wounds the feelings, as a harsh remark or criticism, or a sarcasm; personal discourtesy, as neglecting to recognize an acquaintance when meeting him; a slight.,
C as in Cut (n.) A notch, passage, or channel made by cutting or digging; a furrow; a groove; as, a cut for a railroad.,
C as in Cut (n.) The surface left by a cut; as, a smooth or clear cut.,
C as in Cut (n.) A portion severed or cut off; a division; as, a cut of beef; a cut of timber.,
C as in Cut (n.) An engraved block or plate; the impression from such an engraving; as, a book illustrated with fine cuts.,
C as in Cut (n.) The act of dividing a pack cards.,
C as in Cut (n.) The right to divide; as, whose cut is it?,
C as in Cut (n.) Manner in which a thing is cut or formed; shape; style; fashion; as, the cut of a garment.,
C as in Cut (n.) A common work horse; a gelding.,
C as in Cut (n.) The failure of a college officer or student to be present at any appointed exercise.,
C as in Cut (n.) A skein of yarn.,
C as in Cut (a.) Gashed or divided, as by a cutting instrument.,
C as in Cut (a.) Formed or shaped as by cutting; carved.,
C as in Cut (a.) Overcome by liquor; tipsy.,
C as in Cutaneous (a.) Of pertaining to the skin; existing on, or affecting, the skin; as, a cutaneous disease; cutaneous absorption; cutaneous respiration.,
C as in Cutaway (a.) Having a part cut off or away; having the corners rounded or cut away.,
C as in Cutch (n.) See Catechu.,
C as in Cutch (n.) See Cultch.,
C as in Cutchery (n.) A hindoo hall of justice.,
C as in Cute (a.) Clever; sharp; shrewd; ingenious; cunning.,
C as in Cuteness (n.) Acuteness; cunning.,
C as in Cutgrass () A grass with leaves having edges furnished with very minute hooked prickles, which form a cutting edge; one or more species of Leersia.,
C as in Cuticle (n.) The scarfskin or epidermis. See Skin.,
C as in Cuticle (n.) The outermost skin or pellicle of a plant, found especially in leaves and young stems.,
C as in Cuticle (n.) A thin skin formed on the surface of a liquid.,
C as in Cuticular (a.) Pertaining to the cuticle, or external coat of the skin; epidermal.,
C as in Cutin (n.) The substance which, added to the material of a cell wall, makes it waterproof, as in cork.,
C as in Cutinization (n.) The conversion of cell walls into a material which repels water, as in cork.,
C as in Cutinize (v. t. & i.) To change into cutin.,
C as in Cutis (n.) See Dermis.,
C as in Cutlasses (pl. ) of Cutlass,
C as in Cutlass (n.) A short, heavy, curving sword, used in the navy. See Curtal ax.,
C as in Cutler (n.) One who makes or deals in cutlery, or knives and other cutting instruments.,
C as in Cutlery (n.) The business of a cutler.,
C as in Cutlery (n.) Edged or cutting instruments, collectively.,
C as in Cutlet (n.) A piece of meat, especially of veal or mutton, cut for broiling.,
C as in Cutling (n.) The art of making edged tools or cutlery.,
C as in Cut-off (n.) That which cuts off or shortens, as a nearer passage or road.,
C as in Cut-off (n.) The valve gearing or mechanism by which steam is cut off from entering the cylinder of a steam engine after a definite point in a stroke, so as to allow the remainder of the stroke to be made by the expansive force of the steam already let in. See Expansion gear, under Expansion.,
C as in Cut-off (n.) Any device for stopping or changing a current, as of grain or water in a spout.,
C as in Cutose (n.) A variety of cellulose, occuring as a fine transparent membrane covering the aerial organs of plants, and forming an essential ingredient of cork; by oxidation it passes to suberic acid.,
C as in Cut-out (n.) A species of switch for changing the current from one circuit to another, or for shortening a circuit.,
C as in Cut-out (n.) A device for breaking or separating a portion of circuit.,
C as in Cutpurse (n.) One who cuts purses for the sake of stealing them or their contents (an act common when men wore purses fastened by a string to their girdles); one who steals from the person; a pickpocket,
C as in Cutter (n.) One who cuts; as, a stone cutter; a die cutter; esp., one who cuts out garments.,
C as in Cutter (n.) That which cuts; a machine or part of a machine, or a tool or instrument used for cutting, as that part of a mower which severs the stalk, or as a paper cutter.,
C as in Cutter (n.) A fore tooth; an incisor.,
C as in Cutter (n.) A boat used by ships of war.,
C as in Cutter (n.) A fast sailing vessel with one mast, rigged in most essentials like a sloop. A cutter is narrower end deeper than a sloop of the same length, and depends for stability on a deep keel, often heavily weighted with lead.,
C as in Cutter (n.) A small armed vessel, usually a steamer, in the revenue marine service; -- also called revenue cutter.,
C as in Cutter (n.) A small, light one-horse sleigh.,
C as in Cutter (n.) An officer in the exchequer who notes by cutting on the tallies the sums paid.,
C as in Cutter (n.) A ruffian; a bravo; a destroyer.,
C as in Cutter (n.) A kind of soft yellow brick, used for facework; -- so called from the facility with which it can be cut.,
C as in Cutthroat (n.) One who cuts throats; a murderer; an assassin.,
C as in Cutthroat (a.) Murderous; cruel; barbarous.,
C as in Cutting (n.) The act or process of making an incision, or of severing, felling, shaping, etc.,
C as in Cutting (n.) Something cut, cut off, or cut out, as a twig or scion cut off from a stock for the purpose of grafting or of rooting as an independent plant; something cut out of a newspaper; an excavation cut through a hill or elsewhere to make a way for a railroad, canal, etc.; a cut.,
C as in Cutting (a.) Adapted to cut; as, a cutting tool.,
C as in Cutting (a.) Chilling; penetrating; sharp; as, a cutting wind.,
C as in Cutting (a.) Severe; sarcastic; biting; as, a cutting reply.,
C as in Cuttingly (adv.) In a cutting manner.,
C as in Cuttle (n.) A knife.,
C as in Cuttle (n.) Alt. of Cuttlefish,
C as in Cuttlefish (n.) A cephalopod of the genus Sepia, having an internal shell, large eyes, and ten arms furnished with denticulated suckers, by means of which it secures its prey. The name is sometimes applied to dibranchiate cephalopods generally.,
C as in Cuttlefish (n.) A foul-mouthed fellow.,
C as in Cuttle bone () The shell or bone of cuttlefishes, used for various purposes, as for making polishing powder, etc.,
C as in Cuttoo plate () A hood over the end of a wagon wheel hub to keep dirt away from the axle.,
C as in Cytty (a.) Short; as, a cutty knife; a cutty sark.,
C as in Cutty (n.) A short spoon.,
C as in Cutty (n.) A short tobacco pipe.,
C as in Cutty (n.) A light or unchaste woman.,
C as in Cuttystool (n.) A low stool,
C as in Cuttystool (n.) A seat in old Scottish churches, where offenders were made to sit, for public rebuke by the minister.,
C as in Cutwal (n.) The chief police officer of a large city.,
C as in Cutwater (n.) The fore part of a ship's prow, which cuts the water.,
C as in Cutwater (n.) A starling or other structure attached to the pier of a bridge, with an angle or edge directed up stream, in order better to resist the action of water, ice, etc.; the sharpened upper end of the pier itself.,
C as in Cutwater (n.) A sea bird of the Atlantic (Rhynchops nigra); -- called also black skimmer, scissorsbill, and razorbill. See Skimmer.,
C as in Cutwork (n.) An ancient term for embroidery, esp. applied to the earliest form of lace, or to that early embroidery on linen and the like, from which the manufacture of lace was developed.,
C as in Cutworm (n.) A caterpillar which at night eats off young plants of cabbage, corn, etc., usually at the ground. Some kinds ascend fruit trees and eat off the flower buds. During the day, they conceal themselves in the earth. The common cutworms are the larvae of various species of Agrotis and related genera of noctuid moths.,
C as in Cuvette (n.) A pot, bucket, or basin, in which molten plate glass is carried from the melting pot to the casting table.,
C as in Cuvette (n.) A cunette.,
C as in Cuvette (n.) A small vessel with at least two flat and transparent sides, used to hold a liquid sample to be analysed in the light path of a spectrometer.,
C as in Cyamelide (n.) A white amorphous substance, regarded as a polymeric modification of isocyanic acid.,
C as in Cyamellone (n.) A complex derivative of cyanogen, regarded as an acid, and known chiefly in its salts; -- called also hydromellonic acid.,
C as in Cyanate (n.) A salt of cyanic acid.,
C as in Cyanaurate (n.) See Aurocyanide.,
C as in Cyanean (a.) Having an azure color.,
C as in Cyanic (a.) Pertaining to, or containing, cyanogen.,
C as in Cyanic (a.) Of or pertaining to a blue color.,
C as in Cyanide (n.) A compound formed by the union of cyanogen with an element or radical.,
C as in Cyanin (n.) The blue coloring matter of flowers; -- called also anthokyan and anthocyanin.,
C as in Cyanine (n.) One of a series of artificial blue or red dyes obtained from quinoline and lepidine and used in calico printing.,
C as in Cyanite (n.) A mineral occuring in thin-bladed crystals and crystalline aggregates, of a sky-blue color. It is a silicate of aluminium.,
C as in Cyanogen (n.) A colorless, inflammable, poisonous gas, C2N2, with a peach-blossom odor, so called from its tendency to form blue compounds; obtained by heating ammonium oxalate, mercuric cyanide, etc. It is obtained in combination, forming an alkaline cyanide when nitrogen or a nitrogenous compound is strongly ignited with carbon and soda or potash. It conducts itself like a member of the halogen group of elements, and shows a tendency to form complex compounds. The name is also applied to the univalent radical, CN (the half molecule of cyanogen proper), which was one of the first compound radicals recognized.,
C as in Cyanometer (n.) An instrument for measuring degress of blueness.,
C as in Cyanopathy (n.) A disease in which the body is colored blue in its surface, arising usually from a malformation of the heart, which causes an imperfect arterialization of the blood; blue jaundice.,
C as in Cyanophyll (n.) A blue coloring matter supposed by some to be one of the component parts of chlorophyll.,
C as in Cyanosed (a.) Rendered blue, as the surface of the body, from cyanosis or deficient a/ration of the blood.,
C as in Cyanosis (n.) A condition in which, from insufficient a/ration of the blood, the surface of the body becomes blue. See Cyanopathy.,
C as in Cyanosite (n.) Native sulphate of copper. Cf. Blue vitriol, under Blue.,
C as in Cyanotic (a.) Relating to cyanosis; affected with cyanosis; as, a cyanotic patient; having the hue caused by cyanosis; as, a cyanotic skin.,
C as in Cyanotype (n.) A photographic picture obtained by the use of a cyanide.,
C as in Cyanurate (n.) A salt of cyanuric acid.,
C as in Cyanuret (n.) A cyanide.,
C as in Cyanuric (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, cyanic and uric acids.,
C as in Cyanuric acid () an organic acid, C3O3N3H3, first obtained by heating uric acid or urea, and called pyrouric acid; afterwards obtained from isocyanic acid. It is a white crystalline substance, odorless and almost tasteless; -- called also tricarbimide.,
C as in Cyathiform (a.) In the form of a cup, a little widened at the top.,
C as in Cyatholith (n.) A kind of coccolith, which in shape resembles a minute cup widened at the top, and varies in size from / to / of an inch.,
C as in Cyathophylloid (a.) Like, or pertaining to, the family Cyathophyllidae.,
C as in Cyathophylloid (n.) A fossil coral of the family Cyathophyllidae; sometimes extended to fossil corals of other related families belonging to the group Rugosa; -- also called cup corals. Thay are found in paleozoic rocks.,
C as in Cycad (n.) Any plant of the natural order Cycadaceae, as the sago palm, etc.,
C as in Cycadaceous (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, an order of plants like the palms, but having exogenous wood. The sago palm is an example.,
C as in Cycas (n.) A genus of trees, intermediate in character between the palms and the pines. The pith of the trunk of some species furnishes a valuable kind of sago.,
C as in Cyclamen (n.) A genus of plants of the Primrose family, having depressed rounded corms, and pretty nodding flowers with the petals so reflexed as to point upwards, whence it is called rabbits' ears. It is also called sow bread, because hogs are said to eat the corms.,
C as in Cyclamin (n.) A white amorphous substance, regarded as a glucoside, extracted from the corm of Cyclamen Europaeum.,
C as in Cyclas (n.) A long gown or surcoat (cut off in front), worn in the Middle Ages. It was sometimes embroidered or interwoven with gold. Also, a rich stuff from which the gown was made.,
C as in Cycle (n.) An imaginary circle or orbit in the heavens; one of the celestial spheres.,
C as in Cycle (n.) An interval of time in which a certain succession of events or phenomena is completed, and then returns again and again, uniformly and continually in the same order; a periodical space of time marked by the recurrence of something peculiar; as, the cycle of the seasons, or of the year.,
C as in Cycle (n.) An age; a long period of time.,
C as in Cycle (n.) An orderly list for a given time; a calendar.,
C as in Cycle (n.) The circle of subjects connected with the exploits of the hero or heroes of some particular period which have served as a popular theme for poetry, as the legend of Arthur and the knights of the Round Table, and that of Charlemagne and his paladins.,
C as in Cycle (n.) One entire round in a circle or a spire; as, a cycle or set of leaves.,
C as in Cycle (n.) A bicycle or tricycle, or other light velocipede.,
C as in Cycled (imp. & p. p.) of Cycle,
C as in Cycling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cycle,
C as in Cycle (v. i.) To pass through a cycle of changes; to recur in cycles.,
C as in Cycle (v. i.) To ride a bicycle, tricycle, or other form of cycle.,
C as in Cyclic (a.) Alt. of Cyclical,
C as in Cyclical (a.) Of or pertaining to a cycle or circle; moving in cycles; as, cyclical time.,
C as in Cyclide (n.) A surface of the fourth degree, having certain special relations to spherical surfaces. The tore or anchor ring is one of the cyclides.,
C as in Cycling (n.) The act, art, or practice, of riding a cycle, esp. a bicycle or tricycle.,
C as in Cyclist (n.) A cycler.,
C as in Cyclo- () A combining form meaning circular, of a circle or wheel.,
C as in Cyclobranchiate (a.) Having the gills around the margin of the body, as certain limpets.,
C as in Cycloganoid (a.) Of or pertaining to the Cycloganoidei.,
C as in Cycloganoid (n.) One of the Cycloganoidei.,
C as in Cycloganoidei (n. pl.) An order of ganoid fishes, having cycloid scales. The bowfin (Amia calva) is a living example.,
C as in Cyclograph (n.) See Arcograph.,
C as in Cycloid (n.) A curve generated by a point in the plane of a circle when the circle is rolled along a straight line, keeping always in the same plane.,
C as in Cycloid (a.) Of or pertaining to the Cycloidei.,
C as in Cycloid (n.) One of the Cycloidei.,
C as in Cycloidal (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, a cycloid; as, the cycloidal space is the space contained between a cycloid and its base.,
C as in Cycloidei (n. pl.) An order of fishes, formerly proposed by Agassiz, for those with thin, smooth scales, destitute of marginal spines, as the herring and salmon. The group is now regarded as artificial.,
C as in Cycloidian (a. & n.) Same as 2d and 3d Cycloid.,
C as in Cyclometer (n.) A contrivance for recording the revolutions of a wheel, as of a bicycle.,
C as in Cyclometry (n.) The art of measuring circles.,
C as in Cyclone (n.) A violent storm, often of vast extent, characterized by high winds rotating about a calm center of low atmospheric pressure. This center moves onward, often with a velocity of twenty or thirty miles an hour.,
C as in Cyclonic (a.) Pertaining to a cyclone.,
C as in Cyclop (n.) See Note under Cyclops, 1.,
C as in Cyclopean (a.) Pertaining to the Cyclops; characteristic of the Cyclops; huge; gigantic; vast and rough; massive; as, Cyclopean labors; Cyclopean architecture.,
C as in Cyclopedia (n.) Alt. of Cyclopaedia,
C as in Cyclopaedia (n.) The circle or compass of the arts and sciences (originally, of the seven so-called liberal arts and sciences); circle of human knowledge. Hence, a work containing, in alphabetical order, information in all departments of knowledge, or on a particular department or branch; as, a cyclopedia of the physical sciences, or of mechanics. See Encyclopedia.,
C as in Cyclopedic (a.) Belonging to the circle of the sciences, or to a cyclopedia; of the nature of a cyclopedia; hence, of great range, extent, or amount; as, a man of cyclopedic knowledge.,
C as in Cyclopedist (n.) A maker of, or writer for, a cyclopedia.,
C as in Cyclopic (a.) Pertaining to the Cyclops; Cyclopean.,
C as in Cyclops (n. sing. & pl.) One of a race of giants, sons of Neptune and Amphitrite, having but one eye, and that in the middle of the forehead. They were fabled to inhabit Sicily, and to assist in the workshops of Vulcan, under Mt. Etna.,
C as in Cyclops (n. sing. & pl.) A genus of minute Entomostraca, found both in fresh and salt water. See Copepoda.,
C as in Cyclops (n. sing. & pl.) A portable forge, used by tinkers, etc.,
C as in Cyclorama (n.) A pictorial view which is extended circularly, so that the spectator is surrounded by the objects represented as by things in nature. The realistic effect is increased by putting, in the space between the spectator and the picture, things adapted to the scene represented, and in some places only parts of these objects, the completion of them being carried out pictorially.,
C as in Cycloscope (n.) A machine for measuring at any moment velocity of rotation, as of a wheel of a steam engine.,
C as in Cyclosis (n.) The circulation or movement of protoplasmic granules within a living vegetable cell.,
C as in Cyclostomata (n. pl.) Alt. of Cyclostoma,
C as in Cyclostoma (n. pl.) A division of Bryozoa, in which the cells have circular apertures.,
C as in Cyclostome (a.) Alt. of Cyclostomous,
C as in Cyclostomous (a.) Pertaining to the Cyclostomi.,
C as in Cyclostomi (n. pl.) A glass of fishes having a suckerlike mouth, without jaws, as the lamprey; the Marsipobranchii.,
C as in Cyclostylar (a.) Relating to a structure composed of a circular range of columns, without a core or building within.,
C as in Cyclostyle (n.) A contrivance for producing manifold copies of writing or drawing. The writing or drawing is done with a style carrying a small wheel at the end which makes minute punctures in the paper, thus converting it into a stencil. Copies are transferred with an inked roller.,
C as in Cyder (n.) See Cider.,
C as in Cydonin (n.) A peculiar mucilaginous substance extracted from the seeds of the quince (Cydonia vulgaris), and regarded as a variety of amylose.,
C as in Cygnet (n.) A young swan.,
C as in Cygnus (n.) A constellation of the northern hemisphere east of, or following, Lyra; the Swan.,
C as in Cylinder (n.) A solid body which may be generated by the rotation of a parallelogram round one its sides; or a body of rollerlike form, of which the longitudinal section is oblong, and the cross section is circular.,
C as in Cylinder (n.) The space inclosed by any cylindrical surface. The space may be limited or unlimited in length.,
C as in Cylinder (n.) Any hollow body of cylindrical form,
C as in Cylinder (n.) The chamber of a steam engine in which the piston is moved by the force of steam.,
C as in Cylinder (n.) The barrel of an air or other pump.,
C as in Cylinder (n.) The revolving platen or bed which produces the impression or carries the type in a cylinder press.,
C as in Cylinder (n.) The bore of a gun; the turning chambered breech of a revolver.,
C as in Cylinder (n.) The revolving square prism carrying the cards in a Jacquard loom.,
C as in Cylindraceous (a.) Cylindrical, or approaching a cylindrical form.,
C as in Cylindric (a.) Alt. of Cylindrical,
C as in Cylindrical (a.) Having the form of a cylinder, or of a section of its convex surface; partaking of the properties of the cylinder.,
C as in Cylindrically (adv.) In the manner or shape of a cylinder; so as to be cylindrical.,
C as in Cylindricity (n.) The quality or condition of being cylindrical.,
C as in Cylindriform (a.) Having the form of a cylinder.,
C as in Cylindroid (n.) A solid body resembling a right cylinder, but having the bases or ends elliptical.,
C as in Cylindroid (n.) A certain surface of the third degree, described by a moving straight line; -- used to illustrate the motions of a rigid body and also the forces acting on the body.,
C as in Cylindrometric (a.) Belonging to a scale used in measuring cylinders.,
C as in Cyma (n.) A member or molding of the cornice, the profile of which is wavelike in form.,
C as in Cyma (n.) A cyme. See Cyme.,
C as in Cymar (n.) A slight covering; a scarf. See Simar.,
C as in Cymatium (n.) A capping or crowning molding in classic architecture.,
C as in Cymbal (n.) A musical instrument used by the ancients. It is supposed to have been similar to the modern kettle drum, though perhaps smaller.,
C as in Cymbal (n.) A musical instrument of brass, shaped like a circular dish or a flat plate, with a handle at the back; -- used in pairs to produce a sharp ringing sound by clashing them together.,
C as in Cymbal (n.) A musical instrument used by gypsies and others, made of steel wire, in a triangular form, on which are movable rings.,
C as in Cymbalist (n.) A performer upon cymbals.,
C as in Cymbiform (a.) Shaped like a boat; (Bot.) elongated and having the upper surface decidedly concave, as the glumes of many grasses.,
C as in Cymbium (n.) A genus of marine univalve shells; the gondola.,
C as in Cyme (n.) A flattish or convex flower cluster, of the centrifugal or determinate type, differing from a corymb chiefly in the order of the opening of the blossoms.,
C as in Cymene (n.) A colorless, liquid, combustible hydrocarbon, CH3.C6H4.C3H7, of pleasant odor, obtained from oil of cumin, oil of caraway, carvacrol, camphor, etc.; -- called also paracymene, and formerly camphogen.,
C as in Cymenol (n.) See Carvacrol.,
C as in Cymidine (n.) A liquid organic base, C10H13.NH2, derived from cymene.,
C as in Cymiferous (a.) Producing cymes.,
C as in Cymling (n.) Alt. of Cymbling,
C as in Cymbling (n.) A scalloped or "pattypan" variety of summer squash.,
C as in Cymogene (n.) A highly volatile liquid, condensed by cold and pressure from the first products of the distillation of petroleum; -- used for producing low temperatures.,
C as in Cymoid (a.) Having the form of a cyme.,
C as in Cymophane (n.) See Chrysoberyl.,
C as in Cymophanous (a.) Having a wavy, floating light; opalescent; chatoyant.,
C as in Cymose (a.) Alt. of Cymous,
C as in Cymous (a.) Having the nature of a cyme, or derived from a cyme; bearing, or pertaining to, a cyme or cymes.,
C as in Cymric (a.) Welsh.,
C as in Cymric (n.) The Welsh language.,
C as in Cymry (n.) A collective term for the Welsh race; -- so called by themselves .,
C as in Cymule (n.) A small cyme, or one of very few flowers.,
C as in Cynanche (n.) Any disease of the tonsils, throat, or windpipe, attended with inflammation, swelling, and difficulty of breathing and swallowing.,
C as in Cynanthropy (n.) A kind of madness in which men fancy themselves changed into dogs, and imitate the voice and habits of that animal.,
C as in Cynarctomachy (n.) Bear baiting with a dog.,
C as in Cynarrhodium (n.) A fruit like that of the rose, consisting of a cup formed of the calyx tube and receptacle, and containing achenes.,
C as in Cynegetics (n.) The art of hunting with dogs.,
C as in Cynic (a.) Alt. of Cynical,
C as in Cynical (a.) Having the qualities of a surly dog; snarling; captious; currish.,
C as in Cynical (a.) Pertaining to the Dog Star; as, the cynic, or Sothic, year; cynic cycle.,
C as in Cynical (a.) Belonging to the sect of philosophers called cynics; having the qualities of a cynic; pertaining to, or resembling, the doctrines of the cynics.,
C as in Cynical (a.) Given to sneering at rectitude and the conduct of life by moral principles; disbelieving in the reality of any human purposes which are not suggested or directed by self-interest or self-indulgence; as, a cynical man who scoffs at pretensions of integrity; characterized by such opinions; as, cynical views of human nature.,
C as in Cynic (n.) One of a sect or school of philosophers founded by Antisthenes, and of whom Diogenes was a disciple. The first Cynics were noted for austere lives and their scorn for social customs and current philosophical opinions. Hence the term Cynic symbolized, in the popular judgment, moroseness, and contempt for the views of others.,
C as in Cynic (n.) One who holds views resembling those of the Cynics; a snarler; a misanthrope; particularly, a person who believes that human conduct is directed, either consciously or unconsciously, wholly by self-interest or self-indulgence, and that appearances to the contrary are superficial and untrustworthy.,
C as in Cynically (adv.) In a cynical manner.,
C as in Cynicalness (n.) The quality of being cynical.,
C as in Cynicism (n.) The doctrine of the Cynics; the quality of being cynical; the mental state, opinions, or conduct, of a cynic; morose and contemptuous views and opinions.,
C as in Cynoidea (n. pl.) A division of Carnivora, including the dogs, wolves, and foxes.,
C as in Cynorexia (n.) A voracious appetite, like that of a starved dog.,
C as in Cynosural (a.) Of or pertaining to a cynosure.,
C as in Cynosure (n.) The constellation of the Lesser Bear, to which, as containing the polar star, the eyes of mariners and travelers were often directed.,
C as in Cynosure (n.) That which serves to direct.,
C as in Cynosure (n.) Anything to which attention is strongly turned; a center of attraction.,
C as in Cyon (n.) See Cion, and Scion.,
C as in Cyperaceous (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a large family of plants of which the sedge is the type.,
C as in Cyperus (n.) A large genus of plants belonging to the Sedge family, and including the species called galingale, several bulrushes, and the Egyptian papyrus.,
C as in Cypher (n. & v.) See Cipher.,
C as in Cyphonautes (n.) The free-swimming, bivalve larva of certain Bryozoa.,
C as in Cyphonism (n.) A punishment sometimes used by the ancients, consisting in the besmearing of the criminal with honey, and exposing him to insects. It is still in use among some Oriental nations.,
C as in Cypraea (n.) A genus of mollusks, including the cowries. See Cowrie.,
C as in Cypres (n.) A rule for construing written instruments so as to conform as nearly to the intention of the parties as is consistent with law.,
C as in Cypresses (pl. ) of Cypress,
C as in Cypress (n.) A coniferous tree of the genus Cupressus. The species are mostly evergreen, and have wood remarkable for its durability.,
C as in Cyprian (a.) Belonging to Cyprus.,
C as in Cyprian (a.) Of, pertaining, or conducing to, lewdness.,
C as in Cyprian (n.) A native or inhabitant of Cyprus, especially of ancient Cyprus; a Cypriot.,
C as in Cyprian (n.) A lewd woman; a harlot.,
C as in Cyprine (a.) Of or pertaining to the cypress.,
C as in Cyprine (a.) Cyprinoid.,
C as in Cyprinodont (n.) One of the Cyprinodontidae, a family of fishes including the killifishes or minnows. See Minnow.,
C as in Cyprinoid (a.) Like the carp (Cyprinus).,
C as in Cyprinoid (n.) One of the Cyprinidae, or Carp family, as the goldfish, barbel, etc.,
C as in Cypriot (n.) A native or inhabitant of Cyprus.,
C as in Cypripedium (n.) A genus of orchidaceous plants including the lady's slipper.,
C as in Cyprides (pl. ) of Cypris,
C as in Cypris (n.) A genus of small, bivalve, fresh-water Crustacea, belonging to the Ostracoda; also, a member of this genus.,
C as in Cyprus (n.) A thin, transparent stuff, the same as, or corresponding to, crape. It was either white or black, the latter being most common, and used for mourning.,
C as in Cypruslawn (n.) Same as Cyprus.,
C as in Cypsela (n.) A one-seeded, one-celled, indehiscent fruit; an achene with the calyx tube adherent.,
C as in Cypseliform (a.) Like or belonging to the swifts (Cypselidae.),
C as in Cyrenaic (a.) Pertaining to Cyrenaica, an ancient country of northern Africa, and to Cyrene, its principal city; also, to a school of philosophy founded by Aristippus, a native of Cyrene.,
C as in Cyrenaic (n.) A native of Cyrenaica; also, a disciple of the school of Aristippus. See Cyrenian, n.,
C as in Cyrenian (a.) Pertaining to Cyrene, in Africa; Cyrenaic.,
C as in Cyrenian (n.) A native or inhabitant of Cyrene.,
C as in Cyrenian (n.) One of a school of philosophers, established at Cyrene by Aristippus, a disciple of Socrates. Their doctrines were nearly the same as those of the Epicureans.,
C as in Cyriologic (a.) Relating to capital letters.,
C as in Cyrtostyle (n.) A circular projecting portion.,
C as in Cyst (n.) A pouch or sac without opening, usually membranous and containing morbid matter, which is accidentally developed in one of the natural cavities or in the substance of an organ.,
C as in Cyst (n.) In old authors, the urinary bladder, or the gall bladder.,
C as in Cyst (n.) One of the bladders or air vessels of certain algae, as of the great kelp of the Pacific, and common rockweeds (Fuci) of our shores.,
C as in Cyst (n.) A small capsule or sac of the kind in which many immature entozoans exist in the tissues of living animals; also, a similar form in Rotifera, etc.,
C as in Cyst (n.) A form assumed by Protozoa in which they become saclike and quiescent. It generally precedes the production of germs. See Encystment.,
C as in Cysted (a.) Inclosed in a cyst.,
C as in Cystic (a.) Having the form of, or living in, a cyst; as, the cystic entozoa.,
C as in Cystic (a.) Containing cysts; cystose; as, cystic sarcoma.,
C as in Cystic (a.) Pertaining to, or contained in, a cyst; esp., pertaining to, or contained in, either the urinary bladder or the gall bladder.,
C as in Cysticerce (n.) Alt. of Cysticercus,
C as in Cysticercus (n.) The larval form of a tapeworm, having the head and neck of a tapeworm attached to a saclike body filled with fluid; -- called also bladder worm, hydatid, and measle (as, pork measle).,
C as in Cysticule (n.) An appendage of the vestibular ear sac of fishes.,
C as in Cystid (n.) One of the Cystidea.,
C as in Cystidea (n. pl.) An order of Crinoidea, mostly fossils of the Paleozoic rocks. They were usually roundish or egg-shaped, and often unsymmetrical; some were sessile, others had short stems.,
C as in Cystidean (n.) One of the Cystidea.,
C as in Cystine (n.) A white crystalline substance, C3H7NSO2, containing sulphur, occuring as a constituent of certain rare urinary calculi, and occasionally found as a sediment in urine.,
C as in Cystis (n.) A cyst. See Cyst.,
C as in Cystitis (n.) Inflammation of the bladder.,
C as in Cystocarp (n.) A minute vesicle in a red seaweed, which contains the reproductive spores.,
C as in Cystocele (n.) Hernia in which the urinary bladder protrudes; vesical hernia.,
C as in Cystoid (n.) Alt. of Cystoidean,
C as in Cystoidean (n.) Same as Cystidean.,
C as in Cystoidea (n.) Same as Cystidea.,
C as in Cystolith (n.) A concretion of mineral matter within a leaf or other part of a plant.,
C as in Cystolith (n.) A urinary calculus.,
C as in Cystolithic (a.) Relating to stone in the bladder.,
C as in Cystoplast (n.) A nucleated cell having an envelope or cell wall, as a red blood corpuscle or an epithelial cell; a cell concerned in growth.,
C as in Cystose (a.) Containing, or resembling, a cyst or cysts; cystic; bladdery.,
C as in Cystotome (n.) A knife or instrument used in cystotomy.,
C as in Cystotomy (n.) The act or practice of opening cysts; esp., the operation of cutting into the bladder, as for the extraction of a calculus.,
C as in Cytherean (a.) Pertaining to the goddess Venus.,
C as in Cytoblast (n.) The nucleus of a cell; the germinal or active spot of a cellule, through or in which cell development takes place.,
C as in Cytoblastema (n.) See Protoplasm.,
C as in Cytococci (pl. ) of Cytococcus,
C as in Cytococcus (n.) The nucleus of the cytula or parent cell.,
C as in Cytode (n.) A nonnucleated mass of protoplasm, the supposed simplest form of independent life differing from the amoeba, in which nuclei are present.,
C as in Cytogenesis (n.) Development of cells in animal and vegetable organisms. See Gemmation, Budding, Karyokinesis; also Cell development, under Cell.,
C as in Cytogenic (a.) Alt. of Cytogenetic,
C as in Cytogenetic (a.) Of or pertaining to cytogenesis or cell development.,
C as in Cytogenous (a.) Producing cells; -- applied esp. to lymphatic, or adenoid, tissue.,
C as in Cytogeny (n .) Cell production or development; cytogenesis.,
C as in Cytoid (a.) Cell-like; -- applied to the corpuscles of lymph, blood, chyle, etc.,
C as in Cytoplasm (n.) The substance of the body of a cell, as distinguished from the karyoplasma, or substance of the nucleus.,
C as in Cytula (n.) The fertilized egg cell or parent cell, from the development of which the child or other organism is formed.,
C as in Czar (n.) A king; a chief; the title of the emperor of Russia.,
C as in Czarevna (n.) The title of the wife of the czarowitz.,
C as in Czarina (n.) The title of the empress of Russia.,
C as in Czarinian (a.) Of or pertaining to the czar or the czarina; czarish.,
C as in Czarish (a.) Of or pertaining to the czar.,
C as in Czarowitzes (pl. ) of Czarowitz,
C as in Czarowitz (n.) The title of the eldest son of the czar of Russia.,
C as in Czech (n.) One of the Czechs.,
C as in Czech (n.) The language of the Czechs (often called Bohemian), the harshest and richest of the Slavic languages.,
C as in Czechic (a.) Of or pertaining to the Czechs.,
C as in Czechs (n. pl.) The most westerly branch of the great Slavic family of nations, numbering now more than 6,000,000, and found principally in Bohemia and Moravia.,
