D as in D () The fourth letter of the English alphabet, and a vocal consonant. The English letter is from Latin, which is from Greek, which took it from Ph/nician, the probable ultimate origin being Egyptian. It is related most nearly to t and th; as, Eng. deep, G. tief; Eng. daughter, G. tochter, Gr. qyga`thr, Skr. duhitr. See Guide to Pronunciation, �178, 179, 229.,
D as in D () The nominal of the second tone in the model major scale (that in C), or of the fourth tone in the relative minor scale of C (that in A minor), or of the key tone in the relative minor of F.,
D as in D () As a numeral D stands for 500. in this use it is not the initial of any word, or even strictly a letter, but one half of the sign / (or / ) the original Tuscan numeral for 1000.,
D as in Dab (n.) A skillful hand; a dabster; an expert.,
D as in Dab (n.) A name given to several species of flounders, esp. to the European species, Pleuronectes limanda. The American rough dab is Hippoglossoides platessoides.,
D as in Dabbed (imp. & p. p.) of Dab,
D as in Dabbing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dab,
D as in Dab (v. i.) To strike or touch gently, as with a soft or moist substance; to tap; hence, to besmear with a dabber.,
D as in Dab (v. i.) To strike by a thrust; to hit with a sudden blow or thrust.,
D as in Dab (n.) A gentle blow with the hand or some soft substance; a sudden blow or hit; a peck.,
D as in Dab (n.) A small mass of anything soft or moist.,
D as in Dabb (n.) A large, spine-tailed lizard (Uromastix spinipes), found in Egypt, Arabia, and Palestine; -- called also dhobb, and dhabb.,
D as in Dabber (n.) That with which one dabs; hence, a pad or other device used by printers, engravers, etc., as for dabbing type or engraved plates with ink.,
D as in Dabbled (imp. & p. p.) of Dabble,
D as in Dabbling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dabble,
D as in Dabble (v. t.) To wet by little dips or strokes; to spatter; to sprinkle; to moisten; to wet.,
D as in Dabble (v. i.) To play in water, as with the hands; to paddle or splash in mud or water.,
D as in Dabble (v. i.) To work in slight or superficial manner; to do in a small way; to tamper; to meddle.,
D as in Dabbler (n.) One who dabbles.,
D as in Dabbler (n.) One who dips slightly into anything; a superficial meddler.,
D as in Dabblingly (adv.) In a dabbling manner.,
D as in Dabchick (n.) A small water bird (Podilymbus podiceps), allied to the grebes, remarkable for its quickness in diving; -- called also dapchick, dobchick, dipchick, didapper, dobber, devil-diver, hell-diver, and pied-billed grebe.,
D as in Daboia (n.) A large and highly venomous Asiatic viper (Daboia xanthica).,
D as in Dabster (n.) One who is skilled; a master of his business; a proficient; an adept.,
D as in Dacapo () From the beginning; a direction to return to, and end with, the first strain; -- indicated by the letters D. C. Also, the strain so repeated.,
D as in Dace (n.) A small European cyprinoid fish (Squalius leuciscus or Leuciscus vulgaris); -- called also dare.,
D as in Dachshund (n.) One of a breed of small dogs with short crooked legs, and long body; -- called also badger dog. There are two kinds, the rough-haired and the smooth-haired.,
D as in Dacian (a.) Of or pertaining to Dacia or the Dacians.,
D as in Dacian (n.) A native of ancient Dacia.,
D as in Dacoit (n.) One of a class of robbers, in India, who act in gangs.,
D as in Dacoity (n.) The practice of gang robbery in India; robbery committed by dacoits.,
D as in Dacotahs (n. pl.) Same as Dacotas.,
D as in Dactyl (n.) A poetical foot of three sylables (-- ~ ~), one long followed by two short, or one accented followed by two unaccented; as, L. tegm/n/, E. mer\b6ciful; -- so called from the similarity of its arrangement to that of the joints of a finger.,
D as in Dactyl (n.) A finger or toe; a digit.,
D as in Dactyl (n.) The claw or terminal joint of a leg of an insect or crustacean.,
D as in Dactylar (a.) Pertaining to dactyl; dactylic.,
D as in Dactylar (a.) Of or pertaining to a finger or toe, or to the claw of an insect crustacean.,
D as in Dactylet (n.) A dactyl.,
D as in Dactylic (a.) Pertaining to, consisting chiefly or wholly of, dactyls; as, dactylic verses.,
D as in Dactylic (n.) A line consisting chiefly or wholly of dactyls; as, these lines are dactylics.,
D as in Dactylic (n.) Dactylic meters.,
D as in Dactylioglyph (n.) An engraver of gems for rings and other ornaments.,
D as in Dactylioglyph (n.) The inscription of the engraver's name on a finger ring or gem.,
D as in Dactylioglyphi (n.) The art or process of gem engraving.,
D as in Dactyliography (n.) The art of writing or engraving upon gems.,
D as in Dactyliography (n.) In general, the literature or history of the art.,
D as in Dactyliology (n.) That branch of archaeology which has to do with gem engraving.,
D as in Dactyliology (n.) That branch of archaeology which has to do with finger rings.,
D as in Dactyliomancy (n.) Divination by means of finger rings.,
D as in Dactylist (n.) A writer of dactylic verse.,
D as in Dactylitis (n.) An inflammatory affection of the fingers.,
D as in Dactylology (n.) The art of communicating ideas by certain movements and positions of the fingers; -- a method of conversing practiced by the deaf and dumb.,
D as in Dactylomancy (n.) Dactyliomancy.,
D as in Dactylonomy (n.) The art of numbering or counting by the fingers.,
D as in Dactylopterous (a.) Having the inferior rays of the pectoral fins partially or entirely free, as in the gurnards.,
D as in Dactylotheca (n.) The scaly covering of the toes, as in birds.,
D as in Dactylozooid (n.) A kind of zooid of Siphonophora which has an elongated or even vermiform body, with one tentacle, but no mouth. See Siphonophora.,
D as in Dad (n.) Father; -- a word sometimes used by children.,
D as in Daddled (imp. & p. p.) of Dadle,
D as in Daddling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dadle,
D as in Dadle (v. i.) To toddle; to walk unsteadily, like a child or an old man; hence, to do anything slowly or feebly.,
D as in Daddock (n.) The rotten body of a tree.,
D as in Daddy (n.) Diminutive of Dad.,
D as in Daddy longlegs () An arachnidan of the genus Phalangium, and allied genera, having a small body and four pairs of long legs; -- called also harvestman, carter, and grandfather longlegs.,
D as in Daddy longlegs () A name applied to many species of dipterous insects of the genus Tipula, and allied genera, with slender bodies, and very long, slender legs; the crane fly; -- called also father longlegs.,
D as in Dade (v. t.) To hold up by leading strings or by the hand, as a child while he toddles.,
D as in Dade (v. i.) To walk unsteadily, as a child in leading strings, or just learning to walk; to move slowly.,
D as in Dadoes (pl. ) of Dado,
D as in Dado (n.) That part of a pedestal included between the base and the cornice (or surbase); the die. See Illust. of Column.,
D as in Dado (n.) In any wall, that part of the basement included between the base and the base course. See Base course, under Base.,
D as in Dado (n.) In interior decoration, the lower part of the wall of an apartment when adorned with moldings, or otherwise specially decorated.,
D as in Daedal (a.) Alt. of Daedalian,
D as in Daedalian (a.) Cunningly or ingeniously formed or working; skillful; artistic; ingenious.,
D as in Daedalian (a.) Crafty; deceitful.,
D as in Daedalous (a.) Having a variously cut or incised margin; -- said of leaves.,
D as in Daemon (a.) Alt. of Daemonic,
D as in Daemonic (a.) See Demon, Demonic.,
D as in Daff (v. t.) To cast aside; to put off; to doff.,
D as in Daff (n.) A stupid, blockish fellow; a numskull.,
D as in Daff (v. i.) To act foolishly; to be foolish or sportive; to toy.,
D as in Daff (v. t.) To daunt.,
D as in Daffodil (n.) A plant of the genus Asphodelus.,
D as in Daffodil (n.) A plant of the genus Narcissus (N. Pseudo-narcissus). It has a bulbous root and beautiful flowers, usually of a yellow hue. Called also daffodilly, daffadilly, daffadowndilly, daffydowndilly, etc.,
D as in Daft (a.) Stupid; foolish; idiotic; also, delirious; insane; as, he has gone daft.,
D as in Daft (a.) Gay; playful; frolicsome.,
D as in Daftness (n.) The quality of being daft.,
D as in Dag (n.) A dagger; a poniard.,
D as in Dag (n.) A large pistol formerly used.,
D as in Dag (n.) The unbranched antler of a young deer.,
D as in Dag (n.) A misty shower; dew.,
D as in Dag (n.) A loose end; a dangling shred.,
D as in Dag (v. t.) To daggle or bemire.,
D as in Dag (v. t.) To cut into jags or points; to slash; as, to dag a garment.,
D as in Dag (v. i.) To be misty; to drizzle.,
D as in Dagger (n.) A short weapon used for stabbing. This is the general term: cf. Poniard, Stiletto, Bowie knife, Dirk, Misericorde, Anlace.,
D as in Dagger (n.) A mark of reference in the form of a dagger [/]. It is the second in order when more than one reference occurs on a page; -- called also obelisk.,
D as in Dagger (v. t.) To pierce with a dagger; to stab.,
D as in Dagger (n.) A timber placed diagonally in a ship's frame.,
D as in Dagges (n. pl.) An ornamental cutting of the edges of garments, introduced about a. d. 1346, according to the Chronicles of St Albans.,
D as in Daggled (imp. & p. p.) of Daggle,
D as in Daggling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Daggle,
D as in Daggle (v. t.) To trail, so as to wet or befoul; to make wet and limp; to moisten.,
D as in Daggle (v. i.) To run, go, or trail one's self through water, mud, or slush; to draggle.,
D as in Daggle-tail (a.) Alt. of Daggle-tailed,
D as in Daggle-tailed (a.) Having the lower ends of garments defiled by trailing in mire or filth; draggle-tailed.,
D as in Daggle-tail (n.) A slovenly woman; a slattern; a draggle-tail.,
D as in Daglock (n.) A dirty or clotted lock of wool on a sheep; a taglock.,
D as in Dagos (pl. ) of Dago,
D as in Dago (n.) A nickname given to a person of Spanish (or, by extension, Portuguese or Italian) descent.,
D as in Dagoba (n.) A dome-shaped structure built over relics of Buddha or some Buddhist saint.,
D as in Dagon () The national god of the Philistines, represented with the face and hands and upper part of a man, and the tail of a fish.,
D as in Dagon (n.) A slip or piece.,
D as in Dagswain (n.) A coarse woolen fabric made of daglocks, or the refuse of wool.,
D as in Dag-tailed (a.) Daggle-tailed; having the tail clogged with daglocks.,
D as in Daguerrean (a.) Alt. of Daguerreian,
D as in Daguerreian (a.) Pertaining to Daguerre, or to his invention of the daguerreotype.,
D as in Daguerreotype (n.) An early variety of photograph, produced on a silver plate, or copper plate covered with silver, and rendered sensitive by the action of iodine, or iodine and bromine, on which, after exposure in the camera, the latent image is developed by the vapor of mercury.,
D as in Daguerreotype (n.) The process of taking such pictures.,
D as in Daguerreotyped (imp. & p. p.) of Daguerreotype,
D as in Daguerreotyping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Daguerreotype,
D as in Daguerreotype (v. t.) To produce or represent by the daguerreotype process, as a picture.,
D as in Daguerreotype (v. t.) To impress with great distinctness; to imprint; to imitate exactly.,
D as in Daguerreotyper (n.) Alt. of Daguerreotypist,
D as in Daguerreotypist (n.) One who takes daguerreotypes.,
D as in Daguerreotypy (n.) The art or process of producing pictures by method of Daguerre.,
D as in Dahabeah (n.) A Nile boat constructed on the model of a floating house, having large lateen sails.,
D as in Dahlias (pl. ) of Dahlia,
D as in Dahlia (n.) A genus of plants native to Mexico and Central America, of the order Compositae; also, any plant or flower of the genus. The numerous varieties of cultivated dahlias bear conspicuous flowers which differ in color.,
D as in Dahlin (n.) A variety of starch extracted from the dahlia; -- called also inulin. See Inulin.,
D as in Dailiness (n.) Daily occurence.,
D as in Daily (a.) Happening, or belonging to, each successive day; diurnal; as, daily labor; a daily bulletin.,
D as in Dailies (pl. ) of Daily,
D as in Daily (n.) A publication which appears regularly every day; as, the morning dailies.,
D as in Daily (adv.) Every day; day by day; as, a thing happens daily.,
D as in Daimios (pl. ) of Daimio,
D as in Daimio (n.) The title of the feudal nobles of Japan.,
D as in Daint (n.) Something of exquisite taste; a dainty.,
D as in Daint (a.) Dainty.,
D as in Daintified (imp. & p. p.) of Daintify,
D as in Daintifying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Daintify,
D as in Daintify (v. t.) To render dainty, delicate, or fastidious.,
D as in Daintily (adv.) In a dainty manner; nicely; scrupulously; fastidiously; deliciously; prettily.,
D as in Daintiness (n.) The quality of being dainty; nicety; niceness; elegance; delicacy; deliciousness; fastidiousness; squeamishness.,
D as in Daintrel (n.) Adelicacy.,
D as in Dainties (pl. ) of Dainty,
D as in Dainty (n.) Value; estimation; the gratification or pleasure taken in anything.,
D as in Dainty (n.) That which is delicious or delicate; a delicacy.,
D as in Dainty (n.) A term of fondness.,
D as in Dainty (superl.) Rare; valuable; costly.,
D as in Dainty (superl.) Delicious to the palate; toothsome.,
D as in Dainty (superl.) Nice; delicate; elegant, in form, manner, or breeding; well-formed; neat; tender.,
D as in Dainty (superl.) Requiring dainties. Hence: Overnice; hard to please; fastidious; squeamish; scrupulous; ceremonious.,
D as in Dairies (pl. ) of Dairy,
D as in Dairy (n.) The place, room, or house where milk is kept, and converted into butter or cheese.,
D as in Dairy (n.) That department of farming which is concerned in the production of milk, and its conversion into butter and cheese.,
D as in Dairy (n.) A dairy farm.,
D as in Dairying (n.) The business of conducting a dairy.,
D as in Dairymaid (n.) A female servant whose business is the care of the dairy.,
D as in Dairymen (pl. ) of Dairyman,
D as in Dairyman (n.) A man who keeps or takes care of a dairy.,
D as in Dairywomen (pl. ) of Dairywoman,
D as in Dairywoman (n.) A woman who attends to a dairy.,
D as in Dais (n.) The high or principal table, at the end of a hall, at which the chief guests were seated; also, the chief seat at the high table.,
D as in Dais (n.) A platform slightly raised above the floor of a hall or large room, giving distinction to the table and seats placed upon it for the chief guests.,
D as in Dais (n.) A canopy over the seat of a person of dignity.,
D as in Daisied (a.) Full of daisies; adorned with daisies.,
D as in Daisies (pl. ) of Daisy,
D as in Daisy (n.) A genus of low herbs (Bellis), belonging to the family Compositae. The common English and classical daisy is B. prennis, which has a yellow disk and white or pinkish rays.,
D as in Daisy (n.) The whiteweed (Chrysanthemum Leucanthemum), the plant commonly called daisy in North America; -- called also oxeye daisy. See Whiteweed.,
D as in Dak (n.) Post; mail; also, the mail or postal arrangements; -- spelt also dawk, and dauk.,
D as in Daker (n.) Alt. of Dakir,
D as in Dakir (n.) A measure of certain commodities by number, usually ten or twelve, but sometimes twenty; as, a daker of hides consisted of ten skins; a daker of gloves of ten pairs.,
D as in Daker hen () The corncrake or land rail.,
D as in Dakoit (n.) Alt. of Dakoity,
D as in Dakoity (n.) See Dacoit, Dacoity.,
D as in Dakota group () A subdivision at the base of the cretaceous formation in Western North America; -- so named from the region where the strata were first studied.,
D as in Dakotas (n. pl) An extensive race or stock of Indians, including many tribes, mostly dwelling west of the Mississippi River; -- also, in part, called Sioux.,
D as in Dal (n.) Split pulse, esp. of Cajanus Indicus.,
D as in Dale (n.) A low place between hills; a vale or valley.,
D as in Dale (n.) A trough or spout to carry off water, as from a pump.,
D as in Dalesmen (pl. ) of Dalesman,
D as in Dalesman (n.) One living in a dale; -- a term applied particularly to the inhabitants of the valleys in the north of England, Norway, etc.,
D as in Dalf () imp. of Delve.,
D as in Dalliance (n.) The act of dallying, trifling, or fondling; interchange of caresses; wanton play.,
D as in Dalliance (n.) Delay or procrastination.,
D as in Dalliance (n.) Entertaining discourse.,
D as in Dallier (n.) One who fondles; a trifler; as, dalliers with pleasant words.,
D as in Dallop (n.) A tuft or clump.,
D as in Dallied (imp. & p. p.) of Dally,
D as in Dallying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dally,
D as in Dally (v. i.) To waste time in effeminate or voluptuous pleasures, or in idleness; to fool away time; to delay unnecessarily; to tarry; to trifle.,
D as in Dally (v. i.) To interchange caresses, especially with one of the opposite sex; to use fondling; to wanton; to sport.,
D as in Dally (v. t.) To delay unnecessarily; to while away.,
D as in Dalmania (n.) A genus of trilobites, of many species, common in the Upper Silurian and Devonian rocks.,
D as in Dalmanites (n.) Same as Dalmania.,
D as in Dalmatian (a.) Of or pertaining to Dalmatia.,
D as in Dalmatica (n.) Alt. of Dalmatic,
D as in Dalmatic (n.) A vestment with wide sleeves, and with two stripes, worn at Mass by deacons, and by bishops at pontifical Mass; -- imitated from a dress originally worn in Dalmatia.,
D as in Dalmatic (n.) A robe worn on state ocasions, as by English kings at their coronation.,
D as in Dal segno () A direction to go back to the sign / and repeat from thence to the close. See Segno.,
D as in Daltonian (n.) One afflicted with color blindness.,
D as in Daltonism (n.) Inability to perceive or distinguish certain colors, esp. red; color blindness. It has various forms and degrees. So called from the chemist Dalton, who had this infirmity.,
D as in Dam (n.) A female parent; -- used of beasts, especially of quadrupeds; sometimes applied in contempt to a human mother.,
D as in Dam (n.) A kind or crowned piece in the game of draughts.,
D as in Dam (n.) A barrier to prevent the flow of a liquid; esp., a bank of earth, or wall of any kind, as of masonry or wood, built across a water course, to confine and keep back flowing water.,
D as in Dam (n.) A firebrick wall, or a stone, which forms the front of the hearth of a blast furnace.,
D as in Dammed (imp. & p. p.) of Dam,
D as in Damming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dam,
D as in Dam (v. t.) To obstruct or restrain the flow of, by a dam; to confine by constructing a dam, as a stream of water; -- generally used with in or up.,
D as in Dam (v. t.) To shut up; to stop up; to close; to restrain.,
D as in Damage (n.) Injury or harm to person, property, or reputation; an inflicted loss of value; detriment; hurt; mischief.,
D as in Damage (n.) The estimated reparation in money for detriment or injury sustained; a compensation, recompense, or satisfaction to one party, for a wrong or injury actually done to him by another.,
D as in Damages (imp. & p. p.) of Damage,
D as in Damaging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Damage,
D as in Damage (n.) To ocassion damage to the soudness, goodness, or value of; to hurt; to injure; to impair.,
D as in Damage (v. i.) To receive damage or harm; to be injured or impaired in soudness or value; as. some colors in /oth damage in sunlight.,
D as in Damageable (a.) Capable of being injured or impaired; liable to, or susceptible of, damage; as, a damageable cargo.,
D as in Damageable (a.) Hurtful; pernicious.,
D as in Damage feasant () Doing injury; trespassing, as cattle.,
D as in Daman (n.) A small herbivorous mammal of the genus Hyrax. The species found in Palestine and Syria is Hyrax Syriacus; that of Northern Africa is H. Brucei; -- called also ashkoko, dassy, and rock rabbit. See Cony, and Hyrax.,
D as in Damar (n.) See Dammar.,
D as in Damascene (a.) Of or relating to Damascus.,
D as in Damascene (n.) A kind of plume, now called damson. See Damson.,
D as in Damascene (v. t.) Same as Damask, or Damaskeen, v. t.,
D as in Damascus (n.) A city of Syria.,
D as in Damask (n.) Damask silk; silk woven with an elaborate pattern of flowers and the like.,
D as in Damask (n.) Linen so woven that a pattern in produced by the different directions of the thread, without contrast of color.,
D as in Damask (n.) A heavy woolen or worsted stuff with a pattern woven in the same way as the linen damask; -- made for furniture covering and hangings.,
D as in Damask (n.) Damask or Damascus steel; also, the peculiar markings or "water" of such steel.,
D as in Damask (n.) A deep pink or rose color.,
D as in Damask (a.) Pertaining to, or originating at, the city of Damascus; resembling the products or manufactures of Damascus.,
D as in Damask (a.) Having the color of the damask rose.,
D as in Damasked (imp. & p. p.) of Damask,
D as in Damasking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Damask,
D as in Damask (v. t.) To decorate in a way peculiar to Damascus or attributed to Damascus; particularly: (a) with flowers and rich designs, as silk; (b) with inlaid lines of gold, etc., or with a peculiar marking or "water," as metal. See Damaskeen.,
D as in Damaskeen (v.) Alt. of Damasken,
D as in Damasken (v.) To decorate, as iron, steel, etc., with a peculiar marking or "water" produced in the process of manufacture, or with designs produced by inlaying or incrusting with another metal, as silver or gold, or by etching, etc., to damask.,
D as in Damaskin (n.) A sword of Damask steel.,
D as in Damasse (a.) Woven like damask.,
D as in Damasse (n.) A damasse fabric, esp. one of linen.,
D as in Damassin (n.) A kind of modified damask or brocade.,
D as in Dambonite (n.) A white, crystalline, sugary substance obtained from an African caoutchouc.,
D as in Dambose (n.) A crystalline variety of fruit sugar obtained from dambonite.,
D as in Dame (n.) A mistress of a family, who is a lady; a woman in authority; especially, a lady.,
D as in Dame (n.) The mistress of a family in common life, or the mistress of a common school; as, a dame's school.,
D as in Dame (n.) A woman in general, esp. an elderly woman.,
D as in Dame (n.) A mother; -- applied to human beings and quadrupeds.,
D as in Damewort (n.) A cruciferrous plant (Hesperis matronalis), remarkable for its fragrance, especially toward the close of the day; -- called also rocket and dame's violet.,
D as in Damiana (n.) A Mexican drug, used as an aphrodisiac.,
D as in Damianist (n.) A follower of Damian, patriarch of Alexandria in the 6th century, who held heretical opinions on the doctrine of the Holy Trinity.,
D as in Dammar (n.) Alt. of Dammara,
D as in Dammara (n.) An oleoresin used in making varnishes; dammar gum; dammara resin. It is obtained from certain resin trees indigenous to the East Indies, esp. Shorea robusta and the dammar pine.,
D as in Dammara (n.) A large tree of the order Coniferae, indigenous to the East Indies and Australasia; -- called also Agathis. There are several species.,
D as in Damned (imp. & p. p.) of Damn,
D as in Damning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Damn,
D as in Damn (v. t.) To condemn; to declare guilty; to doom; to adjudge to punishment; to sentence; to censure.,
D as in Damn (v. t.) To doom to punishment in the future world; to consign to perdition; to curse.,
D as in Damn (v. t.) To condemn as bad or displeasing, by open expression, as by denuciation, hissing, hooting, etc.,
D as in Damn (v. i.) To invoke damnation; to curse.,
D as in Damnability (n.) The quality of being damnable; damnableness.,
D as in Damnable (a.) Liable to damnation; deserving, or for which one deserves, to be damned; of a damning nature.,
D as in Damnable (a.) Odious; pernicious; detestable.,
D as in Damnableness (n.) The state or quality of deserving damnation; execrableness.,
D as in Damnably (adv.) In a manner to incur severe censure, condemnation, or punishment.,
D as in Damnably (adv.) Odiously; detestably; excessively.,
D as in Damnation (n.) The state of being damned; condemnation; openly expressed disapprobation.,
D as in Damnation (n.) Condemnation to everlasting punishment in the future state, or the punishment itself.,
D as in Damnation (n.) A sin deserving of everlasting punishment.,
D as in Damnatory (a.) Dooming to damnation; condemnatory.,
D as in Damned (a.) Sentenced to punishment in a future state; condemned; consigned to perdition.,
D as in Damned (a.) Hateful; detestable; abominable.,
D as in Damnific (a.) Procuring or causing loss; mischievous; injurious.,
D as in Damnification (n.) That which causes damage or loss.,
D as in Damnify (v. t.) To cause loss or damage to; to injure; to impair.,
D as in Damning (a.) That damns; damnable; as, damning evidence of guilt.,
D as in Damningness (n.) Tendency to bring damnation.,
D as in damnum (n.) Harm; detriment, either to character or property.,
D as in Damosel (n.) Alt. of Damoiselle,
D as in Damosella (n.) Alt. of Damoiselle,
D as in Damoiselle (n.) See Damsel.,
D as in Damourite (n.) A kind of Muscovite, or potash mica, containing water.,
D as in Damp (n.) Moisture; humidity; fog; fogginess; vapor.,
D as in Damp (n.) Dejection; depression; cloud of the mind.,
D as in Damp (n.) A gaseous product, formed in coal mines, old wells, pints, etc.,
D as in Damp (superl.) Being in a state between dry and wet; moderately wet; moist; humid.,
D as in Damp (superl.) Dejected; depressed; sunk.,
D as in Damped (imp. & p. p.) of Damp,
D as in Damping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Damp,
D as in Damp (n.) To render damp; to moisten; to make humid, or moderately wet; to dampen; as, to damp cloth.,
D as in Damp (n.) To put out, as fire; to depress or deject; to deaden; to cloud; to check or restrain, as action or vigor; to make dull; to weaken; to discourage.,
D as in Dampened (imp. & p. p.) of Dampen,
D as in Dampening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dampen,
D as in Dampen (v. t.) To make damp or moist; to make slightly wet.,
D as in Dampen (v. t.) To depress; to check; to make dull; to lessen.,
D as in Dampen (v. i.) To become damp; to deaden.,
D as in Damper (n.) That which damps or checks; as: (a) A valve or movable plate in the flue or other part of a stove, furnace, etc., used to check or regulate the draught of air. (b) A contrivance, as in a pianoforte, to deaden vibrations; or, as in other pieces of mechanism, to check some action at a particular time.,
D as in Dampish (a.) Moderately damp or moist.,
D as in Dampne (v. t.) To damn.,
D as in Dampness (n.) Moderate humidity; moisture; fogginess; moistness.,
D as in Damp off () To decay and perish through excessive moisture.,
D as in Dampy (a.) Somewhat damp.,
D as in Dampy (a.) Dejected; gloomy; sorrowful.,
D as in Damsel (n.) A young person, either male or female, of noble or gentle extraction; as, Damsel Pepin; Damsel Richard, Prince of Wales.,
D as in Damsel (n.) A young unmarried woman; a girl; a maiden.,
D as in Damsel (n.) An attachment to a millstone spindle for shaking the hopper.,
D as in Damson (n.) A small oval plum of a blue color, the fruit of a variety of the Prunus domestica; -- called also damask plum.,
D as in Dan (n.) A title of honor equivalent to master, or sir.,
D as in Dan (n.) A small truck or sledge used in coal mines.,
D as in Danaide (n.) A water wheel having a vertical axis, and an inner and outer tapering shell, between which are vanes or floats attached usually to both shells, but sometimes only to one.,
D as in Danaite (n.) A cobaltiferous variety of arsenopyrite.,
D as in Danalite (n.) A mineral occuring in octahedral crystals, also massive, of a reddish color. It is a silicate of iron, zinc manganese, and glucinum, containing sulphur.,
D as in Danburite (n.) A borosilicate of lime, first found at Danbury, Conn. It is near the topaz in form.,
D as in Danced (imp. & p. p.) of Dance,
D as in Dancing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dance,
D as in Dance (v. i.) To move with measured steps, or to a musical accompaniment; to go through, either alone or in company with others, with a regulated succession of movements, (commonly) to the sound of music; to trip or leap rhythmically.,
D as in Dance (v. i.) To move nimbly or merrily; to express pleasure by motion; to caper; to frisk; to skip about.,
D as in Dance (v. t.) To cause to dance, or move nimbly or merrily about, or up and down; to dandle.,
D as in Dance (v. i.) The leaping, tripping, or measured stepping of one who dances; an amusement, in which the movements of the persons are regulated by art, in figures and in accord with music.,
D as in Dance (v. i.) A tune by which dancing is regulated, as the minuet, the waltz, the cotillon, etc.,
D as in Dancer (n.) One who dances or who practices dancing.,
D as in Danceress (n.) A female dancer.,
D as in Dancette (a.) Deeply indented; having large teeth; thus, a fess dancette has only three teeth in the whole width of the escutcheon.,
D as in Dancing (p. a. & vb. n.) from Dance.,
D as in Dancy (a.) Same as Dancette.,
D as in Dandelion (n.) A well-known plant of the genus Taraxacum (T. officinale, formerly called T. Dens-leonis and Leontodos Taraxacum) bearing large, yellow, compound flowers, and deeply notched leaves.,
D as in Dander (n.) Dandruff or scurf on the head.,
D as in Dander (n.) Anger or vexation; rage.,
D as in Dander (v. i.) To wander about; to saunter; to talk incoherently.,
D as in Dandi (n.) A boatman; an oarsman.,
D as in Dandie (n.) One of a breed of small terriers; -- called also Dandie Dinmont.,
D as in Dandified (a.) Made up like a dandy; having the dress or manners of a dandy; buckish.,
D as in Dandified (imp. & p. p.) of Dandify,
D as in Dandifying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dandify,
D as in Dandify (v. t.) To cause to resemble a dandy; to make dandyish.,
D as in Dandiprat (n.) A little fellow; -- in sport or contempt.,
D as in Dandiprat (n.) A small coin.,
D as in Dandled (imp. & p. p.) of Dandle,
D as in Dandling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dandle,
D as in Dandle (v. t.) To move up and down on one's knee or in one's arms, in affectionate play, as an infant.,
D as in Dandle (v. t.) To treat with fondness, as if a child; to fondle; to toy with; to pet.,
D as in Dandle (v. t.) To play with; to put off or delay by trifles; to wheedle.,
D as in Dandler (n.) One who dandles or fondles.,
D as in Dandriff (n.) See Dandruff.,
D as in Dandruff (n.) A scurf which forms on the head, and comes off in small or particles.,
D as in Dandies (pl. ) of Dandy,
D as in Dandy (n.) One who affects special finery or gives undue attention to dress; a fop; a coxcomb.,
D as in Dandy (n.) A sloop or cutter with a jigger on which a lugsail is set.,
D as in Dandy (n.) A small sail carried at or near the stern of small boats; -- called also jigger, and mizzen.,
D as in Dandy (n.) A dandy roller. See below.,
D as in Dandy-cock (n. fem.) Alt. of Dandy-hen,
D as in Dandy-hen (n. fem.) A bantam fowl.,
D as in Dandyish (a.) Like a dandy.,
D as in Dandyism (n.) The manners and dress of a dandy; foppishness.,
D as in Dandyise (v. t. & i.) To make, or to act, like a dandy; to dandify.,
D as in Dandyling (n.) A little or insignificant dandy; a contemptible fop.,
D as in Dane (n.) A native, or a naturalized inhabitant, of Denmark.,
D as in Danegeld (n.) Alt. of Danegelt,
D as in Danegelt (n.) An annual tax formerly laid on the English nation to buy off the ravages of Danish invaders, or to maintain forces to oppose them. It afterward became a permanent tax, raised by an assessment, at first of one shilling, afterward of two shillings, upon every hide of land throughout the realm.,
D as in Danewort (n.) A fetid European species of elder (Sambucus Ebulus); dwarf elder; wallwort; elderwort; -- called also Daneweed, Dane's weed, and Dane's-blood. [Said to grow on spots where battles were fought against the Danes.],
D as in Dang () imp. of Ding.,
D as in Dang (v. t.) To dash.,
D as in Danger (n.) Authority; jurisdiction; control.,
D as in Danger (n.) Power to harm; subjection or liability to penalty.,
D as in Danger (n.) Exposure to injury, loss, pain, or other evil; peril; risk; insecurity.,
D as in Danger (n.) Difficulty; sparingness.,
D as in Danger (n.) Coyness; disdainful behavior.,
D as in Danger (v. t.) To endanger.,
D as in Dangerful (a.) Full of danger; dangerous.,
D as in Dangerless (a.) Free from danger.,
D as in Dangerous (a.) Attended or beset with danger; full of risk; perilous; hazardous; unsafe.,
D as in Dangerous (a.) Causing danger; ready to do harm or injury.,
D as in Dangerous (a.) In a condition of danger, as from illness; threatened with death.,
D as in Dangerous (a.) Hard to suit; difficult to please.,
D as in Dangerous (a.) Reserved; not affable.,
D as in Dangled (imp. & p. p.) of Dangle,
D as in Dangling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dangle,
D as in Dangle (v. i.) To hang loosely, or with a swinging or jerking motion.,
D as in Dangle (v. t.) To cause to dangle; to swing, as something suspended loosely; as, to dangle the feet.,
D as in Dangleberry (n.) A dark blue, edible berry with a white bloom, and its shrub (Gaylussacia frondosa) closely allied to the common huckleberry. The bush is also called blue tangle, and is found from New England to Kentucky, and southward.,
D as in Dangler (n.) One who dangles about or after others, especially after women; a trifler.,
D as in Daniel (n.) A Hebrew prophet distinguished for sagacity and ripeness of judgment in youth; hence, a sagacious and upright judge.,
D as in Danish (a.) Belonging to the Danes, or to their language or country.,
D as in Danish (n.) The language of the Danes.,
D as in Danite (n.) A descendant of Dan; an Israelite of the tribe of Dan.,
D as in Danite (n.) One of a secret association of Mormons, bound by an oath to obey the heads of the church in all things.,
D as in Dank (a.) Damp; moist; humid; wet.,
D as in Dank (n.) Moisture; humidity; water.,
D as in Dank (n.) A small silver coin current in Persia.,
D as in Dankish (a.) Somewhat dank.,
D as in Dannebrog (n.) The ancient battle standard of Denmark, bearing figures of cross and crown.,
D as in Danseuse (n.) A professional female dancer; a woman who dances at a public exhibition as in a ballet.,
D as in Dansk (a.) Danish.,
D as in Dansker (n.) A Dane.,
D as in Dantean (a.) Relating to, emanating from or resembling, the poet Dante or his writings.,
D as in Dantesque (a.) Dantelike; Dantean.,
D as in Danubian (a.) Pertaining to, or bordering on, the river Danube.,
D as in Dap (v. i.) To drop the bait gently on the surface of the water.,
D as in Dapatical (a.) Sumptuous in cheer.,
D as in Daphne (n.) A genus of diminutive Shrubs, mostly evergreen, and with fragrant blossoms.,
D as in Daphne (n.) A nymph of Diana, fabled to have been changed into a laurel tree.,
D as in Daphnetin (n.) A colorless crystalline substance, C9H6O4, extracted from daphnin.,
D as in Daphnia (n.) A genus of the genus Daphnia.,
D as in Daphnin (n.) A dark green bitter resin extracted from the mezereon (Daphne mezereum) and regarded as the essential principle of the plant.,
D as in Daphnin (n.) A white, crystalline, bitter substance, regarded as a glucoside, and extracted from Daphne mezereum and D. alpina.,
D as in Daphnomancy (n.) Divination by means of the laurel.,
D as in Dapifer (n.) One who brings meat to the table; hence, in some countries, the official title of the grand master or steward of the king's or a nobleman's household.,
D as in Dapper (a.) Little and active; spruce; trim; smart; neat in dress or appearance; lively.,
D as in Dapperling (n.) A dwarf; a dandiprat.,
D as in Dapple (n.) One of the spots on a dappled animal.,
D as in Dapple (a.) Alt. of Dappled,
D as in Dappled (a.) Marked with spots of different shades of color; spotted; variegated; as, a dapple horse.,
D as in Dappled (imp. & p. p.) of Dapple,
D as in Dappling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dapple,
D as in Dapple (v. t.) To variegate with spots; to spot.,
D as in Darbies (n. pl.) Manacles; handcuffs.,
D as in Darby (n.) A plasterer's float, having two handles; -- used in smoothing ceilings, etc.,
D as in Darbyite (n.) One of the Plymouth Brethren, or of a sect among them; -- so called from John N. Darby, one of the leaders of the Brethren.,
D as in Dardanian (a. & n.) Trojan.,
D as in Durst (imp.) of Dare,
D as in Dared () of Dare,
D as in Dared (p. p.) of Dare,
D as in Daring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dare,
D as in Dare (v. i.) To have adequate or sufficient courage for any purpose; to be bold or venturesome; not to be afraid; to venture.,
D as in Dared (imp. & p. p.) of Dare,
D as in Daring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dare,
D as in Dare (v. t.) To have courage for; to attempt courageously; to venture to do or to undertake.,
D as in Dare (v. t.) To challenge; to provoke; to defy.,
D as in Dare (n.) The quality of daring; venturesomeness; boldness; dash.,
D as in Dare (n.) Defiance; challenge.,
D as in Dare (v. i.) To lurk; to lie hid.,
D as in Dare (v. t.) To terrify; to daunt.,
D as in Dare (n.) A small fish; the dace.,
D as in Dare-devil (n.) A reckless fellow. Also used adjectively; as, dare-devil excitement.,
D as in Dare-deviltries (pl. ) of Dare-deviltry,
D as in Dare-deviltry (n) Reckless mischief; the action of a dare-devil.,
D as in Dareful (a.) Full of daring or of defiance; adventurous.,
D as in Darer (n.) One who dares or defies.,
D as in Darg (n.) Alt. of Dargue,
D as in Dargue (n.) A day's work; also, a fixed amount of work, whether more or less than that of a day.,
D as in Daric (n.) A gold coin of ancient Persia, weighing usually a little more than 128 grains, and bearing on one side the figure of an archer.,
D as in Daric (n.) A silver coin of about 86 grains, having the figure of an archer, and hence, in modern times, called a daric.,
D as in Daric (n.) Any very pure gold coin.,
D as in Daring (n.) Boldness; fearlessness; adventurousness; also, a daring act.,
D as in Daring (a.) Bold; fearless; adventurous; as, daring spirits.,
D as in Dark (a.) Destitute, or partially destitute, of light; not receiving, reflecting, or radiating light; wholly or partially black, or of some deep shade of color; not light-colored; as, a dark room; a dark day; dark cloth; dark paint; a dark complexion.,
D as in Dark (a.) Not clear to the understanding; not easily seen through; obscure; mysterious; hidden.,
D as in Dark (a.) Destitute of knowledge and culture; in moral or intellectual darkness; unrefined; ignorant.,
D as in Dark (a.) Evincing black or foul traits of character; vile; wicked; atrocious; as, a dark villain; a dark deed.,
D as in Dark (a.) Foreboding evil; gloomy; jealous; suspicious.,
D as in Dark (a.) Deprived of sight; blind.,
D as in Dark (n.) Absence of light; darkness; obscurity; a place where there is little or no light.,
D as in Dark (n.) The condition of ignorance; gloom; secrecy.,
D as in Dark (n.) A dark shade or dark passage in a painting, engraving, or the like; as, the light and darks are well contrasted.,
D as in Dark (v. t.) To darken to obscure.,
D as in Darkened (imp. & p. p.) of Darken,
D as in Darkening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Darken,
D as in Darken (a.) To make dark or black; to deprive of light; to obscure; as, a darkened room.,
D as in Darken (a.) To render dim; to deprive of vision.,
D as in Darken (a.) To cloud, obscure, or perplex; to render less clear or intelligible.,
D as in Darken (a.) To cast a gloom upon.,
D as in Darken (a.) To make foul; to sully; to tarnish.,
D as in Darken (v. i.) To grow or darker.,
D as in Darkener (n.) One who, or that which, darkens.,
D as in Darkening (n.) Twilight; gloaming.,
D as in Darkful (a.) Full of darkness.,
D as in Darkish (a.) Somewhat dark; dusky.,
D as in Darkle (v. i.) To grow dark; to show indistinctly.,
D as in Darkling (adv.) In the dark.,
D as in Darkling (p. pr. & a.) Becoming dark or gloomy; frowing.,
D as in Darkling (p. pr. & a.) Dark; gloomy.,
D as in Darkly (adv.) With imperfect light, clearness, or knowledge; obscurely; dimly; blindly; uncertainly.,
D as in Darkly (adv.) With a dark, gloomy, cruel, or menacing look.,
D as in Darkness (n.) The absence of light; blackness; obscurity; gloom.,
D as in Darkness (n.) A state of privacy; secrecy.,
D as in Darkness (n.) A state of ignorance or error, especially on moral or religious subjects; hence, wickedness; impurity.,
D as in Darkness (n.) Want of clearness or perspicuity; obscurity; as, the darkness of a subject, or of a discussion.,
D as in Darkness (n.) A state of distress or trouble.,
D as in Darksome (a.) Dark; gloomy; obscure; shaded; cheerless.,
D as in Darky (n.) A negro.,
D as in Darling (n.) One dearly beloved; a favorite.,
D as in Darling (a.) Dearly beloved; regarded with especial kindness and tenderness; favorite.,
D as in Darlingtonia (n.) A genus of California pitcher plants consisting of a single species. The long tubular leaves are hooded at the top, and frequently contain many insects drowned in the secretion of the leaves.,
D as in Darned (imp. & p. p.) of Darn,
D as in Darning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Darn,
D as in Darn (v. t.) To mend as a rent or hole, with interlacing stitches of yarn or thread by means of a needle; to sew together with yarn or thread.,
D as in Darn (n.) A place mended by darning.,
D as in Darn (v. t.) A colloquial euphemism for Damn.,
D as in Darnel (n.) Any grass of the genus Lolium, esp. the Lolium temulentum (bearded darnel), the grains of which have been reputed poisonous. Other species, as Lolium perenne (rye grass or ray grass), and its variety L. Italicum (Italian rye grass), are highly esteemed for pasture and for making hay.,
D as in Darner (n.) One who mends by darning.,
D as in Darnex (n.) Alt. of Darnic,
D as in Darnic (n.) Same as Dornick.,
D as in Daroo (n.) The Egyptian sycamore (Ficus Sycamorus). See Sycamore.,
D as in Darr (n.) The European black tern.,
D as in Darraign (v. t.) Alt. of Darrain,
D as in Darrain (v. t.) To make ready to fight; to array.,
D as in Darrain (v. t.) To fight out; to contest; to decide by combat.,
D as in Darrein (a.) Last; as, darrein continuance, the last continuance.,
D as in Dart (n.) A pointed missile weapon, intended to be thrown by the hand; a short lance; a javelin; hence, any sharp-pointed missile weapon, as an arrow.,
D as in Dart (n.) Anything resembling a dart; anything that pierces or wounds like a dart.,
D as in Dart (n.) A spear set as a prize in running.,
D as in Dart (n.) A fish; the dace. See Dace.,
D as in Darted (imp. & p. p.) of Dart,
D as in Darting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dart,
D as in Dart (v. t.) To throw with a sudden effort or thrust, as a dart or other missile weapon; to hurl or launch.,
D as in Dart (v. t.) To throw suddenly or rapidly; to send forth; to emit; to shoot; as, the sun darts forth his beams.,
D as in Dart (v. i.) To fly or pass swiftly, as a dart.,
D as in Dart (v. i.) To start and run with velocity; to shoot rapidly along; as, the deer darted from the thicket.,
D as in Dartars (n.) A kind of scab or ulceration on the skin of lambs.,
D as in Darter (n.) One who darts, or who throw darts; that which darts.,
D as in Darter (n.) The snakebird, a water bird of the genus Plotus; -- so called because it darts out its long, snakelike neck at its prey. See Snakebird.,
D as in Darter (n.) A small fresh-water etheostomoid fish. The group includes numerous genera and species, all of them American. See Etheostomoid.,
D as in Dartingly (adv.) Like a dart; rapidly.,
D as in Dartle (v. t. & i.) To pierce or shoot through; to dart repeatedly: -- frequentative of dart.,
D as in Dartoic (a.) Of or pertaining to the dartos.,
D as in Dartoid (a.) Like the dartos; dartoic; as, dartoid tissue.,
D as in Dartos (n.) A thin layer of peculiar contractile tissue directly beneath the skin of the scrotum.,
D as in Dartrous (a.) Relating to, or partaking of the nature of, the disease called tetter; herpetic.,
D as in Darwinian (a.) Pertaining to Darwin; as, the Darwinian theory, a theory of the manner and cause of the supposed development of living things from certain original forms or elements.,
D as in Darwinian (n.) An advocate of Darwinism.,
D as in Darwinianism (n.) Darwinism.,
D as in Darwinism (n.) The theory or doctrines put forth by Darwin. See above.,
D as in Dase (v. t.) See Daze.,
D as in Dasewe (v. i.) To become dim-sighted; to become dazed or dazzled.,
D as in Dashed (imp. & p. p.) of Dash,
D as in Dashing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dash,
D as in Dash (v. t.) To throw with violence or haste; to cause to strike violently or hastily; -- often used with against.,
D as in Dash (v. t.) To break, as by throwing or by collision; to shatter; to crust; to frustrate; to ruin.,
D as in Dash (v. t.) To put to shame; to confound; to confuse; to abash; to depress.,
D as in Dash (v. t.) To throw in or on in a rapid, careless manner; to mix, reduce, or adulterate, by throwing in something of an inferior quality; to overspread partially; to bespatter; to touch here and there; as, to dash wine with water; to dash paint upon a picture.,
D as in Dash (v. t.) To form or sketch rapidly or carelessly; to execute rapidly, or with careless haste; -- with off; as, to dash off a review or sermon.,
D as in Dash (v. t.) To erase by a stroke; to strike out; knock out; -- with out; as, to dash out a word.,
D as in Dash (v. i.) To rust with violence; to move impetuously; to strike violently; as, the waves dash upon rocks.,
D as in Dash (n.) Violent striking together of two bodies; collision; crash.,
D as in Dash (n.) A sudden check; abashment; frustration; ruin; as, his hopes received a dash.,
D as in Dash (n.) A slight admixture, infusion, or adulteration; a partial overspreading; as, wine with a dash of water; red with a dash of purple.,
D as in Dash (n.) A rapid movement, esp. one of short duration; a quick stroke or blow; a sudden onset or rush; as, a bold dash at the enemy; a dash of rain.,
D as in Dash (n.) Energy in style or action; animation; spirit.,
D as in Dash (n.) A vain show; a blustering parade; a flourish; as, to make or cut a great dash.,
D as in Dash (n.) A mark or line [--], in writing or printing, denoting a sudden break, stop, or transition in a sentence, or an abrupt change in its construction, a long or significant pause, or an unexpected or epigrammatic turn of sentiment. Dashes are also sometimes used instead of marks or parenthesis.,
D as in Dash (n.) The sign of staccato, a small mark [/] denoting that the note over which it is placed is to be performed in a short, distinct manner.,
D as in Dash (n.) The line drawn through a figure in the thorough bass, as a direction to raise the interval a semitone.,
D as in Dash (n.) A short, spirited effort or trial of speed upon a race course; -- used in horse racing, when a single trial constitutes the race.,
D as in Dashboard (n.) A board placed on the fore part of a carriage, sleigh, or other vehicle, to intercept water, mud, or snow, thrown up by the heels of the horses; -- in England commonly called splashboard.,
D as in Dashboard (n.) The float of a paddle wheel.,
D as in Dashboard (n.) A screen at the bow af a steam launch to keep off the spray; -- called also sprayboard.,
D as in Dasher (n.) That which dashes or agitates; as, the dasher of a churn.,
D as in Dasher (n.) A dashboard or splashboard.,
D as in Dasher (n.) One who makes an ostentatious parade.,
D as in Dashing (a.) Bold; spirited; showy.,
D as in Dashingly (adv.) Conspicuously; showily.,
D as in Dashism (n.) The character of making ostentatious or blustering parade or show.,
D as in Dashpot (n.) A pneumatic or hydraulic cushion for a falling weight, as in the valve gear of a steam engine, to prevent shock.,
D as in Dashy (a.) Calculated to arrest attention; ostentatiously fashionable; showy.,
D as in Dastard (n.) One who meanly shrinks from danger; an arrant coward; a poltroon.,
D as in Dastard (a.) Meanly shrinking from danger; cowardly; dastardly.,
D as in Dastard (v. t.) To dastardize.,
D as in Dastardized (imp. & p. p.) of Dastardize,
D as in Dastardizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dastardize,
D as in Dastardize (v. t.) To make cowardly; to intimidate; to dispirit; as, to dastardize my courage.,
D as in Dastardliness (n.) The quality of being dastardly; cowardice; base fear.,
D as in Dastardly (a.) Meanly timid; cowardly; base; as, a dastardly outrage.,
D as in Dastardness (n.) Dastardliness.,
D as in Dastardy (n.) Base timidity; cowardliness.,
D as in Daswe (v. i.) See Dasewe,
D as in Dasymeter (n.) An instrument for testing the density of gases, consisting of a thin glass globe, which is weighed in the gas or gases, and then in an atmosphere of known density.,
D as in Dasypaedal (a.) Dasypaedic.,
D as in Dasypaedes (n. pl.) Those birds whose young are covered with down when hatched.,
D as in Dasypaedic (a.) Pertaining to the Dasypaedes; ptilopaedic.,
D as in Dasyure (n.) A carnivorous marsupial quadruped of Australia, belonging to the genus Dasyurus. There are several species.,
D as in Dasyurine (a.) Pertaining to, or like, the dasyures.,
D as in Data (n. pl.) See Datum.,
D as in Datable (a.) That may be dated; having a known or ascertainable date.,
D as in Dataria (n.) Formerly, a part of the Roman chancery; now, a separate office from which are sent graces or favors, cognizable in foro externo, such as appointments to benefices. The name is derived from the word datum, given or dated (with the indications of the time and place of granting the gift or favor).,
D as in Datary (n.) An officer in the pope's court, having charge of the Dataria.,
D as in Datary (n.) The office or employment of a datary.,
D as in Date (n.) The fruit of the date palm; also, the date palm itself.,
D as in Date (n.) That addition to a writing, inscription, coin, etc., which specifies the time (as day, month, and year) when the writing or inscription was given, or executed, or made; as, the date of a letter, of a will, of a deed, of a coin. etc.,
D as in Date (n.) The point of time at which a transaction or event takes place, or is appointed to take place; a given point of time; epoch; as, the date of a battle.,
D as in Date (n.) Assigned end; conclusion.,
D as in Date (n.) Given or assigned length of life; dyration.,
D as in Dated (imp. & p. p.) of Date,
D as in Dating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Date,
D as in Date (v. t.) To note the time of writing or executing; to express in an instrument the time of its execution; as, to date a letter, a bond, a deed, or a charter.,
D as in Date (v. t.) To note or fix the time of, as of an event; to give the date of; as, to date the building of the pyramids.,
D as in Date (v. i.) To have beginning; to begin; to be dated or reckoned; -- with from.,
D as in Dateless (a.) Without date; having no fixed time.,
D as in Dater (n.) One who dates.,
D as in Datiscin (n.) A white crystalline glucoside extracted from the bastard hemp (Datisca cannabina).,
D as in Dative (a.) Noting the case of a noun which expresses the remoter object, and is generally indicated in English by to or for with the objective.,
D as in Dative (a.) In one's gift; capable of being disposed of at will and pleasure, as an office.,
D as in Dative (a.) Removable, as distinguished from perpetual; -- said of an officer.,
D as in Dative (a.) Given by a magistrate, as distinguished from being cast upon a party by the law.,
D as in Dative (n.) The dative case. See Dative, a., 1.,
D as in Datively (adv.) As a gift.,
D as in Datolite (n.) A borosilicate of lime commonly occuring in glassy,, greenish crystals.,
D as in Data (pl. ) of Datum,
D as in Datum (n.) Something given or admitted; a fact or principle granted; that upon which an inference or an argument is based; -- used chiefly in the plural.,
D as in Datum (n.) The quantities or relations which are assumed to be given in any problem.,
D as in Datura (n.) A genus of solanaceous plants, with large funnel-shaped flowers and a four-celled, capsular fruit.,
D as in Daturine (n.) Atropine; -- called also daturia and daturina.,
D as in Daubed (imp. & p. p.) of Daub,
D as in Daubing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Daub,
D as in Daub (v. t.) To smear with soft, adhesive matter, as pitch, slime, mud, etc.; to plaster; to bedaub; to besmear.,
D as in Daub (v. t.) To paint in a coarse or unskillful manner.,
D as in Daub (v. t.) To cover with a specious or deceitful exterior; to disguise; to conceal.,
D as in Daub (v. t.) To flatter excessively or glossy.,
D as in Daub (v. t.) To put on without taste; to deck gaudily.,
D as in Daub (v. i.) To smear; to play the flatterer.,
D as in Daub (n.) A viscous, sticky application; a spot smeared or dabed; a smear.,
D as in Daub (n.) A picture coarsely executed.,
D as in Dauber (n.) One who, or that which, daubs; especially, a coarse, unskillful painter.,
D as in Dauber (n.) A pad or ball of rags, covered over with canvas, for inking plates; a dabber.,
D as in Dauber (n.) A low and gross flatterer.,
D as in Dauber (n.) The mud wasp; the mud dauber.,
D as in Daubery (n.) Alt. of Daubry,
D as in Daubry (n.) A daubing; specious coloring; false pretenses.,
D as in Daubing (n.) The act of one who daubs; that which is daubed.,
D as in Daubing (n.) A rough coat of mortar put upon a wall to give it the appearance of stone; rough-cast.,
D as in Daubing (n.) In currying, a mixture of fish oil and tallow worked into leather; -- called also dubbing.,
D as in Daubreelite (n.) A sulphide of chromium observed in some meteoric irons.,
D as in Dauby (a.) Smeary; viscous; glutinous; adhesive.,
D as in Daughters (pl. ) of Daughter,
D as in Daughtren (pl. ) of Daughter,
D as in Daughter (n.) The female offspring of the human species; a female child of any age; -- applied also to the lower animals.,
D as in Daughter (n.) A female descendant; a woman.,
D as in Daughter (n.) A son's wife; a daughter-in-law.,
D as in Daughter (n.) A term of address indicating parental interest.,
D as in Daughters-in-law (pl. ) of Daughter-in-law,
D as in Daughter-in-law (n.) The wife of one's son.,
D as in Daughterliness (n.) The state of a daughter, or the conduct becoming a daughter.,
D as in Daughterly (a.) Becoming a daughter; filial.,
D as in Dauk (v. t.) See Dawk, v. t., to cut or gush.,
D as in Daun (n.) A variant of Dan, a title of honor.,
D as in Daunted (imp. & p. p.) of Daunt,
D as in Daunting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Daunt,
D as in Daunt (v. t.) To overcome; to conquer.,
D as in Daunt (v. t.) To repress or subdue the courage of; to check by fear of danger; to cow; to intimidate; to dishearten.,
D as in Daunter (n.) One who daunts.,
D as in Dauntless (a.) Incapable of being daunted; undaunted; bold; fearless; intrepid.,
D as in Dauphin (n.) The title of the eldest son of the king of France, and heir to the crown. Since the revolution of 1830, the title has been discontinued.,
D as in Dauphiness (n.) Alt. of Dauphine,
D as in Dauphine (n.) The title of the wife of the dauphin.,
D as in Dauw (n.) The striped quagga, or Burchell's zebra, of South Africa (Asinus Burchellii); -- called also peechi, or peetsi.,
D as in Davenport (n.) A kind of small writing table, generally somewhat ornamental, and forming a piece of furniture for the parlor or boudoir.,
D as in Davidic (a.) Of or pertaining to David, the king and psalmist of Israel, or to his family.,
D as in Davit (n.) A spar formerly used on board of ships, as a crane to hoist the flukes of the anchor to the top of the bow, without injuring the sides of the ship; -- called also the fish davit.,
D as in Davit (n.) Curved arms of timber or iron, projecting over a ship's side of stern, having tackle to raise or lower a boat, swing it in on deck, rig it out for lowering, etc.; -- called also boat davits.,
D as in Davy Jones () The spirit of the sea; sea devil; -- a term used by sailors.,
D as in Davy lamp () See Safety lamp, under Lamp.,
D as in Davyne (n.) A variety of nephelite from Vesuvius.,
D as in Davyum (n.) A rare metallic element found in platinum ore. It is a white malleable substance. Symbol Da. Atomic weight 154.,
D as in Daw (n.) A European bird of the Crow family (Corvus monedula), often nesting in church towers and ruins; a jackdaw.,
D as in Daw (v. i.) To dawn.,
D as in Daw (v. t.) To rouse.,
D as in Daw (v. t.) To daunt; to terrify.,
D as in Dawdled (imp. & p. p.) of Dawdle,
D as in Dawdling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dawdle,
D as in Dawdle (v. i.) To waste time in trifling employment; to trifle; to saunter.,
D as in Dawdle (v. t.) To waste by trifling; as, to dawdle away a whole morning.,
D as in Dawdle (n.) A dawdler.,
D as in Dawdler (n.) One who wastes time in trifling employments; an idler; a trifler.,
D as in Dawe (n.) Day.,
D as in Dawish (a.) Like a daw.,
D as in Dawk (n.) See Dak.,
D as in Dawk (v. t.) To cut or mark with an incision; to gash.,
D as in Dawk (n.) A hollow, crack, or cut, in timber.,
D as in Dawned (imp. & p. p.) of Dawn,
D as in Dawning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dawn,
D as in Dawn (v. i.) To begin to grow light in the morning; to grow light; to break, or begin to appear; as, the day dawns; the morning dawns.,
D as in Dawn (v. i.) To began to give promise; to begin to appear or to expand.,
D as in Dawn (n.) The break of day; the first appearance of light in the morning; show of approaching sunrise.,
D as in Dawn (n.) First opening or expansion; first appearance; beginning; rise.,
D as in Dawsonite (n.) A hydrous carbonate of alumina and soda, occuring in white, bladed crustals.,
D as in Day (n.) The time of light, or interval between one night and the next; the time between sunrise and sunset, or from dawn to darkness; hence, the light; sunshine.,
D as in Day (n.) The period of the earth's revolution on its axis. -- ordinarily divided into twenty-four hours. It is measured by the interval between two successive transits of a celestial body over the same meridian, and takes a specific name from that of the body. Thus, if this is the sun, the day (the interval between two successive transits of the sun's center over the same meridian) is called a solar day; if it is a star, a sidereal day; if it is the moon, a lunar day. See Civil day, Sidereal day, below.,
D as in Day (n.) Those hours, or the daily recurring period, allotted by usage or law for work.,
D as in Day (n.) A specified time or period; time, considered with reference to the existence or prominence of a person or thing; age; time.,
D as in Day (n.) (Preceded by the) Some day in particular, as some day of contest, some anniversary, etc.,
D as in Dayaks (n. pl.) See Dyaks.,
D as in Daybook (n.) A journal of accounts; a primary record book in which are recorded the debts and credits, or accounts of the day, in their order, and from which they are transferred to the journal.,
D as in Daybreak (n.) The time of the first appearance of light in the morning.,
D as in Day-coal (n.) The upper stratum of coal, as nearest the light or surface.,
D as in Daydream (n.) A vain fancy speculation; a reverie; a castle in the air; unfounded hope.,
D as in Daydreamer (n.) One given to daydreams.,
D as in Dayflower (n.) A genus consisting mostly of tropical perennial herbs (Commelina), having ephemeral flowers.,
D as in Dayfly (n.) A neuropterous insect of the genus Ephemera and related genera, of many species, and inhabiting fresh water in the larval state; the ephemeral fly; -- so called because it commonly lives but one day in the winged or adult state. See Ephemeral fly, under Ephemeral.,
D as in Day-labor (n.) Labor hired or performed by the day.,
D as in Day-laborer (n.) One who works by the day; -- usually applied to a farm laborer, or to a workman who does not work at any particular trade.,
D as in Daylight (n.) The light of day as opposed to the darkness of night; the light of the sun, as opposed to that of the moon or to artificial light.,
D as in Daylight (n.) The eyes.,
D as in Day lily () A genus of plants (Hemerocallis) closely resembling true lilies, but having tuberous rootstocks instead of bulbs. The common species have long narrow leaves and either yellow or tawny-orange flowers.,
D as in Day lily () A genus of plants (Funkia) differing from the last in having ovate veiny leaves, and large white or blue flowers.,
D as in Daymaid (n.) A dairymaid.,
D as in Daymare (n.) A kind of incubus which occurs during wakefulness, attended by the peculiar pressure on the chest which characterizes nightmare.,
D as in Day-net (n.) A net for catching small birds.,
D as in Day-peep (n.) The dawn.,
D as in Daysman (n.) An umpire or arbiter; a mediator.,
D as in Dayspring (n.) The beginning of the day, or first appearance of light; the dawn; hence, the beginning.,
D as in Day-star (n.) The morning star; the star which ushers in the day.,
D as in Day-star (n.) The sun, as the orb of day.,
D as in Daytime (n.) The time during which there is daylight, as distinguished from the night.,
D as in Daywoman (n.) A dairymaid.,
D as in Dazed (imp. & p. p.) of Daze,
D as in Dazing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Daze,
D as in Daze (v. t.) To stupefy with excess of light; with a blow, with cold, or with fear; to confuse; to benumb.,
D as in Daze (n.) The state of being dazed; as, he was in a daze.,
D as in Daze (n.) A glittering stone.,
D as in Dazzled (imp. & p. p.) of Dazzle,
D as in Dazzling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dazzle,
D as in Dazzle (v. t.) To overpower with light; to confuse the sight of by brilliance of light.,
D as in Dazzle (v. t.) To bewilder or surprise with brilliancy or display of any kind.,
D as in Dazzle (v. i.) To be overpoweringly or intensely bright; to excite admiration by brilliancy.,
D as in Dazzle (v. i.) To be overpowered by light; to be confused by excess of brightness.,
D as in Dazzle (n.) A light of dazzling brilliancy.,
D as in Dazzlement (n.) Dazzling flash, glare, or burst of light.,
D as in Dazzlingly (adv.) In a dazzling manner.,
D as in De- () A prefix from Latin de down, from, away; as in debark, decline, decease, deduct, decamp. In words from the French it is equivalent to Latin dis-apart, away; or sometimes to de. Cf. Dis-. It is negative and opposite in derange, deform, destroy, etc. It is intensive in deprave, despoil, declare, desolate, etc.,
D as in Deacon (n.) An officer in Christian churches appointed to perform certain subordinate duties varying in different communions. In the Roman Catholic and Episcopal churches, a person admitted to the lowest order in the ministry, subordinate to the bishops and priests. In Presbyterian churches, he is subordinate to the minister and elders, and has charge of certain duties connected with the communion service and the care of the poor. In Congregational churches, he is subordinate to the pastor, and has duties as in the Presbyterian church.,
D as in Deacon (n.) The chairman of an incorporated company.,
D as in Deacon (v. t.) To read aloud each line of (a psalm or hymn) before singing it, -- usually with off.,
D as in Deaconess (n.) A female deacon,
D as in Deaconess (n.) One of an order of women whose duties resembled those of deacons.,
D as in Deaconess (n.) A woman set apart for church work by a bishop.,
D as in Deaconess (n.) A woman chosen as a helper in church work, as among the Congregationalists.,
D as in Deaconhood (n.) The state of being a deacon; office of a deacon; deaconship.,
D as in Deaconry (n.) See Deaconship.,
D as in Deaconship (n.) The office or ministry of a deacon or deaconess.,
D as in Dead (a.) Deprived of life; -- opposed to alive and living; reduced to that state of a being in which the organs of motion and life have irrevocably ceased to perform their functions; as, a dead tree; a dead man.,
D as in Dead (a.) Destitute of life; inanimate; as, dead matter.,
D as in Dead (a.) Resembling death in appearance or quality; without show of life; deathlike; as, a dead sleep.,
D as in Dead (a.) Still as death; motionless; inactive; useless; as, dead calm; a dead load or weight.,
D as in Dead (a.) So constructed as not to transmit sound; soundless; as, a dead floor.,
D as in Dead (a.) Unproductive; bringing no gain; unprofitable; as, dead capital; dead stock in trade.,
D as in Dead (a.) Lacking spirit; dull; lusterless; cheerless; as, dead eye; dead fire; dead color, etc.,
D as in Dead (a.) Monotonous or unvaried; as, a dead level or pain; a dead wall.,
D as in Dead (a.) Sure as death; unerring; fixed; complete; as, a dead shot; a dead certainty.,
D as in Dead (a.) Bringing death; deadly.,
D as in Dead (a.) Wanting in religious spirit and vitality; as, dead faith; dead works.,
D as in Dead (a.) Flat; without gloss; -- said of painting which has been applied purposely to have this effect.,
D as in Dead (a.) Not brilliant; not rich; thus, brown is a dead color, as compared with crimson.,
D as in Dead (a.) Cut off from the rights of a citizen; deprived of the power of enjoying the rights of property; as, one banished or becoming a monk is civilly dead.,
D as in Dead (a.) Not imparting motion or power; as, the dead spindle of a lathe, etc. See Spindle.,
D as in Dead (adv.) To a degree resembling death; to the last degree; completely; wholly.,
D as in Dead (n.) The most quiet or deathlike time; the period of profoundest repose, inertness, or gloom; as, the dead of winter.,
D as in Dead (n.) One who is dead; -- commonly used collectively.,
D as in Dead (v. t.) To make dead; to deaden; to deprive of life, force, or vigor.,
D as in Dead (v. i.) To die; to lose life or force.,
D as in Dead beat () See Beat, n., 7.,
D as in Deadbeat (a.) Making a beat without recoil; giving indications by a single beat or excursion; -- said of galvanometers and other instruments in which the needle or index moves to the extent of its deflection and stops with little or no further oscillation.,
D as in Deadborn (a.) Stillborn.,
D as in Deadened (imp. & p. p.) of Deaden,
D as in Deadening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Deaden,
D as in Deaden (a.) To make as dead; to impair in vigor, force, activity, or sensation; to lessen the force or acuteness of; to blunt; as, to deaden the natural powers or feelings; to deaden a sound.,
D as in Deaden (a.) To lessen the velocity or momentum of; to retard; as, to deaden a ship's headway.,
D as in Deaden (a.) To make vapid or spiritless; as, to deaden wine.,
D as in Deaden (a.) To deprive of gloss or brilliancy; to obscure; as, to deaden gilding by a coat of size.,
D as in Deadener (n.) One who, or that which, deadens or checks.,
D as in Dead-eye (n.) A round, flattish, wooden block, encircled by a rope, or an iron band, and pierced with three holes to receive the lanyard; -- used to extend the shrouds and stays, and for other purposes. Called also deadman's eye.,
D as in Deadhead (n.) One who receives free tickets for theaters, public conveyances, etc.,
D as in Deadhead (n.) A buoy. See under Dead, a.,
D as in Dead-hearted (a.) Having a dull, faint heart; spiritless; listless.,
D as in Deadhouse (n.) A morgue; a place for the temporary reception and exposure of dead bodies.,
D as in Deadish (a.) Somewhat dead, dull, or lifeless; deathlike.,
D as in Deadlatch (n.) A kind of latch whose bolt may be so locked by a detent that it can not be opened from the inside by the handle, or from the outside by the latch key.,
D as in Deadlight (n.) A strong shutter, made to fit open ports and keep out water in a storm.,
D as in Deadlihood (n.) State of the dead.,
D as in Deadliness (n.) The quality of being deadly.,
D as in Deadlock (n.) A lock which is not self-latching, but requires a key to throw the bolt forward.,
D as in Deadlock (n.) A counteraction of things, which produces an entire stoppage; a complete obstruction of action.,
D as in Deadly (a.) Capable of causing death; mortal; fatal; destructive; certain or likely to cause death; as, a deadly blow or wound.,
D as in Deadly (a.) Aiming or willing to destroy; implacable; desperately hostile; flagitious; as, deadly enemies.,
D as in Deadly (a.) Subject to death; mortal.,
D as in Deadly (adv.) In a manner resembling, or as if produced by, death.,
D as in Deadly (adv.) In a manner to occasion death; mortally.,
D as in Deadly (adv.) In an implacable manner; destructively.,
D as in Deadly (adv.) Extremely.,
D as in Deadness (n.) The state of being destitute of life, vigor, spirit, activity, etc.; dullness; inertness; languor; coldness; vapidness; indifference; as, the deadness of a limb, a body, or a tree; the deadness of an eye; deadness of the affections; the deadness of beer or cider; deadness to the world, and the like.,
D as in Dead-pay (n.) Pay drawn for soldiers, or others, really dead, whose names are kept on the rolls.,
D as in Dead-reckoning (n.) See under Dead, a.,
D as in Deads (n. pl.) The substances which inclose the ore on every side.,
D as in Dead-stroke (a.) Making a stroke without recoil; deadbeat.,
D as in Deadwood (n.) A mass of timbers built into the bow and stern of a vessel to give solidity.,
D as in Deadwood (n.) Dead trees or branches; useless material.,
D as in Deadworks (n. pl.) The parts of a ship above the water when she is laden.,
D as in Deaf (a.) Wanting the sense of hearing, either wholly or in part; unable to perceive sounds; hard of hearing; as, a deaf man.,
D as in Deaf (a.) Unwilling to hear or listen; determinedly inattentive; regardless; not to be persuaded as to facts, argument, or exhortation; -- with to; as, deaf to reason.,
D as in Deaf (a.) Deprived of the power of hearing; deafened.,
D as in Deaf (a.) Obscurely heard; stifled; deadened.,
D as in Deaf (a.) Decayed; tasteless; dead; as, a deaf nut; deaf corn.,
D as in Deaf (v. t.) To deafen.,
D as in Deafened (imp. & p. p.) of Deafen,
D as in Deafening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Deafen,
D as in Deafen (v. t.) To make deaf; to deprive of the power of hearing; to render incapable of perceiving sounds distinctly.,
D as in Deafen (v. t.) To render impervious to sound, as a partition or floor, by filling the space within with mortar, by lining with paper, etc.,
D as in Deafening (n.) The act or process of rendering impervious to sound, as a floor or wall; also, the material with which the spaces are filled in this process; pugging.,
D as in Deafly (adv.) Without sense of sounds; obscurely.,
D as in Deafly (a.) Lonely; solitary.,
D as in Deaf-mute (n.) A person who is deaf and dumb; one who, through deprivation or defect of hearing, has either failed the acquire the power of speech, or has lost it.,
D as in Deaf-mutism (n.) The condition of being a deaf-mute.,
D as in Deafness (n.) Incapacity of perceiving sounds; the state of the organs which prevents the impression which constitute hearing; want of the sense of hearing.,
D as in Deafness (n.) Unwillingness to hear; voluntary rejection of what is addressed to the understanding.,
D as in Deal (n.) A part or portion; a share; hence, an indefinite quantity, degree, or extent, degree, or extent; as, a deal of time and trouble; a deal of cold.,
D as in Deal (n.) The process of dealing cards to the players; also, the portion disturbed.,
D as in Deal (n.) Distribution; apportionment.,
D as in Deal (n.) An arrangement to attain a desired result by a combination of interested parties; -- applied to stock speculations and political bargains.,
D as in Deal (n.) The division of a piece of timber made by sawing; a board or plank; particularly, a board or plank of fir or pine above seven inches in width, and exceeding six feet in length. If narrower than this, it is called a batten; if shorter, a deal end.,
D as in Deal (n.) Wood of the pine or fir; as, a floor of deal.,
D as in Dealt (imp. & p. p.) of Deal,
D as in Dealing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Deal,
D as in Deal (n.) To divide; to separate in portions; hence, to give in portions; to distribute; to bestow successively; -- sometimes with out.,
D as in Deal (n.) Specifically: To distribute, as cards, to the players at the commencement of a game; as, to deal the cards; to deal one a jack.,
D as in Deal (v. i.) To make distribution; to share out in portions, as cards to the players.,
D as in Deal (v. i.) To do a distributing or retailing business, as distinguished from that of a manufacturer or producer; to traffic; to trade; to do business; as, he deals in flour.,
D as in Deal (v. i.) To act as an intermediary in business or any affairs; to manage; to make arrangements; -- followed by between or with.,
D as in Deal (v. i.) To conduct one's self; to behave or act in any affair or towards any one; to treat.,
D as in Deal (v. i.) To contend (with); to treat (with), by way of opposition, check, or correction; as, he has turbulent passions to deal with.,
D as in Dealbate (v. t.) To whiten.,
D as in Dealbation (n.) Act of bleaching; a whitening.,
D as in Dealer (n.) One who deals; one who has to do, or has concern, with others; esp., a trader, a trafficker, a shopkeeper, a broker, or a merchant; as, a dealer in dry goods; a dealer in stocks; a retail dealer.,
D as in Dealer (n.) One who distributes cards to the players.,
D as in Dealfish (n.) A long, thin fish of the arctic seas (Trachypterus arcticus).,
D as in Dealing (n.) The act of one who deals; distribution of anything, as of cards to the players; method of business; traffic; intercourse; transaction; as, to have dealings with a person.,
D as in Dealth (n.) Share dealt.,
D as in Deambulate (v. i.) To walk abroad.,
D as in Deambulation (n.) A walking abroad; a promenading.,
D as in Deambulatory (a.) Going about from place to place; wandering; of or pertaining to a deambulatory.,
D as in Deambulatory (n.) A covered place in which to walk; an ambulatory.,
D as in Dean (n.) A dignitary or presiding officer in certain ecclesiastical and lay bodies; esp., an ecclesiastical dignitary, subordinate to a bishop.,
D as in Dean (n.) The collegiate officer in the universities of Oxford and Cambridge, England, who, besides other duties, has regard to the moral condition of the college.,
D as in Dean (n.) The head or presiding officer in the faculty of some colleges or universities.,
D as in Dean (n.) A registrar or secretary of the faculty in a department of a college, as in a medical, or theological, or scientific department.,
D as in Dean (n.) The chief or senior of a company on occasion of ceremony; as, the dean of the diplomatic corps; -- so called by courtesy.,
D as in Deaneries (pl. ) of Deanery,
D as in Deanery (n.) The office or the revenue of a dean. See the Note under Benefice, n., 3.,
D as in Deanery (n.) The residence of a dean.,
D as in Deanery (n.) The territorial jurisdiction of a dean.,
D as in Deanship (n.) The office of a dean.,
D as in Dear (superl.) Bearing a high price; high-priced; costly; expensive.,
D as in Dear (superl.) Marked by scarcity or dearth, and exorbitance of price; as, a dear year.,
D as in Dear (superl.) Highly valued; greatly beloved; cherished; precious.,
D as in Dear (superl.) Hence, close to the heart; heartfelt; present in mind; engaging the attention.,
D as in Dear (superl.) Of agreeable things and interests.,
D as in Dear (superl.) Of disagreeable things and antipathies.,
D as in Dear (n.) A dear one; lover; sweetheart.,
D as in Dear (adv.) Dearly; at a high price.,
D as in Dear (v. t.) To endear.,
D as in Dearborn (n.) A four-wheeled carriage, with curtained sides.,
D as in Dear-bought (a.) Bought at a high price; as, dear-bought experience.,
D as in Deare () variant of Dere, v. t. & n.,
D as in Dearie (n.) Same as Deary.,
D as in Dearling (n.) A darling.,
D as in Dear-loved (a.) Greatly beloved.,
D as in Dearly (adv.) In a dear manner; with affection; heartily; earnestly; as, to love one dearly.,
D as in Dearly (adv.) At a high rate or price; grievously.,
D as in Dearly (adv.) Exquisitely.,
D as in Dearn (a.) Secret; lonely; solitary; dreadful.,
D as in Dearn (v. t.) Same as Darn.,
D as in Dearness (n.) The quality or state of being dear; costliness; excess of price.,
D as in Dearness (n.) Fondness; preciousness; love; tenderness.,
D as in Dearth (n.) Scarcity which renders dear; want; lack; specifically, lack of food on account of failure of crops; famine.,
D as in Dearticulate (v. t.) To disjoint.,
D as in Dearworth (a.) Precious.,
D as in Deary (n.) A dear; a darling.,
D as in Deas (n.) See Dais.,
D as in Death (v. i.) The cessation of all vital phenomena without capability of resuscitation, either in animals or plants.,
D as in Death (v. i.) Total privation or loss; extinction; cessation; as, the death of memory.,
D as in Death (v. i.) Manner of dying; act or state of passing from life.,
D as in Death (v. i.) Cause of loss of life.,
D as in Death (v. i.) Personified: The destroyer of life, -- conventionally represented as a skeleton with a scythe.,
D as in Death (v. i.) Danger of death.,
D as in Death (v. i.) Murder; murderous character.,
D as in Death (v. i.) Loss of spiritual life.,
D as in Death (v. i.) Anything so dreadful as to be like death.,
D as in Deathbed (n.) The bed in which a person dies; hence, the closing hours of life of one who dies by sickness or the like; the last sickness.,
D as in Deathbird (n.) Tengmalm's or Richardson's owl (Nyctale Tengmalmi); -- so called from a superstition of the North American Indians that its note presages death.,
D as in Deathblow (n.) A mortal or crushing blow; a stroke or event which kills or destroys.,
D as in Deathful (a.) Full of death or slaughter; murderous; destructive; bloody.,
D as in Deathful (a.) Liable to undergo death; mortal.,
D as in Deathfulness (n.) Appearance of death.,
D as in Deathless (a.) Not subject to death, destruction, or extinction; immortal; undying; imperishable; as, deathless beings; deathless fame.,
D as in Deathlike (a.) Resembling death.,
D as in Deathlike (a.) Deadly.,
D as in Deathliness (n.) The quality of being deathly; deadliness.,
D as in Deathly (a.) Deadly; fatal; mortal; destructive.,
D as in Deathly (adv.) Deadly; as, deathly pale or sick.,
D as in Death's-head (n.) A naked human skull as the emblem of death; the head of the conventional personification of death.,
D as in Death's-herb (n.) The deadly nightshade (Atropa belladonna).,
D as in Deathsman (n.) An executioner; a headsman or hangman.,
D as in Deathward (adv.) Toward death.,
D as in Deathwatch (n.) A small beetle (Anobium tessellatum and other allied species). By forcibly striking its head against woodwork it makes a ticking sound, which is a call of the sexes to each other, but has been imagined by superstitious people to presage death.,
D as in Deathwatch (n.) A small wingless insect, of the family Psocidae, which makes a similar but fainter sound; -- called also deathtick.,
D as in Deathwatch (n.) The guard set over a criminal before his execution.,
D as in Deaurate (a.) Gilded.,
D as in Deaurate (v. t.) To gild.,
D as in Deauration (n.) Act of gilding.,
D as in Deave (v. t.) To stun or stupefy with noise; to deafen.,
D as in Debacchate (v. i.) To rave as a bacchanal.,
D as in Debacchation (n.) Wild raving or debauchery.,
D as in Debacle (n.) A breaking or bursting forth; a violent rush or flood of waters which breaks down opposing barriers, and hurls forward and disperses blocks of stone and other debris.,
D as in Debarred (imp. & p. p.) of Debar,
D as in Debarring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Debar,
D as in Debar (v. t.) To cut off from entrance, as if by a bar or barrier; to preclude; to hinder from approach, entry, or enjoyment; to shut out or exclude; to deny or refuse; -- with from, and sometimes with of.,
D as in Debarb (v. t.) To deprive of the beard.,
D as in Debarked (imp. & p. p.) of Debark,
D as in Debarking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Debark,
D as in Debark (v. t. & i.) To go ashore from a ship or boat; to disembark; to put ashore.,
D as in Debarkation (n.) Disembarkation.,
D as in Debarment (n.) Hindrance from approach; exclusion.,
D as in Debarrass (v. t.) To disembarrass; to relieve.,
D as in Debased (imp. & p. p.) of Debase,
D as in Debasing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Debase,
D as in Debase (a.) To reduce from a higher to a lower state or grade of worth, dignity, purity, station, etc.; to degrade; to lower; to deteriorate; to abase; as, to debase the character by crime; to debase the mind by frivolity; to debase style by vulgar words.,
D as in Debased (a.) Turned upside down from its proper position; inverted; reversed.,
D as in Debasement (n.) The act of debasing or the state of being debased.,
D as in Debaser (n.) One who, or that which, debases.,
D as in Debasingly (adv.) In a manner to debase.,
D as in Debatable (a.) Liable to be debated; disputable; subject to controversy or contention; open to question or dispute; as, a debatable question.,
D as in Debated (imp. & p. p.) of Debate,
D as in Debating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Debate,
D as in Debate (v. t.) To engage in combat for; to strive for.,
D as in Debate (v. t.) To contend for in words or arguments; to strive to maintain by reasoning; to dispute; to contest; to discuss; to argue for and against.,
D as in Debate (v. i.) To engage in strife or combat; to fight.,
D as in Debate (v. i.) To contend in words; to dispute; hence, to deliberate; to consider; to discuss or examine different arguments in the mind; -- often followed by on or upon.,
D as in Debate (v. t.) A fight or fighting; contest; strife.,
D as in Debate (v. t.) Contention in words or arguments; discussion for the purpose of elucidating truth or influencing action; strife in argument; controversy; as, the debates in Parliament or in Congress.,
D as in Debate (v. t.) Subject of discussion.,
D as in Debateful (a.) Full of contention; contentious; quarrelsome.,
D as in Debatefully (adv.) With contention.,
D as in Debatement (n.) Controversy; deliberation; debate.,
D as in Debater (n.) One who debates; one given to argument; a disputant; a controvertist.,
D as in Debating (n.) The act of discussing or arguing; discussion.,
D as in Debatingly (adv.) In the manner of a debate.,
D as in Debauched (imp. & p. p.) of Debauch,
D as in Debauching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Debauch,
D as in Debauch (n.) To lead away from purity or excellence; to corrupt in character or principles; to mar; to vitiate; to pollute; to seduce; as, to debauch one's self by intemperance; to debauch a woman; to debauch an army.,
D as in Debauch (n.) Excess in eating or drinking; intemperance; drunkenness; lewdness; debauchery.,
D as in Debauch (n.) An act or occasion of debauchery.,
D as in Debauched (a.) Dissolute; dissipated.,
D as in Debauchedly (adv.) In a profligate manner.,
D as in Debauchedness (n.) The state of being debauched; intemperance.,
D as in Debauchee (v. t.) One who is given to intemperance or bacchanalian excesses; a man habitually lewd; a libertine.,
D as in Debaucher (n.) One who debauches or corrupts others; especially, a seducer to lewdness.,
D as in Debaucheries (pl. ) of Debauchery,
D as in Debauchery (n.) Corruption of fidelity; seduction from virtue, duty, or allegiance.,
D as in Debauchery (n.) Excessive indulgence of the appetites; especially, excessive indulgence of lust; intemperance; sensuality; habitual lewdness.,
D as in Debauchment (n.) The act of corrupting; the act of seducing from virtue or duty.,
D as in Debauchness (n.) Debauchedness.,
D as in Debeige (n.) A kind of woolen or mixed dress goods.,
D as in Debel (v. t.) To conquer.,
D as in Debellate (v. t.) To subdue; to conquer in war.,
D as in Debellation (n.) The act of conquering or subduing.,
D as in De bene esse () Of well being; of formal sufficiency for the time; conditionally; provisionally.,
D as in Debenture (n.) A writing acknowledging a debt; a writing or certificate signed by a public officer, as evidence of a debt due to some person; the sum thus due.,
D as in Debenture (n.) A customhouse certificate entitling an exporter of imported goods to a drawback of duties paid on their importation.,
D as in Debentured (a.) Entitled to drawback or debenture; as, debentured goods.,
D as in Debile (a.) Weak.,
D as in Debilitant (a.) Diminishing the energy of organs; reducing excitement; as, a debilitant drug.,
D as in Debilitated (imp. & p. p.) of Debilitate,
D as in Debilitating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Debilitate,
D as in Debilitate (v. t.) To impair the strength of; to weaken; to enfeeble; as, to debilitate the body by intemperance.,
D as in Debilitation (n.) The act or process of debilitating, or the condition of one who is debilitated; weakness.,
D as in Debility (a.) The state of being weak; weakness; feebleness; languor.,
D as in Debit (n.) A debt; an entry on the debtor (Dr.) side of an account; -- mostly used adjectively; as, the debit side of an account.,
D as in Debited (imp. & p. p.) of Debit,
D as in Debiting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Debit,
D as in Debit (v. t.) To charge with debt; -- the opposite of, and correlative to, credit; as, to debit a purchaser for the goods sold.,
D as in Debit (v. t.) To enter on the debtor (Dr.) side of an account; as, to debit the amount of goods sold.,
D as in Debitor (n.) A debtor.,
D as in Debituminization (n.) The act of depriving of bitumen.,
D as in Debituminize (v. t.) To deprive of bitumen.,
D as in Deblai (n.) The cavity from which the earth for parapets, etc. (remblai), is taken.,
D as in Debonair (a.) Characterized by courteousness, affability, or gentleness; of good appearance and manners; graceful; complaisant.,
D as in Debonairity (n.) Debonairness.,
D as in Debonairly (adv.) Courteously; elegantly.,
D as in Debonairness (n.) The quality of being debonair; good humor; gentleness; courtesy.,
D as in Debosh (v. t.) To debauch.,
D as in Deboshment (n.) Debauchment.,
D as in Debouched (imp. & p. p.) of Debouch,
D as in Debouching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Debouch,
D as in Debouch (v. i.) To march out from a wood, defile, or other confined spot, into open ground; to issue.,
D as in Debouche (n.) A place for exit; an outlet; hence, a market for goods.,
D as in Debouchure (n.) The outward opening of a river, of a valley, or of a strait.,
D as in Debris (n.) Broken and detached fragments, taken collectively; especially, fragments detached from a rock or mountain, and piled up at the base.,
D as in Debris (n.) Rubbish, especially such as results from the destruction of anything; remains; ruins.,
D as in Debruised (a.) Surmounted by an ordinary; as, a lion is debruised when a bend or other ordinary is placed over it, as in the cut.,
D as in Debt (n.) That which is due from one person to another, whether money, goods, or services; that which one person is bound to pay to another, or to perform for his benefit; thing owed; obligation; liability.,
D as in Debt (n.) A duty neglected or violated; a fault; a sin; a trespass.,
D as in Debt (n.) An action at law to recover a certain specified sum of money alleged to be due.,
D as in Debted (p. a.) Indebted; obliged to.,
D as in Debtee (n.) One to whom a debt is due; creditor; -- correlative to debtor.,
D as in Debtless (a.) Free from debt.,
D as in Debtor (n.) One who owes a debt; one who is indebted; -- correlative to creditor.,
D as in Debulliate (v. i.) To boil over.,
D as in Debulition (n.) A bubbling or boiling over.,
D as in Deburse (v. t. & i.) To disburse.,
D as in Debuscope (n.) A modification of the kaleidoscope; -- used to reflect images so as to form beautiful designs.,
D as in Debut (n.) A beginning or first attempt; hence, a first appearance before the public, as of an actor or public speaker.,
D as in Debutant () Alt. of Debutante,
D as in Debutante () A person who makes his (or her) first appearance before the public.,
D as in Deca- () A prefix, from Gr. de`ka, signifying ten; specifically (Metric System), a prefix signifying the weight or measure that is ten times the principal unit.,
D as in Decacerata (n. pl.) The division of Cephalopoda which includes the squids, cuttlefishes, and others having ten arms or tentacles; -- called also Decapoda. [Written also Decacera.] See Dibranchiata.,
D as in Decachord (n.) Alt. of Decachordon,
D as in Decachordon (n.) An ancient Greek musical instrument of ten strings, resembling the harp.,
D as in Decachordon (n.) Something consisting of ten parts.,
D as in Decucuminated (a.) Having the point or top cut off.,
D as in Decad (n.) A decade.,
D as in Decadal (a.) Pertaining to ten; consisting of tens.,
D as in Decade (n.) A group or division of ten; esp., a period of ten years; a decennium; as, a decade of years or days; a decade of soldiers; the second decade of Livy.,
D as in Decadence (n.) Alt. of Decadency,
D as in Decadency (n.) A falling away; decay; deterioration; declension. "The old castle, where the family lived in their decadence.",
D as in Decadent (a.) Decaying; deteriorating.,
D as in Decadist (n.) A writer of a book divided into decades; as, Livy was a decadist.,
D as in Decagon (n.) A plane figure having ten sides and ten angles; any figure having ten angles. A regular decagon is one that has all its sides and angles equal.,
D as in Decagonal (a.) Pertaining to a decagon; having ten sides.,
D as in Decagram (n.) Alt. of Decagramme,
D as in Decagramme (n.) A weight of the metric system; ten grams, equal to about 154.32 grains avoirdupois.,
D as in Decagynia (n. pl.) A Linnaean order of plants characterized by having ten styles.,
D as in Decagynian (a.) Alt. of Deccagynous,
D as in Deccagynous (a.) Belonging to the Decagynia; having ten styles.,
D as in Decahedral (a.) Having ten sides.,
D as in Decahedrons (pl. ) of Decahedron,
D as in Decahedra (pl. ) of Decahedron,
D as in Decahedron (n.) A solid figure or body inclosed by ten plane surfaces.,
D as in Decalcification (n.) The removal of calcareous matter.,
D as in Decalcified (imp. & p. p.) of Decalcify,
D as in Decalcifying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Decalcify,
D as in Decalcify (v. t.) To deprive of calcareous matter; thus, to decalcify bones is to remove the stony part, and leave only the gelatin.,
D as in Decalcomania (n.) Alt. of Decalcomanie,
D as in Decalcomanie (n.) The art or process of transferring pictures and designs to china, glass, marble, etc., and permanently fixing them thereto.,
D as in Decaliter (n.) Alt. of Decalitre,
D as in Decalitre (n.) A measure of capacity in the metric system; a cubic volume of ten liters, equal to about 610.24 cubic inches, that is, 2.642 wine gallons.,
D as in Decalog (n.) Decalogue.,
D as in Decalogist (n.) One who explains the decalogue.,
D as in Decalogue (n.) The Ten Commandments or precepts given by God to Moses on Mount Sinai, and originally written on two tables of stone.,
D as in Decameron (n.) A celebrated collection of tales, supposed to be related in ten days; -- written in the 14th century, by Boccaccio, an Italian.,
D as in Decameter (n.) Alt. of Decametre,
D as in Decametre (n.) A measure of length in the metric system; ten meters, equal to about 393.7 inches.,
D as in Decamped (imp. & p. p.) of Decamp,
D as in Decamping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Decamp,
D as in Decamp (v. i.) To break up a camp; to move away from a camping ground, usually by night or secretly.,
D as in Decamp (v. i.) Hence, to depart suddenly; to run away; -- generally used disparagingly.,
D as in Decampment (n.) Departure from a camp; a marching off.,
D as in Decanal (a.) Pertaining to a dean or deanery.,
D as in Decandria (n. pl.) A Linnaean class of plants characterized by having ten stamens.,
D as in Decandrian (a.) Alt. of Decandrous,
D as in Decandrous (a.) Belonging to the Decandria; having ten stamens.,
D as in Decane (n.) A liquid hydrocarbon, C10H22, of the paraffin series, including several isomeric modifications.,
D as in Decangular (a.) Having ten angles.,
D as in Decani (a.) Used of the side of the choir on which the dean's stall is placed; decanal; -- correlative to cantoris; as, the decanal, or decani, side.,
D as in Decanted (imp. & p. p.) of Decant,
D as in Decanting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Decant,
D as in Decant (v. t.) To pour off gently, as liquor, so as not to disturb the sediment; or to pour from one vessel into another; as, to decant wine.,
D as in Decantate (v. t.) To decant.,
D as in Decantation (n.) The act of pouring off a clear liquor gently from its lees or sediment, or from one vessel into another.,
D as in Decanter (n.) A vessel used to decant liquors, or for receiving decanted liquors; a kind of glass bottle used for holding wine or other liquors, from which drinking glasses are filled.,
D as in Decanter (n.) One who decants liquors.,
D as in Decaphyllous (a.) Having ten leaves.,
D as in Decapitated (imp. & p. p.) of Decapitate,
D as in Decapitating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Decapitate,
D as in Decapitate (v. t.) To cut off the head of; to behead.,
D as in Decapitate (v. t.) To remove summarily from office.,
D as in Decapitation (n.) The act of beheading; beheading.,
D as in Decapod (n.) A crustacean with ten feet or legs, as a crab; one of the Decapoda. Also used adjectively.,
D as in Decapoda (n. pl.) The order of Crustacea which includes the shrimps, lobsters, crabs, etc.,
D as in Decapoda (n. pl.) A division of the dibranchiate cephalopods including the cuttlefishes and squids. See Decacera.,
D as in Deccapodal (a.) Alt. of Deccapodous,
D as in Deccapodous (a.) Belonging to the decapods; having ten feet; ten-footed.,
D as in Decarbonate (v. t.) To deprive of carbonic acid.,
D as in Decarbonization (n.) The action or process of depriving a substance of carbon.,
D as in Decarbonized (imp. & p. p.) of Decarbonize,
D as in Decarbonizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Decarbonize,
D as in Decarbonize (v. t.) To deprive of carbon; as, to decarbonize steel; to decarbonize the blood.,
D as in Decarbonizer (n.) He who, or that which, decarbonizes a substance.,
D as in Decarburization (n.) The act, process, or result of decarburizing.,
D as in Decarburize (v. t.) To deprive of carbon; to remove the carbon from.,
D as in Decard (v. t.) To discard.,
D as in Decardinalize (v. t.) To depose from the rank of cardinal.,
D as in Decastere (n.) A measure of capacity, equal to ten steres, or ten cubic meters.,
D as in Decastich (n.) A poem consisting of ten lines.,
D as in Decastyle (a.) Having ten columns in front; -- said of a portico, temple, etc.,
D as in Decastyle (n.) A portico having ten pillars or columns in front.,
D as in Decasyllabic (a.) Having, or consisting of, ten syllables.,
D as in Decatoic (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, decane.,
D as in Decayed (imp. & p. p.) of Decay,
D as in Decaying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Decay,
D as in Decay (v. i.) To pass gradually from a sound, prosperous, or perfect state, to one of imperfection, adversity, or dissolution; to waste away; to decline; to fail; to become weak, corrupt, or disintegrated; to rot; to perish; as, a tree decays; fortunes decay; hopes decay.,
D as in Decay (v. t.) To cause to decay; to impair.,
D as in Decay (v. t.) To destroy.,
D as in Decay (n.) Gradual failure of health, strength, soundness, prosperity, or of any species of excellence or perfection; tendency toward dissolution or extinction; corruption; rottenness; decline; deterioration; as, the decay of the body; the decay of virtue; the decay of the Roman empire; a castle in decay.,
D as in Decay (n.) Destruction; death.,
D as in Decay (n.) Cause of decay.,
D as in Decayed (a.) Fallen, as to physical or social condition; affected with decay; rotten; as, decayed vegetation or vegetables; a decayed fortune or gentleman.,
D as in Decayer (n.) A causer of decay.,
D as in Decease (n.) Departure, especially departure from this life; death.,
D as in Deceased (imp. & p. p.) of Decease,
D as in Deceasing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Decease,
D as in Decease (v. i.) To depart from this life; to die; to pass away.,
D as in Deceased (a.) Passed away; dead; gone.,
D as in Decede (n.) To withdraw.,
D as in Decedent (a.) Removing; departing.,
D as in Decedent (n.) A deceased person.,
D as in Deceit (n.) An attempt or disposition to deceive or lead into error; any declaration, artifice, or practice, which misleads another, or causes him to believe what is false; a contrivance to entrap; deception; a wily device; fraud.,
D as in Deceit (n.) Any trick, collusion, contrivance, false representation, or underhand practice, used to defraud another. When injury is thereby effected, an action of deceit, as it called, lies for compensation.,
D as in Deceitful (a.) Full of, or characterized by, deceit; serving to mislead or insnare; trickish; fraudulent; cheating; insincere.,
D as in Deceitfully (adv.) With intent to deceive.,
D as in Deceitfulness (n.) The disposition to deceive; as, a man's deceitfulness may be habitual.,
D as in Deceitfulness (n.) The quality of being deceitful; as, the deceitfulness of a man's practices.,
D as in Deceitfulness (n.) Tendency to mislead or deceive.,
D as in Deceitless (a.) Free from deceit.,
D as in Deceivable (a.) Fitted to deceive; deceitful.,
D as in Deceivable (a.) Subject to deceit; capable of being misled.,
D as in Deceivableness (n.) Capability of deceiving.,
D as in Deceivableness (n.) Liability to be deceived or misled; as, the deceivableness of a child.,
D as in Deceivably (adv.) In a deceivable manner.,
D as in Deceived (imp. & p. p.) of Deceive,
D as in Deceiving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Deceive,
D as in Deceive (v. t.) To lead into error; to cause to believe what is false, or disbelieve what is true; to impose upon; to mislead; to cheat; to disappoint; to delude; to insnare.,
D as in Deceive (v. t.) To beguile; to amuse, so as to divert the attention; to while away; to take away as if by deception.,
D as in Deceive (v. t.) To deprive by fraud or stealth; to defraud.,
D as in Deceiver (n.) One who deceives; one who leads into error; a cheat; an impostor.,
D as in December (n.) The twelfth and last month of the year, containing thirty-one days. During this month occurs the winter solstice.,
D as in December (n.) Fig.: With reference to the end of the year and to the winter season; as, the December of his life.,
D as in Decemdentate (a.) Having ten points or teeth.,
D as in Decemfid (a.) Cleft into ten parts.,
D as in Decemlocular (a.) Having ten cells for seeds.,
D as in Decempedal (a.) Ten feet in length.,
D as in Decempedal (a.) Having ten feet; decapodal.,
D as in Decemvirs (pl. ) of Decemvir,
D as in Decemviri (pl. ) of Decemvir,
D as in Decemvir (n.) One of a body of ten magistrates in ancient Rome.,
D as in Decemvir (n.) A member of any body of ten men in authority.,
D as in Decemviral (a.) Pertaining to the decemvirs in Rome.,
D as in Decemvirate (n.) The office or term of office of the decemvirs in Rome.,
D as in Decemvirate (n.) A body of ten men in authority.,
D as in Decemvirship (n.) The office of a decemvir.,
D as in Decence (n.) Decency.,
D as in Decencies (pl. ) of Decency,
D as in Decency (n.) The quality or state of being decent, suitable, or becoming, in words or behavior; propriety of form in social intercourse, in actions, or in discourse; proper formality; becoming ceremony; seemliness; hence, freedom from obscenity or indecorum; modesty.,
D as in Decency (n.) That which is proper or becoming.,
D as in Decene (n.) One of the higher hydrocarbons, C10H20, of the ethylene series.,
D as in Decennaries (pl. ) of Decennary,
D as in Decennary (n.) A period of ten years.,
D as in Decennary (n.) A tithing consisting of ten neighboring families.,
D as in Decennial (a.) Consisting of ten years; happening every ten years; as, a decennial period; decennial games.,
D as in Decennial (n.) A tenth year or tenth anniversary.,
D as in Decenniums (pl. ) of Decennium,
D as in Decennia (pl. ) of Decennium,
D as in Decennium (n.) A period of ten years.,
D as in Decennoval (a.) Alt. of Decennovary,
D as in Decennovary (a.) Pertaining to the number nineteen; of nineteen years.,
D as in Decent (a.) Suitable in words, behavior, dress, or ceremony; becoming; fit; decorous; proper; seemly; as, decent conduct; decent language.,
D as in Decent (a.) Free from immodesty or obscenity; modest.,
D as in Decent (a.) Comely; shapely; well-formed.,
D as in Decent (a.) Moderate, but competent; sufficient; hence, respectable; fairly good; reasonably comfortable or satisfying; as, a decent fortune; a decent person.,
D as in Decentralization (n.) The action of decentralizing, or the state of being decentralized.,
D as in Decentralize (v. t.) To prevent from centralizing; to cause to withdraw from the center or place of concentration; to divide and distribute (what has been united or concentrated); -- esp. said of authority, or the administration of public affairs.,
D as in Deceptible (a.) Capable of being deceived; deceivable.,
D as in Deception (n.) The act of deceiving or misleading.,
D as in Deception (n.) The state of being deceived or misled.,
D as in Deception (n.) That which deceives or is intended to deceive; false representation; artifice; cheat; fraud.,
D as in Deceptious (a.) Tending deceive; delusive.,
D as in Deceptive (a.) Tending to deceive; having power to mislead, or impress with false opinions; as, a deceptive countenance or appearance.,
D as in Deceptively (adv.) In a manner to deceive.,
D as in Deceptiveness (n.) The power or habit of deceiving; tendency or aptness to deceive.,
D as in Deceptivity (n.) Deceptiveness; a deception; a sham.,
D as in Deceptory (a.) Deceptive.,
D as in Decern (v. t.) To perceive, discern, or decide.,
D as in Decern (v. t.) To decree; to adjudge.,
D as in Decerniture (n.) A decree or sentence of a court.,
D as in Decerp (v. t.) To pluck off; to crop; to gather.,
D as in Decerpt (a.) Plucked off or away.,
D as in Decerptible (a.) That may be plucked off, cropped, or torn away.,
D as in Decerption (n.) The act of plucking off; a cropping.,
D as in Decerption (n.) That which is plucked off or rent away; a fragment; a piece.,
D as in Decertation (n.) Contest for mastery; contention; strife.,
D as in Decession (n.) Departure; decrease; -- opposed to accesion.,
D as in Decharm (v. t.) To free from a charm; to disenchant.,
D as in Dechristianized (imp. & p. p.) of Dechristianize,
D as in Dechristianizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dechristianize,
D as in Dechristianize (v. t.) To turn from, or divest of, Christianity.,
D as in Decidable (a.) Capable of being decided; determinable.,
D as in Decided (imp. & p. p.) of Decide,
D as in Deciding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Decide,
D as in Decide (v. t.) To cut off; to separate.,
D as in Decide (v. t.) To bring to a termination, as a question, controversy, struggle, by giving the victory to one side or party; to render judgment concerning; to determine; to settle.,
D as in Decide (v. i.) To determine; to form a definite opinion; to come to a conclusion; to give decision; as, the court decided in favor of the defendant.,
D as in Decided (a.) Free from ambiguity; unequivocal; unmistakable; unquestionable; clear; evident; as, a decided advantage.,
D as in Decided (a.) Free from doubt or wavering; determined; of fixed purpose; fully settled; positive; resolute; as, a decided opinion or purpose.,
D as in Decidedly (adv.) In a decided manner; indisputably; clearly; thoroughly.,
D as in Decidement (n.) Means of forming a decision.,
D as in Decidence (n.) A falling off.,
D as in Decider (n.) One who decides.,
D as in Decidua (n.) The inner layer of the wall of the uterus, which envelops the embryo, forms a part of the placenta, and is discharged with it.,
D as in Deciduata (n. pl.) A group of Mammalia in which a decidua is thrown off with, or after, the fetus, as in the human species.,
D as in Deciduate (a.) Possessed of, or characterized by, a decidua.,
D as in Deciduity (n.) Deciduousness.,
D as in Deciduous (a.) Falling off, or subject to fall or be shed, at a certain season, or a certain stage or interval of growth, as leaves (except of evergreens) in autumn, or as parts of animals, such as hair, teeth, antlers, etc.; also, shedding leaves or parts at certain seasons, stages, or intervals; as, deciduous trees; the deciduous membrane.,
D as in Deciduousness (n.) The quality or state of being deciduous.,
D as in Decigram (n.) Alt. of Decigramme,
D as in Decigramme (n.) A weight in the metric system; one tenth of a gram, equal to 1.5432 grains avoirdupois.,
D as in Decil (n.) Alt. of Decile,
D as in Decile (n.) An aspect or position of two planets, when they are distant from each other a tenth part of the zodiac, or 36�.,
D as in Deciliter (n.) Alt. of Decilitre,
D as in Decilitre (n.) A measure of capacity or volume in the metric system; one tenth of a liter, equal to 6.1022 cubic inches, or 3.38 fluid ounces.,
D as in Decillion (n.) According to the English notation, a million involved to the tenth power, or a unit with sixty ciphers annexed; according to the French and American notation, a thousand involved to the eleventh power, or a unit with thirty-three ciphers annexed. [See the Note under Numeration.],
D as in Decillionth (a.) Pertaining to a decillion, or to the quotient of unity divided by a decillion.,
D as in Decillionth (n.) The quotient of unity divided by a decillion.,
D as in Decillionth (n.) One of a decillion equal parts.,
D as in Decimal (a.) Of or pertaining to decimals; numbered or proceeding by tens; having a tenfold increase or decrease, each unit being ten times the unit next smaller; as, decimal notation; a decimal coinage.,
D as in Decimal (n.) A number expressed in the scale of tens; specifically, and almost exclusively, used as synonymous with a decimal fraction.,
D as in Decimalism (n.) The system of a decimal currency, decimal weights, measures, etc.,
D as in Decimalize (v. t.) To reduce to a decimal system; as, to decimalize the currency.,
D as in Decimally (adv.) By tens; by means of decimals.,
D as in Decimated (imp. & p. p.) of Decimate,
D as in Decimating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Decimate,
D as in Decimate (v. t.) To take the tenth part of; to tithe.,
D as in Decimate (v. t.) To select by lot and punish with death every tenth man of; as, to decimate a regiment as a punishment for mutiny.,
D as in Decimate (v. t.) To destroy a considerable part of; as, to decimate an army in battle; to decimate a people by disease.,
D as in Decimation (n.) A tithing.,
D as in Decimation (n.) A selection of every tenth person by lot, as for punishment.,
D as in Decimation (n.) The destruction of any large proportion, as of people by pestilence or war.,
D as in Decimator (n.) One who decimates.,
D as in Decime (n.) A French coin, the tenth part of a franc, equal to about two cents.,
D as in Decimeter (n.) Alt. of Decimetre,
D as in Decimetre (n.) A measure of length in the metric system; one tenth of a meter, equal to 3.937 inches.,
D as in Decimosexto (n.) A book consisting of sheets, each of which is folded into sixteen leaves; hence, indicating, more or less definitely, a size of book; -- usually written 16mo or 16�.,
D as in Decimosexto (a.) Having sixteen leaves to a sheet; as, a decimosexto form, book, leaf, size.,
D as in Decine (n.) One of the higher hydrocarbons, C10H15, of the acetylene series; -- called also decenylene.,
D as in Deciphered (imp. & p. p.) of Decipher,
D as in Deciphering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Decipher,
D as in Decipher (v. t.) To translate from secret characters or ciphers into intelligible terms; as, to decipher a letter written in secret characters.,
D as in Decipher (v. t.) To find out, so as to be able to make known the meaning of; to make out or read, as words badly written or partly obliterated; to detect; to reveal; to unfold.,
D as in Decipher (v. t.) To stamp; to detect; to discover.,
D as in Decipherable (a.) Capable of being deciphered; as, old writings not decipherable.,
D as in Decipherer (n.) One who deciphers.,
D as in Decipheress (n.) A woman who deciphers.,
D as in Decipherment (n.) The act of deciphering.,
D as in Decipiency (n.) State of being deceived; hallucination.,
D as in Decipium (n.) A supposed rare element, said to be associated with cerium, yttrium, etc., in the mineral samarskite, and more recently called samarium. Symbol Dp. See Samarium.,
D as in Decision (n.) Cutting off; division; detachment of a part.,
D as in Decision (n.) The act of deciding; act of settling or terminating, as a controversy, by giving judgment on the matter at issue; determination, as of a question or doubt; settlement; conclusion.,
D as in Decision (n.) An account or report of a conclusion, especially of a legal adjudication or judicial determination of a question or cause; as, a decision of arbitrators; a decision of the Supreme Court.,
D as in Decision (n.) The quality of being decided; prompt and fixed determination; unwavering firmness; as, to manifest great decision.,
D as in Decisive (a.) Having the power or quality of deciding a question or controversy; putting an end to contest or controversy; final; conclusive.,
D as in Decisive (a.) Marked by promptness and decision.,
D as in Decisory (a.) Able to decide or determine; having a tendency to decide.,
D as in Decistere (n.) The tenth part of the stere or cubic meter, equal to 3.531 cubic feet. See Stere.,
D as in Decitizenize (v. t.) To deprive of the rights of citizenship.,
D as in Decivilize (v. t.) To reduce from civilization to a savage state.,
D as in Decked (imp. & p. p.) of Deck,
D as in Decking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Deck,
D as in Deck (v. t.) To cover; to overspread.,
D as in Deck (v. t.) To dress, as the person; to clothe; especially, to clothe with more than ordinary elegance; to array; to adorn; to embellish.,
D as in Deck (v. t.) To furnish with a deck, as a vessel.,
D as in Deck (v.) The floorlike covering of the horizontal sections, or compartments, of a ship. Small vessels have only one deck; larger ships have two or three decks.,
D as in Deck (v.) The upper part or top of a mansard roof or curb roof when made nearly flat.,
D as in Deck (v.) The roof of a passenger car.,
D as in Deck (v.) A pack or set of playing cards.,
D as in Deck (v.) A heap or store.,
D as in Deckel (n.) Same as Deckle.,
D as in Decker (n.) One who, or that which, decks or adorns; a coverer; as, a table decker.,
D as in Decker (n.) A vessel which has a deck or decks; -- used esp. in composition; as, a single-decker; a three-decker.,
D as in Deckle (n.) A separate thin wooden frame used to form the border of a hand mold, or a curb of India rubber or other material which rests on, and forms the edge of, the mold in a paper machine and determines the width of the paper.,
D as in Declaimed (imp. & p. p.) of Declaim,
D as in Declaiming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Declaim,
D as in Declaim (v. i.) To speak rhetorically; to make a formal speech or oration; to harangue; specifically, to recite a speech, poem, etc., in public as a rhetorical exercise; to practice public speaking; as, the students declaim twice a week.,
D as in Declaim (v. i.) To speak for rhetorical display; to speak pompously, noisily, or theatrically; to make an empty speech; to rehearse trite arguments in debate; to rant.,
D as in Declaim (v. t.) To utter in public; to deliver in a rhetorical or set manner.,
D as in Declaim (v. t.) To defend by declamation; to advocate loudly.,
D as in Declaimant (n.) A declaimer.,
D as in Declaimer (n.) One who declaims; an haranguer.,
D as in Declamation (n.) The act or art of declaiming; rhetorical delivery; haranguing; loud speaking in public; especially, the public recitation of speeches as an exercise in schools and colleges; as, the practice declamation by students.,
D as in Declamation (n.) A set or harangue; declamatory discourse.,
D as in Declamation (n.) Pretentious rhetorical display, with more sound than sense; as, mere declamation.,
D as in Declamator (n.) A declaimer.,
D as in Declamatory (a.) Pertaining to declamation; treated in the manner of a rhetorician; as, a declamatory theme.,
D as in Declamatory (a.) Characterized by rhetorical display; pretentiously rhetorical; without solid sense or argument; bombastic; noisy; as, a declamatory way or style.,
D as in Declarable (a.) Capable of being declared.,
D as in Declarant (n.) One who declares.,
D as in Declaration (n.) The act of declaring, or publicly announcing; explicit asserting; undisguised token of a ground or side taken on any subject; proclamation; exposition; as, the declaration of an opinion; a declaration of war, etc.,
D as in Declaration (n.) That which is declared or proclaimed; announcement; distinct statement; formal expression; avowal.,
D as in Declaration (n.) The document or instrument containing such statement or proclamation; as, the Declaration of Independence (now preserved in Washington).,
D as in Declaration (n.) That part of the process in which the plaintiff sets forth in order and at large his cause of complaint; the narration of the plaintiff's case containing the count, or counts. See Count, n., 3.,
D as in Declarative (a.) Making declaration, proclamation, or publication; explanatory; assertive; declaratory.,
D as in Declaratively (adv.) By distinct assertion; not impliedly; in the form of a declaration.,
D as in Declarator (n.) A form of action by which some right or interest is sought to be judicially declared.,
D as in Declaratorily (adv.) In a declaratory manner.,
D as in Declaratory (a.) Making declaration, explanation, or exhibition; making clear or manifest; affirmative; expressive; as, a clause declaratory of the will of the legislature.,
D as in Declared (imp. & p. p.) of Declare,
D as in Declaring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Declare,
D as in Declare (v. t.) To make clear; to free from obscurity.,
D as in Declare (v. t.) To make known by language; to communicate or manifest explicitly and plainly in any way; to exhibit; to publish; to proclaim; to announce.,
D as in Declare (v. t.) To make declaration of; to assert; to affirm; to set forth; to avow; as, he declares the story to be false.,
D as in Declare (v. t.) To make full statement of, as goods, etc., for the purpose of paying taxes, duties, etc.,
D as in Declare (v. i.) To make a declaration, or an open and explicit avowal; to proclaim one's self; -- often with for or against; as, victory declares against the allies.,
D as in Declare (v. i.) To state the plaintiff's cause of action at law in a legal form; as, the plaintiff declares in trespass.,
D as in Declaredly (adv.) Avowedly; explicitly.,
D as in Declaredness (n.) The state of being declared.,
D as in Declarement (n.) Declaration.,
D as in Declarer (n.) One who makes known or proclaims; that which exhibits.,
D as in Declension (n.) The act or the state of declining; declination; descent; slope.,
D as in Declension (n.) A falling off towards a worse state; a downward tendency; deterioration; decay; as, the declension of virtue, of science, of a state, etc.,
D as in Declension (n.) Act of courteously refusing; act of declining; a declinature; refusal; as, the declension of a nomination.,
D as in Declension (n.) Inflection of nouns, adjectives, etc., according to the grammatical cases.,
D as in Declension (n.) The form of the inflection of a word declined by cases; as, the first or the second declension of nouns, adjectives, etc.,
D as in Declension (n.) Rehearsing a word as declined.,
D as in Declensional (a.) Belonging to declension.,
D as in Declinable (a.) Capable of being declined; admitting of declension or inflection; as, declinable parts of speech.,
D as in Declinal (a.) Declining; sloping.,
D as in Declinate (a.) Bent downward or aside; (Bot.) bending downward in a curve; declined.,
D as in Declination (n.) The act or state of bending downward; inclination; as, declination of the head.,
D as in Declination (n.) The act or state of falling off or declining from excellence or perfection; deterioration; decay; decline.,
D as in Declination (n.) The act of deviating or turning aside; oblique motion; obliquity; withdrawal.,
D as in Declination (n.) The act or state of declining or refusing; withdrawal; refusal; averseness.,
D as in Declination (n.) The angular distance of any object from the celestial equator, either northward or southward.,
D as in Declination (n.) The arc of the horizon, contained between the vertical plane and the prime vertical circle, if reckoned from the east or west, or between the meridian and the plane, reckoned from the north or south.,
D as in Declination (n.) The act of inflecting a word; declension. See Decline, v. t., 4.,
D as in Declinator (n.) An instrument for taking the declination or angle which a plane makes with the horizontal plane.,
D as in Declinator (n.) A dissentient.,
D as in Declinatory (a.) Containing or involving a declination or refusal, as of submission to a charge or sentence.,
D as in Declinature (n.) The act of declining or refusing; as, the declinature of an office.,
D as in Declined (imp. & p. p.) of Decline,
D as in Declining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Decline,
D as in Decline (v. i.) To bend, or lean downward; to take a downward direction; to bend over or hang down, as from weakness, weariness, despondency, etc.; to condescend.,
D as in Decline (v. i.) To tend or draw towards a close, decay, or extinction; to tend to a less perfect state; to become diminished or impaired; to fail; to sink; to diminish; to lessen; as, the day declines; virtue declines; religion declines; business declines.,
D as in Decline (v. i.) To turn or bend aside; to deviate; to stray; to withdraw; as, a line that declines from straightness; conduct that declines from sound morals.,
D as in Decline (v. i.) To turn away; to shun; to refuse; -- the opposite of accept or consent; as, he declined, upon principle.,
D as in Decline (v. t.) To bend downward; to bring down; to depress; to cause to bend, or fall.,
D as in Decline (v. t.) To cause to decrease or diminish.,
D as in Decline (v. t.) To put or turn aside; to turn off or away from; to refuse to undertake or comply with; reject; to shun; to avoid; as, to decline an offer; to decline a contest; he declined any participation with them.,
D as in Decline (v. t.) To inflect, or rehearse in order the changes of grammatical form of; as, to decline a noun or an adjective.,
D as in Decline (v. t.) To run through from first to last; to repeat like a schoolboy declining a noun.,
D as in Decline (v. i.) A falling off; a tendency to a worse state; diminution or decay; deterioration; also, the period when a thing is tending toward extinction or a less perfect state; as, the decline of life; the decline of strength; the decline of virtue and religion.,
D as in Decline (v. i.) That period of a disorder or paroxysm when the symptoms begin to abate in violence; as, the decline of a fever.,
D as in Decline (v. i.) A gradual sinking and wasting away of the physical faculties; any wasting disease, esp. pulmonary consumption; as, to die of a decline.,
D as in Declined (a.) Declinate.,
D as in Decliner (n.) He who declines or rejects.,
D as in Declinometer (n.) An instrument for measuring the declination of the magnetic needle.,
D as in Declinous (a.) Declinate.,
D as in Declivitous (a.) Alt. of Declivous,
D as in Declivous (a.) Descending gradually; moderately steep; sloping; downhill.,
D as in Declivities (pl. ) of Declivity,
D as in Declivity (n.) Deviation from a horizontal line; gradual descent of surface; inclination downward; slope; -- opposed to acclivity, or ascent; the same slope, considered as descending, being a declivity, which, considered as ascending, is an acclivity.,
D as in Declivity (n.) A descending surface; a sloping place.,
D as in Decocted (imp. & p. p.) of Decoct,
D as in Decocting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Decoct,
D as in Decoct (v. t.) To prepare by boiling; to digest in hot or boiling water; to extract the strength or flavor of by boiling; to make an infusion of.,
D as in Decoct (v. t.) To prepare by the heat of the stomach for assimilation; to digest; to concoct.,
D as in Decoct (v. t.) To warm, strengthen, or invigorate, as if by boiling.,
D as in Decoctible (a.) Capable of being boiled or digested.,
D as in Decoction (n.) The act or process of boiling anything in a watery fluid to extract its virtues.,
D as in Decoction (n.) An extract got from a body by boiling it in water.,
D as in Decocture (n.) A decoction.,
D as in Decollated (imp. & p. p.) of Decollate,
D as in Decollating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Decollate,
D as in Decollate (v. t.) To sever from the neck; to behead; to decapitate.,
D as in Decollated (a.) Decapitated; worn or cast off in the process of growth, as the apex of certain univalve shells.,
D as in Decollation (n.) The act of beheading or state of one beheaded; -- especially used of the execution of St. John the Baptist.,
D as in Decollation (n.) A painting representing the beheading of a saint or martyr, esp. of St. John the Baptist.,
D as in Decollete (a.) Leaving the neck and shoulders uncovered; cut low in the neck, or low-necked, as a dress.,
D as in Decolling (n.) Beheading.,
D as in Decolor (v. t.) To deprive of color; to bleach.,
D as in Decolorant (n.) A substance which removes color, or bleaches.,
D as in Decolorate (a.) Deprived of color.,
D as in Decolorate (v. t.) To decolor.,
D as in Decoloration (n.) The removal or absence of color.,
D as in Decolorize (v. t.) To deprive of color; to whiten.,
D as in Decomplex (a.) Repeatedly compound; made up of complex constituents.,
D as in Decomposable (a.) Capable of being resolved into constituent elements.,
D as in Decomposed (imp. & p. p.) of Decompose,
D as in Decomposing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Decompose,
D as in Decompose (v. t.) To separate the constituent parts of; to resolve into original elements; to set free from previously existing forms of chemical combination; to bring to dissolution; to rot or decay.,
D as in Decompose (v. i.) To become resolved or returned from existing combinations; to undergo dissolution; to decay; to rot.,
D as in Decomposed (a.) Separated or broken up; -- said of the crest of birds when the feathers are divergent.,
D as in Decomposite (a.) Compounded more than once; compounded with things already composite.,
D as in Decomposite (a.) See Decompound, a., 2.,
D as in Decomposite (n.) Anything decompounded.,
D as in Decomposition (n.) The act or process of resolving the constituent parts of a compound body or substance into its elementary parts; separation into constituent part; analysis; the decay or dissolution consequent on the removal or alteration of some of the ingredients of a compound; disintegration; as, the decomposition of wood, rocks, etc.,
D as in Decomposition (n.) The state of being reduced into original elements.,
D as in Decomposition (n.) Repeated composition; a combination of compounds.,
D as in Decompounded (imp. & p. p.) of Decompound,
D as in Decompounding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Decompound,
D as in Decompound (v. t.) To compound or mix with that is already compound; to compound a second time.,
D as in Decompound (v. t.) To reduce to constituent parts; to decompose.,
D as in Decompound (a.) Compound of what is already compounded; compounded a second time.,
D as in Decompound (a.) Several times compounded or divided, as a leaf or stem; decomposite.,
D as in Decompound (n.) A decomposite.,
D as in Decompoundable (a.) Capable of being decompounded.,
D as in Deconcentrate (v. t.) To withdraw from concentration; to decentralize.,
D as in Deconcentration (n.) Act of deconcentrating.,
D as in Deconcoct (v. t.) To decompose.,
D as in Deconsecrate (v. t.) To deprive of sacredness; to secularize.,
D as in Decorament (v. t.) Ornament.,
D as in Decorated (imp. & p. p.) of Decorate,
D as in Decorating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Decorate,
D as in Decorate (v. t.) To deck with that which is becoming, ornamental, or honorary; to adorn; to beautify; to embellish; as, to decorate the person; to decorate an edifice; to decorate a lawn with flowers; to decorate the mind with moral beauties; to decorate a hero with honors.,
D as in Decoration (n.) The act of adorning, embellishing, or honoring; ornamentation.,
D as in Decoration (n.) That which adorns, enriches, or beautifies; something added by way of embellishment; ornament.,
D as in Decoration (n.) Specifically, any mark of honor to be worn upon the person, as a medal, cross, or ribbon of an order of knighthood, bestowed for services in war, great achievements in literature, art, etc.,
D as in Decorative (a.) Suited to decorate or embellish; adorning.,
D as in Decorator (n.) One who decorates, adorns, or embellishes; specifically, an artisan whose business is the decoration of houses, esp. their interior decoration.,
D as in Decore (v. t.) To decorate; to beautify.,
D as in Decorement (n.) Ornament.,
D as in Decorous (a.) Suitable to a character, or to the time, place, and occasion; marked with decorum; becoming; proper; seemly; befitting; as, a decorous speech; decorous behavior; a decorous dress for a judge.,
D as in Decorticated (imp. & p. p.) of Decorticate,
D as in Decorticating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Decorticate,
D as in Decorticate (v. t.) To divest of the bark, husk, or exterior coating; to husk; to peel; to hull.,
D as in Decortication (n.) The act of stripping off the bark, rind, hull, or outer coat.,
D as in Decorticator (n.) A machine for decorticating wood, hulling grain, etc.; also, an instrument for removing surplus bark or moss from fruit trees.,
D as in Decorum (n.) Propriety of manner or conduct; grace arising from suitableness of speech and behavior to one's own character, or to the place and occasion; decency of conduct; seemliness; that which is seemly or suitable.,
D as in Decoyed (imp. & p. p.) of Decoy,
D as in Decoying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Decoy,
D as in Decoy (v. t.) To lead into danger by artifice; to lure into a net or snare; to entrap; to insnare; to allure; to entice; as, to decoy troops into an ambush; to decoy ducks into a net.,
D as in Decoy (n.) Anything intended to lead into a snare; a lure that deceives and misleads into danger, or into the power of an enemy; a bait.,
D as in Decoy (n.) A fowl, or the likeness of one, used by sportsmen to entice other fowl into a net or within shot.,
D as in Decoy (n.) A place into which wild fowl, esp. ducks, are enticed in order to take or shoot them.,
D as in Decoy (n.) A person employed by officers of justice, or parties exposed to injury, to induce a suspected person to commit an offense under circumstances that will lead to his detection.,
D as in Decoy-duck (n.) A duck used to lure wild ducks into a decoy; hence, a person employed to lure others into danger.,
D as in Decoyer (n.) One who decoys another.,
D as in Decoy-men (pl. ) of Decoy-man,
D as in Decoy-man (n.) A man employed in decoying wild fowl.,
D as in Decreased (imp. & p. p.) of Decrease,
D as in Decreasing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Decrease,
D as in Decrease (n.) To grow less, -- opposed to increase; to be diminished gradually, in size, degree, number, duration, etc., or in strength, quality, or excellence; as, they days decrease in length from June to December.,
D as in Decrease (v. t.) To cause to grow less; to diminish gradually; as, extravagance decreases one's means.,
D as in Decrease (v.) A becoming less; gradual diminution; decay; as, a decrease of revenue or of strength.,
D as in Decrease (v.) The wane of the moon.,
D as in Decreaseless (a.) Suffering no decrease.,
D as in Decreasing (a.) Becoming less and less; diminishing.,
D as in Decreation (n.) Destruction; -- opposed to creation.,
D as in Decree (n.) An order from one having authority, deciding what is to be done by a subordinate; also, a determination by one having power, deciding what is to be done or to take place; edict, law; authoritative ru// decision.,
D as in Decree (n.) A decision, order, or sentence, given in a cause by a court of equity or admiralty.,
D as in Decree (n.) A determination or judgment of an umpire on a case submitted to him.,
D as in Decree (n.) An edict or law made by a council for regulating any business within their jurisdiction; as, the decrees of ecclesiastical councils.,
D as in Decreed (imp. & p. p.) of Decree,
D as in Decreeing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Decree,
D as in Decree (v. t.) To determine judicially by authority, or by decree; to constitute by edict; to appoint by decree or law; to determine; to order; to ordain; as, a court decrees a restoration of property.,
D as in Decree (v. t.) To ordain by fate.,
D as in Decree (v. i.) To make decrees; -- used absolutely.,
D as in Decreeable (a.) Capable of being decreed.,
D as in Decreer (n.) One who decrees.,
D as in Decreet (n.) The final judgment of the Court of Session, or of an inferior court, by which the question at issue is decided.,
D as in Decrement (n.) The state of becoming gradually less; decrease; diminution; waste; loss.,
D as in Decrement (n.) The quantity lost by gradual diminution or waste; -- opposed to increment.,
D as in Decrement (n.) A name given by Hauy to the successive diminution of the layers of molecules, applied to the faces of the primitive form, by which he supposed the secondary forms to be produced.,
D as in Decrement (n.) The quantity by which a variable is diminished.,
D as in Decrepit (a.) Broken down with age; wasted and enfeebled by the infirmities of old age; feeble; worn out.,
D as in Decrepitated (imp. & p. p.) of Decrepitate,
D as in Decrepitating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Decrepitate,
D as in Decrepitate (v. t.) To roast or calcine so as to cause a crackling noise; as, to decrepitate salt.,
D as in Decrepitate (v. i.) To crackle, as salt in roasting.,
D as in Decrepitation (n.) The act of decrepitating; a crackling noise, such as salt makes when roasting.,
D as in Decrepitness (n.) Decrepitude.,
D as in Decrepitude (n.) The broken state produced by decay and the infirmities of age; infirm old age.,
D as in Decrescendo (a. & adv.) With decreasing volume of sound; -- a direction to performers, either written upon the staff (abbreviated Dec., or Decresc.), or indicated by the sign.,
D as in Decrescent (a.) Becoming less by gradual diminution; decreasing; as, a decrescent moon.,
D as in Decrescent (n.) A crescent with the horns directed towards the sinister.,
D as in Decretal (a.) Appertaining to a decree; containing a decree; as, a decretal epistle.,
D as in Decretal (a.) An authoritative order or decree; especially, a letter of the pope, determining some point or question in ecclesiastical law. The decretals form the second part of the canon law.,
D as in Decretal (a.) The collection of ecclesiastical decrees and decisions made, by order of Gregory IX., in 1234, by St. Raymond of Pennafort.,
D as in Decrete (n.) A decree.,
D as in Decretion (n.) A decrease.,
D as in Decretist (n.) One who studies, or professes the knowledge of, the decretals.,
D as in Decretive (n.) Having the force of a decree; determining.,
D as in Decretorial (a.) Decretory; authoritative.,
D as in Decretorily (adv.) In a decretory or definitive manner; by decree.,
D as in Decretory (a.) Established by a decree; definitive; settled.,
D as in Decretory (a.) Serving to determine; critical.,
D as in Decrew (v. i.) To decrease.,
D as in Decrial (n.) A crying down; a clamorous censure; condemnation by censure.,
D as in Decrier (n.) One who decries.,
D as in Decrown (v. t.) To deprive of a crown; to discrown.,
D as in Decrustation (n.) The removal of a crust.,
D as in Decried (imp. & p. p.) of Decry,
D as in Decrying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Decry,
D as in Decry (v. t.) To cry down; to censure as faulty, mean, or worthless; to clamor against; to blame clamorously; to discredit; to disparage.,
D as in Decubation (n.) Act of lying down; decumbence.,
D as in Decubitus (n.) An attitude assumed in lying down; as, the dorsal decubitus.,
D as in Decuman (a.) Large; chief; -- applied to an extraordinary billow, supposed by some to be every tenth in order. [R.] Also used substantively.,
D as in Decumbence (n.) Alt. of Decumbency,
D as in Decumbency (n.) The act or posture of lying down.,
D as in Decumbent (a.) Lying down; prostrate; recumbent.,
D as in Decumbent (a.) Reclining on the ground, as if too weak to stand, and tending to rise at the summit or apex; as, a decumbent stem.,
D as in Decumbently (adv.) In a decumbent posture.,
D as in Decumbiture (n.) Confinement to a sick bed, or time of taking to one's bed from sickness.,
D as in Decumbiture (n.) Aspect of the heavens at the time of taking to one's sick bed, by which the prognostics of recovery or death were made.,
D as in Decuple (a.) Tenfold.,
D as in Decuple (n.) A number ten times repeated.,
D as in Decupled (imp. & p. p.) of Decuple,
D as in Decupling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Decuple,
D as in Decuple (v. t.) To make tenfold; to multiply by ten.,
D as in Decurion (n.) A head or chief over ten; especially, an officer who commanded a division of ten soldiers.,
D as in Decurionate (n.) The office of a decurion.,
D as in Decurrence (n.) The act of running down; a lapse.,
D as in Decurrent (a.) Extending downward; -- said of a leaf whose base extends downward and forms a wing along the stem.,
D as in Decursion (n.) A flowing; also, a hostile incursion.,
D as in Decursive (a.) Running down; decurrent.,
D as in Decursively (adv.) In a decursive manner.,
D as in Decurt (v. t.) To cut short; to curtail.,
D as in Decurtation (n.) Act of cutting short.,
D as in Decuries (pl. ) of Decury,
D as in Decury (n.) A set or squad of ten men under a decurion.,
D as in Decussated (imp. & p. p.) of Decussate,
D as in Decussating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Decussate,
D as in Decussate (v. t.) To cross at an acute angle; to cut or divide in the form of X; to intersect; -- said of lines in geometrical figures, rays of light, nerves, etc.,
D as in Decussate (a.) Alt. of Decussated,
D as in Decussated (a.) Crossed; intersected.,
D as in Decussated (a.) Growing in pairs, each of which is at right angles to the next pair above or below; as, decussated leaves or branches.,
D as in Decussated (a.) Consisting of two rising and two falling clauses, placed in alternate opposition to each other; as, a decussated period.,
D as in Decussately (adv.) In a decussate manner.,
D as in Decussation (n.) Act of crossing at an acute angle, or state of being thus crossed; an intersection in the form of an X; as, the decussation of lines, nerves, etc.,
D as in Decussative (a.) Intersecting at acute angles.,
D as in Decussatively (adv.) Crosswise; in the form of an X.,
D as in Decyl (n.) A hydrocarbon radical, C10H21, never existing alone, but regarded as the characteristic constituent of a number of compounds of the paraffin series.,
D as in Decylic (a.) Allied to, or containing, the radical decyl.,
D as in Dedalian (a.) See Daedalian.,
D as in Dedalous (a.) See Daedalous.,
D as in Dedans (n.) A division, at one end of a tennis court, for spectators.,
D as in Dede (a.) Dead.,
D as in Dedecorate (v. t.) To bring to shame; to disgrace.,
D as in Dedecoration (n.) Disgrace; dishonor.,
D as in Dedecorous (a.) Disgraceful; unbecoming.,
D as in Dedentition (n.) The shedding of teeth.,
D as in Dedicate (p. a.) Dedicated; set apart; devoted; consecrated.,
D as in Dedicated (imp. & p. p.) of Dedicate,
D as in Dedicating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dedicate,
D as in Dedicate (v. t.) To set apart and consecrate, as to a divinity, or for sacred uses; to devote formally and solemnly; as, to dedicate vessels, treasures, a temple, or a church, to a religious use.,
D as in Dedicate (v. t.) To devote, set apart, or give up, as one's self, to a duty or service.,
D as in Dedicate (v. t.) To inscribe or address, as to a patron.,
D as in Dedicatee (n.) One to whom a thing is dedicated; -- correlative to dedicator.,
D as in Dedication (n.) The act of setting apart or consecrating to a divine Being, or to a sacred use, often with religious solemnities; solemn appropriation; as, the dedication of Solomon's temple.,
D as in Dedication (n.) A devoting or setting aside for any particular purpose; as, a dedication of lands to public use.,
D as in Dedication (n.) An address to a patron or friend, prefixed to a book, testifying respect, and often recommending the work to his special protection and favor.,
D as in Dedicator (n.) One who dedicates; more especially, one who inscribes a book to the favor of a patron, or to one whom he desires to compliment.,
D as in Dedicatorial (a.) Dedicatory.,
D as in Dedicatory (a.) Constituting or serving as a dedication; complimental.,
D as in Dedicatory (n.) Dedication.,
D as in Dedimus (n.) A writ to commission private persons to do some act in place of a judge, as to examine a witness, etc.,
D as in Dedition (n.) The act of yielding; surrender.,
D as in Dedolent (a.) Feeling no compunction; apathetic.,
D as in Deduced (imp. & p. p.) of Deduce,
D as in Deducing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Deduce,
D as in Deduce (v. t.) To lead forth.,
D as in Deduce (v. t.) To take away; to deduct; to subtract; as, to deduce a part from the whole.,
D as in Deduce (v. t.) To derive or draw; to derive by logical process; to obtain or arrive at as the result of reasoning; to gather, as a truth or opinion, from what precedes or from premises; to infer; -- with from or out of.,
D as in Deducement (n.) Inference; deduction; thing deduced.,
D as in Deducibility (n.) Deducibleness.,
D as in Deducible (a.) Capable of being deduced or inferred; derivable by reasoning, as a result or consequence.,
D as in Deducible (a.) Capable of being brought down.,
D as in Deducibleness (n.) The quality of being deducible; deducibility.,
D as in Deducibly (adv.) By deduction.,
D as in Deducive (a.) That deduces; inferential.,
D as in Deducted (imp. & p. p.) of Deduct,
D as in Deducting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Deduct,
D as in Deduct (v. t.) To lead forth or out.,
D as in Deduct (v. t.) To take away, separate, or remove, in numbering, estimating, or calculating; to subtract; -- often with from or out of.,
D as in Deduct (v. t.) To reduce; to diminish.,
D as in Deductible (a.) Capable of being deducted, taken away, or withdrawn.,
D as in Deductible (a.) Deducible; consequential.,
D as in Deduction (n.) Act or process of deducing or inferring.,
D as in Deduction (n.) Act of deducting or taking away; subtraction; as, the deduction of the subtrahend from the minuend.,
D as in Deduction (n.) That which is deduced or drawn from premises by a process of reasoning; an inference; a conclusion.,
D as in Deduction (n.) That which is deducted; the part taken away; abatement; as, a deduction from the yearly rent.,
D as in Deductive (a.) Of or pertaining to deduction; capable of being deduced from premises; deducible.,
D as in Deductively (adv.) By deduction; by way of inference; by consequence.,
D as in Deductor (n.) The pilot whale or blackfish.,
D as in Deduit (n.) Delight; pleasure.,
D as in Deduplication (n.) The division of that which is morphologically one organ into two or more, as the division of an organ of a plant into a pair or cluster.,
D as in Deed (a.) Dead.,
D as in Deed (v. t.) That which is done or effected by a responsible agent; an act; an action; a thing done; -- a word of extensive application, including, whatever is done, good or bad, great or small.,
D as in Deed (v. t.) Illustrious act; achievement; exploit.,
D as in Deed (v. t.) Power of action; agency; efficiency.,
D as in Deed (v. t.) Fact; reality; -- whence we have indeed.,
D as in Deed (v. t.) A sealed instrument in writing, on paper or parchment, duly executed and delivered, containing some transfer, bargain, or contract.,
D as in Deed (v. t.) Performance; -- followed by of.,
D as in Deed (v. t.) To convey or transfer by deed; as, he deeded all his estate to his eldest son.,
D as in Deedful (a.) Full of deeds or exploits; active; stirring.,
D as in Deedless (a.) Not performing, or not having performed, deeds or exploits; inactive.,
D as in Deed poll () A deed of one part, or executed by only one party, and distinguished from an indenture by having the edge of the parchment or paper cut even, or polled as it was anciently termed, instead of being indented.,
D as in Deedy (a.) Industrious; active.,
D as in Deemed (imp. & p. p.) of Deem,
D as in Deeming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Deem,
D as in Deem (v.) To decide; to judge; to sentence; to condemn.,
D as in Deem (v.) To account; to esteem; to think; to judge; to hold in opinion; to regard.,
D as in Deem (v. i.) To be of opinion; to think; to estimate; to opine; to suppose.,
D as in Deem (v. i.) To pass judgment.,
D as in Deem (n.) Opinion; judgment.,
D as in Deemster (n.) A judge in the Isle of Man who decides controversies without process.,
D as in Deep (superl.) Extending far below the surface; of great perpendicular dimension (measured from the surface downward, and distinguished from high, which is measured upward); far to the bottom; having a certain depth; as, a deep sea.,
D as in Deep (superl.) Extending far back from the front or outer part; of great horizontal dimension (measured backward from the front or nearer part, mouth, etc.); as, a deep cave or recess or wound; a gallery ten seats deep; a company of soldiers six files deep.,
D as in Deep (superl.) Low in situation; lying far below the general surface; as, a deep valley.,
D as in Deep (superl.) Hard to penetrate or comprehend; profound; -- opposed to shallow or superficial; intricate; mysterious; not obvious; obscure; as, a deep subject or plot.,
D as in Deep (superl.) Of penetrating or far-reaching intellect; not superficial; thoroughly skilled; sagacious; cunning.,
D as in Deep (superl.) Profound; thorough; complete; unmixed; intense; heavy; heartfelt; as, deep distress; deep melancholy; deep horror.,
D as in Deep (superl.) Strongly colored; dark; intense; not light or thin; as, deep blue or crimson.,
D as in Deep (superl.) Of low tone; full-toned; not high or sharp; grave; heavy.,
D as in Deep (superl.) Muddy; boggy; sandy; -- said of roads.,
D as in Deep (adv.) To a great depth; with depth; far down; profoundly; deeply.,
D as in Deep (n.) That which is deep, especially deep water, as the sea or ocean; an abyss; a great depth.,
D as in Deep (n.) That which is profound, not easily fathomed, or incomprehensible; a moral or spiritual depth or abyss.,
D as in Deepened (imp. & p. p.) of Deepen,
D as in Deepening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Deepen,
D as in Deepen (v. t.) To make deep or deeper; to increase the depth of; to sink lower; as, to deepen a well or a channel.,
D as in Deepen (v. t.) To make darker or more intense; to darken; as, the event deepened the prevailing gloom.,
D as in Deepen (v. t.) To make more poignant or affecting; to increase in degree; as, to deepen grief or sorrow.,
D as in Deepen (v. t.) To make more grave or low in tone; as, to deepen the tones of an organ.,
D as in Deepen (v. i.) To become deeper; as, the water deepens at every cast of the lead; the plot deepens.,
D as in Deep-fet (a.) Deeply fetched or drawn.,
D as in Deep-laid (a.) Laid deeply; formed with cunning and sagacity; as, deep-laid plans.,
D as in Deeply (adv.) At or to a great depth; far below the surface; as, to sink deeply.,
D as in Deeply (adv.) Profoundly; thoroughly; not superficially; in a high degree; intensely; as, deeply skilled in ethics.,
D as in Deeply (adv.) Very; with a tendency to darkness of color.,
D as in Deeply (adv.) Gravely; with low or deep tone; as, a deeply toned instrument.,
D as in Deeply (adv.) With profound skill; with art or intricacy; as, a deeply laid plot or intrigue.,
D as in Deep-mouthed (a.) Having a loud and sonorous voice.,
D as in Deepness (n.) The state or quality of being deep, profound, mysterious, secretive, etc.; depth; profundity; -- opposed to shallowness.,
D as in Deepness (n.) Craft; insidiousness.,
D as in Deep-read (a.) Profoundly book- learned.,
D as in Deep-sea (a.) Of or pertaining to the deeper parts of the sea; as, a deep-sea line (i. e., a line to take soundings at a great depth); deep-sea lead; deep-sea soundings, explorations, etc.,
D as in Deep-waisted (a.) Having a deep waist, as when, in a ship, the poop and forecastle are much elevated above the deck.,
D as in Deer (n. sing. & pl.) Any animal; especially, a wild animal.,
D as in Deer (n. sing. & pl.) A ruminant of the genus Cervus, of many species, and of related genera of the family Cervidae. The males, and in some species the females, have solid antlers, often much branched, which are shed annually. Their flesh, for which they are hunted, is called venison.,
D as in Deerberry (n.) A shrub of the blueberry group (Vaccinium stamineum); also, its bitter, greenish white berry; -- called also squaw huckleberry.,
D as in Deergrass (n.) An American genus (Rhexia) of perennial herbs, with opposite leaves, and showy flowers (usually bright purple), with four petals and eight stamens, -- the only genus of the order Melastomaceae inhabiting a temperate clime.,
D as in Deerhound (n.) One of a large and fleet breed of hounds used in hunting deer; a staghound.,
D as in Deerlet (n.) A chevrotain. See Kanchil, and Napu.,
D as in Deer-neck (n.) A deerlike, or thin, ill-formed neck, as of a horse.,
D as in Deerskin (n.) The skin of a deer, or the leather which is made from it.,
D as in Deerstalker (n.) One who practices deerstalking.,
D as in Deerstalking (n.) The hunting of deer on foot, by stealing upon them unawares.,
D as in Deer's-tongue (n.) A plant (Liatris odoratissima) whose fleshy leaves give out a fragrance compared to vanilla.,
D as in Dees (n. pl.) Dice.,
D as in Dees (n.) A dais.,
D as in Deesis (n.) An invocation of, or address to, the Supreme Being.,
D as in Deess (n.) A goddess.,
D as in Deev (n.) See Dev.,
D as in Defaced (imp. & p. p.) of Deface,
D as in Defacing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Deface,
D as in Deface (v. t.) To destroy or mar the face or external appearance of; to disfigure; to injure, spoil, or mar, by effacing or obliterating important features or portions of; as, to deface a monument; to deface an edifice; to deface writing; to deface a note, deed, or bond; to deface a record.,
D as in Deface (v. t.) To destroy; to make null.,
D as in Defacement (n.) The act of defacing, or the condition of being defaced; injury to the surface or exterior; obliteration.,
D as in Defacement (n.) That which mars or disfigures.,
D as in Defacer (n.) One who, or that which, defaces or disfigures.,
D as in De facto () Actually; in fact; in reality; as, a king de facto, -- distinguished from a king de jure, or by right.,
D as in Defail (v. t.) To cause to fail.,
D as in Defailance (n.) Failure; miscarriage.,
D as in Defailure (n.) Failure.,
D as in Defalcated (imp. & p. p.) of Defalcate,
D as in Defalcating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Defalcate,
D as in Defalcate (v. t.) To cut off; to take away or deduct a part of; -- used chiefly of money, accounts, rents, income, etc.,
D as in Defalcate (v. i.) To commit defalcation; to embezzle money held in trust.,
D as in Defalcation (n.) A lopping off; a diminution; abatement; deficit. Specifically: Reduction of a claim by deducting a counterclaim; set- off.,
D as in Defalcation (n.) That which is lopped off, diminished, or abated.,
D as in Defalcation (n.) An abstraction of money, etc., by an officer or agent having it in trust; an embezzlement.,
D as in Defalcator (n.) A defaulter or embezzler.,
D as in Defalk (v. t.) To lop off; to abate.,
D as in Defamation (n.) Act of injuring another's reputation by any slanderous communication, written or oral; the wrong of maliciously injuring the good name of another; slander; detraction; calumny; aspersion.,
D as in Defamatory (a.) Containing defamation; injurious to reputation; calumnious; slanderous; as, defamatory words; defamatory writings.,
D as in Defamed (imp. & p. p.) of Defame,
D as in Defaming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Defame,
D as in Defame (v. t.) To harm or destroy the good fame or reputation of; to disgrace; especially, to speak evil of maliciously; to dishonor by slanderous reports; to calumniate; to asperse.,
D as in Defame (v. t.) To render infamous; to bring into disrepute.,
D as in Defame (v. t.) To charge; to accuse.,
D as in Defame (n.) Dishonor.,
D as in Defamer (n.) One who defames; a slanderer; a detractor; a calumniator.,
D as in Defamingly (adv.) In a defamatory manner.,
D as in Defamous (a.) Defamatory.,
D as in Defatigable (a.) Capable of being wearied or tired out.,
D as in Defatigate (v. t.) To weary or tire out; to fatigue.,
D as in Defatigation (n.) Weariness; fatigue.,
D as in Default (n.) A failing or failure; omission of that which ought to be done; neglect to do what duty or law requires; as, this evil has happened through the governor's default.,
D as in Default (n.) Fault; offense; ill deed; wrong act; failure in virtue or wisdom.,
D as in Default (n.) A neglect of, or failure to take, some step necessary to secure the benefit of law, as a failure to appear in court at a day assigned, especially of the defendant in a suit when called to make answer; also of jurors, witnesses, etc.,
D as in Defaulted (imp. & p. p.) of Default,
D as in Defaulting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Default,
D as in Default (v. i.) To fail in duty; to offend.,
D as in Default (v. i.) To fail in fulfilling a contract, agreement, or duty.,
D as in Default (v. i.) To fail to appear in court; to let a case go by default.,
D as in Default (v. t.) To fail to perform or pay; to be guilty of neglect of; to omit; as, to default a dividend.,
D as in Default (v. t.) To call a defendant or other party whose duty it is to be present in court, and make entry of his default, if he fails to appear; to enter a default against.,
D as in Default (v. t.) To leave out of account; to omit.,
D as in Defaulter (n.) One who makes default; one who fails to appear in court when court when called.,
D as in Defaulter (n.) One who fails to perform a duty; a delinquent; particularly, one who fails to account for public money intrusted to his care; a peculator; a defalcator.,
D as in Defeasance (n.) A defeat; an overthrow.,
D as in Defeasance (n.) A rendering null or void.,
D as in Defeasance (n.) A condition, relating to a deed, which being performed, the deed is defeated or rendered void; or a collateral deed, made at the same time with a feoffment, or other conveyance, containing conditions, on the performance of which the estate then created may be defeated.,
D as in Defeasanced (a.) Liable to defeasance; capable of being made void or forfeited.,
D as in Defeasible (a.) Capable of being annulled or made void; as, a defeasible title.,
D as in Defeated (imp. & p. p.) of Defeat,
D as in Defeating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Defeat,
D as in Defeat (v. t.) To undo; to disfigure; to destroy.,
D as in Defeat (v. t.) To render null and void, as a title; to frustrate, as hope; to deprive, as of an estate.,
D as in Defeat (v. t.) To overcome or vanquish, as an army; to check, disperse, or ruin by victory; to overthrow.,
D as in Defeat (v. t.) To resist with success; as, to defeat an assault.,
D as in Defeat (v.) An undoing or annulling; destruction.,
D as in Defeat (v.) Frustration by rendering null and void, or by prevention of success; as, the defeat of a plan or design.,
D as in Defeat (v.) An overthrow, as of an army in battle; loss of a battle; repulse suffered; discomfiture; -- opposed to victory.,
D as in Defeature (n.) Overthrow; defeat.,
D as in Defeature (n.) Disfigurement; deformity.,
D as in Defeatured (p. p.) Changed in features; deformed.,
D as in Defecate (a.) Freed from anything that can pollute, as dregs, lees, etc.; refined; purified.,
D as in Defecated (imp. & p. p.) of Defecate,
D as in Defecating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Defecate,
D as in Defecate (v. t.) To clear from impurities, as lees, dregs, etc.; to clarify; to purify; to refine.,
D as in Defecate (v. t.) To free from extraneous or polluting matter; to clear; to purify, as from that which materializes.,
D as in Defecate (v. i.) To become clear, pure, or free.,
D as in Defecate (v. i.) To void excrement.,
D as in Defecation (n.) The act of separating from impurities, as lees or dregs; purification.,
D as in Defecation (n.) The act or process of voiding excrement.,
D as in Defecator (n.) That which cleanses or purifies; esp., an apparatus for removing the feculencies of juices and sirups.,
D as in Defect (n.) Want or absence of something necessary for completeness or perfection; deficiency; -- opposed to superfluity.,
D as in Defect (n.) Failing; fault; imperfection, whether physical or moral; blemish; as, a defect in the ear or eye; a defect in timber or iron; a defect of memory or judgment.,
D as in Defect (v. i.) To fail; to become deficient.,
D as in Defect (v. t.) To injure; to damage.,
D as in Defectibility (n.) Deficiency; imperfection.,
D as in Defectible (a.) Liable to defect; imperfect.,
D as in Defection (n.) Act of abandoning a person or cause to which one is bound by allegiance or duty, or to which one has attached himself; desertion; failure in duty; a falling away; apostasy; backsliding.,
D as in Defectionist (n.) One who advocates or encourages defection.,
D as in Defectious (a.) Having defects; imperfect.,
D as in Defective (a.) Wanting in something; incomplete; lacking a part; deficient; imperfect; faulty; -- applied either to natural or moral qualities; as, a defective limb; defective timber; a defective copy or account; a defective character; defective rules.,
D as in Defective (a.) Lacking some of the usual forms of declension or conjugation; as, a defective noun or verb.,
D as in Defectuosity (n.) Great imperfection.,
D as in Defectuous (a.) Full of defects; imperfect.,
D as in Defedation (n.) The act of making foul; pollution.,
D as in Defence (n. & v. t.) See Defense.,
D as in Defended (imp. & p. p.) of Defend,
D as in Defending (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Defend,
D as in Defend (v. t.) To ward or fend off; to drive back or away; to repel.,
D as in Defend (v. t.) To prohibit; to forbid.,
D as in Defend (v. t.) To repel danger or harm from; to protect; to secure against; attack; to maintain against force or argument; to uphold; to guard; as, to defend a town; to defend a cause; to defend character; to defend the absent; -- sometimes followed by from or against; as, to defend one's self from, or against, one's enemies.,
D as in Defend (v. t.) To deny the right of the plaintiff in regard to (the suit, or the wrong charged); to oppose or resist, as a claim at law; to contest, as a suit.,
D as in Defendable (a.) Capable of being defended; defensible.,
D as in Defendant (a.) Serving, or suitable, for defense; defensive.,
D as in Defendant (a.) Making defense.,
D as in Defendant (n.) One who defends; a defender.,
D as in Defendant (n.) A person required to make answer in an action or suit; -- opposed to plaintiff.,
D as in Defendee (n.) One who is defended.,
D as in Defender (n.) One who defends; one who maintains, supports, protects, or vindicates; a champion; an advocate; a vindicator.,
D as in Defendress (n.) A female defender.,
D as in Defensative (n.) That which serves to protect or defend.,
D as in Defense (n.) Alt. of Defence,
D as in Defence (n.) The act of defending, or the state of being defended; protection, as from violence or danger.,
D as in Defence (n.) That which defends or protects; anything employed to oppose attack, ward off violence or danger, or maintain security; a guard; a protection.,
D as in Defence (n.) Protecting plea; vindication; justification.,
D as in Defence (n.) The defendant's answer or plea; an opposing or denial of the truth or validity of the plaintiff's or prosecutor's case; the method of proceeding adopted by the defendant to protect himself against the plaintiff's action.,
D as in Defence (n.) Act or skill in making defense; defensive plan or policy; practice in self defense, as in fencing, boxing, etc.,
D as in Defence (n.) Prohibition; a prohibitory ordinance.,
D as in Defense (v. t.) To furnish with defenses; to fortify.,
D as in Defenseless (a.) Destitute of defense; unprepared to resist attack; unable to oppose; unprotected.,
D as in Defenser (n.) Defender.,
D as in Defensibility (n.) Capability of being defended.,
D as in Defensible (a.) Capable of being defended; as, a defensible city, or a defensible cause.,
D as in Defensible (a.) Capable of offering defense.,
D as in Defensibleness (n.) Capability of being defended; defensibility.,
D as in Defensive (a.) Serving to defend or protect; proper for defense; opposed to offensive; as, defensive armor.,
D as in Defensive (a.) Carried on by resisting attack or aggression; -- opposed to offensive; as, defensive war.,
D as in Defensive (a.) In a state or posture of defense.,
D as in Defensive (n.) That which defends; a safeguard.,
D as in Defensively (adv.) On the defensive.,
D as in Defensor (n.) A defender.,
D as in Defensor (n.) A defender or an advocate in court; a guardian or protector.,
D as in Defensor (n.) The patron of a church; an officer having charge of the temporal affairs of a church.,
D as in Defensory (a.) Tending to defend; defensive; as, defensory preparations.,
D as in Deferred (imp. & p. p.) of Defer,
D as in Deferring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Defer,
D as in Defer (v. t.) To put off; to postpone to a future time; to delay the execution of; to delay; to withhold.,
D as in Defer (v. i.) To put off; to delay to act; to wait.,
D as in Defer (v. t.) To render or offer.,
D as in Defer (v. t.) To lay before; to submit in a respectful manner; to refer; -- with to.,
D as in Defer (v. i.) To yield deference to the wishes of another; to submit to the opinion of another, or to authority; -- with to.,
D as in Deference (n.) A yielding of judgment or preference from respect to the wishes or opinion of another; submission in opinion; regard; respect; complaisance.,
D as in Deferent (a.) Serving to carry; bearing.,
D as in Deferent (n.) That which carries or conveys.,
D as in Deferent (n.) An imaginary circle surrounding the earth, in whose periphery either the heavenly body or the center of the heavenly body's epicycle was supposed to be carried round.,
D as in Deferential (a.) Expressing deference; accustomed to defer.,
D as in Deferentially (adv.) With deference.,
D as in Deferment (n.) The act of delaying; postponement.,
D as in Deferrer (n.) One who defers or puts off.,
D as in Defervescence (n.) Alt. of Defervescency,
D as in Defervescency (n.) A subsiding from a state of ebullition; loss of heat; lukewarmness.,
D as in Defervescency (n.) The subsidence of a febrile process; as, the stage of defervescence in pneumonia.,
D as in Defeudalize (v. t.) To deprive of the feudal character or form.,
D as in Defiance (n.) The act of defying, putting in opposition, or provoking to combat; a challenge; a provocation; a summons to combat.,
D as in Defiance (n.) A state of opposition; willingness to flight; disposition to resist; contempt of opposition.,
D as in Defiance (n.) A casting aside; renunciation; rejection.,
D as in Defiant (a.) Full of defiance; bold; insolent; as, a defiant spirit or act.,
D as in Defiatory (a.) Bidding or manifesting defiance.,
D as in Defibrinate (v. t.) To deprive of fibrin, as fresh blood or lymph by stirring with twigs.,
D as in Defibrination (n.) The act or process of depriving of fibrin.,
D as in Defibrinize (v. t.) To defibrinate.,
D as in Deficience (n.) Same as Deficiency.,
D as in Deficiencies (pl. ) of Deficiency,
D as in Deficiency (n.) The state of being deficient; inadequacy; want; failure; imperfection; shortcoming; defect.,
D as in Deficient (a.) Wanting, to make up completeness; wanting, as regards a requirement; not sufficient; inadequate; defective; imperfect; incomplete; lacking; as, deficient parts; deficient estate; deficient strength; deficient in judgment.,
D as in Deficit (n.) Deficiency in amount or quality; a falling short; lack; as, a deficit in taxes, revenue, etc.,
D as in Defier (n.) One who dares and defies; a contemner; as, a defier of the laws.,
D as in Defiguration (n.) Disfiguration; mutilation.,
D as in Defigure (v. t.) To delineate.,
D as in Defiladed (imp. & p. p.) of Defilade,
D as in Defilading (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Defilade,
D as in Defilade (v. t.) To raise, as a rampart, so as to shelter interior works commanded from some higher point.,
D as in Defilading (n.) The art or act of determining the directions and heights of the lines of rampart with reference to the protection of the interior from exposure to an enemy's fire from any point within range, or from any works which may be erected.,
D as in Defiled (imp. & p. p.) of Defile,
D as in Defiling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Defile,
D as in Defile (v. i.) To march off in a line, file by file; to file off.,
D as in Defile (v. t.) Same as Defilade.,
D as in Defile (n.) Any narrow passage or gorge in which troops can march only in a file, or with a narrow front; a long, narrow pass between hills, rocks, etc.,
D as in Defile (n.) The act of defilading a fortress, or of raising the exterior works in order to protect the interior. See Defilade.,
D as in Defile (v. t.) To make foul or impure; to make filthy; to dirty; to befoul; to pollute.,
D as in Defile (v. t.) To soil or sully; to tarnish, as reputation; to taint.,
D as in Defile (v. t.) To injure in purity of character; to corrupt.,
D as in Defile (v. t.) To corrupt the chastity of; to debauch; to violate.,
D as in Defile (v. t.) To make ceremonially unclean; to pollute.,
D as in Defilement (n.) The protection of the interior walls of a fortification from an enfilading fire, as by covering them, or by a high parapet on the exposed side.,
D as in Defilement (n.) The act of defiling, or state of being defiled, whether physically or morally; pollution; foulness; dirtiness; uncleanness.,
D as in Defiler (n.) One who defiles; one who corrupts or violates; that which pollutes.,
D as in Defiliation (n.) Abstraction of a child from its parents.,
D as in Definable (a.) Capable of being defined, limited, or explained; determinable; describable by definition; ascertainable; as, definable limits; definable distinctions or regulations; definable words.,
D as in Defined (imp. & p. p.) of Define,
D as in Defining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Define,
D as in Define (v. t.) To fix the bounds of; to bring to a termination; to end.,
D as in Define (v. t.) To determine or clearly exhibit the boundaries of; to mark the limits of; as, to define the extent of a kingdom or country.,
D as in Define (v. t.) To determine with precision; to mark out with distinctness; to ascertain or exhibit clearly; as, the defining power of an optical instrument.,
D as in Define (v. t.) To determine the precise signification of; to fix the meaning of; to describe accurately; to explain; to expound or interpret; as, to define a word, a phrase, or a scientific term.,
D as in Define (v. i.) To determine; to decide.,
D as in Definement (n.) The act of defining; definition; description.,
D as in Definer (n.) One who defines or explains.,
D as in Definite (a.) Having certain or distinct; determinate in extent or greatness; limited; fixed; as, definite dimensions; a definite measure; a definite period or interval.,
D as in Definite (a.) Having certain limits in signification; determinate; certain; precise; fixed; exact; clear; as, a definite word, term, or expression.,
D as in Definite (a.) Determined; resolved.,
D as in Definite (a.) Serving to define or restrict; limiting; determining; as, the definite article.,
D as in Definite (n.) A thing defined or determined.,
D as in Definitely (adv.) In a definite manner; with precision; precisely; determinately.,
D as in Definiteness (n.) The state of being definite; determinateness; precision; certainty.,
D as in Definition (n.) The act of defining; determination of the limits; as, a telescope accurate in definition.,
D as in Definition (n.) Act of ascertaining and explaining the signification; a description of a thing by its properties; an explanation of the meaning of a word or term; as, the definition of "circle;" the definition of "wit;" an exact definition; a loose definition.,
D as in Definition (n.) Description; sort.,
D as in Definition (n.) An exact enunciation of the constituents which make up the logical essence.,
D as in Definition (n.) Distinctness or clearness, as of an image formed by an optical instrument; precision in detail.,
D as in Definitional (a.) Relating to definition; of the nature of a definition; employed in defining.,
D as in Definitive (a.) Determinate; positive; final; conclusive; unconditional; express.,
D as in Definitive (a.) Limiting; determining; as, a definitive word.,
D as in Definitive (a.) Determined; resolved.,
D as in Definitive (n.) A word used to define or limit the extent of the signification of a common noun, such as the definite article, and some pronouns.,
D as in Definitively (adv.) In a definitive manner.,
D as in Definitiveness (n.) The quality of being definitive.,
D as in Definitude (n.) Definiteness.,
D as in Defix (v. t.) To fix; to fasten; to establish.,
D as in Deflagrability (n.) The state or quality of being deflagrable.,
D as in Deflagrable (a.) Burning with a sudden and sparkling combustion, as niter; hence, slightly explosive; liable to snap and crackle when heated, as salt.,
D as in Deflagrated (imp. & p. p.) of Deflagrate,
D as in Deflagrating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Deflagrate,
D as in Deflagrate (v. i.) To burn with a sudden and sparkling combustion, as niter; also, to snap and crackle with slight explosions when heated, as salt.,
D as in Deflagrate (v. t.) To cause to burn with sudden and sparkling combustion, as by the action of intense heat; to burn or vaporize suddenly; as, to deflagrate refractory metals in the oxyhydrogen flame.,
D as in Deflagration (n.) A burning up; conflagration.,
D as in Deflagration (n.) The act or process of deflagrating.,
D as in Deflagrator (n.) A form of the voltaic battery having large plates, used for producing rapid and powerful combustion.,
D as in Deflate (v. t.) To reduce from an inflated condition.,
D as in Deflected (imp. & p. p.) of Deflect,
D as in Deflecting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Deflect,
D as in Deflect (v. t.) To cause to turn aside; to bend; as, rays of light are often deflected.,
D as in Deflect (v. i.) To turn aside; to deviate from a right or a horizontal line, or from a proper position, course or direction; to swerve.,
D as in Deflectable (a.) Capable of being deflected.,
D as in Deflected (a.) Turned aside; deviating from a direct line or course.,
D as in Deflected (a.) Bent downward; deflexed.,
D as in Deflection (n.) The act of turning aside, or state of being turned aside; a turning from a right line or proper course; a bending, esp. downward; deviation.,
D as in Deflection (n.) The deviation of a shot or ball from its true course.,
D as in Deflection (n.) A deviation of the rays of light toward the surface of an opaque body; inflection; diffraction.,
D as in Deflection (n.) The bending which a beam or girder undergoes from its own weight or by reason of a load.,
D as in Deflectionization (n.) The act of freeing from inflections.,
D as in Deflectionize (v. t.) To free from inflections.,
D as in Deflective (a.) Causing deflection.,
D as in Deflector (n.) That which deflects, as a diaphragm in a furnace, or a cone in a lamp (to deflect and mingle air and gases and help combustion).,
D as in Deflexed (a.) Bent abruptly downward.,
D as in Deflexion (n.) See Deflection.,
D as in Deflexure (n.) A bending or turning aside; deflection.,
D as in Deflorate (a.) Past the flowering state; having shed its pollen.,
D as in Defloration (n.) The act of deflouring; as, the defloration of a virgin.,
D as in Defloration (n.) That which is chosen as the flower or choicest part; careful culling or selection.,
D as in Defloured (imp. & p. p.) of Deflour,
D as in Deflouring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Deflour,
D as in Deflour (v. t.) To deprive of flowers.,
D as in Deflour (v. t.) To take away the prime beauty and grace of; to rob of the choicest ornament.,
D as in Deflour (v. t.) To deprive of virginity, as a woman; to violate; to ravish; also, to seduce.,
D as in Deflourer (n.) One who deflours; a ravisher.,
D as in Deflow (v. i.) To flow down.,
D as in Deflower (v. t.) Same as Deflour.,
D as in Deflowerer (n.) See Deflourer.,
D as in Defluous (a.) Flowing down; falling off.,
D as in Deflux (n.) Downward flow.,
D as in Defluxion (n.) A discharge or flowing of humors or fluid matter, as from the nose in catarrh; -- sometimes used synonymously with inflammation.,
D as in Defly (adv.) Deftly.,
D as in Defoedation (n.) Defedation.,
D as in Defoliate (a.) Alt. of Defoliated,
D as in Defoliated (a.) Deprived of leaves, as by their natural fall.,
D as in Defoliation (n.) The separation of ripened leaves from a branch or stem; the falling or shedding of the leaves.,
D as in Deforced (imp. & p. p.) of Deforce,
D as in Deforcing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Deforce,
D as in Deforce (v.) To keep from the rightful owner; to withhold wrongfully the possession of, as of lands or a freehold.,
D as in Deforce (v.) To resist the execution of the law; to oppose by force, as an officer in the execution of his duty.,
D as in Deforcement (n.) A keeping out by force or wrong; a wrongful withholding, as of lands or tenements, to which another has a right.,
D as in Deforcement (n.) Resistance to an officer in the execution of law.,
D as in Deforceor (n.) Same as Deforciant.,
D as in Deforciant (n.) One who keeps out of possession the rightful owner of an estate.,
D as in Deforciant (n.) One against whom a fictitious action of fine was brought.,
D as in Deforciation (n.) Same as Deforcement, n.,
D as in Deforest (v. t.) To clear of forests; to disforest.,
D as in Deformed (imp. & p. p.) of Deform,
D as in Deforming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Deform,
D as in Deform (v. t.) To spoil the form of; to mar in form; to misshape; to disfigure.,
D as in Deform (v. t.) To render displeasing; to deprive of comeliness, grace, or perfection; to dishonor.,
D as in Deform (a.) Deformed; misshapen; shapeless; horrid.,
D as in Deformation (n.) The act of deforming, or state of anything deformed.,
D as in Deformation (n.) Transformation; change of shape.,
D as in Deformed (a.) Unnatural or distorted in form; having a deformity; misshapen; disfigured; as, a deformed person; a deformed head.,
D as in Deformer (n.) One who deforms.,
D as in Deformities (pl. ) of Deformity,
D as in Deformity (a.) The state of being deformed; want of proper form or symmetry; any unnatural form or shape; distortion; irregularity of shape or features; ugliness.,
D as in Deformity (a.) Anything that destroys beauty, grace, or propriety; irregularity; absurdity; gross deviation from order or the established laws of propriety; as, deformity in an edifice; deformity of character.,
D as in Deforser (n.) A deforciant.,
D as in Defoul (v. t.) To tread down.,
D as in Defoul (v. t.) To make foul; to defile.,
D as in Defrauded (imp. & p. p.) of Defraud,
D as in Defrauding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Defraud,
D as in Defraud (v. t.) To deprive of some right, interest, or property, by a deceitful device; to withhold from wrongfully; to injure by embezzlement; to cheat; to overreach; as, to defraud a servant, or a creditor, or the state; -- with of before the thing taken or withheld.,
D as in Defraudation (n.) The act of defrauding; a taking by fraud.,
D as in Defrauder (n.) One who defrauds; a cheat; an embezzler; a peculator.,
D as in Defraudment (n.) Privation by fraud; defrauding.,
D as in Defrayed (imp. & p. p.) of Defray,
D as in Defraying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Defray,
D as in Defray (v. t.) To pay or discharge; to serve in payment of; to provide for, as a charge, debt, expenses, costs, etc.,
D as in Defray (v. t.) To avert or appease, as by paying off; to satisfy; as, to defray wrath.,
D as in Defrayal (n.) The act of defraying; payment; as, the defrayal of necessary costs.,
D as in Defrayer (n.) One who pays off expenses.,
D as in Defrayment (n.) Payment of charges.,
D as in Deft (a.) Apt; fit; dexterous; clever; handy; spruce; neat.,
D as in Deftly (adv.) Aptly; fitly; dexterously; neatly.,
D as in Deftness (n.) The quality of being deft.,
D as in Defunct (a.) Having finished the course of life; dead; deceased.,
D as in Defunct (n.) A dead person; one deceased.,
D as in Defunction (n.) Death.,
D as in Defunctive (a.) Funereal.,
D as in Defuse (v. t.) To disorder; to make shapeless.,
D as in Defied (imp. & p. p.) of Defy,
D as in Defying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Defy,
D as in Defy (v. t.) To renounce or dissolve all bonds of affiance, faith, or obligation with; to reject, refuse, or renounce.,
D as in Defy (v. t.) To provoke to combat or strife; to call out to combat; to challenge; to dare; to brave; to set at defiance; to treat with contempt; as, to defy an enemy; to defy the power of a magistrate; to defy the arguments of an opponent; to defy public opinion.,
D as in Defy (n.) A challenge.,
D as in Degarnished (imp. & p. p.) of Degarnish,
D as in Degarnishing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Degarnish,
D as in Degarnish (v. t.) To strip or deprive of entirely, as of furniture, ornaments, etc.; to disgarnish; as, to degarnish a house, etc.,
D as in Degarnish (v. t.) To deprive of a garrison, or of troops necessary for defense; as, to degarnish a city or fort.,
D as in Degarnishment (n.) The act of depriving, as of furniture, apparatus, or a garrison.,
D as in Degender (v. i.) Alt. of Degener,
D as in Degener (v. i.) To degenerate.,
D as in Degeneracy (a.) The act of becoming degenerate; a growing worse.,
D as in Degeneracy (a.) The state of having become degenerate; decline in good qualities; deterioration; meanness.,
D as in Degenerate (a.) Having become worse than one's kind, or one's former state; having declined in worth; having lost in goodness; deteriorated; degraded; unworthy; base; low.,
D as in Degenerated (imp. & p. p.) of Degenerate,
D as in Degenerating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Degenerate,
D as in Degenerate (v. i.) To be or grow worse than one's kind, or than one was originally; hence, to be inferior; to grow poorer, meaner, or more vicious; to decline in good qualities; to deteriorate.,
D as in Degenerate (v. i.) To fall off from the normal quality or the healthy structure of its kind; to become of a lower type.,
D as in Degenerately (adv.) In a degenerate manner; unworthily.,
D as in Degenerateness (n.) Degeneracy.,
D as in Degeneration (n.) The act or state of growing worse, or the state of having become worse; decline; degradation; debasement; degeneracy; deterioration.,
D as in Degeneration (n.) That condition of a tissue or an organ in which its vitality has become either diminished or perverted; a substitution of a lower for a higher form of structure; as, fatty degeneration of the liver.,
D as in Degeneration (n.) A gradual deterioration, from natural causes, of any class of animals or plants or any particular organ or organs; hereditary degradation of type.,
D as in Degeneration (n.) The thing degenerated.,
D as in Degenerationist (n.) A believer in the theory of degeneration, or hereditary degradation of type; as, the degenerationists hold that savagery is the result of degeneration from a superior state.,
D as in Degenerative (a.) Undergoing or producing degeneration; tending to degenerate.,
D as in Degenerous (a.) Degenerate; base.,
D as in Degenerously (adv.) Basely.,
D as in Deglazing (n.) The process of giving a dull or ground surface to glass by acid or by mechanical means.,
D as in Degloried (a.) Deprived of glory; dishonored.,
D as in Deglutinated (imp. & p. p.) of Deglutinate,
D as in Deglutinating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Deglutinate,
D as in Deglutinate (v. t.) To loosen or separate by dissolving the glue which unties; to unglue.,
D as in Deglutination (n.) The act of ungluing.,
D as in Deglutition (n.) The act or process of swallowing food; the power of swallowing.,
D as in Deglutitious (a.) Pertaining to deglutition.,
D as in Deglutitory (a.) Serving for, or aiding in, deglutition.,
D as in Degradation (n.) The act of reducing in rank, character, or reputation, or of abasing; a lowering from one's standing or rank in office or society; diminution; as, the degradation of a peer, a knight, a general, or a bishop.,
D as in Degradation (n.) The state of being reduced in rank, character, or reputation; baseness; moral, physical, or intellectual degeneracy; disgrace; abasement; debasement.,
D as in Degradation (n.) Diminution or reduction of strength, efficacy, or value; degeneration; deterioration.,
D as in Degradation (n.) A gradual wearing down or wasting, as of rocks and banks, by the action of water, frost etc.,
D as in Degradation (n.) The state or condition of a species or group which exhibits degraded forms; degeneration.,
D as in Degradation (n.) Arrest of development, or degeneration of any organ, or of the body as a whole.,
D as in Degraded (imp. & p. p.) of Degrade,
D as in Degrading (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Degrade,
D as in Degrade (v. t.) To reduce from a higher to a lower rank or degree; to lower in rank; to deprive of office or dignity; to strip of honors; as, to degrade a nobleman, or a general officer.,
D as in Degrade (v. t.) To reduce in estimation, character, or reputation; to lessen the value of; to lower the physical, moral, or intellectual character of; to debase; to bring shame or contempt upon; to disgrace; as, vice degrades a man.,
D as in Degrade (v. t.) To reduce in altitude or magnitude, as hills and mountains; to wear down.,
D as in Degrade (v. i.) To degenerate; to pass from a higher to a lower type of structure; as, a family of plants or animals degrades through this or that genus or group of genera.,
D as in Degraded (a.) Reduced in rank, character, or reputation; debased; sunken; low; base.,
D as in Degraded (a.) Having the typical characters or organs in a partially developed condition, or lacking certain parts.,
D as in Degraded (a.) Having steps; -- said of a cross each of whose extremities finishes in steps growing larger as they leave the center; -- termed also on degrees.,
D as in Degradement (n.) Deprivation of rank or office; degradation.,
D as in Degradingly (adv.) In a degrading manner.,
D as in Degravation (a.) The act of making heavy.,
D as in Degree (n.) A step, stair, or staircase.,
D as in Degree (n.) One of a series of progressive steps upward or downward, in quality, rank, acquirement, and the like; a stage in progression; grade; gradation; as, degrees of vice and virtue; to advance by slow degrees; degree of comparison.,
D as in Degree (n.) The point or step of progression to which a person has arrived; rank or station in life; position.,
D as in Degree (n.) Measure of advancement; quality; extent; as, tastes differ in kind as well as in degree.,
D as in Degree (n.) Grade or rank to which scholars are admitted by a college or university, in recognition of their attainments; as, the degree of bachelor of arts, master, doctor, etc.,
D as in Degree (n.) A certain distance or remove in the line of descent, determining the proximity of blood; one remove in the chain of relationship; as, a relation in the third or fourth degree.,
D as in Degree (n.) Three figures taken together in numeration; thus, 140 is one degree, 222,140 two degrees.,
D as in Degree (n.) State as indicated by sum of exponents; more particularly, the degree of a term is indicated by the sum of the exponents of its literal factors; thus, a2b3c is a term of the sixth degree. The degree of a power, or radical, is denoted by its index, that of an equation by the greatest sum of the exponents of the unknown quantities in any term; thus, ax4 + bx2 = c, and mx2y2 + nyx = p, are both equations of the fourth degree.,
D as in Degree (n.) A 360th part of the circumference of a circle, which part is taken as the principal unit of measure for arcs and angles. The degree is divided into 60 minutes and the minute into 60 seconds.,
D as in Degree (n.) A division, space, or interval, marked on a mathematical or other instrument, as on a thermometer.,
D as in Degree (n.) A line or space of the staff.,
D as in Degu (n.) A small South American rodent (Octodon Cumingii), of the family Octodontidae.,
D as in Degust (v. t.) To taste.,
D as in Degustation (n.) Tasting; the appreciation of sapid qualities by the taste organs.,
D as in Dehisce (v. i.) To gape; to open by dehiscence.,
D as in Dehiscence (n.) The act of gaping.,
D as in Dehiscence (n.) A gaping or bursting open along a definite line of attachment or suture, without tearing, as in the opening of pods, or the bursting of capsules at maturity so as to emit seeds, etc.; also, the bursting open of follicles, as in the ovaries of animals, for the expulsion of their contents.,
D as in Dehiscent (a.) Characterized by dehiscence; opening in some definite way, as the capsule of a plant.,
D as in Dehonestate (v. t.) To disparage.,
D as in Dehonestation (n.) A dishonoring; disgracing.,
D as in Dehorned (imp. & p. p.) of Dehorn,
D as in Dehorning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dehorn,
D as in Dehorn (v. t.) To deprive of horns; to prevent the growth of the horns of (cattle) by burning their ends soon after they start. See Dishorn.,
D as in Dehors (prep.) Out of; without; foreign to; out of the agreement, record, will, or other instrument.,
D as in Dehors (n.) All sorts of outworks in general, at a distance from the main works; any advanced works for protection or cover.,
D as in Dehorted (imp. & p. p.) of Dehort,
D as in Dehorting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dehort,
D as in Dehort (v. t.) To urge to abstain or refrain; to dissuade.,
D as in Dehortation (n.) Dissuasion; advice against something.,
D as in Dehortative (a.) Dissuasive.,
D as in Dehortatory (a.) Fitted or designed to dehort or dissuade.,
D as in Dehorter (n.) A dissuader; an adviser to the contrary.,
D as in Dehumanize (v. t.) To divest of human qualities, such as pity, tenderness, etc.; as, dehumanizing influences.,
D as in Dehusk (v. t.) To remove the husk from.,
D as in Dehydrate (v. t.) To deprive of water; to render free from water; as, to dehydrate alcohol.,
D as in Dehydration (n.) The act or process of freeing from water; also, the condition of a body from which the water has been removed.,
D as in Dehydrogenate (v. t.) To deprive of, or free from, hydrogen.,
D as in Dehydrogenation (n.) The act or process of freeing from hydrogen; also, the condition resulting from the removal of hydrogen.,
D as in Deicide (n.) The act of killing a being of a divine nature; particularly, the putting to death of Jesus Christ.,
D as in Deicide (n.) One concerned in putting Christ to death.,
D as in Deictic (a.) Direct; proving directly; -- applied to reasoning, and opposed to elenchtic or refutative.,
D as in Deictically (adv.) In a manner to show or point out; directly; absolutely; definitely.,
D as in Deific (a.) Alt. of Deifical,
D as in Deifical (a.) Making divine; producing a likeness to God; god-making.,
D as in Deification (n.) The act of deifying; exaltation to divine honors; apotheosis; excessive praise.,
D as in Deified (a.) Honored or worshiped as a deity; treated with supreme regard; godlike.,
D as in Deifier (n.) One who deifies.,
D as in Deiform (a.) Godlike, or of a godlike form.,
D as in Deiform (a.) Conformable to the will of God.,
D as in Deiformity (n.) Likeness to deity.,
D as in Deified (imp. & p. p.) of Deify,
D as in Deifying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Deify,
D as in Deify (v. t.) To make a god of; to exalt to the rank of a deity; to enroll among the deities; to apotheosize; as, Julius Caesar was deified.,
D as in Deify (v. t.) To praise or revere as a deity; to treat as an object of supreme regard; as, to deify money.,
D as in Deify (v. t.) To render godlike.,
D as in Deigned (imp. & p. p.) of Deign,
D as in Deigning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Deign,
D as in Deign (v. t.) To esteem worthy; to consider worth notice; -- opposed to disdain.,
D as in Deign (v. t.) To condescend to give or bestow; to stoop to furnish; to vouchsafe; to allow; to grant.,
D as in Deign (v. i.) To think worthy; to vouchsafe; to condescend; - - followed by an infinitive.,
D as in Deignous (a.) Haughty; disdainful.,
D as in Deil (n.) Devil; -- spelt also deel.,
D as in Deinoceras (n.) See Dinoceras.,
D as in Deinornis (n.) See Dinornis.,
D as in Deinosaur (n.) See Dinosaur.,
D as in Deinotherium (n.) See Dinotherium.,
D as in Deintegrate (v. t.) To disintegrate.,
D as in Deinteous (a.) Alt. of Deintevous,
D as in Deintevous (a.) Rare; excellent; costly.,
D as in Deiparous (a.) Bearing or bringing forth a god; -- said of the Virgin Mary.,
D as in Deipnosophist (n.) One of an ancient sect of philosophers, who cultivated learned conversation at meals.,
D as in Deis (n.) See Dais.,
D as in Deism (n.) The doctrine or creed of a deist; the belief or system of those who acknowledge the existence of one God, but deny revelation.,
D as in Deist (n.) One who believes in the existence of a God, but denies revealed religion; a freethinker.,
D as in Deistic (a.) Alt. of Deistical,
D as in Deistical (a.) Pertaining to, savoring of, or consisting in, deism; as, a deistic writer; a deistical book.,
D as in Deistically (adv.) After the manner of deists.,
D as in Deisticalness (n.) State of being deistical.,
D as in Deitate (a.) Deified.,
D as in Deities (pl. ) of Deity,
D as in Deity (n.) The collection of attributes which make up the nature of a god; divinity; godhead; as, the deity of the Supreme Being is seen in his works.,
D as in Deity (n.) A god or goddess; a heathen god.,
D as in Dejected (imp. & p. p.) of Deject,
D as in Dejecting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Deject,
D as in Deject (v. t.) To cast down.,
D as in Deject (v. t.) To cast down the spirits of; to dispirit; to discourage; to dishearten.,
D as in Deject (a.) Dejected.,
D as in Dejecta (n. pl.) Excrements; as, the dejecta of the sick.,
D as in Dejected (a.) Cast down; afflicted; low-spirited; sad; as, a dejected look or countenance.,
D as in Dejecter (n.) One who casts down, or dejects.,
D as in Dejection (n.) A casting down; depression.,
D as in Dejection (n.) The act of humbling or abasing one's self.,
D as in Dejection (n.) Lowness of spirits occasioned by grief or misfortune; mental depression; melancholy.,
D as in Dejection (n.) A low condition; weakness; inability.,
D as in Dejection (n.) The discharge of excrement.,
D as in Dejection (n.) Faeces; excrement.,
D as in Dejectly (adv.) Dejectedly.,
D as in Dejectory (a.) Having power, or tending, to cast down.,
D as in Dejectory (a.) Promoting evacuations by stool.,
D as in Dejecture (n.) That which is voided; excrements.,
D as in Dejerate (v. i.) To swear solemnly; to take an oath.,
D as in Dejeration (n.) The act of swearing solemnly.,
D as in Dejeune (n.) A dejeuner.,
D as in Dejeuner (n.) A breakfast; sometimes, also, a lunch or collation.,
D as in De jure () By right; of right; by law; -- often opposed to de facto.,
D as in Deka- () A prefix signifying ten. See Deca-.,
D as in Dekagram (n.) Same as Decagram.,
D as in Dekaliter (n.) Same as Decaliter.,
D as in Dekameter (n.) Same as Decameter.,
D as in Dekastere (n.) Same as Decastere.,
D as in Dekle (n.) See Deckle.,
D as in Del (n.) Share; portion; part.,
D as in Delaceration (n.) A tearing in pieces.,
D as in Delacrymation (n.) An involuntary discharge of watery humors from the eyes; wateriness of the eyes.,
D as in Delactation (n.) The act of weaning.,
D as in Delaine (n.) A kind of fabric for women's dresses.,
D as in Delamination (n.) Formation and separation of laminae or layers; one of the methods by which the various blastodermic layers of the ovum are differentiated.,
D as in Delapsation (n.) See Delapsion.,
D as in Delapsed (imp. & p. p.) of Delapse,
D as in Delapsing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Delapse,
D as in Delapse (v. i.) To pass down by inheritance; to lapse.,
D as in Delapsion (n.) A falling down, or out of place; prolapsion.,
D as in Delassation (n.) Fatigue.,
D as in Delated (imp. & p. p.) of Delate,
D as in Delating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Delate,
D as in Delate (v.) To carry; to convey.,
D as in Delate (v.) To carry abroad; to spread; to make public.,
D as in Delate (v.) To carry or bring against, as a charge; to inform against; to accuse; to denounce.,
D as in Delate (v.) To carry on; to conduct.,
D as in Delate (v. i.) To dilate.,
D as in Delation (n.) Conveyance.,
D as in Delation (n.) Accusation by an informer.,
D as in Delator (n.) An accuser; an informer.,
D as in Delaware (n.) An American grape, with compact bunches of small, amber-colored berries, sweet and of a good flavor.,
D as in Delawares (n. pl.) A tribe of Indians formerly inhabiting the valley of the Delaware River, but now mostly located in the Indian Territory.,
D as in Delays (pl. ) of Delay,
D as in Delay (v.) A putting off or deferring; procrastination; lingering inactivity; stop; detention; hindrance.,
D as in Delayed (imp. & p. p.) of Delay,
D as in Delaying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Delay,
D as in Delay (n.) To put off; to defer; to procrastinate; to prolong the time of or before.,
D as in Delay (n.) To retard; to stop, detain, or hinder, for a time; to retard the motion, or time of arrival, of; as, the mail is delayed by a heavy fall of snow.,
D as in Delay (n.) To allay; to temper.,
D as in Delay (v. i.) To move slowly; to stop for a time; to linger; to tarry.,
D as in Delayer (n.) One who delays; one who lingers.,
D as in Delayingly (adv.) By delays.,
D as in Delayment (n.) Hindrance.,
D as in Del credere () An agreement by which an agent or factor, in consideration of an additional premium or commission (called a del credere commission), engages, when he sells goods on credit, to insure, warrant, or guarantee to his principal the solvency of the purchaser, the engagement of the factor being to pay the debt himself if it is not punctually discharged by the buyer when it becomes due.,
D as in Dele (imperative sing.) Erase; remove; -- a direction to cancel something which has been put in type; usually expressed by a peculiar form of d, thus: /.,
D as in Deled (imp. & p. p.) of Dele,
D as in Deleing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dele,
D as in Dele (v. t.) To erase; to cancel; to delete; to mark for omission.,
D as in Dele (v. t.) To deal; to divide; to distribute.,
D as in Deleble (a.) Capable of being blotted out or erased.,
D as in Delectable (a.) Highly pleasing; delightful.,
D as in Delectate (v. t.) To delight; to charm.,
D as in Delectation (n.) Great pleasure; delight.,
D as in Delectus (n.) A name given to an elementary book for learners of Latin or Greek.,
D as in Delegacy (a.) The act of delegating, or state of being delegated; deputed power.,
D as in Delegacy (a.) A body of delegates or commissioners; a delegation.,
D as in Delegate (n.) Any one sent and empowered to act for another; one deputed to represent; a chosen deputy; a representative; a commissioner; a vicar.,
D as in Delegate (n.) One elected by the people of a territory to represent them in Congress, where he has the right of debating, but not of voting.,
D as in Delegate (n.) One sent by any constituency to act as its representative in a convention; as, a delegate to a convention for nominating officers, or for forming or altering a constitution.,
D as in Delegate (a.) Sent to act for or represent another; deputed; as, a delegate judge.,
D as in Delegated (imp. & p. p.) of Delegate,
D as in Delegating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Delegate,
D as in Delegate (v. t.) To send as one's representative; to empower as an ambassador; to send with power to transact business; to commission; to depute; to authorize.,
D as in Delegate (v. t.) To intrust to the care or management of another; to transfer; to assign; to commit.,
D as in Delegation (n.) The act of delegating, or investing with authority to act for another; the appointment of a delegate or delegates.,
D as in Delegation (n.) One or more persons appointed or chosen, and commissioned to represent others, as in a convention, in Congress, etc.; the collective body of delegates; as, the delegation from Massachusetts; a deputation.,
D as in Delegation (n.) A kind of novation by which a debtor, to be liberated from his creditor, gives him a third person, who becomes obliged in his stead to the creditor, or to the person appointed by him.,
D as in Delegatory (a.) Holding a delegated position.,
D as in Delenda (n. pl.) Things to be erased or blotted out.,
D as in Delenifical (a.) Assuaging pain.,
D as in Deleted (imp. & p. p.) of Delete,
D as in Deleting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Delete,
D as in Delete (v. t.) To blot out; to erase; to expunge; to dele; to omit.,
D as in Deleterious (a.) Hurtful; noxious; destructive; pernicious; as, a deleterious plant or quality; a deleterious example.,
D as in Deletery (a.) Destructive; poisonous.,
D as in Deletery (n.) That which destroys.,
D as in Deletion (n.) Act of deleting, blotting out, or erasing; destruction.,
D as in Deletitious (a.) Of such a nature that anything may be erased from it; -- said of paper.,
D as in Deletive (a.) Adapted to destroy or obliterate.,
D as in Deletory (n.) That which blots out.,
D as in Delf (n.) A mine; a quarry; a pit dug; a ditch.,
D as in Delf (n.) Same as Delftware.,
D as in Delft (n.) Same as Delftware.,
D as in Delftware (n.) Pottery made at the city of Delft in Holland; hence:,
D as in Delftware (n.) Earthenware made in imitation of the above; any glazed earthenware made for table use, and the like.,
D as in Delibate (v. t.) To taste; to take a sip of; to dabble in.,
D as in Delibation (n.) Act of tasting; a slight trial.,
D as in Deliber (v. t. & i.) To deliberate.,
D as in Deliberate (a.) Weighing facts and arguments with a view to a choice or decision; carefully considering the probable consequences of a step; circumspect; slow in determining; -- applied to persons; as, a deliberate judge or counselor.,
D as in Deliberate (a.) Formed with deliberation; well-advised; carefully considered; not sudden or rash; as, a deliberate opinion; a deliberate measure or result.,
D as in Deliberate (a.) Not hasty or sudden; slow.,
D as in Deliberated (imp. & p. p.) of Deliberate,
D as in Deliberating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Deliberate,
D as in Deliberate (v. t.) To weigh in the mind; to consider the reasons for and against; to consider maturely; to reflect upon; to ponder; as, to deliberate a question.,
D as in Deliberate (v. i.) To take counsel with one's self; to weigh the arguments for and against a proposed course of action; to reflect; to consider; to hesitate in deciding; -- sometimes with on, upon, about, concerning.,
D as in Deliberately (adv.) With careful consideration, or deliberation; circumspectly; warily; not hastily or rashly; slowly; as, a purpose deliberately formed.,
D as in Deliberateness (n.) The quality of being deliberate; calm consideration; circumspection.,
D as in Deliberation (n.) The act of deliberating, or of weighing and examining the reasons for and against a choice or measure; careful consideration; mature reflection.,
D as in Deliberation (n.) Careful discussion and examination of the reasons for and against a measure; as, the deliberations of a legislative body or council.,
D as in Deliberative (a.) Pertaining to deliberation; proceeding or acting by deliberation, or by discussion and examination; deliberating; as, a deliberative body.,
D as in Deliberative (n.) A discourse in which a question is discussed, or weighed and examined.,
D as in Deliberative (n.) A kind of rhetoric employed in proving a thing and convincing others of its truth, in order to persuade them to adopt it.,
D as in Deliberatively (adv.) In a deliberative manner; circumspectly; considerately.,
D as in Deliberator (n.) One who deliberates.,
D as in Delibrated (imp. & p. p.) of Delibrate,
D as in Delibrating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Delibrate,
D as in Delibrate (v. t.) To strip off the bark; to peel.,
D as in Delibration (n.) The act of stripping off the bark.,
D as in Delicacies (pl. ) of Delicacy,
D as in Delicacy (a.) The state or condition of being delicate; agreeableness to the senses; delightfulness; as, delicacy of flavor, of odor, and the like.,
D as in Delicacy (a.) Nicety or fineness of form, texture, or constitution; softness; elegance; smoothness; tenderness; and hence, frailty or weakness; as, the delicacy of a fiber or a thread; delicacy of a hand or of the human form; delicacy of the skin; delicacy of frame.,
D as in Delicacy (a.) Nice propriety of manners or conduct; susceptibility or tenderness of feeling; refinement; fastidiousness; and hence, in an exaggerated sense, effeminacy; as, great delicacy of behavior; delicacy in doing a kindness; delicacy of character that unfits for earnest action.,
D as in Delicacy (a.) Addiction to pleasure; luxury; daintiness; indulgence; luxurious or voluptuous treatment.,
D as in Delicacy (a.) Nice and refined perception and discrimination; critical niceness; fastidious accuracy.,
D as in Delicacy (a.) The state of being affected by slight causes; sensitiveness; as, the delicacy of a chemist's balance.,
D as in Delicacy (a.) That which is alluring, delicate, or refined; a luxury or pleasure; something pleasant to the senses, especially to the sense of taste; a dainty; as, delicacies of the table.,
D as in Delicacy (a.) Pleasure; gratification; delight.,
D as in Delicate (a.) Addicted to pleasure; luxurious; voluptuous; alluring.,
D as in Delicate (a.) Pleasing to the senses; refinedly agreeable; hence, adapted to please a nice or cultivated taste; nice; fine; elegant; as, a delicate dish; delicate flavor.,
D as in Delicate (a.) Slight and shapely; lovely; graceful; as, "a delicate creature.",
D as in Delicate (a.) Fine or slender; minute; not coarse; -- said of a thread, or the like; as, delicate cotton.,
D as in Delicate (a.) Slight or smooth; light and yielding; -- said of texture; as, delicate lace or silk.,
D as in Delicate (a.) Soft and fair; -- said of the skin or a surface; as, a delicate cheek; a delicate complexion.,
D as in Delicate (a.) Light, or softly tinted; -- said of a color; as, a delicate blue.,
D as in Delicate (a.) Refined; gentle; scrupulous not to trespass or offend; considerate; -- said of manners, conduct, or feelings; as, delicate behavior; delicate attentions; delicate thoughtfulness.,
D as in Delicate (a.) Tender; not able to endure hardship; feeble; frail; effeminate; -- said of constitution, health, etc.; as, a delicate child; delicate health.,
D as in Delicate (a.) Requiring careful handling; not to be rudely or hastily dealt with; nice; critical; as, a delicate subject or question.,
D as in Delicate (a.) Of exacting tastes and habits; dainty; fastidious.,
D as in Delicate (a.) Nicely discriminating or perceptive; refinedly critical; sensitive; exquisite; as, a delicate taste; a delicate ear for music.,
D as in Delicate (a.) Affected by slight causes; showing slight changes; as, a delicate thermometer.,
D as in Delicate (n.) A choice dainty; a delicacy.,
D as in Delicate (n.) A delicate, luxurious, or effeminate person.,
D as in Delicately (adv.) In a delicate manner.,
D as in Delicateness (n.) The quality of being delicate.,
D as in Delices (n. pl.) Delicacies; delights.,
D as in Deliciate (v. t.) To delight one's self; to indulge in feasting; to revel.,
D as in Delicious (a.) Affording exquisite pleasure; delightful; most sweet or grateful to the senses, especially to the taste; charming.,
D as in Delicious (a.) Addicted to pleasure; seeking enjoyment; luxurious; effeminate.,
D as in Deliciously (adv.) Delightfully; as, to feed deliciously; to be deliciously entertained.,
D as in Deliciousness (n.) The quality of being delicious; as, the deliciousness of a repast.,
D as in Deliciousness (n.) Luxury.,
D as in Delict (n.) An offense or transgression against law; (Scots Law) an offense of a lesser degree; a misdemeanor.,
D as in Deligate (v. t.) To bind up; to bandage.,
D as in Deligation (n.) A binding up; a bandaging.,
D as in Delight (v. t.) A high degree of gratification of mind; a high- wrought state of pleasurable feeling; lively pleasure; extreme satisfaction; joy.,
D as in Delight (v. t.) That which gives great pleasure or delight.,
D as in Delight (v. t.) Licentious pleasure; lust.,
D as in Delighted (imp. & p. p.) of Delight,
D as in Delighting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Delight,
D as in Delight (v. t.) To give delight to; to affect with great pleasure; to please highly; as, a beautiful landscape delights the eye; harmony delights the ear.,
D as in Delight (v. i.) To have or take great delight or pleasure; to be greatly pleased or rejoiced; -- followed by an infinitive, or by in.,
D as in Delightable (a.) Capable of delighting; delightful.,
D as in Delighted (a.) Endowed with delight.,
D as in Delightedly (adv.) With delight; gladly.,
D as in Delighter (n.) One who gives or takes delight.,
D as in Delightful (a.) Highly pleasing; affording great pleasure and satisfaction.,
D as in Delighting (a.) Giving delight; gladdening.,
D as in Delightless (a.) Void of delight.,
D as in Delightous (a.) Delightful.,
D as in Delightsome (a.) Very pleasing; delightful.,
D as in Delilah (n.) The mistress of Samson, who betrayed him (Judges xvi.); hence, a harlot; a temptress.,
D as in Delimit (v. t.) To fix the limits of; to demarcate; to bound.,
D as in Delimitation (n.) The act or process of fixing limits or boundaries; limitation.,
D as in Deline (v. t.) To delineate.,
D as in Deline (v. t.) To mark out.,
D as in Delineable (a.) Capable of being, or liable to be, delineated.,
D as in Delineament (/.) Delineation; sketch.,
D as in Delineate (a.) Delineated; portrayed.,
D as in Delineated (imp. & p. p.) of Delineate,
D as in Delineating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Delineate,
D as in Delineate (v. t.) To indicate by lines drawn in the form or figure of; to represent by sketch, design, or diagram; to sketch out; to portray; to picture; in drawing and engraving, to represent in lines, as with the pen, pencil, or graver; hence, to represent with accuracy and minuteness. See Delineation.,
D as in Delineate (v. t.) To portray to the mind or understanding by words; to set forth; to describe.,
D as in Delineation (n.) The act of representing, portraying, or describing, as by lines, diagrams, sketches, etc.; drawing an outline; as, the delineation of a scene or face; in drawing and engraving, representation by means of lines, as distinguished from representation by means of tints and shades; accurate and minute representation, as distinguished from art that is careless of details, or subordinates them excessively.,
D as in Delineation (n.) A delineated picture; representation; sketch; description in words.,
D as in Delineator (n.) One who, or that which, delineates; a sketcher.,
D as in Delineator (n.) A perambulator which records distances and delineates a profile, as of a road.,
D as in Delineatory (a.) That delineates; descriptive; drawing the outline; delineating.,
D as in Delineature (n.) Delineation.,
D as in Delinition (n.) A smearing.,
D as in Delinquencies (pl. ) of Delinquency,
D as in Delinquency (n.) Failure or omission of duty; a fault; a misdeed; an offense; a misdemeanor; a crime.,
D as in Delinquent (n.) Failing in duty; offending by neglect of duty.,
D as in Delinquent (n.) One who fails or neglects to perform his duty; an offender or transgressor; one who commits a fault or a crime; a culprit.,
D as in Delinquently (adv.) So as to fail in duty.,
D as in Deliquate (v. i.) To melt or be dissolved; to deliquesce.,
D as in Deliquate (v. t.) To cause to melt away; to dissolve; to consume; to waste.,
D as in Deliquation (n.) A melting.,
D as in Deliquesced (imp. & p. p.) of Deliquesce,
D as in Deliquescing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Deliquesce,
D as in Deliquesce (v. i.) To dissolve gradually and become liquid by attracting and absorbing moisture from the air, as certain salts, acids, and alkalies.,
D as in Deliquescence (n.) The act of deliquescing or liquefying; process by which anything deliquesces; tendency to melt.,
D as in Deliquescent (a.) Dissolving; liquefying by contact with the air; capable of attracting moisture from the atmosphere and becoming liquid; as, deliquescent salts.,
D as in Deliquescent (a.) Branching so that the stem is lost in branches, as in most deciduous trees.,
D as in Deliquiate (v. i.) To melt and become liquid by absorbing water from the air; to deliquesce.,
D as in Deliquiation (n.) The act of deliquiating.,
D as in Deliquium (n.) A melting or dissolution in the air, or in a moist place; a liquid condition; as, a salt falls into a deliquium.,
D as in Deliquium (n.) A sinking away; a swooning.,
D as in Deliquium (n.) A melting or maudlin mood.,
D as in Deliracy (n.) Delirium.,
D as in Delirament (n.) A wandering of the mind; a crazy fancy.,
D as in Delirancy (n.) Delirium.,
D as in Delirant (a.) Delirious.,
D as in Delirate (v. t. & i.) To madden; to rave.,
D as in Deliration (n.) Aberration of mind; delirium.,
D as in Deliriant (n.) A poison which occasions a persistent delirium, or mental aberration (as belladonna).,
D as in Delirifacient (a.) Producing, or tending to produce, delirium.,
D as in Delirifacient (n.) Any substance which tends to cause delirium.,
D as in Delirious (a.) Having a delirium; wandering in mind; light-headed; insane; raving; wild; as, a delirious patient; delirious fancies.,
D as in Delirium (n.) A state in which the thoughts, expressions, and actions are wild, irregular, and incoherent; mental aberration; a roving or wandering of the mind, -- usually dependent on a fever or some other disease, and so distinguished from mania, or madness.,
D as in Delirium (n.) Strong excitement; wild enthusiasm; madness.,
D as in Delit (n.) Delight.,
D as in Delitable (a.) Delightful; delectable.,
D as in Delitescence (n.) Concealment; seclusion; retirement.,
D as in Delitescence (n.) The sudden disappearance of inflammation.,
D as in Delitescency (n.) Concealment; seclusion.,
D as in Delitescent (a.) Lying hid; concealed.,
D as in Delitigate (v. i.) To chide; to rail heartily.,
D as in Delitigation (n.) Chiding; brawl.,
D as in Delivered (imp. & p. p.) of Deliver,
D as in Delivering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Deliver,
D as in Deliver (v. t.) To set free from restraint; to set at liberty; to release; to liberate, as from control; to give up; to free; to save; to rescue from evil actual or feared; -- often with from or out of; as, to deliver one from captivity, or from fear of death.,
D as in Deliver (v. t.) To give or transfer; to yield possession or control of; to part with (to); to make over; to commit; to surrender; to resign; -- often with up or over, to or into.,
D as in Deliver (v. t.) To make over to the knowledge of another; to communicate; to utter; to speak; to impart.,
D as in Deliver (v. t.) To give forth in action or exercise; to discharge; as, to deliver a blow; to deliver a broadside, or a ball.,
D as in Deliver (v. t.) To free from, or disburden of, young; to relieve of a child in childbirth; to bring forth; -- often with of.,
D as in Deliver (v. t.) To discover; to show.,
D as in Deliver (v. t.) To deliberate.,
D as in Deliver (v. t.) To admit; to allow to pass.,
D as in Deliver (v. t.) Free; nimble; sprightly; active.,
D as in Deliverable (a.) Capable of being, or about to be, delivered; necessary to be delivered.,
D as in Deliverance (n.) The act of delivering or freeing from restraint, captivity, peril, and the like; rescue; as, the deliverance of a captive.,
D as in Deliverance (n.) Act of bringing forth children.,
D as in Deliverance (n.) Act of speaking; utterance.,
D as in Deliverance (n.) The state of being delivered, or freed from restraint.,
D as in Deliverance (n.) Anything delivered or communicated; esp., an opinion or decision expressed publicly.,
D as in Deliverance (n.) Any fact or truth which is decisively attested or intuitively known as a psychological or philosophical datum; as, the deliverance of consciousness.,
D as in Deliverer (n.) One who delivers or rescues; a preserver.,
D as in Deliverer (n.) One who relates or communicates.,
D as in Deliveress (n.) A female deliverer.,
D as in Deliverly (adv.) Actively; quickly; nimbly.,
D as in Deliverness (n.) Nimbleness; agility.,
D as in Deliveries (pl. ) of Delivery,
D as in Delivery (n.) The act of delivering from restraint; rescue; release; liberation; as, the delivery of a captive from his dungeon.,
D as in Delivery (n.) The act of delivering up or over; surrender; transfer of the body or substance of a thing; distribution; as, the delivery of a fort, of hostages, of a criminal, of goods, of letters.,
D as in Delivery (n.) The act or style of utterance; manner of speaking; as, a good delivery; a clear delivery.,
D as in Delivery (n.) The act of giving birth; parturition; the expulsion or extraction of a fetus and its membranes.,
D as in Delivery (n.) The act of exerting one's strength or limbs.,
D as in Delivery (n.) The act or manner of delivering a ball; as, the pitcher has a swift delivery.,
D as in Dell (n.) A small, retired valley; a ravine.,
D as in Dell (n.) A young woman; a wench.,
D as in Della Crusca () A shortened form of Accademia della Crusca, an academy in Florence, Italy, founded in the 16th century, especially for conserving the purity of the Italian language.,
D as in Dellacruscan (a.) Of or pertaining to the Accademia della Crusca in Florence.,
D as in Deloo (n.) The duykerbok.,
D as in Deloul (n.) A special breed of the dromedary used for rapid traveling; the swift camel; -- called also herire, and maharik.,
D as in Delph (n.) Delftware.,
D as in Delph (n.) The drain on the land side of a sea embankment.,
D as in Delphian (a.) Delphic.,
D as in Delphic (a.) Of or relating to Delphi, or to the famous oracle of that place.,
D as in Delphic (a.) Ambiguous; mysterious.,
D as in Delphin (a.) Alt. of Delphine,
D as in Delphine (a.) Pertaining to the dauphin of France; as, the Delphin classics, an edition of the Latin classics, prepared in the reign of Louis XIV., for the use of the dauphin (in usum Delphini).,
D as in Delphin (n.) A fatty substance contained in the oil of the dolphin and the porpoise; -- called also phocenin.,
D as in Delphine (a.) Pertaining to the dolphin, a genus of fishes.,
D as in Delphinic (n.) Pertaining to, or derived from, the dolphin; phocenic.,
D as in Delphinic (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, the larkspur; specifically, relating to the stavesacre (Delphinium staphisagria).,
D as in Delphinine (n.) A poisonous alkaloid extracted from the stavesacre (Delphinium staphisagria), as a colorless amorphous powder.,
D as in Delphinoid (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, the dolphin.,
D as in Delphinoidea (n. pl.) The division of Cetacea which comprises the dolphins, porpoises, and related forms.,
D as in Delphinus (n.) A genus of Cetacea, including the dolphin. See Dolphin, 1.,
D as in Delphinus (n.) The Dolphin, a constellation near the equator and east of Aquila.,
D as in Deltas (pl. ) of Delta,
D as in Delta (n.) A tract of land shaped like the letter delta (/), especially when the land is alluvial and inclosed between two or more mouths of a river; as, the delta of the Ganges, of the Nile, or of the Mississippi.,
D as in Deltafication (n.) The formation of a delta or of deltas.,
D as in Deltaic (a.) Relating to, or like, a delta.,
D as in Delthyris (n.) A name formerly given to certain Silurian brachiopod shells of the genus Spirifer.,
D as in Deltic (a.) Deltaic.,
D as in Deltidium (n.) The triangular space under the beak of many brachiopod shells.,
D as in Deltohedron (n.) A solid bounded by twelve quadrilateral faces. It is a hemihedral form of the isometric system, allied to the tetrahedron.,
D as in Deltoid (a.) Shaped like the Greek / (delta); delta-shaped; triangular.,
D as in Deludable (a.) Capable of being deluded; liable to be imposed on; gullible.,
D as in Deluded (imp. & p. p.) of Delude,
D as in Deluding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Delude,
D as in Delude (v. t.) To lead from truth or into error; to mislead the mind or judgment of; to beguile; to impose on; to dupe; to make a fool of.,
D as in Delude (v. t.) To frustrate or disappoint.,
D as in Deluder (n.) One who deludes; a deceiver; an impostor.,
D as in Deluge (n.) A washing away; an overflowing of the land by water; an inundation; a flood; specifically, The Deluge, the great flood in the days of Noah (Gen. vii.).,
D as in Deluge (n.) Fig.: Anything which overwhelms, or causes great destruction.,
D as in Deluged (imp. & p. p.) of Deluge,
D as in Deluging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Deluge,
D as in Deluge (v. t.) To overflow with water; to inundate; to overwhelm.,
D as in Deluge (v. t.) To overwhelm, as with a deluge; to cover; to overspread; to overpower; to submerge; to destroy; as, the northern nations deluged the Roman empire with their armies; the land is deluged with woe.,
D as in Delundung (n.) An East Indian carnivorous mammal (Prionodon gracilis), resembling the civets, but without scent pouches. It is handsomely spotted.,
D as in Delusion (n.) The act of deluding; deception; a misleading of the mind.,
D as in Delusion (n.) The state of being deluded or misled.,
D as in Delusion (n.) That which is falsely or delusively believed or propagated; false belief; error in belief.,
D as in Delusional (a.) Of or pertaining to delusions; as, delusional monomania.,
D as in Delusive (a.) Apt or fitted to delude; tending to mislead the mind; deceptive; beguiling; delusory; as, delusive arts; a delusive dream.,
D as in Delusory (a.) Delusive; fallacious.,
D as in Delved (imp. & p. p.) of Delve,
D as in Delving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Delve,
D as in Delve (v. t.) To dig; to open (the ground) as with a spade.,
D as in Delve (v. t.) To dig into; to penetrate; to trace out; to fathom.,
D as in Delve (v. i.) To dig or labor with a spade, or as with a spade; to labor as a drudge.,
D as in Delve (v. t.) A place dug; a pit; a ditch; a den; a cave.,
D as in Delver (n.) One who digs, as with a spade.,
D as in Demagnetize (v. t.) To deprive of magnetic properties. See Magnetize.,
D as in Demagnetize (v. t.) To free from mesmeric influence; to demesmerize.,
D as in Demagog (n.) Demagogue.,
D as in Demagogic (a.) Alt. of Demagogical,
D as in Demagogical (a.) Relating to, or like, a demagogue; factious.,
D as in Demagogism (n.) The practices of a demagogue.,
D as in Demagogue (n.) A leader of the rabble; one who attempts to control the multitude by specious or deceitful arts; an unprincipled and factious mob orator or political leader.,
D as in Demagogy (n.) Demagogism.,
D as in Demain (n.) Rule; management.,
D as in Demain (n.) See Demesne.,
D as in Demanded (imp. & p. p.) of Demand,
D as in Demanding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Demand,
D as in Demand (v. t.) To ask or call for with authority; to claim or seek from, as by authority or right; to claim, as something due; to call for urgently or peremptorily; as, to demand a debt; to demand obedience.,
D as in Demand (v. t.) To inquire authoritatively or earnestly; to ask, esp. in a peremptory manner; to question.,
D as in Demand (v. t.) To require as necessary or useful; to be in urgent need of; hence, to call for; as, the case demands care.,
D as in Demand (v. t.) To call into court; to summon.,
D as in Demand (v. i.) To make a demand; to inquire.,
D as in Demand (v. t.) The act of demanding; an asking with authority; a peremptory urging of a claim; a claiming or challenging as due; requisition; as, the demand of a creditor; a note payable on demand.,
D as in Demand (v. t.) Earnest inquiry; question; query.,
D as in Demand (v. t.) A diligent seeking or search; manifested want; desire to possess; request; as, a demand for certain goods; a person's company is in great demand.,
D as in Demand (v. t.) That which one demands or has a right to demand; thing claimed as due; claim; as, demands on an estate.,
D as in Demand (v. t.) The asking or seeking for what is due or claimed as due.,
D as in Demand (v. t.) The right or title in virtue of which anything may be claimed; as, to hold a demand against a person.,
D as in Demand (v. t.) A thing or amount claimed to be due.,
D as in Demandable (a.) That may be demanded or claimed.,
D as in Demandant (n.) One who demands; the plaintiff in a real action; any plaintiff.,
D as in Demander (n.) One who demands.,
D as in Demandress (n.) A woman who demands.,
D as in Demantoid (n.) A yellow-green, transparent variety of garnet found in the Urals. It is valued as a gem because of its brilliancy of luster, whence the name.,
D as in Demarcate (v. t.) To mark by bounds; to set the limits of; to separate; to discriminate.,
D as in Demarcation (n.) The act of marking, or of ascertaining and setting a limit; separation; distinction.,
D as in Demarch (n.) March; walk; gait.,
D as in Demarch (n.) A chief or ruler of a deme or district in Greece.,
D as in Demarkation (n.) Same as Demarcation.,
D as in Dematerialize (v. t.) To deprive of material or physical qualities or characteristics.,
D as in Deme (n.) A territorial subdivision of Attica (also of modern Greece), corresponding to a township.,
D as in Deme (n.) An undifferentiated aggregate of cells or plastids.,
D as in Demeaned (imp. & p. p.) of Demean,
D as in Demeaning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Demean,
D as in Demean (v. t.) To manage; to conduct; to treat.,
D as in Demean (v. t.) To conduct; to behave; to comport; -- followed by the reflexive pronoun.,
D as in Demean (v. t.) To debase; to lower; to degrade; -- followed by the reflexive pronoun.,
D as in Demean (v. t.) Management; treatment.,
D as in Demean (v. t.) Behavior; conduct; bearing; demeanor.,
D as in Demean (n.) Demesne.,
D as in Demean (n.) Resources; means.,
D as in Demeanance (n.) Demeanor.,
D as in Demeanor (v. t.) Management; treatment; conduct.,
D as in Demeanor (v. t.) Behavior; deportment; carriage; bearing; mien.,
D as in Demeanure (n.) Behavior.,
D as in Demency (n.) Dementia; loss of mental powers. See Insanity.,
D as in Dement (v. t.) To deprive of reason; to make mad.,
D as in Dement (a.) Demented; dementate.,
D as in Dementate (v. t.) Deprived of reason.,
D as in Dementate (v. t.) To deprive of reason; to dement.,
D as in Dementation (n.) The act of depriving of reason; madness.,
D as in Demented (a.) Insane; mad; of unsound mind.,
D as in Dementia (n.) Insanity; madness; esp. that form which consists in weakness or total loss of thought and reason; mental imbecility; idiocy.,
D as in Demephitized (imp. & p. p.) of Demephitize,
D as in Demephitizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Demephitize,
D as in Demephitize (v. t.) To purify from mephitic or foul air.,
D as in Demerge (v. t.) To plunge down into; to sink; to immerse.,
D as in Demerit (n.) That which one merits or deserves, either of good or ill; desert.,
D as in Demerit (n.) That which deserves blame; ill desert; a fault; a vice; misconduct; -- the opposite of merit.,
D as in Demerit (n.) The state of one who deserves ill.,
D as in Demerit (n.) To deserve; -- said in reference to both praise and blame.,
D as in Demerit (n.) To depreciate or cry down.,
D as in Demerit (v. i.) To deserve praise or blame.,
D as in Demerse (v. t.) To immerse.,
D as in Demersed (a.) Situated or growing under water, as leaves; submersed.,
D as in Demersion (n.) The act of plunging into a fluid; a drowning.,
D as in Demersion (n.) The state of being overwhelmed in water, or as if in water.,
D as in Demesmerize (v. t.) To relieve from mesmeric influence. See Mesmerize.,
D as in Demesne (n.) A lord's chief manor place, with that part of the lands belonging thereto which has not been granted out in tenancy; a house, and the land adjoining, kept for the proprietor's own use.,
D as in Demesnial (a.) Of or pertaining to a demesne; of the nature of a demesne.,
D as in Demi- () A prefix, signifying half.,
D as in Demi (n.) See Demy, n.,
D as in Demibastion (n.) A half bastion, or that part of a bastion consisting of one face and one flank.,
D as in Demibrigade (n.) A half brigade.,
D as in Demicadence (n.) An imperfect or half cadence, falling on the dominant instead of on the key note.,
D as in Demicannon (n.) A kind of ordnance, carrying a ball weighing from thirty to thirty-six pounds.,
D as in Demicircle (n.) An instrument for measuring angles, in surveying, etc. It resembles a protractor, but has an alidade, sights, and a compass.,
D as in Demiculverin (n.) A kind of ordnance, carrying a ball weighing from nine to thirteen pounds.,
D as in Demideify (v. t.) To deify in part.,
D as in Demidevil (n.) A half devil.,
D as in Demigod (n.) A half god, or an inferior deity; a fabulous hero, the offspring of a deity and a mortal.,
D as in Demigoddess (n.) A female demigod.,
D as in Demigorge (n.) Half the gorge, or entrance into a bastion, taken from the angle of the flank to the center of the bastion.,
D as in Demigrate (v. i.) To emigrate.,
D as in Demigration (n.) Emigration.,
D as in Demigroat (n.) A half groat.,
D as in Demi-island (n.) Peninsula.,
D as in Demijohn (n.) A glass vessel or bottle with a large body and small neck, inclosed in wickerwork.,
D as in Demilance (n.) A light lance; a short spear; a half pike; also, a demilancer.,
D as in Demilancer (n.) A soldier of light cavalry of the 16th century, who carried a demilance.,
D as in Demilune (n.) A work constructed beyond the main ditch of a fortress, and in front of the curtain between two bastions, intended to defend the curtain; a ravelin. See Ravelin.,
D as in Demilune (n.) A crescentic mass of granular protoplasm present in the salivary glands.,
D as in Demiman (n.) A half man.,
D as in Demimonde (n.) Persons of doubtful reputation; esp., women who are kept as mistresses, though not public prostitutes; demireps.,
D as in Deminatured (a.) Having half the nature of another.,
D as in Demiquaver (n.) A note of half the length of the quaver; a semiquaver.,
D as in Demirelief (n.) Alt. of Demirelievo,
D as in Demirelievo (n.) Half relief. See Demi-rilievo.,
D as in Demirep (n.) A woman of doubtful reputation or suspected character; an adventuress.,
D as in Demi-rilievo (n.) Half relief; sculpture in relief of which the figures project from the background by one half their full roundness.,
D as in Demi-rilievo (n.) A work of sculpture of the above character. See Alto-rilievo.,
D as in Demisability (n.) The state of being demisable.,
D as in Demisable (a.) Capable of being leased; as, a demisable estate.,
D as in Demise (n.) Transmission by formal act or conveyance to an heir or successor; transference; especially, the transfer or transmission of the crown or royal authority to a successor.,
D as in Demise (n.) The decease of a royal or princely person; hence, also, the death of any illustrious person.,
D as in Demise (n.) The conveyance or transfer of an estate, either in fee for life or for years, most commonly the latter.,
D as in Demised (imp. & p. p.) of Demise,
D as in Demising (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Demise,
D as in Demise (v. t.) To transfer or transmit by succession or inheritance; to grant or bestow by will; to bequeath.,
D as in Demise (v. t.) To convey; to give.,
D as in Demise (v. t.) To convey, as an estate, by lease; to lease.,
D as in Demisemiquaver (n.) A short note, equal in time to the half of a semiquaver, or the thirty-second part of a whole note.,
D as in Demiss (a.) Cast down; humble; submissive.,
D as in Demission (n.) The act of demitting, or the state of being demitted; a letting down; a lowering; dejection.,
D as in Demission (n.) Resignation of an office.,
D as in Demissionary (a.) Pertaining to transfer or conveyance; as, a demissionary deed.,
D as in Demissionary (a.) Tending to lower, depress, or degrade.,
D as in Demissive (a.) Downcast; submissive; humble.,
D as in Demissly (adv.) In a humble manner.,
D as in Demisuit (n.) A suit of light armor covering less than the whole body, as having no protection for the legs below the thighs, no vizor to the helmet, and the like.,
D as in Demitted (imp. & p. p.) of Demit,
D as in Demitting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Demit,
D as in Demit (v. t.) To let fall; to depress.,
D as in Demit (v. t.) To yield or submit; to humble; to lower; as, to demit one's self to humble duties.,
D as in Demit (v. t.) To lay down, as an office; to resign.,
D as in Demitint (n.) That part of a painting, engraving, or the like, which is neither in full darkness nor full light.,
D as in Demitint (n.) The shade itself; neither the darkest nor the lightest in a composition. Also called half tint.,
D as in Demitone (n.) Semitone.,
D as in Demiurge (n.) The chief magistrate in some of the Greek states.,
D as in Demiurge (n.) God, as the Maker of the world.,
D as in Demiurge (n.) According to the Gnostics, an agent or one employed by the Supreme Being to create the material universe and man.,
D as in Demiurgic (a.) Pertaining to a demiurge; formative; creative.,
D as in Demivill (n.) A half vill, consisting of five freemen or frankpledges.,
D as in Demivolt (n.) A half vault; one of the seven artificial motions of a horse, in which he raises his fore legs in a particular manner.,
D as in Demiwolf (n.) A half wolf; a mongrel dog, between a dog and a wolf.,
D as in Demobilization (n.) The disorganization or disarming of troops which have previously been mobilized or called into active service; the change from a war footing to a peace footing.,
D as in Demobilize (v. t.) To disorganize, or disband and send home, as troops which have been mobilized.,
D as in Democracies (pl. ) of Democracy,
D as in Democracy (n.) Government by the people; a form of government in which the supreme power is retained and directly exercised by the people.,
D as in Democracy (n.) Government by popular representation; a form of government in which the supreme power is retained by the people, but is indirectly exercised through a system of representation and delegated authority periodically renewed; a constitutional representative government; a republic.,
D as in Democracy (n.) Collectively, the people, regarded as the source of government.,
D as in Democracy (n.) The principles and policy of the Democratic party, so called.,
D as in Democrat (n.) One who is an adherent or advocate of democracy, or government by the people.,
D as in Democrat (n.) A member of the Democratic party.,
D as in Democratic (a.) Pertaining to democracy; favoring democracy, or constructed upon the principle of government by the people.,
D as in Democratic (a.) Relating to a political party so called.,
D as in Democratic (a.) Befitting the common people; -- opposed to aristocratic.,
D as in Democratical (a.) Democratic.,
D as in Democratically (adv.) In a democratic manner.,
D as in Democratism (n.) The principles or spirit of a democracy.,
D as in Democratist (n.) A democrat.,
D as in Democratize (v. t.) To render democratic.,
D as in Democraty (n.) Democracy.,
D as in Demogorgon (n.) A mysterious, terrible, and evil divinity, regarded by some as the author of creation, by others as a great magician who was supposed to command the spirits of the lower world. See Gorgon.,
D as in Demography (n.) The study of races, as to births, marriages, mortality, health, etc.,
D as in Demoiselle (n.) A young lady; a damsel; a lady's maid.,
D as in Demoiselle (n.) The Numidian crane (Anthropoides virgo); -- so called on account of the grace and symmetry of its form and movements.,
D as in Demoiselle (n.) A beautiful, small dragon fly of the genus Agrion.,
D as in Demolished (imp. & p. p.) of Demolish,
D as in Demolishing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Demolish,
D as in Demolish (v. t.) To throw or pull down; to raze; to destroy the fabric of; to pull to pieces; to ruin; as, to demolish an edifice, or a wall.,
D as in Demolisher (n.) One who, or that which, demolishes; as, a demolisher of towns.,
D as in Demolishment (n.) Demolition.,
D as in Demolition (n.) The act of overthrowing, pulling down, or destroying a pile or structure; destruction by violence; utter overthrow; -- opposed to construction; as, the demolition of a house, of military works, of a town, or of hopes.,
D as in Demolitionist (n.) A demolisher.,
D as in Demon (n.) A spirit, or immaterial being, holding a middle place between men and deities in pagan mythology.,
D as in Demon (n.) One's genius; a tutelary spirit or internal voice; as, the demon of Socrates.,
D as in Demon (n.) An evil spirit; a devil.,
D as in Demoness (n.) A female demon.,
D as in Demonetization (n.) The act of demonetizing, or the condition of being demonetized.,
D as in Demonetize (v. t.) To deprive of current value; to withdraw from use, as money.,
D as in Demoniac (a.) Alt. of Demoniacal,
D as in Demoniacal (a.) Pertaining to, or characteristic of, a demon or evil spirit; devilish; as, a demoniac being; demoniacal practices.,
D as in Demoniacal (a.) Influenced or produced by a demon or evil spirit; as, demoniac or demoniacal power.,
D as in Demoniac (n.) A human being possessed by a demon or evil spirit; one whose faculties are directly controlled by a demon.,
D as in Demoniac (n.) One of a sect of Anabaptists who maintain that the demons or devils will finally be saved.,
D as in Demoniacally (adv.) In a demoniacal manner.,
D as in Demoniacism (n.) The state of being demoniac, or the practices of demoniacs.,
D as in Demonial (a.) Of or pertaining to a demon.,
D as in Demonian (a.) Relating to, or having the nature of, a demon.,
D as in Demonianism (n.) The state of being possessed by a demon or by demons.,
D as in Demoniasm (n.) See Demonianism.,
D as in Demonic (a.) Of or pertaining to a demon or to demons; demoniac.,
D as in Demonism (n.) The belief in demons or false gods.,
D as in Demonist (n.) A believer in, or worshiper of, demons.,
D as in Demonized (imp. & p. p.) of Demonize,
D as in Demonizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Demonize,
D as in Demonize (v. t.) To convert into a demon; to infuse the principles or fury of a demon into.,
D as in Demonize (v. t.) To control or possess by a demon.,
D as in Demonocracy (n.) The power or government of demons.,
D as in Demonographer (n.) A demonologist.,
D as in Demonolatry (n.) The worship of demons.,
D as in Demonologer (n.) One versed in demonology.,
D as in Demonologic (a.) Alt. of Demonological,
D as in Demonological (a.) Of or pertaining to demonology.,
D as in Demonologist (n.) One who writes on, or is versed in, demonology.,
D as in Demonology (n.) A treatise on demons; a supposititious science which treats of demons and their manifestations.,
D as in Demonomagy (n.) Magic in which the aid of demons is invoked; black or infernal magic.,
D as in Demonomania (n.) A form of madness in which the patient conceives himself possessed of devils.,
D as in Demonomist (n.) One in subjection to a demon, or to demons.,
D as in Demonomy (n.) The dominion of demons.,
D as in Demonry (n.) Demoniacal influence or possession.,
D as in Demonship (n.) The state of a demon.,
D as in Demonstrability (n.) The quality of being demonstrable; demonstrableness.,
D as in Demonstrable (a.) Capable of being demonstrated; that can be proved beyond doubt or question.,
D as in Demonstrable (a.) Proved; apparent.,
D as in Demonstrableness (n.) The quality of being demonstrable; demonstrability.,
D as in Demonstrably (adv.) In a demonstrable manner; incontrovertibly; clearly.,
D as in Demonstrance (n.) Demonstration; proof.,
D as in Demonstrate (v. t.) To point out; to show; to exhibit; to make evident.,
D as in Demonstrate (v. t.) To show, or make evident, by reasoning or proof; to prove by deduction; to establish so as to exclude the possibility of doubt or denial.,
D as in Demonstrate (v. t.) To exhibit and explain (a dissection or other anatomical preparation).,
D as in Demonstrater (n.) See Demonstrator.,
D as in Demonstration (n.) The act of demonstrating; an exhibition; proof; especially, proof beyond the possibility of doubt; indubitable evidence, to the senses or reason.,
D as in Demonstration (n.) An expression, as of the feelings, by outward signs; a manifestation; a show.,
D as in Demonstration (n.) The exhibition and explanation of a dissection or other anatomical preparation.,
D as in Demonstration (n.) (Mil.) a decisive exhibition of force, or a movement indicating an attack.,
D as in Demonstration (n.) The act of proving by the syllogistic process, or the proof itself.,
D as in Demonstration (n.) A course of reasoning showing that a certain result is a necessary consequence of assumed premises; -- these premises being definitions, axioms, and previously established propositions.,
D as in Demonstrative (a.) Having the nature of demonstration; tending to demonstrate; making evident; exhibiting clearly or conclusively.,
D as in Demonstrative (a.) Expressing, or apt to express, much; displaying feeling or sentiment; as, her nature was demonstrative.,
D as in Demonstrative (a.) Consisting of eulogy or of invective.,
D as in Demonstrative (n.) A demonstrative pronoun; as, "this" and "that" are demonstratives.,
D as in Demonstratively (adv.) In a manner fitted to demonstrate; clearly; convincingly; forcibly.,
D as in Demonstrativeness (n.) The state or quality of being demonstrative.,
D as in Demonstrator (n.) One who demonstrates; one who proves anything with certainty, or establishes it by indubitable evidence.,
D as in Demonstrator (n.) A teacher of practical anatomy.,
D as in Demonstratory (a.) Tending to demonstrate; demonstrative.,
D as in Demorage (n.) Demurrage.,
D as in Demoralization (n.) The act of corrupting or subverting morals. Especially: The act of corrupting or subverting discipline, courage, hope, etc., or the state of being corrupted or subverted in discipline, courage, etc.; as, the demoralization of an army or navy.,
D as in Demoralized (imp. & p. p.) of Demoralize,
D as in Demoralizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Demoralize,
D as in Demoralize (v. t.) To corrupt or undermine in morals; to destroy or lessen the effect of moral principles on; to render corrupt or untrustworthy in morals, in discipline, in courage, spirit, etc.; to weaken in spirit or efficiency.,
D as in Demosthenic (a.) Pertaining to, or in the style of, Demosthenes, the Grecian orator.,
D as in Demotic (a.) Of or pertaining to the people; popular; common.,
D as in Demount (v. i.) To dismount.,
D as in Dempne (v. t.) To damn; to condemn.,
D as in Dempster (n.) Alt. of Demster,
D as in Demster (n.) A deemster.,
D as in Demster (n.) An officer whose duty it was to announce the doom or sentence pronounced by the court.,
D as in Demulce (v. t.) To soothe; to mollify; to pacify; to soften.,
D as in Demulcent (a.) Softening; mollifying; soothing; assuasive; as, oil is demulcent.,
D as in Demulcent (n.) A substance, usually of a mucilaginous or oily nature, supposed to be capable of soothing an inflamed nervous membrane, or protecting it from irritation. Gum Arabic, glycerin, olive oil, etc., are demulcents.,
D as in Demulsion (n.) The act of soothing; that which soothes.,
D as in Demurred (imp. & p. p.) of Demur,
D as in Demurring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Demur,
D as in Demur (v. i.) To linger; to stay; to tarry.,
D as in Demur (v. i.) To delay; to pause; to suspend proceedings or judgment in view of a doubt or difficulty; to hesitate; to put off the determination or conclusion of an affair.,
D as in Demur (v. i.) To scruple or object; to take exception; as, I demur to that statement.,
D as in Demur (v. i.) To interpose a demurrer. See Demurrer, 2.,
D as in Demur (v. t.) To suspend judgment concerning; to doubt of or hesitate about.,
D as in Demur (v. t.) To cause delay to; to put off.,
D as in Demur (v. i.) Stop; pause; hesitation as to proceeding; suspense of decision or action; scruple.,
D as in Demure (a.) Of sober or serious mien; composed and decorous in bearing; of modest look; staid; grave.,
D as in Demure (a.) Affectedly modest, decorous, or serious; making a show of gravity.,
D as in Demure (v. i.) To look demurely.,
D as in Demurely (adv.) In a demure manner; soberly; gravely; -- now, commonly, with a mere show of gravity or modesty.,
D as in Demureness (n.) The state of being demure; gravity; the show of gravity or modesty.,
D as in Demurity (n.) Demureness; also, one who is demure.,
D as in Demurrable (a.) That may be demurred to.,
D as in Demurrage (n.) The detention of a vessel by the freighter beyond the time allowed in her charter party for loading, unloading, or sailing.,
D as in Demurrage (n.) The allowance made to the master or owner of the ship for such delay or detention.,
D as in Demurral (n.) Demur; delay in acting or deciding.,
D as in Demurrer (n.) One who demurs.,
D as in Demurrer (n.) A stop or pause by a party to an action, for the judgment of the court on the question, whether, assuming the truth of the matter alleged by the opposite party, it is sufficient in law to sustain the action or defense, and hence whether the party resting is bound to answer or proceed further.,
D as in Demies (pl. ) of Demy,
D as in Demy (n.) A printing and a writing paper of particular sizes. See under Paper.,
D as in Demy (n.) A half fellow at Magdalen College, Oxford.,
D as in Demy (a.) Pertaining to, or made of, the size of paper called demy; as, a demy book.,
D as in Den (n.) A small cavern or hollow place in the side of a hill, or among rocks; esp., a cave used by a wild beast for shelter or concealment; as, a lion's den; a den of robbers.,
D as in Den (n.) A squalid place of resort; a wretched dwelling place; a haunt; as, a den of vice.,
D as in Den (n.) Any snug or close retreat where one goes to be alone.,
D as in Den (n.) A narrow glen; a ravine; a dell.,
D as in Den (v. i.) To live in, or as in, a den.,
D as in Denarcotize (v. t.) To deprive of narcotine; as, to denarcotize opium.,
D as in Denarii (pl. ) of Denarius,
D as in Denarius (n.) A Roman silver coin of the value of about fourteen cents; the "penny" of the New Testament; -- so called from being worth originally ten of the pieces called as.,
D as in Denary (a.) Containing ten; tenfold; proceeding by tens; as, the denary, or decimal, scale.,
D as in Denary (n.) The number ten; a division into ten.,
D as in Denary (n.) A coin; the Anglicized form of denarius.,
D as in Denationalization (n.) The or process of denationalizing.,
D as in Denationalized (imp. & p. p.) of Denationalize,
D as in Denationalizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Denationalize,
D as in Denationalize (v. t.) To divest or deprive of national character or rights.,
D as in Denaturalized (imp. & p. p.) of Denaturalize,
D as in Denaturalizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Denaturalize,
D as in Denaturalize (v. t.) To render unnatural; to alienate from nature.,
D as in Denaturalize (v. t.) To renounce the natural rights and duties of; to deprive of citizenship; to denationalize.,
D as in Denay (v. t.) To deny.,
D as in Denay (n.) Denial; refusal.,
D as in Dendrachate (n.) Arborescent or dendritic agate.,
D as in Dendriform (a.) Resembling in structure a tree or shrub.,
D as in Dendrite (n.) A stone or mineral on or in which are branching figures resembling shrubs or trees, produced by a foreign mineral, usually an oxide of manganese, as in the moss agate; also, a crystallized mineral having an arborescent form, e. g., gold or silver; an arborization.,
D as in Dendritic (a.) Alt. of Dendritical,
D as in Dendritical (a.) Pertaining to a dendrite, or to arborescent crystallization; having a form resembling a shrub or tree; arborescent.,
D as in Dendroc/la (n. pl.) A division of the Turbellaria in which the digestive cavity gives off lateral branches, which are often divided into smaller branchlets.,
D as in Dendroid (a.) Alt. of Dendroidal,
D as in Dendroidal (a.) Resembling a shrub or tree in form; treelike.,
D as in Dendrolite (n.) A petrified or fossil shrub, plant, or part of a plant.,
D as in Dendrologist (n.) One versed in the natural history of trees.,
D as in Dendrologous (a.) Relating to dendrology.,
D as in Dendrology (n.) A discourse or treatise on trees; the natural history of trees.,
D as in Dendrometer (n.) An instrument to measure the height and diameter of trees.,
D as in Denegate (v. t.) To deny.,
D as in Denegation (n.) Denial.,
D as in Dengue (n.) A specific epidemic disease attended with high fever, cutaneous eruption, and severe pains in the head and limbs, resembling those of rheumatism; -- called also breakbone fever. It occurs in India, Egypt, the West Indies, etc., is of short duration, and rarely fatal.,
D as in Deniable (a.) Capable of being, or liable to be, denied.,
D as in Denial (n.) The act of gainsaying, refusing, or disowning; negation; -- the contrary of affirmation.,
D as in Denial (n.) A refusal to admit the truth of a statement, charge, imputation, etc.; assertion of the untruth of a thing stated or maintained; a contradiction.,
D as in Denial (n.) A refusal to grant; rejection of a request.,
D as in Denial (n.) A refusal to acknowledge; disclaimer of connection with; disavowal; -- the contrary of confession; as, the denial of a fault charged on one; a denial of God.,
D as in Deniance (n.) Denial.,
D as in Denier (n.) One who denies; as, a denier of a fact, or of the faith, or of Christ.,
D as in Denier (n.) A small copper coin of insignificant value.,
D as in Denigrate (v. t.) To blacken thoroughly; to make very black.,
D as in Denigrate (v. t.) Fig.: To blacken or sully; to defame.,
D as in Denigration (n.) The act of making black.,
D as in Denigration (n.) Fig.: A blackening; defamation.,
D as in Denigrator (n.) One who, or that which, blackens.,
D as in Denim (n.) A coarse cotton drilling used for overalls, etc.,
D as in Denitration (n.) A disengaging, or removal, of nitric acid.,
D as in Denitrification (n.) The act or process of freeing from nitrogen; also, the condition resulting from the removal of nitrogen.,
D as in Denitrify (v. t.) To deprive of, or free from, nitrogen.,
D as in Denization (n.) The act of making one a denizen or adopted citizen; naturalization.,
D as in Denize (v. t.) To make a denizen; to confer the rights of citizenship upon; to naturalize.,
D as in Denizen (n.) A dweller; an inhabitant.,
D as in Denizen (n.) One who is admitted by favor to all or a part of the rights of citizenship, where he did not possess them by birth; an adopted or naturalized citizen.,
D as in Denizen (n.) One admitted to residence in a foreign country.,
D as in Denizen (v. t.) To constitute (one) a denizen; to admit to residence, with certain rights and privileges.,
D as in Denizen (v. t.) To provide with denizens; to populate with adopted or naturalized occupants.,
D as in Denizenation (n.) Denization; denizening.,
D as in Denizenize (v. t.) To constitute (one) a denizen; to denizen.,
D as in Denizenship (n.) State of being a denizen.,
D as in Denmark satin () See under Satin.,
D as in Dennet (n.) A light, open, two-wheeled carriage for one horse; a kind of gig.,
D as in Denominable (a.) Capable of being denominated or named.,
D as in Denominated (imp. & p. p.) of Denominate,
D as in Denominating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Denominate,
D as in Denominate (v. t.) To give a name to; to characterize by an epithet; to entitle; to name; to designate.,
D as in Denominate (a.) Having a specific name or denomination; specified in the concrete as opposed to abstract; thus, 7 feet is a denominate quantity, while 7 is mere abstract quantity or number. See Compound number, under Compound.,
D as in Denomination (n.) The act of naming or designating.,
D as in Denomination (n.) That by which anything is denominated or styled; an epithet; a name, designation, or title; especially, a general name indicating a class of like individuals; a category; as, the denomination of units, or of thousands, or of fourths, or of shillings, or of tons.,
D as in Denomination (n.) A class, or society of individuals, called by the same name; a sect; as, a denomination of Christians.,
D as in Denominational (a.) Pertaining to a denomination, especially to a sect or society.,
D as in Denominationalism (n.) A denominational or class spirit or policy; devotion to the interests of a sect or denomination.,
D as in Denominationalist (n.) One imbued with a denominational spirit.,
D as in Denominationally (adv.) In a denominational manner; by denomination or sect.,
D as in Denominative (a.) Conferring a denomination or name.,
D as in Denominative (a.) Connotative; as, a denominative name.,
D as in Denominative (a.) Possessing, or capable of possessing, a distinct denomination or designation; denominable.,
D as in Denominative (a.) Derived from a substantive or an adjective; as, a denominative verb.,
D as in Denominative (n.) A denominative name or term; denominative verb.,
D as in Denominatively (adv.) By denomination.,
D as in Denominator (n.) One who, or that which, gives a name; origin or source of a name.,
D as in Denominator (n.) That number placed below the line in vulgar fractions which shows into how many parts the integer or unit is divided.,
D as in Denominator (n.) That part of any expression under a fractional form which is situated below the horizontal line signifying division.,
D as in Denotable (a.) Capable of being denoted or marked.,
D as in Denotate (v. t.) To mark off; to denote.,
D as in Denotation (n.) The marking off or separation of anything.,
D as in Denotative (a.) Having power to denote; designating or marking off.,
D as in Denoted (imp. & p. p.) of Denote,
D as in Denoting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Denote,
D as in Denote (v. t.) To mark out plainly; to signify by a visible sign; to serve as the sign or name of; to indicate; to point out; as, the hands of the clock denote the hour.,
D as in Denote (v. t.) To be the sign of; to betoken; to signify; to mean.,
D as in Denotement (n.) Sign; indication.,
D as in Denotive (a.) Serving to denote.,
D as in Denouement (n.) The unraveling or discovery of a plot; the catastrophe, especially of a drama or a romance.,
D as in Denouement (n.) The solution of a mystery; issue; outcome.,
D as in Denounced (imp. & p. p.) of Denounce,
D as in Denouncing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Denounce,
D as in Denounce (v. t.) To make known in a solemn or official manner; to declare; to proclaim (especially an evil).,
D as in Denounce (v. t.) To proclaim in a threatening manner; to threaten by some outward sign or expression.,
D as in Denounce (v. t.) To point out as deserving of reprehension or punishment, etc.; to accuse in a threatening manner; to invoke censure upon; to stigmatize.,
D as in Denouncement (n.) Solemn, official, or menacing announcement; denunciation.,
D as in Denouncer (n.) One who denounces, or declares, as a menace.,
D as in Dense (a.) Having the constituent parts massed or crowded together; close; compact; thick; containing much matter in a small space; heavy; opaque; as, a dense crowd; a dense forest; a dense fog.,
D as in Dense (a.) Stupid; gross; crass; as, dense ignorance.,
D as in Densely (adv.) In a dense, compact manner.,
D as in Denseless (n.) The quality of being dense; density.,
D as in Densimeter (n.) An instrument for ascertaining the specific gravity or density of a substance.,
D as in Density (n.) The quality of being dense, close, or thick; compactness; -- opposed to rarity.,
D as in Density (n.) The ratio of mass, or quantity of matter, to bulk or volume, esp. as compared with the mass and volume of a portion of some substance used as a standard.,
D as in Density (n.) Depth of shade.,
D as in Dent (n.) A stroke; a blow.,
D as in Dent (n.) A slight depression, or small notch or hollow, made by a blow or by pressure; an indentation.,
D as in Dented (imp. & p. p.) of Dent,
D as in Denting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dent,
D as in Dent (v. t.) To make a dent upon; to indent.,
D as in Dent (n.) A tooth, as of a card, a gear wheel, etc.,
D as in Dental (a.) Of or pertaining to the teeth or to dentistry; as, dental surgery.,
D as in Dental (a.) Formed by the aid of the teeth; -- said of certain articulations and the letters representing them; as, d t are dental letters.,
D as in Dental (a.) An articulation or letter formed by the aid of the teeth.,
D as in Dental (a.) A marine mollusk of the genus Dentalium, with a curved conical shell resembling a tooth. See Dentalium.,
D as in Dentalism (n.) The quality of being formed by the aid of the teeth.,
D as in Dentalium (n.) A genus of marine mollusks belonging to the Scaphopoda, having a tubular conical shell.,
D as in Dentary (a.) Pertaining to, or bearing, teeth.,
D as in Dentary (n.) The distal bone of the lower jaw in many animals, which may or may not bear teeth.,
D as in Dentate (a.) Alt. of Dentated,
D as in Dentated (a.) Toothed; especially, with the teeth projecting straight out, not pointed either forward or backward; as, a dentate leaf.,
D as in Dentated (a.) Having teeth or toothlike points. See Illust. of Antennae.,
D as in Dentate-ciliate (a.) Having the margin dentate and also ciliate or fringed with hairs.,
D as in Dentately (adv.) In a dentate or toothed manner; as, dentately ciliated, etc.,
D as in Dentate-sinuate (a.) Having a form intermediate between dentate and sinuate.,
D as in Dentation (n.) Formation of teeth; toothed form.,
D as in Dented (v. t.) Indented; impressed with little hollows.,
D as in Dentel (n.) Same as Dentil.,
D as in Dentelle (n.) An ornamental tooling like lace.,
D as in Dentelli (n. pl.) Modillions.,
D as in Dentex (n.) An edible European marine fish (Sparus dentex, or Dentex vulgaris) of the family Percidae.,
D as in Denticete (n. pl.) The division of Cetacea in which the teeth are developed, including the sperm whale, dolphins, etc.,
D as in Denticle (n.) A small tooth or projecting point.,
D as in Denticulate (a.) Alt. of Denticulated,
D as in Denticulated (a.) Furnished with denticles; notched into little toothlike projections; as, a denticulate leaf of calyx.,
D as in Denticulation (n.) The state of being set with small notches or teeth.,
D as in Denticulation (n.) A diminutive tooth; a denticle.,
D as in Dentiferous (a.) Bearing teeth; dentigerous.,
D as in Dentiform (a.) Having the form of a tooth or of teeth; tooth-shaped.,
D as in Dentifrice (n.) A powder or other substance to be used in cleaning the teeth; tooth powder.,
D as in Dentigerous (a.) Bearing teeth or toothlike structures.,
D as in Dentil (n.) A small square block or projection in cornices, a number of which are ranged in an ornamental band; -- used particularly in the Ionic, Corinthian, and Composite orders.,
D as in Dentilabial (a.) Formed by the teeth and the lips, or representing a sound so formed.,
D as in Dentilabial (n.) A dentilabial sound or letter.,
D as in Dentilated (a.) Toothed.,
D as in Dentilation (n.) Dentition.,
D as in Dentilave (n.) A wash for cleaning the teeth.,
D as in Dentile (n.) A small tooth, like that of a saw.,
D as in Dentilingual (a.) Produced by applying the tongue to the teeth or to the gums; or representing a sound so formed.,
D as in Dentilingual (n.) A dentilingual sound or letter.,
D as in Dentiloquist (n.) One who speaks through the teeth, that is, with the teeth closed.,
D as in Dentiloquy (n.) The habit or practice of speaking through the teeth, or with them closed.,
D as in Dential (a.) Of or pertaining to dentine.,
D as in Dentine (n.) The dense calcified substance of which teeth are largely composed. It contains less animal matter than bone, and in the teeth of man is situated beneath the enamel.,
D as in Dentiphone (n.) An instrument which, placed against the teeth, conveys sound to the auditory nerve; an audiphone.,
D as in Dentirostres (pl. ) of Dentiroster,
D as in Dentiroster (n.) A dentirostral bird.,
D as in Dentirostral (a.) Having a toothed bill; -- applied to a group of passerine birds, having the bill notched, and feeding chiefly on insects, as the shrikes and vireos. See Illust. (N) under Beak.,
D as in Dentirostrate (a.) Dentirostral.,
D as in Dentiscalp (n.) An instrument for scraping the teeth.,
D as in Dentist (n.) One whose business it is to clean, extract, or repair natural teeth, and to make and insert artificial ones; a dental surgeon.,
D as in Dentistic (a.) Alt. of Dentistical,
D as in Dentistical (a.) Pertaining to dentistry or to dentists.,
D as in Dentistry (n.) The art or profession of a dentist; dental surgery.,
D as in Dentition (n.) The development and cutting of teeth; teething.,
D as in Dentition (n.) The system of teeth peculiar to an animal.,
D as in Dentized (imp. & p. p.) of Dentize,
D as in Dentizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dentize,
D as in Dentize (v. t. & i.) To breed or cut new teeth.,
D as in Dentoid (a.) Shaped like a tooth; tooth-shaped.,
D as in Dentolingual (a.) Dentilingual.,
D as in Denture (n.) An artificial tooth, block, or set of teeth.,
D as in Denudate (v. t.) To denude.,
D as in Denudation (n.) The act of stripping off covering, or removing the surface; a making bare.,
D as in Denudation (n.) The laying bare of rocks by the washing away of the overlying earth, etc.; or the excavation and removal of them by the action of running water.,
D as in Denude (v. t.) To divest of all covering; to make bare or naked; to strip; to divest; as, to denude one of clothing, or lands.,
D as in Denunciate (v. t.) To denounce; to condemn publicly or solemnly.,
D as in Denunciation (n.) Proclamation; announcement; a publishing.,
D as in Denunciation (n.) The act of denouncing; public menace or accusation; the act of inveighing against, stigmatizing, or publicly arraigning; arraignment.,
D as in Denunciation (n.) That by which anything is denounced; threat of evil; public menace or accusation; arraignment.,
D as in Denunciative (a.) Same as Denunciatory.,
D as in Denunciator (n.) One who denounces, publishes, or proclaims, especially intended or coming evil; one who threatens or accuses.,
D as in Denunciatory (a.) Characterized by or containing a denunciation; minatory; accusing; threatening; as, severe and denunciatory language.,
D as in Denutrition (n.) The opposition of nutrition; the failure of nutrition causing the breaking down of tissue.,
D as in Denied (imp. & p. p.) of Deny,
D as in Denying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Deny,
D as in Deny (v. t.) To declare not to be true; to gainsay; to contradict; -- opposed to affirm, allow, or admit.,
D as in Deny (v. t.) To refuse (to do something or to accept something); to reject; to decline; to renounce.,
D as in Deny (v. t.) To refuse to grant; to withhold; to refuse to gratify or yield to; as, to deny a request.,
D as in Deny (v. t.) To disclaim connection with, responsibility for, and the like; to refuse to acknowledge; to disown; to abjure; to disavow.,
D as in Deny (v. i.) To answer in /// negative; to declare an assertion not to be true.,
D as in Denyingly (adv.) In the manner of one denies a request.,
D as in Deobstruct (v. t.) To remove obstructions or impediments in; to clear from anything that hinders the passage of fluids; as, to deobstruct the pores or lacteals.,
D as in Deobstruent (a.) Removing obstructions; having power to clear or open the natural ducts of the fluids and secretions of the body; aperient.,
D as in Deobstruent (n.) A medicine which removes obstructions; an aperient.,
D as in Deodand (n.) A personal chattel which had caused the death of a person, and for that reason was given to God, that is, forfeited to the crown, to be applied to pious uses, and distributed in alms by the high almoner. Thus, if a cart ran over a man and killed him, it was forfeited as a deodand.,
D as in Deodar (n.) A kind of cedar (Cedrus Deodara), growing in India, highly valued for its size and beauty as well as for its timber, and also grown in England as an ornamental tree.,
D as in Deodate (n.) A gift or offering to God.,
D as in Deodorant (n.) A deodorizer.,
D as in Deodorization (n.) The act of depriving of odor, especially of offensive odors resulting from impurities.,
D as in Deodorize (v. t.) To deprive of odor, especially of such as results from impurities.,
D as in Deodorizer (n.) He who, or that which, deodorizes; esp., an agent that destroys offensive odors.,
D as in Deonerate (v. t.) To unload; to disburden.,
D as in Deontological (a.) Pertaining to deontology.,
D as in Deontologist (n.) One versed in deontology.,
D as in Deontology (n.) The science relat/ to duty or moral obligation.,
D as in Deoperculate (a.) Having the lid removed; -- said of the capsules of mosses.,
D as in Deoppilate (v. t.) To free from obstructions; to clear a passage through.,
D as in Deoppilation (n.) Removal of whatever stops up the passages.,
D as in Deoppilative (a. & n.) Deobstruent; aperient.,
D as in Deordination (n.) Disorder; dissoluteness.,
D as in Deosculate (v. t.) To kiss warmly.,
D as in Deoxidate (v. t.) To deoxidize.,
D as in Deoxidation (n.) The act or process of reducing from the state of an oxide.,
D as in Deoxidization (n.) Deoxidation.,
D as in Deoxidize (v. t.) To deprive of oxygen; to reduce from the state of an oxide.,
D as in Deoxidizer (n.) That which removes oxygen; hence, a reducing agent; as, nascent hydrogen is a deoxidizer.,
D as in Deoxygenate (v. t.) To deoxidize.,
D as in Deoxygenation (n.) The act or operation of depriving of oxygen.,
D as in Deoxygenize (v. t.) To deoxidize.,
D as in Depaint (p. p.) Painted.,
D as in Depainted (imp. & p. p.) of Depaint,
D as in Depainting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Depaint,
D as in Depaint (v. t.) To paint; to picture; hence, to describe; to delineate in words; to depict.,
D as in Depaint (v. t.) To mark with, or as with, color; to color.,
D as in Depainter (n.) One who depaints.,
D as in Depardieux (interj.) In God's name; certainly.,
D as in Departed (imp. & p. p.) of Depart,
D as in Departing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Depart,
D as in Depart (v. i.) To part; to divide; to separate.,
D as in Depart (v. i.) To go forth or away; to quit, leave, or separate, as from a place or a person; to withdraw; -- opposed to arrive; -- often with from before the place, person, or thing left, and for or to before the destination.,
D as in Depart (v. i.) To forsake; to abandon; to desist or deviate (from); not to adhere to; -- with from; as, we can not depart from our rules; to depart from a title or defense in legal pleading.,
D as in Depart (v. i.) To pass away; to perish.,
D as in Depart (v. i.) To quit this world; to die.,
D as in Depart (v. t.) To part thoroughly; to dispart; to divide; to separate.,
D as in Depart (v. t.) To divide in order to share; to apportion.,
D as in Depart (v. t.) To leave; to depart from.,
D as in Depart (n.) Division; separation, as of compound substances into their ingredients.,
D as in Depart (n.) A going away; departure; hence, death.,
D as in Departable (a.) Divisible.,
D as in Departer (n.) One who refines metals by separation.,
D as in Departer (n.) One who departs.,
D as in Department (v. i.) Act of departing; departure.,
D as in Department (v. i.) A part, portion, or subdivision.,
D as in Department (v. i.) A distinct course of life, action, study, or the like; appointed sphere or walk; province.,
D as in Department (v. i.) Subdivision of business or official duty; especially, one of the principal divisions of executive government; as, the treasury department; the war department; also, in a university, one of the divisions of instruction; as, the medical department; the department of physics.,
D as in Department (v. i.) A territorial division; a district; esp., in France, one of the districts composed of several arrondissements into which the country is divided for governmental purposes; as, the Department of the Loire.,
D as in Department (v. i.) A military subdivision of a country; as, the Department of the Potomac.,
D as in Departmental (a.) Pertaining to a department or division.,
D as in Departure (n.) Division; separation; putting away.,
D as in Departure (n.) Separation or removal from a place; the act or process of departing or going away.,
D as in Departure (n.) Removal from the present life; death; decease.,
D as in Departure (n.) Deviation or abandonment, as from or of a rule or course of action, a plan, or a purpose.,
D as in Departure (n.) The desertion by a party to any pleading of the ground taken by him in his last antecedent pleading, and the adoption of another.,
D as in Departure (n.) The distance due east or west which a person or ship passes over in going along an oblique line.,
D as in Depascent (a.) Feeding.,
D as in Depasture (v. t. & i.) To pasture; to feed; to graze; also, to use for pasture.,
D as in Depatriate (v. t. & i.) To withdraw, or cause to withdraw, from one's country; to banish.,
D as in Depauperated (imp. & p. p.) of Depauperate,
D as in Depauperating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Depauperate,
D as in Depauperate (v. t. & i.) To make poor; to impoverish.,
D as in Depauperate (a.) Falling short of the natural size, from being impoverished or starved.,
D as in Depauperize (v. t.) To free from paupers; to rescue from poverty.,
D as in Depeach (v. t.) To discharge.,
D as in Depectible (a.) Tough; thick; capable of extension.,
D as in Depeculation (n.) A robbing or embezzlement.,
D as in Depeinct (v. t.) To paint.,
D as in Depended (imp. & p. p.) of Depend,
D as in Depending (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Depend,
D as in Depend (v. i.) To hang down; to be sustained by being fastened or attached to something above.,
D as in Depend (v. i.) To hang in suspense; to be pending; to be undetermined or undecided; as, a cause depending in court.,
D as in Depend (v. i.) To rely for support; to be conditioned or contingent; to be connected with anything, as a cause of existence, or as a necessary condition; -- followed by on or upon, formerly by of.,
D as in Depend (v. i.) To trust; to rest with confidence; to rely; to confide; to be certain; -- with on or upon; as, we depend on the word or assurance of our friends; we depend on the mail at the usual hour.,
D as in Depend (v. i.) To serve; to attend; to act as a dependent or retainer.,
D as in Depend (v. i.) To impend.,
D as in Dependable (a.) Worthy of being depended on; trustworthy.,
D as in Dependant (n.) Alt. of Dependancy,
D as in Dependance (n.) Alt. of Dependancy,
D as in Dependancy (n.) See Dependent, Dependence, Dependency.,
D as in Dependence (n.) The act or state of depending; state of being dependent; a hanging down or from; suspension from a support.,
D as in Dependence (n.) The state of being influenced and determined by something; subjection (as of an effect to its cause).,
D as in Dependence (n.) Mutu/// /onnection and support; concatenation; systematic ///er relation.,
D as in Dependence (n.) Subjection to the direction or disposal of another; inability to help or provide for one's self.,
D as in Dependence (n.) A resting with confidence; reliance; trust.,
D as in Dependence (n.) That on which one depends or relies; as, he was her sole dependence.,
D as in Dependence (n.) That which depends; anything dependent or suspended; anything attached a subordinate to, or contingent on, something else.,
D as in Dependence (n.) A matter depending, or in suspense, and still to be determined; ground of controversy or quarrel.,
D as in Dependencies (pl. ) of Dependency,
D as in Dependency (n.) State of being dependent; dependence; state of being subordinate; subordination; concatenation; connection; reliance; trust.,
D as in Dependency (n.) A thing hanging down; a dependence.,
D as in Dependency (n.) That which is attached to something else as its consequence, subordinate, satellite, and the like.,
D as in Dependency (n.) A territory remote from the kingdom or state to which it belongs, but subject to its dominion; a colony; as, Great Britain has its dependencies in Asia, Africa, and America.,
D as in Dependent (a.) Hanging down; as, a dependent bough or leaf.,
D as in Dependent (a.) Relying on, or subject to, something else for support; not able to exist, or sustain itself, or to perform anything, without the will, power, or aid of something else; not self-sustaining; contingent or conditioned; subordinate; -- often with on or upon; as, dependent on God; dependent upon friends.,
D as in Dependent (n.) One who depends; one who is sustained by another, or who relies on another for support of favor; a hanger-on; a retainer; as, a numerous train of dependents.,
D as in Dependent (n.) That which depends; corollary; consequence.,
D as in Dependently (adv.) In a dependent manner.,
D as in Depender (n.) One who depends; a dependent.,
D as in Dependingly (adv.) As having dependence.,
D as in Depeople (v. t.) To depopulate.,
D as in Deperdit (n.) That which is lost or destroyed.,
D as in Deperditely (adv.) Hopelessly; despairingly; in the manner of one ruined; as, deperditely wicked.,
D as in Deperdition (n.) Loss; destruction.,
D as in Depertible (a.) Divisible.,
D as in Dephlegm (v. t.) To rid of phlegm or water; to dephlegmate.,
D as in Dephlegmated (imp. & p. p.) of Dephlegmate,
D as in Dephlegmating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dephlegmate,
D as in Dephlegmate (v. t.) To deprive of superabundant water, as by evaporation or distillation; to clear of aqueous matter; to rectify; -- used of spirits and acids.,
D as in Dephlegmation (n.) The operation of separating water from spirits and acids, by evaporation or repeated distillation; -- called also concentration, especially when acids are the subject of it.,
D as in Dephlegmator (n.) An instrument or apparatus in which water is separated by evaporation or distillation; the part of a distilling apparatus in which the separation of the vapors is effected.,
D as in Dephlegmatory (a.) Pertaining to, or producing, dephlegmation.,
D as in Dephlegmedness (n.) A state of being freed from water.,
D as in Dephlogisticated (imp. & p. p.) of Dephlogisticcate,
D as in Dephlogisticating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dephlogisticcate,
D as in Dephlogisticcate (v. t.) To deprive of phlogiston, or the supposed principle of inflammability.,
D as in Dephosphorization (n.) The act of freeing from phosphorous.,
D as in Depict (p. p.) Depicted.,
D as in Depict (p. p.) Depicted.,
D as in Depicted (imp. & p. p.) of Depict,
D as in Depicting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Depict,
D as in Depict (v. t.) To form a colored likeness of; to represent by a picture; to paint; to portray.,
D as in Depict (v. t.) To represent in words; to describe vividly.,
D as in Depiction (n.) A painting or depicting; a representation.,
D as in Depictured (imp. & p. p.) of Depicture,
D as in Depicturing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Depicture,
D as in Depicture (v. t.) To make a picture of; to paint; to picture; to depict.,
D as in Depilated (imp. & p. p.) of Depilate,
D as in Depilating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Depilate,
D as in Depilate (v. t.) To strip of hair; to husk.,
D as in Depilation (n.) Act of pulling out or removing the hair; unhairing.,
D as in Depilatory (a.) Having the quality or power of removing hair.,
D as in Depilatory (n.) An application used to take off hair.,
D as in Depilous (a.) Hairless.,
D as in Deplanate (v. t.) Flattened; made level or even.,
D as in Deplant (v. t.) To take up (plants); to transplant.,
D as in Deplantation (n.) Act of taking up plants from beds.,
D as in Depleted (imp. & p. p.) of Deplete,
D as in Depleting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Deplete,
D as in Deplete (a.) To empty or unload, as the vessels of human system, by bloodletting or by medicine.,
D as in Deplete (a.) To reduce by destroying or consuming the vital powers of; to exhaust, as a country of its strength or resources, a treasury of money, etc.,
D as in Depletion (n.) The act of depleting or emptying.,
D as in Depletion (n.) the act or process of diminishing the quantity of fluid in the vessels by bloodletting or otherwise; also excessive evacuation, as in severe diarrhea.,
D as in Depletive (a.) Able or fitted to deplete.,
D as in Depletive (n.) A substance used to deplete.,
D as in Depletory (a.) Serving to deplete.,
D as in Deplication (n.) An unfolding, untwisting, or unplaiting.,
D as in Deploitation (n.) Same as Exploitation.,
D as in Deplorability (n.) Deplorableness.,
D as in Deplorable (a.) Worthy of being deplored or lamented; lamentable; causing grief; hence, sad; calamitous; grievous; wretched; as, life's evils are deplorable.,
D as in Deplorableness (n.) State of being deplorable.,
D as in Deplorably (adv.) In a deplorable manner.,
D as in Deplorate (a.) Deplorable.,
D as in Deploration (n.) The act of deploring or lamenting; lamentation.,
D as in Deplored (imp. & p. p.) of Deplore,
D as in Deploring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Deplore,
D as in Deplore (v. t.) To feel or to express deep and poignant grief for; to bewail; to lament; to mourn; to sorrow over.,
D as in Deplore (v. t.) To complain of.,
D as in Deplore (v. t.) To regard as hopeless; to give up.,
D as in Deplore (v. i.) To lament.,
D as in Deploredly (adv.) Lamentably.,
D as in Deploredness (n.) The state of being deplored or deplorable.,
D as in Deplorement (n.) Deploration.,
D as in Deplorre (n.) One who deplores.,
D as in Deploringly (adv.) In a deploring manner.,
D as in Deployed (imp. & p. p.) of Deploy,
D as in Deploying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Deploy,
D as in Deploy (v. t. & i.) To open out; to unfold; to spread out (a body of troops) in such a way that they shall display a wider front and less depth; -- the reverse of ploy; as, to deploy a column of troops into line of battle.,
D as in Deploy (n.) Alt. of Deployment,
D as in Deployment (n.) The act of deploying; a spreading out of a body of men in order to extend their front.,
D as in Deplumate (a.) Destitute or deprived of features; deplumed.,
D as in Deplumation (n.) The stripping or falling off of plumes or feathers.,
D as in Deplumation (n.) A disease of the eyelids, attended with loss of the eyelashes.,
D as in Deplumed (imp. & p. p.) of Deplume,
D as in Depluming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Deplume,
D as in Deplume (v. t.) To strip or pluck off the feather of; to deprive of of plumage.,
D as in Deplume (v. t.) To lay bare; to expose.,
D as in Depolarization (n.) The act of depriving of polarity, or the result of such action; reduction to an unpolarized condition.,
D as in Depolarized (imp. & p. p.) of Depolarize,
D as in Depolarizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Depolarize,
D as in Depolarize (v. t.) To deprive of polarity; to reduce to an unpolarized condition.,
D as in Depolarize (v. t.) To free from polarization, as the negative plate of the voltaic battery.,
D as in Depolarizer (n.) A substance used to prevent polarization, as upon the negative plate of a voltaic battery.,
D as in Depolish (v. t.) To remove the polish or glaze from.,
D as in Depolishing (n.) The process of removing the vitreous glaze from porcelain, leaving the dull luster of the surface of ivory porcelain.,
D as in Deponed (imp. & p. p.) of Depone,
D as in Deponing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Depone,
D as in Depone (v. t.) To lay, as a stake; to wager.,
D as in Depone (v. t.) To lay down.,
D as in Depone (v. t.) To assert under oath; to depose.,
D as in Depone (v. i.) To testify under oath; to depose; to bear witness.,
D as in Deponent (v. t.) One who deposes or testifies under oath; one who gives evidence; usually, one who testifies in writing.,
D as in Deponent (v. t.) A deponent verb.,
D as in Deponent (a.) Having a passive form with an active meaning, as certain latin and Greek verbs.,
D as in Depopulacy (n.) Depopulation; destruction of population.,
D as in Depopulated (imp. & p. p.) of Depopulate,
D as in Depopulating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Depopulate,
D as in Depopulate (v. t.) To deprive of inhabitants, whether by death or by expulsion; to reduce greatly the populousness of; to dispeople; to unpeople.,
D as in Depopulate (v. i.) To become dispeopled.,
D as in Depopulation (n.) The act of depopulating, or condition of being depopulated; destruction or explusion of inhabitants.,
D as in Depopulator (n.) One who depopulates; a dispeopler.,
D as in Deported (imp. & p. p.) of Deport,
D as in Deporting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Deport,
D as in Deport (v. t.) To transport; to carry away; to exile; to send into banishment.,
D as in Deport (v. t.) To carry or demean; to conduct; to behave; -- followed by the reflexive pronoun.,
D as in Deport (n.) Behavior; carriage; demeanor; deportment.,
D as in Deportation (n.) The act of deporting or exiling, or the state of being deported; banishment; transportation.,
D as in Deportment (n.) Manner of deporting or demeaning one's self; manner of acting; conduct; carriage; especially, manner of acting with respect to the courtesies and duties of life; behavior; demeanor; bearing.,
D as in Deporture (n.) Deportment.,
D as in Deposable (a.) Capable of being deposed or deprived of office.,
D as in Deposal (n.) The act of deposing from office; a removal from the throne.,
D as in Deposed (imp. & p. p.) of Depose,
D as in Deposing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Depose,
D as in Depose (v. t.) To lay down; to divest one's self of; to lay aside.,
D as in Depose (v. t.) To let fall; to deposit.,
D as in Depose (v. t.) To remove from a throne or other high station; to dethrone; to divest or deprive of office.,
D as in Depose (v. t.) To testify under oath; to bear testimony to; -- now usually said of bearing testimony which is officially written down for future use.,
D as in Depose (v. t.) To put under oath.,
D as in Depose (v. i.) To bear witness; to testify under oath; to make deposition.,
D as in Deposer (n.) One who deposes or degrades from office.,
D as in Deposer (n.) One who testifies or deposes; a deponent.,
D as in Deposited (imp. & p. p.) of Deposit,
D as in Depositing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Deposit,
D as in Deposit (n.) To lay down; to place; to put; to let fall or throw down (as sediment); as, a crocodile deposits her eggs in the sand; the waters deposited a rich alluvium.,
D as in Deposit (n.) To lay up or away for safe keeping; to put up; to store; as, to deposit goods in a warehouse.,
D as in Deposit (n.) To lodge in some one's hands for safe keeping; to commit to the custody of another; to intrust; esp., to place in a bank, as a sum of money subject to order.,
D as in Deposit (n.) To lay aside; to rid one's self of.,
D as in Deposit (v. t.) That which is deposited, or laid or thrown down; as, a deposit in a flue; especially, matter precipitated from a solution (as the siliceous deposits of hot springs), or that which is mechanically deposited (as the mud, gravel, etc., deposits of a river).,
D as in Deposit (v. t.) A natural occurrence of a useful mineral under the conditions to invite exploitation.,
D as in Deposit (v. t.) That which is placed anywhere, or in any one's hands, for safe keeping; something intrusted to the care of another; esp., money lodged with a bank or banker, subject to order; anything given as pledge or security.,
D as in Deposit (v. t.) A bailment of money or goods to be kept gratuitously for the bailor.,
D as in Deposit (v. t.) Money lodged with a party as earnest or security for the performance of a duty assumed by the person depositing.,
D as in Deposit (v. t.) A place of deposit; a depository.,
D as in Depositaries (pl. ) of Depositary,
D as in Depositary (n.) One with whom anything is lodged in the trust; one who receives a deposit; -- the correlative of depositor.,
D as in Depositary (n.) A storehouse; a depository.,
D as in Depositary (n.) One to whom goods are bailed, to be kept for the bailor without a recompense.,
D as in Deposition (n.) The act of depositing or deposing; the act of laying down or thrown down; precipitation.,
D as in Deposition (n.) The act of bringing before the mind; presentation.,
D as in Deposition (n.) The act of setting aside a sovereign or a public officer; deprivation of authority and dignity; displacement; removal.,
D as in Deposition (n.) That which is deposited; matter laid or thrown down; sediment; alluvial matter; as, banks are sometimes depositions of alluvial matter.,
D as in Deposition (n.) An opinion, example, or statement, laid down or asserted; a declaration.,
D as in Deposition (n.) The act of laying down one's testimony in writing; also, testimony laid or taken down in writing, under oath or affirmation, before some competent officer, and in reply to interrogatories and cross-interrogatories.,
D as in Depositor (n.) One who makes a deposit, especially of money in a bank; -- the correlative of depository.,
D as in Depositories (pl. ) of Depository,
D as in Depository (n.) A place where anything is deposited for sale or keeping; as, warehouse is a depository for goods; a clerk's office is a depository for records.,
D as in Depository (n.) One with whom something is deposited; a depositary.,
D as in Depositum (n.) Deposit.,
D as in Depositure (n.) The act of depositing; deposition.,
D as in Depot (n.) A place of deposit for the storing of goods; a warehouse; a storehouse.,
D as in Depot (n.) A military station where stores and provisions are kept, or where recruits are assembled and drilled.,
D as in Depot (n.) The headquarters of a regiment, where all supplies are received and distributed, recruits are assembled and instructed, infirm or disabled soldiers are taken care of, and all the wants of the regiment are provided for.,
D as in Depot (n.) A railway station; a building for the accommodation and protection of railway passengers or freight.,
D as in Depper (a.) Deeper.,
D as in Depravation (n.) Detraction; depreciation.,
D as in Depravation (n.) The act of depraving, or making anything bad; the act of corrupting.,
D as in Depravation (n.) The state of being depraved or degenerated; degeneracy; depravity.,
D as in Depravation (n.) Change for the worse; deterioration; morbid perversion.,
D as in Depraved (imp. & p. p.) of Deprave,
D as in Depraving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Deprave,
D as in Deprave (n. t.) To speak ill of; to depreciate; to malign; to revile.,
D as in Deprave (n. t.) To make bad or worse; to vitiate; to corrupt.,
D as in Depravedly (adv.) In a depraved manner.,
D as in Depravedness (n.) Depravity.,
D as in Depravement (n.) Depravity.,
D as in Depraver (n.) One who deprave or corrupts.,
D as in Depravingly (adv.) In a depraving manner.,
D as in Depravity (n.) The state of being depraved or corrupted; a vitiated state of moral character; general badness of character; wickedness of mind or heart; absence of religious feeling and principle.,
D as in Deprecable (a.) That may or should be deprecated.,
D as in Deprecated (imp. & p. p.) of Deprecate,
D as in Deprecating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Deprecate,
D as in Deprecate (v. t.) To pray against, as an evil; to seek to avert by prayer; to desire the removal of; to seek deliverance from; to express deep regret for; to disapprove of strongly.,
D as in Deprecatingly (adv.) In a deprecating manner.,
D as in Deprecation (n.) The act of deprecating; a praying against evil; prayer that an evil may be removed or prevented; strong expression of disapprobation.,
D as in Deprecation (n.) Entreaty for pardon; petitioning.,
D as in Deprecation (n.) An imprecation or curse.,
D as in Deprecative (a.) Serving to deprecate; deprecatory.,
D as in Deprecator (n.) One who deprecates.,
D as in Deprecatory (a.) Serving to deprecate; tending to remove or avert evil by prayer; apologetic.,
D as in Depreciated (imp. & p. p.) of Depreciate,
D as in Depreciating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Depreciate,
D as in Depreciate (v. t.) To lessen in price or estimated value; to lower the worth of; to represent as of little value or claim to esteem; to undervalue.,
D as in Depreciate (v. i.) To fall in value; to become of less worth; to sink in estimation; as, a paper currency will depreciate, unless it is convertible into specie.,
D as in Depreciation (n.) The act of lessening, or seeking to lessen, price, value, or reputation.,
D as in Depreciation (n.) The falling of value; reduction of worth.,
D as in Depreciation (n.) the state of being depreciated.,
D as in Depreciative (a.) Tending, or intended, to depreciate; expressing depreciation; undervaluing.,
D as in Depreciator (n.) One who depreciates.,
D as in Depreciatory (a.) Tending to depreciate; undervaluing; depreciative.,
D as in Depredable (a.) Liable to depredation.,
D as in Depredated (imp. & p. p.) of Depredate,
D as in Depredating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Depredate,
D as in Depredate (v. t.) To subject to plunder and pillage; to despoil; to lay waste; to prey upon.,
D as in Depredate (v. i.) To take plunder or prey; to commit waste; as, the troops depredated on the country.,
D as in Depredation (n.) The act of depredating, or the state of being depredated; the act of despoiling or making inroads; as, the sea often makes depredation on the land.,
D as in Depredator (n.) One who plunders or pillages; a spoiler; a robber.,
D as in Depredatory (a.) Tending or designed to depredate; characterized by depredation; plundering; as, a depredatory incursion.,
D as in Depreicate (v. t.) To proclaim; to celebrate.,
D as in Deprehended (imp. & p. p.) of Deprehend,
D as in Deprehending (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Deprehend,
D as in Deprehend (v. t.) To take unwares or by surprise; to seize, as a person commiting an unlawful act; to catch; to apprehend.,
D as in Deprehend (v. t.) To detect; to discover; to find out.,
D as in Deprehensible (a.) That may be caught or discovered; apprehensible.,
D as in Deprehension (n.) A catching; discovery.,
D as in Depressed (imp. & p. p.) of Depress,
D as in Depressing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Depress,
D as in Depress (v. t.) To press down; to cause to sink; to let fall; to lower; as, to depress the muzzle of a gun; to depress the eyes.,
D as in Depress (v. t.) To bring down or humble; to abase, as pride.,
D as in Depress (v. t.) To cast a gloom upon; to sadden; as, his spirits were depressed.,
D as in Depress (v. t.) To lessen the activity of; to make dull; embarrass, as trade, commerce, etc.,
D as in Depress (v. t.) To lessen in price; to cause to decline in value; to cheapen; to depreciate.,
D as in Depress (v. t.) To reduce (an equation) in a lower degree.,
D as in Depress (a.) Having the middle lower than the border; concave.,
D as in Depressant (n.) An agent or remedy which lowers the vital powers.,
D as in Depressed (a.) Pressed or forced down; lowed; sunk; dejected; dispirited; sad; humbled.,
D as in Depressed (a.) Concave on the upper side; -- said of a leaf whose disk is lower than the border.,
D as in Depressed (a.) Lying flat; -- said of a stem or leaf which lies close to the ground.,
D as in Depressed (a.) Having the vertical diameter shorter than the horizontal or transverse; -- said of the bodies of animals, or of parts of the bodies.,
D as in Depressingly (adv.) In a depressing manner.,
D as in Depression (n.) The act of depressing.,
D as in Depression (n.) The state of being depressed; a sinking.,
D as in Depression (n.) A falling in of the surface; a sinking below its true place; a cavity or hollow; as, roughness consists in little protuberances and depressions.,
D as in Depression (n.) Humiliation; abasement, as of pride.,
D as in Depression (n.) Dejection; despondency; lowness.,
D as in Depression (n.) Diminution, as of trade, etc.; inactivity; dullness.,
D as in Depression (n.) The angular distance of a celestial object below the horizon.,
D as in Depression (n.) The operation of reducing to a lower degree; -- said of equations.,
D as in Depression (n.) A method of operating for cataract; couching. See Couch, v. t., 8.,
D as in Depressive (a.) Able or tending to depress or cast down.,
D as in Depressomotor (a.) Depressing or diminishing the capacity for movement, as depressomotor nerves, which lower or inhibit muscular activity.,
D as in Depressomotor (n.) Any agent that depresses the activity of the motor centers, as bromides, etc.,
D as in Depressor (n.) One who, or that which, presses down; an oppressor.,
D as in Depressor (n.) A muscle that depresses or tends to draw down a part.,
D as in Depriment (a.) Serving to depress.,
D as in Deprisure (n.) Low estimation; disesteem; contempt.,
D as in Deprivable (a.) Capable of being, or liable to be, deprived; liable to be deposed.,
D as in Deprivation (n.) The act of depriving, dispossessing, or bereaving; the act of deposing or divesting of some dignity.,
D as in Deprivation (n.) The state of being deprived; privation; loss; want; bereavement.,
D as in Deprivation (n.) the taking away from a clergyman his benefice, or other spiritual promotion or dignity.,
D as in Deprived (imp. & p. p.) of Deprive,
D as in Depriving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Deprive,
D as in Deprive (v. t.) To take away; to put an end; to destroy.,
D as in Deprive (v. t.) To dispossess; to bereave; to divest; to hinder from possessing; to debar; to shut out from; -- with a remoter object, usually preceded by of.,
D as in Deprive (v. t.) To divest of office; to depose; to dispossess of dignity, especially ecclesiastical.,
D as in Deprivement (n.) Deprivation.,
D as in Depriver (n.) One who, or that which, deprives.,
D as in Deprostrate (a.) Fully prostrate; humble; low; rude.,
D as in Deprovincialize (v. t.) To divest of provincial quality or characteristics.,
D as in Depth (n.) The quality of being deep; deepness; perpendicular measurement downward from the surface, or horizontal measurement backward from the front; as, the depth of a river; the depth of a body of troops.,
D as in Depth (n.) Profoundness; extent or degree of intensity; abundance; completeness; as, depth of knowledge, or color.,
D as in Depth (n.) Lowness; as, depth of sound.,
D as in Depth (n.) That which is deep; a deep, or the deepest, part or place; the deep; the middle part; as, the depth of night, or of winter.,
D as in Depth (n.) The number of simple elements which an abstract conception or notion includes; the comprehension or content.,
D as in Depth (n.) A pair of toothed wheels which work together.,
D as in Depthen (v. t.) To deepen.,
D as in Depthless (a.) Having no depth; shallow.,
D as in Depthless (a.) Of measureless depth; unfathomable.,
D as in Depucelate (v. t.) To deflour; to deprive of virginity.,
D as in Depudicate (v. t.) To deflour; to dishonor.,
D as in Depulse (v. t.) To drive away.,
D as in Depulsion (n.) A driving or thrusting away.,
D as in Depulsory (a.) Driving or thrusting away; averting.,
D as in Depurant (a. & n.) Depurative.,
D as in Depurate (a.) Depurated; cleansed; freed from impurities.,
D as in Depurated (imp. & p. p.) of Depurate,
D as in Depurating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Depurate,
D as in Depurate (v. t.) To free from impurities, heterogeneous matter, or feculence; to purify; to cleanse.,
D as in Depuration (n.) The act or process of depurating or freeing from foreign or impure matter, as a liquid or wound.,
D as in Depurative (a.) Purifying the blood or the humors; depuratory.,
D as in Depurative (n.) A depurative remedy or agent; or a disease which is believed to be depurative.,
D as in Depurator (n.) One who, or that which, cleanses.,
D as in Depuratory (a.) Depurating; tending to depurate or cleanse; depurative.,
D as in Depure (v. t.) To depurate; to purify.,
D as in Depurgatory (a.) Serving to purge; tending to cleanse or purify.,
D as in Depurition (n.) See Depuration.,
D as in Deputable (a.) Fit to be deputed; suitable to act as a deputy.,
D as in Deputation (n.) The act of deputing, or of appointing or commissioning a deputy or representative; office of a deputy or delegate; vicegerency.,
D as in Deputation (n.) The person or persons deputed or commissioned by another person, party, or public body to act in his or its behalf; delegation; as, the general sent a deputation to the enemy to propose a truce.,
D as in Deputator (n.) One who deputes, or makes a deputation.,
D as in Deputed (imp. & p. p.) of Depute,
D as in Deputing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Depute,
D as in Depute (v. t.) To appoint as deputy or agent; to commission to act in one's place; to delegate.,
D as in Depute (v. t.) To appoint; to assign; to choose.,
D as in Depute (n.) A person deputed; a deputy.,
D as in Deputize (v. t.) To appoint as one's deputy; to empower to act in one's stead; to depute.,
D as in Deputies (pl. ) of Deputy,
D as in Deputy (n.) One appointed as the substitute of another, and empowered to act for him, in his name or his behalf; a substitute in office; a lieutenant; a representative; a delegate; a vicegerent; as, the deputy of a prince, of a sheriff, of a township, etc.,
D as in Deputy (n.) A member of the Chamber of Deputies.,
D as in Dequantitate (v. t.) To diminish the quantity of; to disquantity.,
D as in Deracinated (imp. & p. p.) of Deracinate,
D as in Deracinating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Deracinate,
D as in Deracinate (v. t.) To pluck up by the roots; to extirpate.,
D as in Deraination (n.) The act of pulling up by the roots; eradication.,
D as in Deraign (v. t.) Alt. of Derain,
D as in Derain (v. t.) To prove or to refute by proof; to clear (one's self).,
D as in Deraignment (n.) Alt. of Derainment,
D as in Derainment (n.) The act of deraigning.,
D as in Derainment (n.) The renunciation of religious or monastic vows.,
D as in Derailed (imp. & p. p.) of Derail,
D as in Derailing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Derail,
D as in Derail (v. t.) To cause to run off from the rails of a railroad, as a locomotive.,
D as in Derailment (n.) The act of going off, or the state of being off, the rails of a railroad.,
D as in Deranged (imp. & p. p.) of Derange,
D as in Deranging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Derange,
D as in Derange (v. t.) To put out of place, order, or rank; to disturb the proper arrangement or order of; to throw into disorder, confusion, or embarrassment; to disorder; to disarrange; as, to derange the plans of a commander, or the affairs of a nation.,
D as in Derange (v. t.) To disturb in action or function, as a part or organ, or the whole of a machine or organism.,
D as in Derange (v. t.) To disturb in the orderly or normal action of the intellect; to render insane.,
D as in Deranged (a.) Disordered; especially, disordered in mind; crazy; insane.,
D as in Derangement (n.) The act of deranging or putting out of order, or the state of being deranged; disarrangement; disorder; confusion; especially, mental disorder; insanity.,
D as in Deranger (n.) One who deranges.,
D as in Deray (n.) Disorder; merriment.,
D as in Derbio (n.) A large European food fish (Lichia glauca).,
D as in Derby (n.) A race for three-old horses, run annually at Epsom (near London), for the Derby stakes. It was instituted by the 12th Earl of Derby, in 1780.,
D as in Derby (n.) A stiff felt hat with a dome-shaped crown.,
D as in Derbyshire spar () A massive variety of fluor spar, found in Derbyshire, England, and wrought into vases and other ornamental work.,
D as in Derdoing (v. t.) Doing daring or chivalrous deeds.,
D as in Dere (v. t.) To hurt; to harm; to injure.,
D as in Dere (n.) Harm.,
D as in Dereine (v. t.) Alt. of Dereyne,
D as in Dereyne (v. t.) Same as Darraign.,
D as in Derelict (a.) Given up or forsaken by the natural owner or guardian; left and abandoned; as, derelict lands.,
D as in Derelict (a.) Lost; adrift; hence, wanting; careless; neglectful; unfaithful.,
D as in Derelict (n.) A thing voluntary abandoned or willfully cast away by its proper owner, especially a ship abandoned at sea.,
D as in Derelict (n.) A tract of land left dry by the sea, and fit for cultivation or use.,
D as in Dereliction (n.) The act of leaving with an intention not to reclaim or resume; an utter forsaking abandonment.,
D as in Dereliction (n.) A neglect or omission as if by willful abandonment.,
D as in Dereliction (n.) The state of being left or abandoned.,
D as in Dereliction (n.) A retiring of the sea, occasioning a change of high-water mark, whereby land is gained.,
D as in Dereligionize (v. t.) To make irreligious; to turn from religion.,
D as in Dereling (n.) Darling.,
D as in Dereling (n.) Darling.,
D as in Derf (a.) Strong; powerful; fierce.,
D as in Derided (imp. & p. p.) of Deride,
D as in Deriding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Deride,
D as in Deride (v. t.) To laugh at with contempt; to laugh to scorn; to turn to ridicule or make sport of; to mock; to scoff at.,
D as in Derider (n.) One who derides, or laughs at, another in contempt; a mocker; a scoffer.,
D as in Deridingly (adv.) By way of derision or mockery.,
D as in Derision (n.) The act of deriding, or the state of being derided; mockery; scornful or contemptuous treatment which holds one up to ridicule.,
D as in Derision (n.) An object of derision or scorn; a laughing-stock.,
D as in Derisive (a.) Expressing, serving for, or characterized by, derision.,
D as in Derisory (a.) Derisive; mocking.,
D as in Derivable (a.) That can be derived; obtainable by transmission; capable of being known by inference, as from premises or data; capable of being traced, as from a radical; as, income is derivable from various sources.,
D as in Derivably (adv.) By derivation.,
D as in Derival (n.) Derivation.,
D as in Derivate (a.) Derived; derivative.,
D as in Derivate (n.) A thing derived; a derivative.,
D as in Derivate (v. t.) To derive.,
D as in Derivation (n.) A leading or drawing off of water from a stream or source.,
D as in Derivation (n.) The act of receiving anything from a source; the act of procuring an effect from a cause, means, or condition, as profits from capital, conclusions or opinions from evidence.,
D as in Derivation (n.) The act of tracing origin or descent, as in grammar or genealogy; as, the derivation of a word from an Aryan root.,
D as in Derivation (n.) The state or method of being derived; the relation of origin when established or asserted.,
D as in Derivation (n.) That from which a thing is derived.,
D as in Derivation (n.) That which is derived; a derivative; a deduction.,
D as in Derivation (n.) The operation of deducing one function from another according to some fixed law, called the law of derivation, as the of differentiation or of integration.,
D as in Derivation (n.) A drawing of humors or fluids from one part of the body to another, to relieve or lessen a morbid process.,
D as in Derivational (a.) Relating to derivation.,
D as in Derivative (a.) Obtained by derivation; derived; not radical, original, or fundamental; originating, deduced, or formed from something else; secondary; as, a derivative conveyance; a derivative word.,
D as in Derivative (n.) That which is derived; anything obtained or deduced from another.,
D as in Derivative (n.) A word formed from another word, by a prefix or suffix, an internal modification, or some other change; a word which takes its origin from a root.,
D as in Derivative (n.) A chord, not fundamental, but obtained from another by inversion; or, vice versa, a ground tone or root implied in its harmonics in an actual chord.,
D as in Derivative (n.) An agent which is adapted to produce a derivation (in the medical sense).,
D as in Derivative (n.) A derived function; a function obtained from a given function by a certain algebraic process.,
D as in Derivative (n.) A substance so related to another substance by modification or partial substitution as to be regarded as derived from it; thus, the amido compounds are derivatives of ammonia, and the hydrocarbons are derivatives of methane, benzene, etc.,
D as in Derived (imp. & p. p.) of Derive,
D as in Deriving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Derive,
D as in Derive (v. t.) To turn the course of, as water; to divert and distribute into subordinate channels; to diffuse; to communicate; to transmit; -- followed by to, into, on, upon.,
D as in Derive (v. t.) To receive, as from a source or origin; to obtain by descent or by transmission; to draw; to deduce; -- followed by from.,
D as in Derive (v. t.) To trace the origin, descent, or derivation of; to recognize transmission of; as, he derives this word from the Anglo-Saxon.,
D as in Derive (v. t.) To obtain one substance from another by actual or theoretical substitution; as, to derive an organic acid from its corresponding hydrocarbon.,
D as in Derive (v. i.) To flow; to have origin; to descend; to proceed; to be deduced.,
D as in Derivement (n.) That which is derived; deduction; inference.,
D as in Deriver (n.) One who derives.,
D as in Derk (a.) Dark.,
D as in -derm (n.) A suffix or terminal formative, much used in anatomical terms, and signifying skin, integument, covering; as, blastoderm, ectoderm, etc.,
D as in Derm (v. t.) The integument of animal; the skin.,
D as in Derm (v. t.) See Dermis.,
D as in Derma (n.) See Dermis.,
D as in Dermal (a.) Pertaining to the integument or skin of animals; dermic; as, the dermal secretions.,
D as in Dermal (a.) Pertaining to the dermis or true skin.,
D as in Dermaptera (n.) Alt. of Dermapteran,
D as in Dermapteran (n.) See Dermoptera, Dermopteran.,
D as in Dermatic (a.) Alt. of Dermatine,
D as in Dermatine (a.) Of or pertaining to the skin.,
D as in Dermatitis (n.) Inflammation of the skin.,
D as in Dermatogen (n.) Nascent epidermis, or external cuticle of plants in a forming condition.,
D as in Dermatogen (n.) Nascent epidermis, or external cuticle of plants in a forming condition.,
D as in Dermatography (n.) An anatomical description of, or treatise on, the skin.,
D as in Dermatoid (a.) Resembling skin; skinlike.,
D as in Dermatologist (n.) One who discourses on the skin and its diseases; one versed in dermatology.,
D as in Dermatology (n.) The science which treats of the skin, its structure, functions, and diseases.,
D as in Dermatopathic (a.) Of or pertaining to skin diseases, or their cure.,
D as in Dermatophyte (n.) A vegetable parasite, infesting the skin.,
D as in Dermestes (n.) A genus of coleopterous insects, the larvae of which feed animal substances. They are very destructive to dries meats, skins, woolens, and furs. The most common species is D. lardarius, known as the bacon beetle.,
D as in Dermestoid (a.) Pertaining to or resembling the genus Dermestes.,
D as in Dermic (a.) Relating to the derm or skin.,
D as in Dermic (a.) Pertaining to the dermis; dermal.,
D as in Dermis (n.) The deep sensitive layer of the skin beneath the scarfskin or epidermis; -- called also true skin, derm, derma, corium, cutis, and enderon. See Skin, and Illust. in Appendix.,
D as in Dermobranchiata (n. pl.) A group of nudibranch mollusks without special gills.,
D as in Dermobranchiate (a.) Having the skin modified to serve as a gill.,
D as in Dermohaemal (a.) Pertaining to, or in relation with, both dermal and haemal structures; as, the dermohaemal spines or ventral fin rays of fishes.,
D as in Dermoid (a.) Same as Dermatoid.,
D as in Dermoneural (a.) Pertaining to, or in relation with, both dermal and neural structures; as, the dermoneural spines or dorsal fin rays of fishes.,
D as in Dermopathic (a.) Dermatopathic.,
D as in Dermophyte (n.) A dermatophyte.,
D as in Dermoptera (n. pl.) The division of insects which includes the earwigs (Forticulidae).,
D as in Dermoptera (n. pl.) A group of lemuroid mammals having a parachutelike web of skin between the fore and hind legs, of which the colugo (Galeopithecus) is the type. See Colugo.,
D as in Dermoptera (n. pl.) An order of Mammalia; the Cheiroptera.,
D as in Dermopteran (n.) An insect which has the anterior pair of wings coriaceous, and does not use them in flight, as the earwig.,
D as in Dermopteri (n. pl.) Same as Dermopterygii.,
D as in Dermopterygii (n. pl.) A group of fishlike animals including the Marsipobranchiata and Leptocardia.,
D as in Dermoskeleton (n.) See Exoskeleton.,
D as in Dermostosis (n.) Ossification of the dermis.,
D as in Dern (n.) A gatepost or doorpost.,
D as in Dern (a.) Hidden; concealed; secret.,
D as in Dern (a.) Solitary; sad.,
D as in Derne (a.) To hide; to skulk.,
D as in Dernful (a.) Secret; hence, lonely; sad; mournful.,
D as in Dernier (a.) Last; final.,
D as in Dernly (adv.) Secretly; grievously; mournfully.,
D as in Derogant (a.) Derogatory.,
D as in Derogated (imp. & p. p.) of Derogate,
D as in Derogating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Derogate,
D as in Derogate (v. t.) To annul in part; to repeal partly; to restrict; to limit the action of; -- said of a law.,
D as in Derogate (v. t.) To lessen; to detract from; to disparage; to depreciate; -- said of a person or thing.,
D as in Derogate (v. i.) To take away; to detract; to withdraw; -- usually with from.,
D as in Derogate (v. i.) To act beneath one-s rank, place, birth, or character; to degenerate.,
D as in Derogate (n.) Diminished in value; dishonored; degraded.,
D as in Derogately (adv.) In a derogatory manner.,
D as in Derogation (n.) The act of derogating, partly repealing, or lessening in value; disparagement; detraction; depreciation; -- followed by of, from, or to.,
D as in Derogation (n.) An alteration of, or subtraction from, a contract for a sale of stocks.,
D as in Derogative (a.) Derogatory.,
D as in Derogator (n.) A detractor.,
D as in Derogatorily (adv.) In a derogatory manner; disparagingly.,
D as in Derogatoriness (n.) Quality of being derogatory.,
D as in Derogatory (a.) Tending to derogate, or lessen in value; expressing derogation; detracting; injurious; -- with from to, or unto.,
D as in Derotremata (n. pl.) The tribe of aquatic Amphibia which includes Amphiuma, Menopoma, etc. They have permanent gill openings, but no external gills; -- called also Cryptobranchiata.,
D as in Derre (a.) Dearer.,
D as in Derrick (n.) A mast, spar, or tall frame, supported at the top by stays or guys, with suitable tackle for hoisting heavy weights, as stones in building.,
D as in Derring (a.) Daring or warlike.,
D as in Derringer (n.) A kind of short-barreled pocket pistol, of very large caliber, often carrying a half-ounce ball.,
D as in Derth (n.) Dearth; scarcity.,
D as in Dertrotheca (n.) The horny covering of the end of the bill of birds.,
D as in Dervish (n.) Alt. of Dervis,
D as in Dervise (n.) Alt. of Dervis,
D as in Dervis (n.) A Turkish or Persian monk, especially one who professes extreme poverty and leads an austere life.,
D as in Derworth (a.) Precious.,
D as in Descant (v. i.) Originally, a double song; a melody or counterpoint sung above the plain song of the tenor; a variation of an air; a variation by ornament of the main subject or plain song.,
D as in Descant (v. i.) The upper voice in part music.,
D as in Descant (v. i.) The canto, cantus, or soprano voice; the treble.,
D as in Descant (v. i.) A discourse formed on its theme, like variations on a musical air; a comment or comments.,
D as in Descanted (imp. & p. p.) of Descant,
D as in Descanting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Descant,
D as in Descant (v. i.) To sing a variation or accomplishment.,
D as in Descant (v. i.) To comment freely; to discourse with fullness and particularity; to discourse at large.,
D as in Descanter (n.) One who descants.,
D as in Descended (imp. & p. p.) of Descend,
D as in Descending (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Descend,
D as in Descend (v. i.) To pass from a higher to a lower place; to move downwards; to come or go down in any way, as by falling, flowing, walking, etc.; to plunge; to fall; to incline downward; -- the opposite of ascend.,
D as in Descend (v. i.) To enter mentally; to retire.,
D as in Descend (v. i.) To make an attack, or incursion, as if from a vantage ground; to come suddenly and with violence; -- with on or upon.,
D as in Descend (v. i.) To come down to a lower, less fortunate, humbler, less virtuous, or worse, state or station; to lower or abase one's self; as, he descended from his high estate.,
D as in Descend (v. i.) To pass from the more general or important to the particular or less important matters to be considered.,
D as in Descend (v. i.) To come down, as from a source, original, or stock; to be derived; to proceed by generation or by transmission; to fall or pass by inheritance; as, the beggar may descend from a prince; a crown descends to the heir.,
D as in Descend (v. i.) To move toward the south, or to the southward.,
D as in Descend (v. i.) To fall in pitch; to pass from a higher to a lower tone.,
D as in Descend (v. t.) To go down upon or along; to pass from a higher to a lower part of; as, they descended the river in boats; to descend a ladder.,
D as in Descendant (a.) Descendent.,
D as in Descendant (n.) One who descends, as offspring, however remotely; -- correlative to ancestor or ascendant.,
D as in Descendent (a.) Descending; falling; proceeding from an ancestor or source.,
D as in Descender (n.) One who descends.,
D as in Descendibility (n.) The quality of being descendible; capability of being transmitted from ancestors; as, the descendibility of an estate.,
D as in Descendible (a.) Admitting descent; capable of being descended.,
D as in Descendible (a.) That may descend from an ancestor to an heir.,
D as in Descending (a.) Of or pertaining to descent; moving downwards.,
D as in Descendingly (adv.) In a descending manner.,
D as in Descension (n.) The act of going downward; descent; falling or sinking; declension; degradation.,
D as in Descensional (a.) Pertaining to descension.,
D as in Descensive (a.) Tending to descend; tending downwards; descending.,
D as in Descensory (n.) A vessel used in alchemy to extract oils.,
D as in Descent (n.) The act of descending, or passing downward; change of place from higher to lower.,
D as in Descent (n.) Incursion; sudden attack; especially, hostile invasion from sea; -- often followed by upon or on; as, to make a descent upon the enemy.,
D as in Descent (n.) Progress downward, as in station, virtue, as in station, virtue, and the like, from a higher to a lower state, from a higher to a lower state, from the more to the less important, from the better to the worse, etc.,
D as in Descent (n.) Derivation, as from an ancestor; procedure by generation; lineage; birth; extraction.,
D as in Descent (n.) Transmission of an estate by inheritance, usually, but not necessarily, in the descending line; title to inherit an estate by reason of consanguinity.,
D as in Descent (n.) Inclination downward; a descending way; inclined or sloping surface; declivity; slope; as, a steep descent.,
D as in Descent (n.) That which is descended; descendants; issue.,
D as in Descent (n.) A step or remove downward in any scale of gradation; a degree in the scale of genealogy; a generation.,
D as in Descent (n.) Lowest place; extreme downward place.,
D as in Descent (n.) A passing from a higher to a lower tone.,
D as in Describable (a.) That can be described; capable of description.,
D as in Described (imp. & p. p.) of Describe,
D as in Describing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Describe,
D as in Describe (v. t.) To represent by drawing; to draw a plan of; to delineate; to trace or mark out; as, to describe a circle by the compasses; a torch waved about the head in such a way as to describe a circle.,
D as in Describe (v. t.) To represent by words written or spoken; to give an account of; to make known to others by words or signs; as, the geographer describes countries and cities.,
D as in Describe (v. t.) To distribute into parts, groups, or classes; to mark off; to class.,
D as in Describe (v. i.) To use the faculty of describing; to give a description; as, Milton describes with uncommon force and beauty.,
D as in Describent (n.) Same as Generatrix.,
D as in Describer (n.) One who describes.,
D as in Descrier (n.) One who descries.,
D as in Description (n.) The act of describing; a delineation by marks or signs.,
D as in Description (n.) A sketch or account of anything in words; a portraiture or representation in language; an enumeration of the essential qualities of a thing or species.,
D as in Description (n.) A class to which a certain representation is applicable; kind; sort.,
D as in Descriptive (a.) Tending to describe; having the quality of representing; containing description; as, a descriptive figure; a descriptive phrase; a descriptive narration; a story descriptive of the age.,
D as in Descrive (v. t.) To describe.,
D as in Descried (imp. & p. p.) of Descry,
D as in Descrying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Descry,
D as in Descry (v. t.) To spy out or discover by the eye, as objects distant or obscure; to espy; to recognize; to discern; to discover.,
D as in Descry (v. t.) To discover; to disclose; to reveal.,
D as in Descry (n.) Discovery or view, as of an army seen at a distance.,
D as in Desecate (v. t.) To cut, as with a scythe; to mow.,
D as in Desecrated (imp. & p. p.) of Desecrate,
D as in Desecrating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Desecrate,
D as in Desecrate (v. t.) To divest of a sacred character or office; to divert from a sacred purpose; to violate the sanctity of; to profane; to put to an unworthy use; -- the opposite of consecrate.,
D as in Desecrater (n.) One who desecrates; a profaner.,
D as in Desecration (n.) The act of desecrating; profanation; condition of anything desecrated.,
D as in Desecrator (n.) One who desecrates.,
D as in Desegmentation (n.) The loss or obliteration of division into segments; as, a desegmentation of the body.,
D as in Desert (n.) That which is deserved; the reward or the punishment justly due; claim to recompense, usually in a good sense; right to reward; merit.,
D as in Desert (n.) A deserted or forsaken region; a barren tract incapable of supporting population, as the vast sand plains of Asia and Africa are destitute and vegetation.,
D as in Desert (n.) A tract, which may be capable of sustaining a population, but has been left unoccupied and uncultivated; a wilderness; a solitary place.,
D as in Desert (a.) Of or pertaining to a desert; forsaken; without life or cultivation; unproductive; waste; barren; wild; desolate; solitary; as, they landed on a desert island.,
D as in Deserted (imp. & p. p.) of Desert,
D as in Deserting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Desert,
D as in Desert (v. t.) To leave (especially something which one should stay by and support); to leave in the lurch; to abandon; to forsake; -- implying blame, except sometimes when used of localities; as, to desert a friend, a principle, a cause, one's country.,
D as in Desert (v. t.) To abandon (the service) without leave; to forsake in violation of duty; to abscond from; as, to desert the army; to desert one's colors.,
D as in Desert (v. i.) To abandon a service without leave; to quit military service without permission, before the expiration of one's term; to abscond.,
D as in Deserter (n.) One who forsakes a duty, a cause or a party, a friend, or any one to whom he owes service; especially, a soldier or a seaman who abandons the service without leave; one guilty of desertion.,
D as in Desertful (a.) Meritorious.,
D as in Desertion (n.) The act of deserting or forsaking; abandonment of a service, a cause, a party, a friend, or any post of duty; the quitting of one's duties willfully and without right; esp., an absconding from military or naval service.,
D as in Desertion (n.) The state of being forsaken; desolation; as, the king in his desertion.,
D as in Desertion (n.) Abandonment by God; spiritual despondency.,
D as in Desertless (a.) Without desert.,
D as in Desertlessly (adv.) Undeservedly.,
D as in Desertness (n.) A deserted condition.,
D as in Desertrix (n.) Alt. of Desertrice,
D as in Desertrice (n.) A feminine deserter.,
D as in Deserved (imp. & p. p.) of Deserve,
D as in Deserving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Deserve,
D as in Deserve (v. t.) To earn by service; to be worthy of (something due, either good or evil); to merit; to be entitled to; as, the laborer deserves his wages; a work of value deserves praise.,
D as in Deserve (v. t.) To serve; to treat; to benefit.,
D as in Deserve (v. i.) To be worthy of recompense; -- usually with ill or with well.,
D as in Deservedly (adv.) According to desert (whether good or evil); justly.,
D as in Deservedness (n.) Meritoriousness.,
D as in Deserver (n.) One who deserves.,
D as in Deserving (n.) Desert; merit.,
D as in Deserving (a.) Meritorious; worthy; as, a deserving person or act.,
D as in Deshabille (n.) An undress; a careless toilet.,
D as in Desiccant (a.) Drying; desiccative.,
D as in Desiccant (n.) A medicine or application for drying up a sore.,
D as in Desiccated (imp. & p. p.) of Desiccate,
D as in Desiccating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Desiccate,
D as in Desiccate (v. t.) To dry up; to deprive or exhaust of moisture; to preserve by drying; as, to desiccate fish or fruit.,
D as in Desiccate (v. i.) To become dry.,
D as in Desiccation (n.) The act of desiccating, or the state of being desiccated.,
D as in Desiccative (a.) Drying; tending to dry.,
D as in Desiccative (n.) An application for drying up secretions.,
D as in Desiccator (n.) One who, or that which, desiccates.,
D as in Desiccator (n.) A short glass jar fitted with an air-tight cover, and containing some desiccating agent, as sulphuric acid or calcium chloride, above which is suspended the material to be dried, or preserved from moisture.,
D as in Desiccatory (a.) Desiccative.,
D as in Desiderable (a.) Desirable.,
D as in Desiderata (n. pl.) See Desideratum.,
D as in Desiderated (imp. & p. p.) of Desiderate,
D as in Desiderating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Desiderate,
D as in Desiderate (v. t.) To desire; to feel the want of; to lack; to miss; to want.,
D as in Desideration (n.) Act of desiderating; also, the thing desired.,
D as in Desiderative (a.) Denoting desire; as, desiderative verbs.,
D as in Desiderative (n.) An object of desire.,
D as in Desiderative (n.) A verb formed from another verb by a change of termination, and expressing the desire of doing that which is indicated by the primitive verb.,
D as in Desiderata (pl. ) of Desideratum,
D as in Desideratum (n.) Anything desired; that of which the lack is felt; a want generally felt and acknowledge.,
D as in Desidiose (a.) Alt. of Desidious,
D as in Desidious (a.) Idle; lazy.,
D as in Desidiousness (n.) The state or quality of being desidiose, or indolent.,
D as in Desight (n.) An unsightly object.,
D as in Desightment (n.) The act of making unsightly; disfigurement.,
D as in Designed (imp. & p. p.) of Design,
D as in Designing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Design,
D as in Design (n.) To draw preliminary outline or main features of; to sketch for a pattern or model; to delineate; to trace out; to draw.,
D as in Design (n.) To mark out and exhibit; to designate; to indicate; to show; to point out; to appoint.,
D as in Design (n.) To create or produce, as a work of art; to form a plan or scheme of; to form in idea; to invent; to project; to lay out in the mind; as, a man designs an essay, a poem, a statue, or a cathedral.,
D as in Design (n.) To intend or purpose; -- usually with for before the remote object, but sometimes with to.,
D as in Design (v. i.) To form a design or designs; to plan.,
D as in Design (n.) A preliminary sketch; an outline or pattern of the main features of something to be executed, as of a picture, a building, or a decoration; a delineation; a plan.,
D as in Design (n.) A plan or scheme formed in the mind of something to be done; preliminary conception; idea intended to be expressed in a visible form or carried into action; intention; purpose; -- often used in a bad sense for evil intention or purpose; scheme; plot.,
D as in Design (n.) Specifically, intention or purpose as revealed or inferred from the adaptation of means to an end; as, the argument from design.,
D as in Design (n.) The realization of an inventive or decorative plan; esp., a work of decorative art considered as a new creation; conception or plan shown in completed work; as, this carved panel is a fine design, or of a fine design.,
D as in Design (n.) The invention and conduct of the subject; the disposition of every part, and the general order of the whole.,
D as in Designable (a.) Capable of being designated or distinctly marked out; distinguishable.,
D as in Designate (v. t.) Designated; appointed; chosen.,
D as in Designated (imp. & p. p.) of Designate,
D as in Designating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Designate,
D as in Designate (v. t.) To mark out and make known; to point out; to name; to indicate; to show; to distinguish by marks or description; to specify; as, to designate the boundaries of a country; to designate the rioters who are to be arrested.,
D as in Designate (v. t.) To call by a distinctive title; to name.,
D as in Designate (v. t.) To indicate or set apart for a purpose or duty; -- with to or for; to designate an officer for or to the command of a post or station.,
D as in Designation (n.) The act of designating; a pointing out or showing; indication.,
D as in Designation (n.) Selection and appointment for a purpose; allotment; direction.,
D as in Designation (n.) That which designates; a distinguishing mark or name; distinctive title; appellation.,
D as in Designation (n.) Use or application; import; intention; signification, as of a word or phrase.,
D as in Designative (a.) Serving to designate or indicate; pointing out.,
D as in Designator (n.) An officer who assigned to each his rank and place in public shows and ceremonies.,
D as in Designator (n.) One who designates.,
D as in Designatory (a.) Serving to designate; designative; indicating.,
D as in Designedly (adv.) By design; purposely; intentionally; -- opposed to accidentally, ignorantly, or inadvertently.,
D as in Designer (n.) One who designs, marks out, or plans; a contriver.,
D as in Designer (n.) One who produces or creates original works of art or decoration.,
D as in Designer (n.) A plotter; a schemer; -- used in a bad sense.,
D as in Designful (a.) Full of design; scheming.,
D as in Designing (a.) Intriguing; artful; scheming; as, a designing man.,
D as in Designing (n.) The act of making designs or sketches; the act of forming designs or plans.,
D as in Designless (a.) Without design.,
D as in Designment (n.) Delineation; sketch; design; ideal; invention.,
D as in Designment (n.) Design; purpose; scheme.,
D as in Desilver (v. t.) To deprive of silver; as, to desilver lead.,
D as in Desilverization (n.) The act or the process of freeing from silver; also, the condition resulting from the removal of silver.,
D as in Desilverize (v. t.) To deprive, or free from, silver; to remove silver from.,
D as in Desinence (n.) Termination; ending.,
D as in Desinent (a.) Ending; forming an end; lowermost.,
D as in Desinential (a.) Terminal.,
D as in Desipient (a.) Foolish; silly; trifling.,
D as in Desirability (n.) The state or quality of being desirable; desirableness.,
D as in Desirable (v. t.) Worthy of desire or longing; fitted to excite desire or a wish to possess; pleasing; agreeable.,
D as in Desirableness (n.) The quality of being desirable.,
D as in Desirably (adv.) In a desirable manner.,
D as in Desired (imp. & p. p.) of Desire,
D as in Desiring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Desire,
D as in Desire (v. t.) To long for; to wish for earnestly; to covet.,
D as in Desire (v. t.) To express a wish for; to entreat; to request.,
D as in Desire (v. t.) To require; to demand; to claim.,
D as in Desire (v. t.) To miss; to regret.,
D as in Desire (v. t.) The natural longing that is excited by the enjoyment or the thought of any good, and impels to action or effort its continuance or possession; an eager wish to obtain or enjoy.,
D as in Desire (v. t.) An expressed wish; a request; petition.,
D as in Desire (v. t.) Anything which is desired; an object of longing.,
D as in Desire (v. t.) Excessive or morbid longing; lust; appetite.,
D as in Desire (v. t.) Grief; regret.,
D as in Desireful (a.) Filled with desire; eager.,
D as in Desirefulness (n.) The state of being desireful; eagerness to obtain and possess.,
D as in Desireless (a.) Free from desire.,
D as in Desirer (n.) One who desires, asks, or wishes.,
D as in Desirous (n.) Feeling desire; eagerly wishing; solicitous; eager to obtain; covetous.,
D as in Desirously (adv.) With desire; eagerly.,
D as in Desirousness (n.) The state of being desirous.,
D as in Desisted (imp. & p. p.) of Desist,
D as in Desisting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Desist,
D as in Desist (v. i.) To cease to proceed or act; to stop; to forbear; -- often with from.,
D as in Desistance (n.) The act or state of desisting; cessation.,
D as in Desistive (a.) Final; conclusive; ending.,
D as in Desition (n.) An end or ending.,
D as in Desitive (a.) Final; serving to complete; conclusive.,
D as in Desitive (n.) A proposition relating to or expressing an end or conclusion.,
D as in Desk (n.) A table, frame, or case, usually with sloping top, but often with flat top, for the use writers and readers. It often has a drawer or repository underneath.,
D as in Desk (n.) A reading table or lectern to support the book from which the liturgical service is read, differing from the pulpit from which the sermon is preached; also (esp. in the United States), a pulpit. Hence, used symbolically for "the clerical profession.",
D as in Desked (imp. & p. p.) of Desk,
D as in Desking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Desk,
D as in Desk (v. t.) To shut up, as in a desk; to treasure.,
D as in Deskwork (n.) Work done at a desk, as by a clerk or writer.,
D as in Desman (n.) An amphibious, insectivorous mammal found in Russia (Myogale moschata). It is allied to the moles, but is called muskrat by some English writers.,
D as in Desmid (n.) Alt. of Desmidian,
D as in Desmidian (n.) A microscopic plant of the family Desmidiae, a group of unicellular algae in which the species have a greenish color, and the cells generally appear as if they consisted of two coalescing halves.,
D as in Desmine (n.) Same as Stilbite. It commonly occurs in bundles or tufts of crystals.,
D as in Desmobacteria (n. pl.) See Microbacteria.,
D as in Desmodont (n.) A member of a group of South American blood-sucking bats, of the genera Desmodus and Diphylla. See Vampire.,
D as in Desmognathous (a.) Having the maxillo-palatine bones united; -- applied to a group of carinate birds (Desmognathae), including various wading and swimming birds, as the ducks and herons, and also raptorial and other kinds.,
D as in Desmoid (a.) Resembling, or having the characteristics of, a ligament; ligamentous.,
D as in Desmology (n.) The science which treats of the ligaments.,
D as in Desmomyaria (n. pl.) The division of Tunicata which includes the Salpae. See Salpa.,
D as in Desolate (a.) Destitute or deprived of inhabitants; deserted; uninhabited; hence, gloomy; as, a desolate isle; a desolate wilderness; a desolate house.,
D as in Desolate (a.) Laid waste; in a ruinous condition; neglected; destroyed; as, desolate altars.,
D as in Desolate (a.) Left alone; forsaken; lonely; comfortless.,
D as in Desolate (a.) Lost to shame; dissolute.,
D as in Desolate (a.) Destitute of; lacking in.,
D as in Desolated (imp. & p. p.) of Desolate,
D as in Desolating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Desolate,
D as in Desolate (v. t.) To make desolate; to leave alone; to deprive of inhabitants; as, the earth was nearly desolated by the flood.,
D as in Desolate (v. t.) To lay waste; to ruin; to ravage; as, a fire desolates a city.,
D as in Desolately (adv.) In a desolate manner.,
D as in Desolateness (n.) The state of being desolate.,
D as in Desolater (n.) One who, or that which, desolates or lays waste.,
D as in Desolation (n.) The act of desolating or laying waste; destruction of inhabitants; depopulation.,
D as in Desolation (n.) The state of being desolated or laid waste; ruin; solitariness; destitution; gloominess.,
D as in Desolation (n.) A place or country wasted and forsaken.,
D as in Desolator (n.) Same as Desolater.,
D as in Desolatory (a.) Causing desolation.,
D as in Desophisticate (v. t.) To clear from sophism or error.,
D as in Desoxalic (a.) Made or derived from oxalic acid; as, desoxalic acid.,
D as in Despaired (imp. & p. p.) of Despair,
D as in Despairing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Despair,
D as in Despair (v. i.) To be hopeless; to have no hope; to give up all hope or expectation; -- often with of.,
D as in Despair (v. t.) To give up as beyond hope or expectation; to despair of.,
D as in Despair (v. t.) To cause to despair.,
D as in Despair (n.) Loss of hope; utter hopelessness; complete despondency.,
D as in Despair (n.) That which is despaired of.,
D as in Despairer (n.) One who despairs.,
D as in Despairful (a.) Hopeless.,
D as in Despairing (a.) Feeling or expressing despair; hopeless.,
D as in Desparple (v. t. & i.) To scatter; to disparkle.,
D as in Despatch (n. & v.) Same as Dispatch.,
D as in Despecificate (v. t.) To discriminate; to separate according to specific signification or qualities; to specificate; to desynonymize.,
D as in Despecfication (n.) Discrimination.,
D as in Despect (n.) Contempt.,
D as in Despection (n.) A looking down; a despising.,
D as in Despeed (v. t.) To send hastily.,
D as in Despend (v. t.) To spend; to squander. See Dispend.,
D as in Desperadoes (pl. ) of Desperado,
D as in Desperado (n.) A reckless, furious man; a person urged by furious passions, and regardless of consequence; a wild ruffian.,
D as in Desperate (a.) Without hope; given to despair; hopeless.,
D as in Desperate (a.) Beyond hope; causing despair; extremely perilous; irretrievable; past cure, or, at least, extremely dangerous; as, a desperate disease; desperate fortune.,
D as in Desperate (a.) Proceeding from, or suggested by, despair; without regard to danger or safety; reckless; furious; as, a desperate effort.,
D as in Desperate (a.) Extreme, in a bad sense; outrageous; -- used to mark the extreme predominance of a bad quality.,
D as in Desperate (n.) One desperate or hopeless.,
D as in Desperately (adv.) In a desperate manner; without regard to danger or safety; recklessly; extremely; as, the troops fought desperately.,
D as in Desperateness (n.) Desperation; virulence.,
D as in Desperation (n.) The act of despairing or becoming desperate; a giving up of hope.,
D as in Desperation (n.) A state of despair, or utter hopeless; abandonment of hope; extreme recklessness; reckless fury.,
D as in Despicability (n.) Despicableness.,
D as in Despicable (a.) Fit or deserving to be despised; contemptible; mean; vile; worthless; as, a despicable man; despicable company; a despicable gift.,
D as in Despicableness (n.) The quality of being despicable; meanness; vileness; worthlessness.,
D as in Despicably (adv.) In a despicable or mean manner; contemptibly; as, despicably stingy.,
D as in Despiciency (n.) A looking down; despection.,
D as in Despisable (a.) Despicable; contemptible.,
D as in Despisal (n.) A despising; contempt.,
D as in Despised (imp. & p. p.) of Despise,
D as in Despising (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Despise,
D as in Despise (v. t.) To look down upon with disfavor or contempt; to contemn; to scorn; to disdain; to have a low opinion or contemptuous dislike of.,
D as in Despisedness (n.) The state of being despised.,
D as in Despisement (n.) A despising.,
D as in Despiser (n.) One who despises; a contemner; a scorner.,
D as in Despisingly (adv.) Contemptuously.,
D as in Despite (n.) Malice; malignity; spite; malicious anger; contemptuous hate.,
D as in Despite (n.) An act of malice, hatred, or defiance; contemptuous defiance; a deed of contempt.,
D as in Despited (imp. & p. p.) of Despite,
D as in Despiting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Despite,
D as in Despite (n.) To vex; to annoy; to offend contemptuously.,
D as in Despite (prep.) In spite of; against, or in defiance of; notwithstanding; as, despite his prejudices.,
D as in Despiteful (a.) Full of despite; expressing malice or contemptuous hate; malicious.,
D as in Despiteous (a.) Feeling or showing despite; malicious; angry to excess; cruel; contemptuous.,
D as in Despiteously (adv.) Despitefully.,
D as in Despitous (a.) Despiteous; very angry; cruel.,
D as in Despoiled (imp. & p. p.) of Despoil,
D as in Despoiling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Despoil,
D as in Despoil (v. t.) To strip, as of clothing; to divest or unclothe.,
D as in Despoil (v. t.) To deprive for spoil; to plunder; to rob; to pillage; to strip; to divest; -- usually followed by of.,
D as in Despoil (n.) Spoil.,
D as in Despoiler (n.) One who despoils.,
D as in Despoilment (n.) Despoliation.,
D as in Despoliation (n.) A stripping or plundering; spoliation.,
D as in Desponded (imp. & p. p.) of Despond,
D as in Desponding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Despond,
D as in Despond (v. i.) To give up, the will, courage, or spirit; to be thoroughly disheartened; to lose all courage; to become dispirited or depressed; to take an unhopeful view.,
D as in Despond (n.) Despondency.,
D as in Despondence (n.) Despondency.,
D as in Despondency (n.) The state of desponding; loss of hope and cessation of effort; discouragement; depression or dejection of the mind.,
D as in Despondent (a.) Marked by despondence; given to despondence; low-spirited; as, a despondent manner; a despondent prisoner.,
D as in Desponder (n.) One who desponds.,
D as in Despondingly (adv.) In a desponding manner.,
D as in Desponsage (n.) Betrothal.,
D as in Desponsate (v. t.) To betroth.,
D as in Desponsation (n.) A betrothing; betrothal.,
D as in Desponsories (pl. ) of Desponsory,
D as in Desponsory (n.) A written pledge of marriage.,
D as in Desport (v. t. & i.) See Disport.,
D as in Despot (n.) A master; a lord; especially, an absolute or irresponsible ruler or sovereign.,
D as in Despot (n.) One who rules regardless of a constitution or laws; a tyrant.,
D as in Despotat (n.) The station or government of a despot; also, the domain of a despot.,
D as in Despotic (a.) Alt. of Despotical,
D as in Despotical (a.) Having the character of, or pertaining to, a despot; absolute in power; possessing and abusing unlimited power; evincing despotism; tyrannical; arbitrary.,
D as in Despotism (n.) The power, spirit, or principles of a despot; absolute control over others; tyrannical sway; tyranny.,
D as in Despotism (n.) A government which is directed by a despot; a despotic monarchy; absolutism; autocracy.,
D as in Despotist (n.) A supporter of despotism.,
D as in Despotize (v. t.) To act the despot.,
D as in Despread (v. t. & i.) See Dispread.,
D as in Despumated (imp. & p. p.) of Despumate,
D as in Despumating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Despumate,
D as in Despumate (v. t. & i.) To throw off impurities in spume; to work off in foam or scum; to foam.,
D as in Despumation (n.) The act of throwing up froth or scum; separation of the scum or impurities from liquids; scumming; clarification.,
D as in Despume (v. t.) To free from spume or scum.,
D as in Desquamate (v. i.) To peel off in the form of scales; to scale off, as the skin in certain diseases.,
D as in Desquamation (n.) The separation or shedding of the cuticle or epidermis in the form of flakes or scales; exfoliation, as of bones.,
D as in Desquamative (a.) Alt. of Desquamatory,
D as in Desquamatory (a.) Of, pertaining to, or attended with, desquamation.,
D as in Desquamatory (n.) An instrument formerly used in removing the laminae of exfoliated bones.,
D as in Dess (n.) Dais.,
D as in Dessert (n.) A service of pastry, fruits, or sweetmeats, at the close of a feast or entertainment; pastry, fruits, etc., forming the last course at dinner.,
D as in Destemper (n.) A kind of painting. See Distemper.,
D as in Destin (n.) Destiny.,
D as in Destinable (a.) Determined by destiny; fated.,
D as in Destinably (adv.) In a destinable manner.,
D as in Destinal (a.) Determined by destiny; fated.,
D as in Destinate (a.) Destined.,
D as in Destinate (v. t.) To destine, design, or choose.,
D as in Destination (n.) The act of destining or appointing.,
D as in Destination (n.) Purpose for which anything is destined; predetermined end, object, or use; ultimate design.,
D as in Destination (n.) The place set for the end of a journey, or to which something is sent; place or point aimed at.,
D as in Destined (imp. & p. p.) of Destine,
D as in Destining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Destine,
D as in Destine (v. t.) To determine the future condition or application of; to set apart by design for a future use or purpose; to fix, as by destiny or by an authoritative decree; to doom; to ordain or preordain; to appoint; -- often with the remoter object preceded by to or for.,
D as in Destinist (n.) A believer in destiny; a fatalist.,
D as in Destinies (pl. ) of Destiny,
D as in Destiny (n.) That to which any person or thing is destined; predetermined state; condition foreordained by the Divine or by human will; fate; lot; doom.,
D as in Destiny (n.) The fixed order of things; invincible necessity; fate; a resistless power or agency conceived of as determining the future, whether in general or of an individual.,
D as in Destituent (a.) Deficient; wanting; as, a destituent condition.,
D as in Destitute (a.) Forsaken; not having in possession (something necessary, or desirable); deficient; lacking; devoid; -- often followed by of.,
D as in Destitute (a.) Not possessing the necessaries of life; in a condition of want; needy; without possessions or resources; very poor.,
D as in Destitute (v. t.) To leave destitute; to forsake; to abandon.,
D as in Destitute (v. t.) To make destitute; to cause to be in want; to deprive; -- followed by of.,
D as in Destitute (v. t.) To disappoint.,
D as in Destitutely (adv.) In destitution.,
D as in Destituteness (n.) Destitution.,
D as in Destitution (n.) The state of being deprived of anything; the state or condition of being destitute, needy, or without resources; deficiency; lack; extreme poverty; utter want; as, the inundation caused general destitution.,
D as in Destrer (n.) Alt. of Dextrer,
D as in Dextrer (n.) A war horse.,
D as in Destrie (v. t.) To destroy.,
D as in Destroyed (imp. & p. p.) of Destroy,
D as in Destroying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Destroy,
D as in Destroy (v. t.) To unbuild; to pull or tear down; to separate virulently into its constituent parts; to break up the structure and organic existence of; to demolish.,
D as in Destroy (v. t.) To ruin; to bring to naught; to put an end to; to annihilate; to consume.,
D as in Destroy (v. t.) To put an end to the existence, prosperity, or beauty of; to kill.,
D as in Destroyable (a.) Destructible.,
D as in Destroyer (n.) One who destroys, ruins, kills, or desolates.,
D as in Destruct (v. t.) To destroy.,
D as in Destructibility (n.) The quality of being capable of destruction; destructibleness.,
D as in Destructible (a.) Liable to destruction; capable of being destroyed.,
D as in Destructibleness (n.) The quality of being destructible.,
D as in Destruction (n.) The act of destroying; a tearing down; a bringing to naught; subversion; demolition; ruin; slaying; devastation.,
D as in Destruction (n.) The state of being destroyed, demolished, ruined, slain, or devastated.,
D as in Destruction (n.) A destroying agency; a cause of ruin or of devastation; a destroyer.,
D as in Destructionist (n.) One who delights in destroying that which is valuable; one whose principles and influence tend to destroy existing institutions; a destructive.,
D as in Destructionist (n.) One who believes in the final destruction or complete annihilation of the wicked; -- called also annihilationist.,
D as in Destructive (a.) Causing destruction; tending to bring about ruin, death, or devastation; ruinous; fatal; productive of serious evil; mischievous; pernicious; -- often with of or to; as, intemperance is destructive of health; evil examples are destructive to the morals of youth.,
D as in Destructive (n.) One who destroys; a radical reformer; a destructionist.,
D as in Destructively (adv.) In a destructive manner.,
D as in Destructiveness (n.) The quality of destroying or ruining.,
D as in Destructiveness (n.) The faculty supposed to impel to the commission of acts of destruction; propensity to destroy.,
D as in Destructor (n.) A destroyer.,
D as in Destruie (v. t.) To destroy.,
D as in Desudation (n.) A sweating; a profuse or morbid sweating, often succeeded by an eruption of small pimples.,
D as in Desuete (a.) Disused; out of use.,
D as in Desuetude (n.) The cessation of use; disuse; discontinuance of practice, custom, or fashion.,
D as in Desulphurated (imp. & p. p.) of Desulphurate,
D as in Desulphurating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Desulphurate,
D as in Desulphurate (v. t.) To deprive of sulphur.,
D as in Desulphuration (n.) The act or process of depriving of sulphur.,
D as in Desulphurize (v. t.) To desulphurate; to deprive of sulphur.,
D as in Desultorily (adv.) In a desultory manner; without method; loosely; immethodically.,
D as in Desultoriness (n.) The quality of being desultory or without order or method; unconnectedness.,
D as in Desultorious (a.) Desultory.,
D as in Desultory (a.) Leaping or skipping about.,
D as in Desultory (a.) Jumping, or passing, from one thing or subject to another, without order or rational connection; without logical sequence; disconnected; immethodical; aimless; as, desultory minds.,
D as in Desultory (a.) Out of course; by the way; as a digression; not connected with the subject; as, a desultory remark.,
D as in Desume (v. t.) To select; to borrow.,
D as in Desynonymization (n.) The act of desynonymizing.,
D as in Desynonymize (v. t.) To deprive of synonymous character; to discriminate in use; -- applied to words which have been employed as synonyms.,
D as in Detached (imp. & p. p.) of Detach,
D as in Detaching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Detach,
D as in Detach (v. t.) To part; to separate or disunite; to disengage; -- the opposite of attach; as, to detach the coats of a bulbous root from each other; to detach a man from a leader or from a party.,
D as in Detach (v. t.) To separate for a special object or use; -- used especially in military language; as, to detach a ship from a fleet, or a company from a regiment.,
D as in Detach (v. i.) To push asunder; to come off or separate from anything; to disengage.,
D as in Detachable (a.) That can be detached.,
D as in Detached (a.) Separate; unconnected, or imperfectly connected; as, detached parcels.,
D as in Detachment (n.) The act of detaching or separating, or the state of being detached.,
D as in Detachment (n.) That which is detached; especially, a body of troops or part of a fleet sent from the main body on special service.,
D as in Detachment (n.) Abstraction from worldly objects; renunciation.,
D as in Detail (n.) A minute portion; one of the small parts; a particular; an item; -- used chiefly in the plural; as, the details of a scheme or transaction.,
D as in Detail (n.) A narrative which relates minute points; an account which dwells on particulars.,
D as in Detail (n.) The selection for a particular service of a person or a body of men; hence, the person or the body of men so selected.,
D as in Detailed (imp. & p. p.) of Detail,
D as in Detailing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Detail,
D as in Detail (n.) To relate in particulars; to particularize; to report minutely and distinctly; to enumerate; to specify; as, he detailed all the facts in due order.,
D as in Detail (n.) To tell off or appoint for a particular service, as an officer, a troop, or a squadron.,
D as in Detailer (n.) One who details.,
D as in Detained (imp. & p. p.) of Detain,
D as in Detaining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Detain,
D as in Detain (v. t.) To keep back or from; to withhold.,
D as in Detain (v. t.) To restrain from proceeding; to stay or stop; to delay; as, we were detained by an accident.,
D as in Detain (v. t.) To hold or keep in custody.,
D as in Detain (n.) Detention.,
D as in Detainder (n.) A writ. See Detinue.,
D as in Detainer (n.) One who detains.,
D as in Detainer (n.) The keeping possession of what belongs to another; detention of what is another's, even though the original taking may have been lawful. Forcible detainer is indictable at common law.,
D as in Detainer (n.) A writ authorizing the keeper of a prison to continue to keep a person in custody.,
D as in Detainment (n.) Detention.,
D as in Detect (a.) Detected.,
D as in Detected (imp. & p. p.) of Detect,
D as in Detecting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Detect,
D as in Detect (v. t.) To uncover; to discover; to find out; to bring to light; as, to detect a crime or a criminal; to detect a mistake in an account.,
D as in Detect (v. t.) To inform against; to accuse.,
D as in Detectable (a.) Alt. of Detectible,
D as in Detectible (a.) Capable of being detected or found out; as, parties not detectable.,
D as in Detecter (n.) One who, or that which, detects or brings to light; one who finds out what another attempts to conceal; a detector.,
D as in Detection (n.) The act of detecting; the laying open what was concealed or hidden; discovery; as, the detection of a thief; the detection of fraud, forgery, or a plot.,
D as in Detective (a.) Fitted for, or skilled in, detecting; employed in detecting crime or criminals; as, a detective officer.,
D as in Detective (n.) One who business it is so detect criminals or discover matters of secrecy.,
D as in Detector (n.) One who, or that which, detects; a detecter.,
D as in Detenebrate (v. t.) To remove darkness from.,
D as in Detent (n.) That which locks or unlocks a movement; a catch, pawl, or dog; especially, in clockwork, the catch which locks and unlocks the wheelwork in striking.,
D as in Detention (n.) The act of detaining or keeping back; a withholding.,
D as in Detention (n.) The state of being detained (stopped or hindered); delay from necessity.,
D as in Detention (n.) Confinement; restraint; custody.,
D as in Deterred (imp. & p. p.) of Deter,
D as in Deterring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Deter,
D as in Deter (v. t.) To prevent by fear; hence, to hinder or prevent from action by fear of consequences, or difficulty, risk, etc.,
D as in Deterged (imp. & p. p.) of Deterge,
D as in Deterging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Deterge,
D as in Deterge (v. t.) To cleanse; to purge away, as foul or offending matter from the body, or from an ulcer.,
D as in Detergency (n.) A cleansing quality or power.,
D as in Detergent (a.) Cleansing; purging.,
D as in Detergent (n.) A substance which cleanses the skin, as water or soap; a medicine to cleanse wounds, ulcers, etc.,
D as in Deteriorated (imp. & p. p.) of Deteriorate,
D as in Deteriorating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Deteriorate,
D as in Deteriorate (v. t.) To make worse; to make inferior in quality or value; to impair; as, to deteriorate the mind.,
D as in Deteriorate (v. i.) To grow worse; to be impaired in quality; to degenerate.,
D as in Deterioration (n.) The process of growing worse, or the state of having grown worse.,
D as in Deteriority (n.) Worse state or quality; inferiority.,
D as in Determent (n.) The act of deterring; also, that which deters.,
D as in Determinability (n.) The quality of being determinable; determinableness.,
D as in Determinable (v. t.) Capable of being determined, definitely ascertained, decided upon, or brought to a conclusion.,
D as in Determinableness (n.) Capability of being determined; determinability.,
D as in Determinacy (n.) Determinateness.,
D as in Determinant (a.) Serving to determine or limit; determinative.,
D as in Determinant (n.) That which serves to determine; that which causes determination.,
D as in Determinant (n.) The sum of a series of products of several numbers, these products being formed according to certain specified laws,
D as in Determinant (n.) A mark or attribute, attached to the subject or predicate, narrowing the extent of both, but rendering them more definite and precise.,
D as in Determinate (a.) Having defined limits; not uncertain or arbitrary; fixed; established; definite.,
D as in Determinate (a.) Conclusive; decisive; positive.,
D as in Determinate (a.) Determined or resolved upon.,
D as in Determinate (a.) Of determined purpose; resolute.,
D as in Determinate (v. t.) To bring to an end; to determine. See Determine.,
D as in Determinately (adv.) In a determinate manner; definitely; ascertainably.,
D as in Determinately (adv.) Resolutely; unchangeably.,
D as in Determinateness (n.) State of being determinate.,
D as in Determination (n.) The act of determining, or the state of being determined.,
D as in Determination (n.) Bringing to an end; termination; limit.,
D as in Determination (n.) Direction or tendency to a certain end; impulsion.,
D as in Determination (n.) The quality of mind which reaches definite conclusions; decision of character; resoluteness.,
D as in Determination (n.) The state of decision; a judicial decision, or ending of controversy.,
D as in Determination (n.) That which is determined upon; result of deliberation; purpose; conclusion formed; fixed resolution.,
D as in Determination (n.) A flow, rush, or tendency to a particular part; as, a determination of blood to the head.,
D as in Determination (n.) The act, process, or result of any accurate measurement, as of length, volume, weight, intensity, etc.; as, the determination of the ohm or of the wave length of light; the determination of the salt in sea water, or the oxygen in the air.,
D as in Determination (n.) The act of defining a concept or notion by giving its essential constituents.,
D as in Determination (n.) The addition of a differentia to a concept or notion, thus limiting its extent; -- the opposite of generalization.,
D as in Determination (n.) The act of determining the relations of an object, as regards genus and species; the referring of minerals, plants, or animals, to the species to which they belong; classification; as, I am indebted to a friend for the determination of most of these shells.,
D as in Determinative (a.) Having power to determine; limiting; shaping; directing; conclusive.,
D as in Determinative (n.) That which serves to determine.,
D as in Determinator (n.) One who determines.,
D as in Determined (imp. & p. p.) of Determine,
D as in Determining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Determine,
D as in Determine (v. t.) To fix the boundaries of; to mark off and separate.,
D as in Determine (v. t.) To set bounds to; to fix the determination of; to limit; to bound; to bring to an end; to finish.,
D as in Determine (v. t.) To fix the form or character of; to shape; to prescribe imperatively; to regulate; to settle.,
D as in Determine (v. t.) To fix the course of; to impel and direct; -- with a remoter object preceded by to; as, another's will determined me to this course.,
D as in Determine (v. t.) To ascertain definitely; to find out the specific character or name of; to assign to its true place in a system; as, to determine an unknown or a newly discovered plant or its name.,
D as in Determine (v. t.) To bring to a conclusion, as a question or controversy; to settle authoritative or judicial sentence; to decide; as, the court has determined the cause.,
D as in Determine (v. t.) To resolve on; to have a fixed intention of; also, to cause to come to a conclusion or decision; to lead; as, this determined him to go immediately.,
D as in Determine (v. t.) To define or limit by adding a differentia.,
D as in Determine (v. t.) To ascertain the presence, quantity, or amount of; as, to determine the parallax; to determine the salt in sea water.,
D as in Determine (v. i.) To come to an end; to end; to terminate.,
D as in Determine (v. i.) To come to a decision; to decide; to resolve; -- often with on.,
D as in Determined (a.) Decided; resolute.,
D as in Determinedly (adv.) In a determined manner; with determination.,
D as in Determiner (n.) One who, or that which, determines or decides.,
D as in Determinism (n.) The doctrine that the will is not free, but is inevitably and invincibly determined by motives.,
D as in Determinist (n.) One who believes in determinism. Also adj.; as, determinist theories.,
D as in Deterration (n.) The uncovering of anything buried or covered with earth; a taking out of the earth or ground.,
D as in Deterrence (n.) That which deters; a deterrent; a hindrance.,
D as in Deterrent (a.) Serving to deter.,
D as in Deterrent (n.) That which deters or prevents.,
D as in Detersion (n.) The act of deterging or cleansing, as a sore.,
D as in Detersive (a.) Cleansing; detergent.,
D as in Detersive (n.) A cleansing agent; a detergent.,
D as in Detersively (adv.) In a way to cleanse.,
D as in Detersiveness (n.) The quality of cleansing.,
D as in Detested (imp. & p. p.) of Detest,
D as in Detesting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Detest,
D as in Detest (v. t.) To witness against; to denounce; to condemn.,
D as in Detest (v. t.) To hate intensely; to abhor; to abominate; to loathe; as, we detest what is contemptible or evil.,
D as in Detestability (n.) Capacity of being odious.,
D as in Detestable (a.) Worthy of being detested; abominable; extremely hateful; very odious; deserving abhorrence; as, detestable vices.,
D as in Detestableness (n.) The quality or state of being detestable.,
D as in Detestably (adv.) In a detestable manner.,
D as in Detesttate (v. t.) To detest.,
D as in Detestation (n.) The act of detesting; extreme hatred or dislike; abhorrence; loathing.,
D as in Detester (n.) One who detes//,
D as in Dethroned (imp. & p. p.) of Dethrone,
D as in Dethroning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dethrone,
D as in Dethrone (v. t.) To remove or drive from a throne; to depose; to divest of supreme authority and dignity.,
D as in Dethronement (n.) Deposal from a throne; deposition from regal power.,
D as in Dethroner (n.) One who dethrones.,
D as in Dethronization (n.) Dethronement.,
D as in Dethronize (v. t.) To dethrone or unthrone.,
D as in Detinue (n.) A person or thing detained,
D as in Detinue (n.) A form of action for the recovery of a personal chattel wrongfully detained.,
D as in Detonated (imp. & p. p.) of Detonate,
D as in Detonating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Detonate,
D as in Detonate (v. i.) To explode with a sudden report; as, niter detonates with sulphur.,
D as in Detonate (v. t.) To cause to explode; to cause to burn or inflame with a sudden report.,
D as in Detonating (a. & n.) from Detonate.,
D as in Detonation (n.) An explosion or sudden report made by the instantaneous decomposition or combustion of unstable substances' as, the detonation of gun cotton.,
D as in Detonator (n.) One who, or that which, detonates.,
D as in Detonization (n.) The act of detonizing; detonation.,
D as in Detonized (imp. & p. p.) of Detonize,
D as in Detonizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Detonize,
D as in Detonize (v. t. & i.) To explode, or cause to explode; to burn with an explosion; to detonate.,
D as in Detorsion (n.) Same as Detortion.,
D as in Detorted (imp. & p. p.) of Detort,
D as in Detorting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Detort,
D as in Detort (v. t.) To turn form the original or plain meaning; to pervert; to wrest.,
D as in Detortion (n.) The act of detorting, or the state of being detorted; a twisting or warping.,
D as in Detour (n.) A turning; a circuitous route; a deviation from a direct course; as, the detours of the Mississippi.,
D as in Detracted (imp. & p. p.) of Detract,
D as in Detracting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Detract,
D as in Detract (v. t.) To take away; to withdraw.,
D as in Detract (v. t.) To take credit or reputation from; to defame.,
D as in Detract (v. i.) To take away a part or something, especially from one's credit; to lessen reputation; to derogate; to defame; -- often with from.,
D as in Detracter (n.) One who detracts; a detractor.,
D as in Detractingly (adv.) In a detracting manner.,
D as in Detraction (n.) A taking away or withdrawing.,
D as in Detraction (n.) The act of taking away from the reputation or good name of another; a lessening or cheapening in the estimation of others; the act of depreciating another, from envy or malice; calumny.,
D as in Detractious (a.) Containing detraction; detractory.,
D as in Detractive (a.) Tending to detractor draw.,
D as in Detractive (a.) Tending to lower in estimation; depreciative.,
D as in Detractiveness (n.) The quality of being detractive.,
D as in Detracor (n.) One who detracts; a derogator; a defamer.,
D as in Detractory (a.) Defamatory by denial of desert; derogatory; calumnious.,
D as in Detractress (n.) A female detractor.,
D as in Detrain (v. i. & t.) To alight, or to cause to alight, from a railway train.,
D as in Detrect (v. t.) To refuse; to decline.,
D as in Detriment (n.) That which injures or causes damage; mischief; harm; diminution; loss; damage; -- used very generically; as, detriments to property, religion, morals, etc.,
D as in Detriment (n.) A charge made to students and barristers for incidental repairs of the rooms they occupy.,
D as in Detriment (v. t.) To do injury to; to hurt.,
D as in Detrimental (a.) Causing detriment; injurious; hurtful.,
D as in Detrimentalness (n.) The quality of being detrimental; injuriousness.,
D as in Detrital (a.) Pertaining to, or composed of, detritus.,
D as in Detrite (a.) Worn out.,
D as in Detrition (n.) A wearing off or away.,
D as in Detritus (n.) A mass of substances worn off from solid bodies by attrition, and reduced to small portions; as, diluvial detritus.,
D as in Detritus (n.) Hence: Any fragments separated from the body to which they belonged; any product of disintegration.,
D as in Detruded (imp. & p. p.) of Detrude,
D as in Detruding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Detrude,
D as in Detrude (v. t.) To thrust down or out; to push down with force.,
D as in Detruncated (imp. & p. p.) of Detuncate,
D as in Detruncating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Detuncate,
D as in Detuncate (v. t.) To shorten by cutting; to cut off; to lop off.,
D as in Detruncation (n.) The act of lopping or cutting off, as the head from the body.,
D as in Detrusion (n.) The act of thrusting or driving down or outward; outward thrust.,
D as in Dette (n.) Debt.,
D as in Detteles (a.) Free from debt.,
D as in Detumescence (n.) Diminution of swelling; subsidence of anything swollen.,
D as in Detur (n.) A present of books given to a meritorious undergraduate student as a prize.,
D as in Deturb (v. t.) To throw down.,
D as in Deturbate (v. t.) To evict; to remove.,
D as in Deturbation (n.) The act of deturbating.,
D as in Deturn (v. t.) To turn away.,
D as in Deturpate (v. t.) To defile; to disfigure.,
D as in Deturpation (n.) A making foul.,
D as in Deuce (n.) Two; a card or a die with two spots; as, the deuce of hearts.,
D as in Deuce (n.) A condition of the score beginning whenever each side has won three strokes in the same game (also reckoned "40 all"), and reverted to as often as a tie is made until one of the sides secures two successive strokes following a tie or deuce, which decides the game.,
D as in Deuce (n.) The devil; a demon.,
D as in Deuced (a.) Devilish; excessive; extreme.,
D as in Deuse (a.) Alt. of Deused,
D as in Deused (a.) See Deuce, Deuced.,
D as in Deuterocanonical (a.) Pertaining to a second canon, or ecclesiastical writing of inferior authority; -- said of the Apocrypha, certain Epistles, etc.,
D as in Deuterogamist (n.) One who marries the second time.,
D as in Deuterogamy (n.) A second marriage, after the death of the first husband of wife; -- in distinction from bigamy, as defined in the old canon law. See Bigamy.,
D as in Deuterogenic (a.) Of secondary origin; -- said of certain rocks whose material has been derived from older rocks.,
D as in Deuteronomist (n.) The writer of Deuteronomy.,
D as in Deuteronomy (n.) The fifth book of the Pentateuch, containing the second giving of the law by Moses.,
D as in Deuteropathia (n.) Alt. of Deuteropathy,
D as in Deuteropathy (n.) A sympathetic affection of any part of the body, as headache from an overloaded stomach.,
D as in Deuteropathic (a.) Pertaining to deuteropathy; of the nature of deuteropathy.,
D as in Deuteroscopy (n.) Second sight.,
D as in Deuteroscopy (n.) That which is seen at a second view; a meaning beyond the literal sense; the second intention; a hidden signification.,
D as in Deuterozooid (n.) One of the secondary, and usually sexual, zooids produced by budding or fission from the primary zooids, in animals having alternate generations. In the tapeworms, the joints are deuterozooids.,
D as in Deuthydroguret (n.) Same as Deutohydroguret.,
D as in Deuto- () Alt. of Deut-,
D as in Deut- () A prefix which formerly properly indicated the second in a regular series of compound in the series, and not to its composition, but which is now generally employed in the same sense as bi-or di-, although little used.,
D as in Deutohydroguret (n.) A compound containing in the molecule two atoms of hydrogen united with some other element or radical.,
D as in Deutoplasm (n.) The lifeless food matter in the cytoplasm of an ovum or a cell, as distinguished from the active or true protoplasm; yolk substance; yolk.,
D as in Deutoplastic (a.) Pertaining to, or composed of, deutoplasm.,
D as in Deutosulphuret (n.) A disulphide.,
D as in Deutoxide (n.) A compound containing in the molecule two atoms of oxygen united with some other element or radical; -- usually called dioxide, or less frequently, binoxide.,
D as in Deutzia (n.) A genus of shrubs with pretty white flowers, much cultivated.,
D as in Dev (n.) Alt. of Deva,
D as in Deva (n.) A god; a deity; a divine being; an idol; a king.,
D as in Devanagari (n.) The character in which Sanskrit is written.,
D as in Devaporation (n.) The change of vapor into water, as in the formation of rain.,
D as in Devast (v. t.) To devastate.,
D as in Devastated (imp. & p. p.) of Devastate,
D as in Devastating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Devastate,
D as in Devastate (v. t.) To lay waste; to ravage; to desolate.,
D as in Devastation (n.) The act of devastating, or the state of being devastated; a laying waste.,
D as in Devastation (n.) Waste of the goods of the deceased by an executor or administrator.,
D as in Devastator (n.) One who, or that which, devastates.,
D as in Devastavit (n.) Waste or misapplication of the assets of a deceased person by an executor or an administrator.,
D as in Devata (n.) A deity; a divine being; a good spirit; an idol.,
D as in Deve (a.) Deaf.,
D as in Develin (n.) The European swift.,
D as in Developed (imp. & p. p.) of Develop,
D as in Developing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Develop,
D as in Develop (v. t.) To free from that which infolds or envelops; to unfold; to lay open by degrees or in detail; to make visible or known; to disclose; to produce or give forth; as, to develop theories; a motor that develops 100 horse power.,
D as in Develop (v. t.) To unfold gradually, as a flower from a bud; hence, to bring through a succession of states or stages, each of which is preparatory to the next; to form or expand by a process of growth; to cause to change gradually from an embryo, or a lower state, to a higher state or form of being; as, sunshine and rain develop the bud into a flower; to develop the mind.,
D as in Develop (v. t.) To advance; to further; to prefect; to make to increase; to promote the growth of.,
D as in Develop (v. t.) To change the form of, as of an algebraic expression, by executing certain indicated operations without changing the value.,
D as in Develop (v. t.) To cause to become visible, as an invisible or latent image upon plate, by submitting it to chemical agents; to bring to view.,
D as in Develop (v. i.) To go through a process of natural evolution or growth, by successive changes from a less perfect to a more perfect or more highly organized state; to advance from a simpler form of existence to one more complex either in structure or function; as, a blossom develops from a bud; the seed develops into a plant; the embryo develops into a well-formed animal; the mind develops year by year.,
D as in Develop (v. i.) To become apparent gradually; as, a picture on sensitive paper develops on the application of heat; the plans of the conspirators develop.,
D as in Developable (a.) Capable of being developed.,
D as in Developer (n.) One who, or that which, develops.,
D as in Developer (n.) A reagent by the action of which the latent image upon a photographic plate, after exposure in the camera, or otherwise, is developed and visible.,
D as in Development (n.) The act of developing or disclosing that which is unknown; a gradual unfolding process by which anything is developed, as a plan or method, or an image upon a photographic plate; gradual advancement or growth through a series of progressive changes; also, the result of developing, or a developed state.,
D as in Development (n.) The series of changes which animal and vegetable organisms undergo in their passage from the embryonic state to maturity, from a lower to a higher state of organization.,
D as in Development (n.) The act or process of changing or expanding an expression into another of equivalent value or meaning.,
D as in Development (n.) The equivalent expression into which another has been developed.,
D as in Development (n.) The elaboration of a theme or subject; the unfolding of a musical idea; the evolution of a whole piece or movement from a leading theme or motive.,
D as in Developmental (a.) Pertaining to, or characteristic of, the process of development; as, the developmental power of a germ.,
D as in Devenustate (v. t.) To deprive of beauty or grace.,
D as in Devergence (n.) Alt. of Devergency,
D as in Devergency (n.) See Divergence.,
D as in Devested (imp. & p. p.) of Devest,
D as in Devesting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Devest,
D as in Devest (v. t.) To divest; to undress.,
D as in Devest (v. t.) To take away, as an authority, title, etc., to deprive; to alienate, as an estate.,
D as in Devest (v. i.) To be taken away, lost, or alienated, as a title or an estate.,
D as in Devex (a.) Bending down; sloping.,
D as in Devex (n.) Devexity.,
D as in Devexity (a.) A bending downward; a sloping; incurvation downward; declivity.,
D as in Devi (n.) ; fem. of Deva. A goddess.,
D as in Deviant (a.) Deviating.,
D as in Deviated (imp. & p. p.) of Deviate,
D as in Deviating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Deviate,
D as in Deviate (v. i.) To go out of the way; to turn aside from a course or a method; to stray or go astray; to err; to digress; to diverge; to vary.,
D as in Deviate (v. t.) To cause to deviate.,
D as in Deviation (n.) The act of deviating; a wandering from the way; variation from the common way, from an established rule, etc.; departure, as from the right course or the path of duty.,
D as in Deviation (n.) The state or result of having deviated; a transgression; an act of sin; an error; an offense.,
D as in Deviation (n.) The voluntary and unnecessary departure of a ship from, or delay in, the regular and usual course of the specific voyage insured, thus releasing the underwriters from their responsibility.,
D as in Deviator (n.) One who, or that which, deviates.,
D as in Deviatory (a.) Tending to deviate; devious; as, deviatory motion.,
D as in Device (n.) That which is devised, or formed by design; a contrivance; an invention; a project; a scheme; often, a scheme to deceive; a stratagem; an artifice.,
D as in Device (n.) Power of devising; invention; contrivance.,
D as in Device (n.) An emblematic design, generally consisting of one or more figures with a motto, used apart from heraldic bearings to denote the historical situation, the ambition, or the desire of the person adopting it. See Cognizance.,
D as in Device (n.) Improperly, an heraldic bearing.,
D as in Device (n.) Anything fancifully conceived.,
D as in Device (n.) A spectacle or show.,
D as in Device (n.) Opinion; decision.,
D as in Deviceful (a.) Full of devices; inventive.,
D as in Devicefully (adv.) In a deviceful manner.,
D as in Devil (n.) The Evil One; Satan, represented as the tempter and spiritual of mankind.,
D as in Devil (n.) An evil spirit; a demon.,
D as in Devil (n.) A very wicked person; hence, any great evil.,
D as in Devil (n.) An expletive of surprise, vexation, or emphasis, or, ironically, of negation.,
D as in Devil (n.) A dish, as a bone with the meat, broiled and excessively peppered; a grill with Cayenne pepper.,
D as in Devil (n.) A machine for tearing or cutting rags, cotton, etc.,
D as in Deviled (imp. & p. p.) of Devil,
D as in Devilled () of Devil,
D as in Deviling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Devil,
D as in Devilling () of Devil,
D as in Devil (v. t.) To make like a devil; to invest with the character of a devil.,
D as in Devil (v. t.) To grill with Cayenne pepper; to season highly in cooking, as with pepper.,
D as in Devil-diver (n.) Alt. of Devil bird,
D as in Devil bird (n.) A small water bird. See Dabchick.,
D as in Deviless (n.) A she-devil.,
D as in Devilet (n.) A little devil.,
D as in Devilfish (n.) A huge ray (Manta birostris / Cephaloptera vampyrus) of the Gulf of Mexico and Southern Atlantic coasts. Several other related species take the same name. See Cephaloptera.,
D as in Devilfish (n.) A large cephalopod, especially the very large species of Octopus and Architeuthis. See Octopus.,
D as in Devilfish (n.) The gray whale of the Pacific coast. See Gray whale.,
D as in Devilfish (n.) The goosefish or angler (Lophius), and other allied fishes. See Angler.,
D as in Deviling (n.) A young devil.,
D as in Devilish (a.) Resembling, characteristic of, or pertaining to, the devil; diabolical; wicked in the extreme.,
D as in Devilish (a.) Extreme; excessive.,
D as in Devilism (n.) The state of the devil or of devils; doctrine of the devil or of devils.,
D as in Devilize (v. t.) To make a devil of.,
D as in Devilkin (n.) A little devil; a devilet.,
D as in Devilment (n.) Deviltry.,
D as in Devilries (pl. ) of Devilry,
D as in Devilry (n.) Conduct suitable to the devil; extreme wickedness; deviltry.,
D as in Devilry (n.) The whole body of evil spirits.,
D as in Devil's darning-needle () A dragon fly. See Darning needle, under Darn, v. t.,
D as in Devilship (n.) The character or person of a devil or the devil.,
D as in Deviltries (pl. ) of Deviltry,
D as in Deviltry (n.) Diabolical conduct; malignant mischief; devilry.,
D as in Devilwood (n.) A kind of tree (Osmanthus Americanus), allied to the European olive.,
D as in Devious (a.) Out of a straight line; winding; varying from directness; as, a devious path or way.,
D as in Devious (a.) Going out of the right or common course; going astray; erring; wandering; as, a devious step.,
D as in Devirginate (a.) Deprived of virginity.,
D as in Devirginate (v. t.) To deprive of virginity; to deflour.,
D as in Devirgination (n.) A deflouring.,
D as in Devisable (a.) Capable of being devised, invented, or contrived.,
D as in Devisable (a.) Capable of being bequeathed, or given by will.,
D as in Devisal (n.) A devising.,
D as in Devised (imp. & p. p.) of Devise,
D as in Devising (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Devise,
D as in Devise (v. t.) To form in the mind by new combinations of ideas, new applications of principles, or new arrangement of parts; to formulate by thought; to contrive; to excogitate; to invent; to plan; to scheme; as, to devise an engine, a new mode of writing, a plan of defense, or an argument.,
D as in Devise (v. t.) To plan or scheme for; to purpose to obtain.,
D as in Devise (v. t.) To say; to relate; to describe.,
D as in Devise (v. t.) To imagine; to guess.,
D as in Devise (v. t.) To give by will; -- used of real estate; formerly, also, of chattels.,
D as in Devise (v. i.) To form a scheme; to lay a plan; to contrive; to consider.,
D as in Devise (n.) The act of giving or disposing of real estate by will; -- sometimes improperly applied to a bequest of personal estate.,
D as in Devise (n.) A will or testament, conveying real estate; the clause of a will making a gift of real property.,
D as in Devise (n.) Property devised, or given by will.,
D as in Devise (n.) Device. See Device.,
D as in Devisee (n.) One to whom a devise is made, or real estate given by will.,
D as in Deviser (n.) One who devises.,
D as in Devisor (n.) One who devises, or gives real estate by will; a testator; -- correlative to devisee.,
D as in Devitable (a.) Avoidable.,
D as in Devitalize (v. t.) To deprive of life or vitality.,
D as in Devitation (n.) An avoiding or escaping; also, a warning.,
D as in Devitrification (n.) The act or process of devitrifying, or the state of being devitrified. Specifically, the conversion of molten glassy matter into a stony mass by slow cooling, the result being the formation of crystallites, microbites, etc., in the glassy base, which are then called devitrification products.,
D as in Devitrify (v. t.) To deprive of glasslike character; to take away vitreous luster and transparency from.,
D as in Devocalize (v. t.) To make toneless; to deprive of vowel quality.,
D as in Devocation (n.) A calling off or away.,
D as in Devoid (v. t.) To empty out; to remove.,
D as in Devoid (v. t.) Void; empty; vacant.,
D as in Devoid (v. t.) Destitute; not in possession; -- with of; as, devoid of sense; devoid of pity or of pride.,
D as in Devoir (n.) Duty; service owed; hence, due act of civility or respect; -- now usually in the plural; as, they paid their devoirs to the ladies.,
D as in Devolute (v. t.) To devolve.,
D as in Devolution (n.) The act of rolling down.,
D as in Devolution (n.) Transference from one person to another; a passing or devolving upon a successor.,
D as in Devolved (imp. & p. p.) of Devolve,
D as in Devolving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Devolve,
D as in Devolve (v. t.) To roll onward or downward; to pass on.,
D as in Devolve (v. t.) To transfer from one person to another; to deliver over; to hand down; -- generally with upon, sometimes with to or into.,
D as in Devolve (v. i.) To pass by transmission or succession; to be handed over or down; -- generally with on or upon, sometimes with to or into; as, after the general fell, the command devolved upon (or on) the next officer in rank.,
D as in Devolvement (n.) The act or process of devolving;; devolution.,
D as in Devon (n.) One of a breed of hardy cattle originating in the country of Devon, England. Those of pure blood have a deep red color. The small, longhorned variety, called North Devons, is distinguished by the superiority of its working oxen.,
D as in Devonian (a.) Of or pertaining to Devon or Devonshire in England; as, the Devonian rocks, period, or system.,
D as in Devonian (n.) The Devonian age or formation.,
D as in Devoration (n.) The act of devouring.,
D as in Devotary (n.) A votary.,
D as in Devoted (imp. & p. p.) of Devote,
D as in Devoting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Devote,
D as in Devote (v. t.) To appropriate by vow; to set apart or dedicate by a solemn act; to consecrate; also, to consign over; to doom; to evil; to devote one to destruction; the city was devoted to the flames.,
D as in Devote (v. t.) To execrate; to curse.,
D as in Devote (v. t.) To give up wholly; to addict; to direct the attention of wholly or compound; to attach; -- often with a reflexive pronoun; as, to devote one's self to science, to one's friends, to piety, etc.,
D as in Devote (a.) Devoted; addicted; devout.,
D as in Devote (n.) A devotee.,
D as in Devoted (a.) Consecrated to a purpose; strongly attached; zealous; devout; as, a devoted admirer.,
D as in Devotee (n.) One who is wholly devoted; esp., one given wholly to religion; one who is superstitiously given to religious duties and ceremonies; a bigot.,
D as in Devotement (n.) The state of being devoted, or set apart by a vow.,
D as in Devoter (n.) One who devotes; a worshiper.,
D as in Devotion (n.) The act of devoting; consecration.,
D as in Devotion (n.) The state of being devoted; addiction; eager inclination; strong attachment love or affection; zeal; especially, feelings toward God appropriately expressed by acts of worship; devoutness.,
D as in Devotion (n.) Act of devotedness or devoutness; manifestation of strong attachment; act of worship; prayer.,
D as in Devotion (n.) Disposal; power of disposal.,
D as in Devotion (n.) A thing consecrated; an object of devotion.,
D as in Devotional (a.) Pertaining to, suited to, or used in, devotion; as, a devotional posture; devotional exercises; a devotional frame of mind.,
D as in Devotionalist (n.) Alt. of Devotionist,
D as in Devotionist (n.) One given to devotion, esp. to excessive formal devotion.,
D as in Devotionality (n.) The practice of a devotionalist.,
D as in Devotionally (adv.) In a devotional manner; toward devotion.,
D as in Devoto (n.) A devotee.,
D as in Devotor (n.) A worshiper; one given to devotion.,
D as in Devoured (imp. & p. p.) of Devour,
D as in Devouring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Devour,
D as in Devour (v. t.) To eat up with greediness; to consume ravenously; to feast upon like a wild beast or a glutton; to prey upon.,
D as in Devour (v. t.) To seize upon and destroy or appropriate greedily, selfishly, or wantonly; to consume; to swallow up; to use up; to waste; to annihilate.,
D as in Devour (v. t.) To enjoy with avidity; to appropriate or take in eagerly by the senses.,
D as in Devourable (a.) That may be devoured.,
D as in Devourer (n.) One who, or that which, devours.,
D as in Devouringly (adv.) In a devouring manner.,
D as in Devout (v. t.) Devoted to religion or to religious feelings and duties; absorbed in religious exercises; given to devotion; pious; reverent; religious.,
D as in Devout (v. t.) Expressing devotion or piety; as, eyes devout; sighs devout; a devout posture.,
D as in Devout (v. t.) Warmly devoted; hearty; sincere; earnest; as, devout wishes for one's welfare.,
D as in Devout (n.) A devotee.,
D as in Devout (n.) A devotional composition, or part of a composition; devotion.,
D as in Devoutful (a.) Full of devotion.,
D as in Devoutful (a.) Sacred.,
D as in Devoutless (a.) Destitute of devotion.,
D as in Devoutly (adv.) In a devout and reverent manner; with devout emotions; piously.,
D as in Devoutly (adv.) Sincerely; solemnly; earnestly.,
D as in Devoutness (n.) Quality or state of being devout.,
D as in Devove (v. t.) To devote.,
D as in Devow (v. t.) To give up; to devote.,
D as in Devow (v. t.) To disavow; to disclaim.,
D as in Devulgarize (v. t.) To free from what is vulgar, common, or narrow.,
D as in Dew (n.) Moisture from the atmosphere condensed by cool bodies upon their surfaces, particularly at night.,
D as in Dew (n.) Figuratively, anything which falls lightly and in a refreshing manner.,
D as in Dew (n.) An emblem of morning, or fresh vigor.,
D as in Dewed (imp. & p. p.) of Dew,
D as in Dewing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dew,
D as in Dew (v. t.) To wet with dew or as with dew; to bedew; to moisten; as with dew.,
D as in Dew (a. & n.) Same as Due, or Duty.,
D as in Dewberry (n.) The fruit of certain species of bramble (Rubus); in England, the fruit of R. caesius, which has a glaucous bloom; in America, that of R. canadensis and R. hispidus, species of low blackberries.,
D as in Dewberry (n.) The plant which bears the fruit.,
D as in Dewclaw (n.) In any animal, esp. of the Herbivora, a rudimentary claw or small hoof not reaching the ground.,
D as in Dewdrop (n.) A drop of dew.,
D as in Dewfall (n.) The falling of dew; the time when dew begins to fall.,
D as in Dewiness (n.) State of being dewy.,
D as in Dewlap (n.) The pendulous skin under the neck of an ox, which laps or licks the dew in grazing.,
D as in Dewlap (n.) The flesh upon the human throat, especially when with age.,
D as in Dewlapped (a.) Furnished with a dewlap.,
D as in Dewless (a.) Having no dew.,
D as in Dew-point (n.) The temperature at which dew begins to form. It varies with the humidity and temperature of the atmosphere.,
D as in Dewret (v. t.) To ret or rot by the process called dewretting.,
D as in Dewretting (n.) Dewrotting; the process of decomposing the gummy matter of flax and hemp and setting the fibrous part, by exposure on a sward to dew, rain, and sunshine.,
D as in Dewrot (v. t.) To rot, as flax or hemp, by exposure to rain, dew, and sun. See Dewretting.,
D as in Dewworm (n.) See Earthworm.,
D as in Dewy (a.) Pertaining to dew; resembling, consisting of, or moist with, dew.,
D as in Dewy (a.) Falling gently and beneficently, like the dew.,
D as in Dewy (a.) Resembling a dew-covered surface; appearing as if covered with dew.,
D as in Dexter (a.) Pertaining to, or situated on, the right hand; right, as opposed to sinister, or left.,
D as in Dexter (a.) On the right-hand side of a shield, i. e., towards the right hand of its wearer. To a spectator in front, as in a pictorial representation, this would be the left side.,
D as in Dexterical (a.) Dexterous.,
D as in Dexterity (n.) Right-handedness.,
D as in Dexterity (n.) Readiness and grace in physical activity; skill and ease in using the hands; expertness in manual acts; as, dexterity with the chisel.,
D as in Dexterity (n.) Readiness in the use or control of the mental powers; quickness and skill in managing any complicated or difficult affair; adroitness.,
D as in Dexterous (a.) Ready and expert in the use of the body and limbs; skillful and active with the hands; handy; ready; as, a dexterous hand; a dexterous workman.,
D as in Dexterous (a.) Skillful in contrivance; quick at inventing expedients; expert; as, a dexterous manager.,
D as in Dexterous (a.) Done with dexterity; skillful; artful; as, dexterous management.,
D as in Dexterously (adv.) In a dexterous manner; skillfully.,
D as in Dexterousness (n.) The quality of being dexterous; dexterity.,
D as in Dextrad (adv.) Toward the right side; dextrally.,
D as in Dextral (a.) Right, as opposed to sinistral, or left.,
D as in Dextrality (n.) The state of being on the right-hand side; also, the quality of being right-handed; right-handedness.,
D as in Dextrally (adv.) Towards the right; as, the hands of a watch rotate dextrally.,
D as in Dextrer (n.) A war horse; a destrer.,
D as in Dextrin (n.) A translucent, gummy, amorphous substance, nearly tasteless and odorless, used as a substitute for gum, for sizing, etc., and obtained from starch by the action of heat, acids, or diastase. It is of somewhat variable composition, containing several carbohydrates which change easily to their respective varieties of sugar. It is so named from its rotating the plane of polarization to the right; -- called also British gum, Alsace gum, gommelin, leiocome, etc. See Achroodextrin, and Erythrodextrin.,
D as in Dextro- () A prefix, from L. dexter, meaning, pertaining to, or toward, the right,
D as in Dextro- () having the property of turning the plane of polarized light to the right; as, dextrotartaric acid.,
D as in Dextrogerous (a.) See Dextrogyrate.,
D as in Dextroglucose (n.) Same as Dextrose.,
D as in Dextrogyrate (a.) Same as Dextrorotatory.,
D as in Dextronic (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, dextrose; as, dextronic acid.,
D as in Dextrorotary (a.) See Dextrotatory.,
D as in Dextrorotatory (a.) Turning, or causing to turn, toward the right hand; esp., turning the plane of polarization of luminous rays toward the right hand; as, dextrorotatory crystals, sugars, etc. Cf. Levorotatory.,
D as in Dextrorsal (a.) Alt. of Dextrorse,
D as in Dextrorse (a.) Turning from the left to the right, in the ascending line, as in the spiral inclination of the stem of the common morning-glory.,
D as in Dextrose (n.) A sirupy, or white crystalline, variety of sugar, C6H12O6 (so called from turning the plane of polarization to the right), occurring in many ripe fruits. Dextrose and levulose are obtained by the inversion of cane sugar or sucrose, and hence called invert sugar. Dextrose is chiefly obtained by the action of heat and acids on starch, and hence called also starch sugar. It is also formed from starchy food by the action of the amylolytic ferments of saliva and pancreatic juice.,
D as in Dextrous (n.) Alt. of Dextrousness,
D as in Dextrously (n.) Alt. of Dextrousness,
D as in Dextrousness (n.) Same as Dexterous, Dexterously, etc.,
D as in Dey (n.) A servant who has charge of the dairy; a dairymaid.,
D as in Deys (pl. ) of Dey,
D as in Dey (n.) The governor of Algiers; -- so called before the French conquest in 1830.,
D as in Deye (v. i.) To die.,
D as in Deynte (n. & a.) Alt. of Deyntee,
D as in Deyntee (n. & a.) See Dainty.,
D as in Dezincification (n.) The act or process of freeing from zinc; also, the condition resulting from the removal of zinc.,
D as in Dezincify (v. t.) To deprive of, or free from, zinc.,
D as in Dhole (n.) A fierce, wild dog (Canis Dukhunensis), found in the mountains of India. It is remarkable for its propensity to hunt the tiger and other wild animals in packs.,
D as in Dhony (n.) A Ceylonese boat. See Doni.,
D as in Dhoorra (n.) Alt. of Dhurra,
D as in Dhourra (n.) Alt. of Dhurra,
D as in Dhurra (n.) Indian millet. See Durra.,
D as in Dhow (n.) A coasting vessel of Arabia, East Africa, and the Indian Ocean. It has generally but one mast and a lateen sail.,
D as in Di- () A prefix, signifying twofold, double, twice,
D as in Di- () denoting two atoms, radicals, groups, or equivalents, as the case may be. See Bi-, 2.,
D as in Dia- () Alt. of Di-,
D as in Di- () A prefix denoting through; also, between, apart, asunder, across. Before a vowel dia-becomes di-; as, diactinic; dielectric, etc.,
D as in Diabase (n.) A basic, dark-colored, holocrystalline, igneous rock, consisting essentially of a triclinic feldspar and pyroxene with magnetic iron; -- often limited to rocks pretertiary in age. It includes part of what was early called greenstone.,
D as in Diabaterial (a.) Passing over the borders.,
D as in Diabetes (n.) A disease which is attended with a persistent, excessive discharge of urine. Most frequently the urine is not only increased in quantity, but contains saccharine matter, in which case the disease is generally fatal.,
D as in Diabetic (a.) Alt. of Diabetical,
D as in Diabetical (a.) Pertaining to diabetes; as, diabetic or diabetical treatment.,
D as in Diablerie (n.) Alt. of Diabley,
D as in Diabley (n.) Devilry; sorcery or incantation; a diabolical deed; mischief.,
D as in Diabolic (a.) Alt. of Diabolical,
D as in Diabolical (a.) Pertaining to the devil; resembling, or appropriate, or appropriate to, the devil; devilish; infernal; impious; atrocious; nefarious; outrageously wicked; as, a diabolic or diabolical temper or act.,
D as in Diabolify (v. t.) To ascribed diabolical qualities to; to change into, or to represent as, a devil.,
D as in Diabolism (n.) Character, action, or principles appropriate to the devil.,
D as in Diabolism (n.) Possession by the devil.,
D as in Diabolize (v. t.) To render diabolical.,
D as in Diacatholicon (n.) A universal remedy; -- name formerly to a purgative electuary.,
D as in Diacaustic (a.) Pertaining to, or possessing the properties of, a species of caustic curves formed by refraction. See Caustic surface, under Caustic.,
D as in Diacaustic (n.) That which burns by refraction, as a double convex lens, or the sun's rays concentrated by such a lens, sometimes used as a cautery.,
D as in Diacaustic (n.) A curved formed by the consecutive intersections of rays of light refracted through a lens.,
D as in Diachylon (n.) Alt. of Diachylum,
D as in Diachylum (n.) A plaster originally composed of the juices of several plants (whence its name), but now made of an oxide of lead and oil, and consisting essentially of glycerin mixed with lead salts of the fat acids.,
D as in Diacid (a.) Divalent; -- said of a base or radical as capable of saturating two acid monad radicals or a dibasic acid. Cf. Dibasic, a., and Biacid.,
D as in Diacodium (n.) A sirup made of poppies.,
D as in Diaconal (a.) Of or pertaining to a deacon.,
D as in Diaconate (n.) The office of a deacon; deaconship; also, a body or board of deacons.,
D as in Diaconate (a.) Governed by deacons.,
D as in Diacope (n.) Tmesis.,
D as in Diacoustic (a.) Pertaining to the science or doctrine of refracted sounds.,
D as in Diacoustics (n.) That branch of natural philosophy which treats of the properties of sound as affected by passing through different mediums; -- called also diaphonics. See the Note under Acoustics.,
D as in Diacritic (a.) Alt. of Diacritical,
D as in Diacritical (a.) That separates or distinguishes; -- applied to points or marks used to distinguish letters of similar form, or different sounds of the same letter, as, a, /, a, /, /, etc.,
D as in Diactinic (a.) Capable of transmitting the chemical or actinic rays of light; as, diactinic media.,
D as in Diadelphia (n. pl.) A Linnaean class of plants whose stamens are united into two bodies or bundles by their filaments.,
D as in Diadelphian (a.) Alt. of Diadelphous,
D as in Diadelphous (a.) Of or pertaining to the class Diadelphia; having the stamens united into two bodies by their filaments (said of a plant or flower); grouped into two bundles or sets by coalescence of the filaments (said of stamens).,
D as in Diadem (n.) Originally, an ornamental head band or fillet, worn by Eastern monarchs as a badge of royalty; hence (later), also, a crown, in general.,
D as in Diadem (n.) Regal power; sovereignty; empire; -- considered as symbolized by the crown.,
D as in Diadem (n.) An arch rising from the rim of a crown (rarely also of a coronet), and uniting with others over its center.,
D as in Diadem (v. t.) To adorn with a diadem; to crown.,
D as in Diadrom (n.) A complete course or vibration; time of vibration, as of a pendulum.,
D as in Diaereses (pl. ) of Dieresis,
D as in Diereses (pl. ) of Dieresis,
D as in Diaeresis (n.) Alt. of Dieresis,
D as in Dieresis (n.) The separation or resolution of one syllable into two; -- the opposite of synaeresis.,
D as in Dieresis (n.) A mark consisting of two dots [/], placed over the second of two adjacent vowels, to denote that they are to be pronounced as distinct letters; as, cooperate, aerial.,
D as in Diaeretic (a.) Caustic.,
D as in Diageotropic (a.) Relating to, or exhibiting, diageotropism.,
D as in Diageotropism (n.) The tendency of organs (as roots) of plants to assume a position oblique or transverse to a direction towards the center of the earth.,
D as in Diaglyph (n.) An intaglio.,
D as in Diaglyphic (a.) Alt. of Diaglyphtic,
D as in Diaglyphtic (a.) Represented or formed by depressions in the general surface; as, diaglyphic sculpture or engraving; -- opposed to anaglyphic.,
D as in Diagnose (v. t. & i.) To ascertain by diagnosis; to diagnosticate. See Diagnosticate.,
D as in Diagnoses (pl. ) of Diagnosis,
D as in Diagnosis (n.) The art or act of recognizing the presence of disease from its signs or symptoms, and deciding as to its character; also, the decision arrived at.,
D as in Diagnosis (n.) Scientific determination of any kind; the concise description of characterization of a species.,
D as in Diagnosis (n.) Critical perception or scrutiny; judgment based on such scrutiny; esp., perception of, or judgment concerning, motives and character.,
D as in Diagnostic (a.) Pertaining to, or furnishing, a diagnosis; indicating the nature of a disease.,
D as in Diagnostic (n.) The mark or symptom by which one disease is known or distinguished from others.,
D as in Diagnosticate (v. t. & i.) To make a diagnosis of; to recognize by its symptoms, as a disease.,
D as in Diagnostics (n.) That part of medicine which has to do with ascertaining the nature of diseases by means of their symptoms or signs.,
D as in Diagometer (n.) A sort of electroscope, invented by Rousseau, in which the dry pile is employed to measure the amount of electricity transmitted by different bodies, or to determine their conducting power.,
D as in Diagonal (a.) Joining two not adjacent angles of a quadrilateral or multilateral figure; running across from corner to corner; crossing at an angle with one of the sides.,
D as in Diagonal (n.) A right line drawn from one angle to another not adjacent, of a figure of four or more sides, and dividing it into two parts.,
D as in Diagonal (n.) A member, in a framed structure, running obliquely across a panel.,
D as in Diagonal (n.) A diagonal cloth; a kind of cloth having diagonal stripes, ridges, or welts made in the weaving.,
D as in Diagonally (adv.) In a diagonal direction.,
D as in Diagonial (a.) Diagonal; diametrical; hence; diametrically opposed.,
D as in Diagram (n.) A figure or drawing made to illustrate a statement, or facilitate a demonstration; a plan.,
D as in Diagram (n.) Any simple drawing made for mathematical or scientific purposes, or to assist a verbal explanation which refers to it; a mechanical drawing, as distinguished from an artistical one.,
D as in Diagram (v. t.) To put into the form of a diagram.,
D as in Diagrammatic (a.) Pertaining to, or of the nature of, a diagram; showing by diagram.,
D as in Diagraph (n.) A drawing instrument, combining a protractor and scale.,
D as in Diagraphic (a.) Alt. of Diagraphical,
D as in Diagraphical (a.) Descriptive.,
D as in Diagraphics (n.) The art or science of descriptive drawing; especially, the art or science of drawing by mechanical appliances and mathematical rule.,
D as in Diaheliotropic (a.) Relating or, or manifesting, diaheliotropism.,
D as in Diaheliotropism (n.) A tendency of leaves or other organs of plants to have their dorsal surface faced towards the rays of light.,
D as in Dial (n.) An instrument, formerly much used for showing the time of day from the shadow of a style or gnomon on a graduated arc or surface; esp., a sundial; but there are lunar and astral dials. The style or gnomon is usually parallel to the earth's axis, but the dial plate may be either horizontal or vertical.,
D as in Dial (n.) The graduated face of a timepiece, on which the time of day is shown by pointers or hands.,
D as in Dial (n.) A miner's compass.,
D as in Dialed (imp. & p. p.) of Dial,
D as in Dialled () of Dial,
D as in Dialing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dial,
D as in Dialling () of Dial,
D as in Dial (v. t.) To measure with a dial.,
D as in Dial (v. t.) To survey with a dial.,
D as in Dialect (n.) Means or mode of expressing thoughts; language; tongue; form of speech.,
D as in Dialect (n.) The form of speech of a limited region or people, as distinguished from ether forms nearly related to it; a variety or subdivision of a language; speech characterized by local peculiarities or specific circumstances; as, the Ionic and Attic were dialects of Greece; the Yorkshire dialect; the dialect of the learned.,
D as in Dialectal (a.) Relating to a dialect; dialectical; as, a dialectical variant.,
D as in Dialectic (n.) Same as Dialectics.,
D as in Dialectic (a.) Alt. of Dialectical,
D as in Dialectical (a.) Pertaining to dialectics; logical; argumental.,
D as in Dialectical (a.) Pertaining to a dialect or to dialects.,
D as in Dialectically (adv.) In a dialectical manner.,
D as in Dialectician (n.) One versed in dialectics; a logician; a reasoner.,
D as in Dialectics (n.) That branch of logic which teaches the rules and modes of reasoning; the application of logical principles to discursive reasoning; the science or art of discriminating truth from error; logical discussion.,
D as in Dialectology (n.) That branch of philology which is devoted to the consideration of dialects.,
D as in Dialector (n.) One skilled in dialectics.,
D as in Dialing (n.) The art of constructing dials; the science which treats of measuring time by dials.,
D as in Dialing (n.) A method of surveying, especially in mines, in which the bearings of the courses, or the angles which they make with each other, are determined by means of the circumferentor.,
D as in Dialist (n.) A maker of dials; one skilled in dialing.,
D as in Diallage (n.) A figure by which arguments are placed in various points of view, and then turned to one point.,
D as in Diallage (n.) A dark green or bronze-colored laminated variety of pyroxene, common in certain igneous rocks.,
D as in Diallel (a.) Meeting and intersecting, as lines; not parallel; -- opposed to parallel.,
D as in Diallyl (n.) A volatile, pungent, liquid hydrocarbon, C6H10, consisting of two allyl radicals, and belonging to the acetylene series.,
D as in Dialogical (a.) Relating to a dialogue; dialogistical.,
D as in Dialogically (adv.) In the manner or nature of a dialogue.,
D as in Dialogism (n.) An imaginary speech or discussion between two or more; dialogue.,
D as in Dialogist (n.) A speaker in a dialogue.,
D as in Dialogist (n.) A writer of dialogues.,
D as in Dialogistic (a.) Alt. of Dialogistical,
D as in Dialogistical (a.) Pertaining to a dialogue; having the form or nature of a dialogue.,
D as in Dialogite (n.) Native carbonate of manganese; rhodochrosite.,
D as in Dialogize (v. t.) To discourse in dialogue.,
D as in Dialogue (n.) A conversation between two or more persons; particularly, a formal conservation in theatrical performances or in scholastic exercises.,
D as in Dialogue (n.) A written composition in which two or more persons are represented as conversing or reasoning on some topic; as, the Dialogues of Plato.,
D as in Dialogue (v. i.) To take part in a dialogue; to dialogize.,
D as in Dialogue (v. t.) To express as in dialogue.,
D as in Dialypetalous (a.) Having separate petals; polypetalous.,
D as in Dialyses (pl. ) of Dialysis,
D as in Dialysis (n.) Diaeresis. See Diaeresis, 1.,
D as in Dialysis (n.) Same as Asyndeton.,
D as in Dialysis (n.) Debility.,
D as in Dialysis (n.) A solution of continuity; division; separation of parts.,
D as in Dialysis (n.) The separation of different substances in solution, as crystalloids and colloids, by means of their unequal diffusion, especially through natural or artificial membranes.,
D as in Dialytic (a.) Having the quality of unloosing or separating.,
D as in Dialyzate (n.) The material subjected to dialysis.,
D as in Dialyzation (n.) The act or process of dialysis.,
D as in Dialyzed (imp. & p. p.) of Dialyze,
D as in Dialyzing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dialyze,
D as in Dialyze (v. t.) To separate, prepare, or obtain, by dialysis or osmose; to pass through an animal membrane; to subject to dialysis.,
D as in Dialyzed (a.) Prepared by diffusion through an animal membrane; as, dialyzed iron.,
D as in Dialyzer (n.) The instrument or medium used to effect chemical dialysis.,
D as in Diamagnet (n.) A body having diamagnetic polarity.,
D as in Diamagnetic (a.) Pertaining to, or exhibiting the phenomena of, diamagnetism; taking, or being of a nature to take, a position at right angles to the lines of magnetic force. See Paramagnetic.,
D as in Diamagnetic (n.) Any substance, as bismuth, glass, phosphorous, etc., which in a field of magnetic force is differently affected from the ordinary magnetic bodies, as iron; that is, which tends to take a position at right angles to the lines of magnetic force, and is repelled by either pole of the magnet.,
D as in Diamagnetically (adv.) In the manner of, or according to, diamagnetism.,
D as in Diamagnetism (n.) The science which treats of diamagnetic phenomena, and of the properties of diamagnetic bodies.,
D as in Diamagnetism (n.) That form or condition of magnetic action which characterizes diamagnetics.,
D as in Diamantiferous (a.) Yielding diamonds.,
D as in Diamantine (a.) Adamantine.,
D as in Diameter (n.) Any right line passing through the center of a figure or body, as a circle, conic section, sphere, cube, etc., and terminated by the opposite boundaries; a straight line which bisects a system of parallel chords drawn in a curve.,
D as in Diameter (n.) A diametral plane.,
D as in Diameter (n.) The length of a straight line through the center of an object from side to side; width; thickness; as, the diameter of a tree or rock.,
D as in Diameter (n.) The distance through the lower part of the shaft of a column, used as a standard measure for all parts of the order. See Module.,
D as in Diametral (a.) Pertaining to a diameter; diametrical.,
D as in Diametral (n.) A diameter.,
D as in Diametrally (adv.) Diametrically.,
D as in Diametric (a.) Alt. of Diametrical,
D as in Diametrical (a.) Of or pertaining to a diameter.,
D as in Diametrical (a.) As remote as possible, as if at the opposite end of a diameter; directly adverse.,
D as in Diametrically (adv.) In a diametrical manner; directly; as, diametrically opposite.,
D as in Diamide (n.) Any compound containing two amido groups united with one or more acid or negative radicals, -- as distinguished from a diamine. Cf. Amido acid, under Amido, and Acid amide, under Amide.,
D as in Diamido- (a.) A prefix or combining form of Diamine. [Also used adjectively.],
D as in Diamine (n.) A compound containing two amido groups united with one or more basic or positive radicals, -- as contrasted with a diamide.,
D as in Diamond (n.) A precious stone or gem excelling in brilliancy and beautiful play of prismatic colors, and remarkable for extreme hardness.,
D as in Diamond (n.) A geometrical figure, consisting of four equal straight lines, and having two of the interior angles acute and two obtuse; a rhombus; a lozenge.,
D as in Diamond (n.) One of a suit of playing cards, stamped with the figure of a diamond.,
D as in Diamond (n.) A pointed projection, like a four-sided pyramid, used for ornament in lines or groups.,
D as in Diamond (n.) The infield; the square space, 90 feet on a side, having the bases at its angles.,
D as in Diamond (n.) The smallest kind of type in English printing, except that called brilliant, which is seldom seen.,
D as in Diamond (a.) Resembling a diamond; made of, or abounding in, diamonds; as, a diamond chain; a diamond field.,
D as in Diamond-back (n.) The salt-marsh terrapin of the Atlantic coast (Malacoclemmys palustris).,
D as in Diamonded (a.) Having figures like a diamond or lozenge.,
D as in Diamonded (a.) Adorned with diamonds; diamondized.,
D as in Diamondize (v. t.) To set with diamonds; to adorn; to enrich.,
D as in Diamond-shaped (a.) Shaped like a diamond or rhombus.,
D as in Diamylene (n.) A liquid hydrocarbon, C10H20, of the ethylene series, regarded as a polymeric form of amylene.,
D as in Dian (a.) Diana.,
D as in Diana (n.) The daughter of Jupiter and Latona; a virgin goddess who presided over hunting, chastity, and marriage; -- identified with the Greek goddess Artemis.,
D as in Diandria (n. pl.) A Linnaean class of plants having two stamens.,
D as in Diandrian (a.) Diandrous.,
D as in Diandrous (n.) Of or pertaining to the class Diandria; having two stamens.,
D as in Dianium (n.) Same as Columbium.,
D as in Dianoetic (a.) Pertaining to the discursive faculty, its acts or products.,
D as in Dianoialogy (n.) The science of the dianoetic faculties, and their operations.,
D as in Dianthus (n.) A genus of plants containing some of the most popular of cultivated flowers, including the pink, carnation, and Sweet William.,
D as in Diapase (n.) Same as Diapason.,
D as in Diapasm (n.) Powdered aromatic herbs, sometimes made into little balls and strung together.,
D as in Diapason (n.) The octave, or interval which includes all the tones of the diatonic scale.,
D as in Diapason (n.) Concord, as of notes an octave apart; harmony.,
D as in Diapason (n.) The entire compass of tones.,
D as in Diapason (n.) A standard of pitch; a tuning fork; as, the French normal diapason.,
D as in Diapason (n.) One of certain stops in the organ, so called because they extend through the scale of the instrument. They are of several kinds, as open diapason, stopped diapason, double diapason, and the like.,
D as in Diapedesis (n.) The passage of the corpuscular elements of the blood from the blood vessels into the surrounding tissues, without rupture of the walls of the blood vessels.,
D as in Diapente (n.) The interval of the fifth.,
D as in Diapente (n.) A composition of five ingredients.,
D as in Diaper (n.) Any textile fabric (esp. linen or cotton toweling) woven in diaper pattern. See 2.,
D as in Diaper (n.) Surface decoration of any sort which consists of the constant repetition of one or more simple figures or units of design evenly spaced.,
D as in Diaper (n.) A towel or napkin for wiping the hands, etc.,
D as in Diaper (n.) An infant's breechcloth.,
D as in Diaper (v. t.) To ornament with figures, etc., arranged in the pattern called diaper, as cloth in weaving.,
D as in Diaper (v. t.) To put a diaper on (a child).,
D as in Diaper (v. i.) To draw flowers or figures, as upon cloth.,
D as in Diapering (n.) Same as Diaper, n., 2.,
D as in Diaphane (n.) A woven silk stuff with transparent and colored figures; diaper work.,
D as in Diaphaned (a.) Transparent or translucent.,
D as in Diaphaneity (n.) The quality of being diaphanous; transparency; pellucidness.,
D as in Diaphanic (a.) Having power to transmit light; transparent; diaphanous.,
D as in Diaphanie (n.) The art of imitating //ined glass with translucent paper.,
D as in Diaphanometer (n.) An instrument for measuring the transparency of the air.,
D as in Diaphanoscope (n.) A dark box constructed for viewing transparent pictures, with or without a lens.,
D as in Diaphanotype (n.) A colored photograph produced by superimposing a translucent colored positive over a strong uncolored one.,
D as in Diaphanous (a.) Allowing light to pass through, as porcelain; translucent or transparent; pellucid; clear.,
D as in Diaphanously (adv.) Translucently.,
D as in Diaphemetric (a.) Relating to the measurement of the tactile sensibility of parts; as, diaphemetric compasses.,
D as in Diaphonic (a.) Alt. of Diaphonical,
D as in Diaphonical (a.) Diacoustic.,
D as in Diaphonics (n.) The doctrine of refracted sound; diacoustics.,
D as in Diaphoresis (n.) Perspiration, or an increase of perspiration.,
D as in Diaphoretic (a.) Alt. of Diaphoretical,
D as in Diaphoretical (a.) Having the power to increase perspiration.,
D as in Diaphoretic (n.) A medicine or agent which promotes perspiration.,
D as in Diaphote (n.) An instrument designed for transmitting pictures by telegraph.,
D as in Diaphragm (n.) A dividing membrane or thin partition, commonly with an opening through it.,
D as in Diaphragm (n.) The muscular and tendinous partition separating the cavity of the chest from that of the abdomen; the midriff.,
D as in Diaphragm (n.) A calcareous plate which divides the cavity of certain shells into two parts.,
D as in Diaphragm (n.) A plate with an opening, which is generally circular, used in instruments to cut off marginal portions of a beam of light, as at the focus of a telescope.,
D as in Diaphragm (n.) A partition in any compartment, for various purposes.,
D as in Diaphragmatic (a.) Pertaining to a diaphragm; as, diaphragmatic respiration; the diaphragmatic arteries and nerves.,
D as in Diaphysis (n.) An abnormal prolongation of the axis of inflorescence.,
D as in Diaphysis (n.) The shaft, or main part, of a bone, which is first ossified.,
D as in Diapnoic (a.) Slightly increasing an insensible perspiration; mildly diaphoretic.,
D as in Diapnoic (n.) A gentle diaphoretic.,
D as in Diapophysical (a.) Pertaining to a diapophysis.,
D as in Diapophysis (n.) The dorsal transverse, or tubercular, process of a vertebra. See Vertebra.,
D as in Diarchy (n.) A form of government in which the supreme power is vested in two persons.,
D as in Diarial (a.) Alt. of Diarian,
D as in Diarian (a.) Pertaining to a diary; daily.,
D as in Diarist (n.) One who keeps a diary.,
D as in Diarrhea (n.) Alt. of Diarrhoea,
D as in Diarrhoea (n.) A morbidly frequent and profuse discharge of loose or fluid evacuations from the intestines, without tenesmus; a purging or looseness of the bowels; a flux.,
D as in Diarrheal (a.) Alt. of Diarrhoeal,
D as in Diarrhoeal (a.) Of or pertaining to diarrhea; like diarrhea.,
D as in Diarrhetic (a.) Alt. of Diarrhoetic,
D as in Diarrhoetic (a.) Producing diarrhea, or a purging.,
D as in Diarthrodial (a.) Relating to diarthrosis, or movable articulations.,
D as in Diarthrosis (n.) A form of articulation which admits of considerable motion; a complete joint; abarticulation. See Articulation.,
D as in Diaries (pl. ) of Diary,
D as in Diary (n.) A register of daily events or transactions; a daily record; a journal; a blank book dated for the record of daily memoranda; as, a diary of the weather; a physician's diary.,
D as in Diary (a.) lasting for one day; as, a diary fever.,
D as in Diaspore (n.) A hydrate of alumina, often occurring in white lamellar masses with brilliant pearly luster; -- so named on account of its decrepitating when heated before the blowpipe.,
D as in Diastase (n.) A soluble, nitrogenous ferment, capable of converting starch and dextrin into sugar.,
D as in Diastasic (a.) Pertaining to, or consisting of, diastase; as, diastasic ferment.,
D as in Diastasis (n.) A forcible of bones without fracture.,
D as in Diastatic (a.) Relating to diastase; having the properties of diastase; effecting the conversion of starch into sugar.,
D as in Diastem (n.) Intervening space; interval.,
D as in Diastem (n.) An interval.,
D as in Diastema (n.) A vacant space, or gap, esp. between teeth in a jaw.,
D as in Diaster (n.) A double star; -- applied to the nucleus of a cell, when, during cell division, the loops of the nuclear network separate into two groups, preparatory to the formation of two daughter nuclei. See Karyokinesis.,
D as in Diastole (n.) The rhythmical expansion or dilatation of the heart and arteries; -- correlative to systole, or contraction.,
D as in Diastole (n.) A figure by which a syllable naturally short is made long.,
D as in Diastolic (a.) Of or pertaining to diastole.,
D as in Diastyle (n.) See under Intercolumniation.,
D as in Diatessaron (n.) The interval of a fourth.,
D as in Diatessaron (n.) A continuous narrative arranged from the first four books of the New Testament.,
D as in Diatessaron (n.) An electuary compounded of four medicines.,
D as in Diathermal (a.) Freely permeable by radiant heat.,
D as in Diathermancy (n.) Alt. of Diathermaneity,
D as in Diathermaneity (n.) The property of transmitting radiant heat; the quality of being diathermous.,
D as in Diathermanism (n.) The doctrine or the phenomena of the transmission of radiant heat.,
D as in Diathermanous (a.) Having the property of transmitting radiant heat; diathermal; -- opposed to athermanous.,
D as in Diathermic (a.) Affording a free passage to heat; as, diathermic substances.,
D as in Diathermometer (n.) An instrument for examining the thermal resistance or heat-conducting power of liquids.,
D as in Diathermous (a.) Same as Diathermal.,
D as in Diathesis (n.) Bodily condition or constitution, esp. a morbid habit which predisposes to a particular disease, or class of diseases.,
D as in Diathetic (a.) Pertaining to, or dependent on, a diathesis or special constitution of the body; as, diathetic disease.,
D as in Diatom (n.) One of the Diatomaceae, a family of minute unicellular Algae having a siliceous covering of great delicacy, each individual multiplying by spontaneous division. By some authors diatoms are called Bacillariae, but this word is not in general use.,
D as in Diatom (n.) A particle or atom endowed with the vital principle.,
D as in Diatomic (a.) Containing two atoms.,
D as in Diatomic (a.) Having two replaceable atoms or radicals.,
D as in Diatomous (a.) Having a single, distinct, diagonal cleavage; -- said of crystals.,
D as in Diatonic (a.) Pertaining to the scale of eight tones, the eighth of which is the octave of the first.,
D as in Diatonically (adv.) In a diatonic manner.,
D as in Diatribe (n.) A prolonged or exhaustive discussion; especially, an acrimonious or invective harangue; a strain of abusive or railing language; a philippic.,
D as in Diatribist (n.) One who makes a diatribe or diatribes.,
D as in Diatryma (n.) An extinct eocene bird from New Mexico, larger than the ostrich.,
D as in Diazeuctic (a.) Alt. of Diazeutic,
D as in Diazeutic (a.) Disjoining two fourths; as, the diazeutic tone, which, like that from F to G in modern music, lay between two fourths, and, being joined to either, made a fifth.,
D as in Diazo- () A combining form (also used adjectively), meaning pertaining to, or derived from, a series of compounds containing a radical of two nitrogen atoms, united usually to an aromatic radical; as, diazo-benzene, C6H5.N2.OH.,
D as in Diazotize (v. t.) To subject to such reactions or processes that diazo compounds, or their derivatives, shall be produced by chemical exchange or substitution.,
D as in Dib (v. i.) To dip.,
D as in Dib (n.) One of the small bones in the knee joints of sheep uniting the bones above and below the joints.,
D as in Dib (n.) A child's game, played with dib bones.,
D as in Dibasic (a.) Having two acid hydrogen atoms capable of replacement by basic atoms or radicals, in forming salts; bibasic; -- said of acids, as oxalic or sulphuric acids. Cf. Diacid, Bibasic.,
D as in Dibasicity (n.) The property or condition of being dibasic.,
D as in Dibber (n.) A dibble.,
D as in Dibble (v. i.) A pointed implement used to make holes in the ground in which no set out plants or to plant seeds.,
D as in Dibbled (imp. & p. p.) of Dibble,
D as in Dibbling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dibble,
D as in Dibble (v. i.) To dib or dip frequently, as in angling.,
D as in Dibble (v. t.) To plant with a dibble; to make holes in (soil) with a dibble, for planting.,
D as in Dibble (v. t.) To make holes or indentations in, as if with a dibble.,
D as in Dibbler (n.) One who, or that which, dibbles, or makes holes in the ground for seed.,
D as in Dibranchiata (n. pl.) An order of cephalopods which includes those with two gills, an apparatus for emitting an inky fluid, and either eight or ten cephalic arms bearing suckers or hooks, as the octopi and squids. See Cephalopoda.,
D as in Dibranchiate (a.) Having two gills.,
D as in Dibranchiate (n.) One of the Dibranchiata.,
D as in Dibs (n.) A sweet preparation or treacle of grape juice, much used in the East.,
D as in Dibstone (n.) A pebble used in a child's game called dibstones.,
D as in Dibutyl (n.) A liquid hydrocarbon, C8H18, of the marsh-gas series, being one of several octanes, and consisting of two butyl radicals. Cf. Octane.,
D as in Dicacious (a.) Talkative; pert; saucy.,
D as in Dicacity (n.) Pertness; sauciness.,
D as in Dicalcic (a.) Having two atoms or equivalents of calcium to the molecule.,
D as in Dicarbonic (a.) Containing two carbon residues, or two carboxyl or radicals; as, oxalic acid is a dicarbonic acid.,
D as in Dicast (n.) A functionary in ancient Athens answering nearly to the modern juryman.,
D as in Dicastery (n.) A court of justice; judgment hall.,
D as in Die (pl. ) of Dice,
D as in Dice (n.) Small cubes used in gaming or in determining by chance; also, the game played with dice. See Die, n.,
D as in Diced (imp. & p. p.) of Dice,
D as in Dicing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dice,
D as in Dice (v. i.) To play games with dice.,
D as in Dice (v. i.) To ornament with squares, diamonds, or cubes.,
D as in Dicebox (n.) A box from which dice are thrown in gaming.,
D as in Dicentra (n.) A genus of herbaceous plants, with racemes of two-spurred or heart-shaped flowers, including the Dutchman's breeches, and the more showy Bleeding heart (D. spectabilis).,
D as in Dicephalous (a.) Having two heads on one body; double-headed.,
D as in Dicer (n.) A player at dice; a dice player; a gamester.,
D as in Dich (v. i.) To ditch.,
D as in Dichastic (a.) Capable of subdividing spontaneously.,
D as in Dichlamydeous (a.) Having two coverings, a calyx and in corolla.,
D as in Dichloride (n.) Same as Bichloride.,
D as in Dichogamous (a.) Manifesting dichogamy.,
D as in Dichogamy (n.) The condition of certain species of plants, in which the stamens and pistil do not mature simultaneously, so that these plants can never fertilize themselves.,
D as in Dichotomist (n.) One who dichotomizes.,
D as in Dichotomized (imp. & p. p.) of Dichotomize,
D as in Dichotomizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dichotomize,
D as in Dichotomize (v. t.) To cut into two parts; to part into two divisions; to divide into pairs; to bisect.,
D as in Dichotomize (v. t.) To exhibit as a half disk. See Dichotomy, 3.,
D as in Dichotomize (v. i.) To separate into two parts; to branch dichotomously; to become dichotomous.,
D as in Dichotomous (a.) Regularly dividing by pairs from bottom to top; as, a dichotomous stem.,
D as in Dichotomy (n.) A cutting in two; a division.,
D as in Dichotomy (n.) Division or distribution of genera into two species; division into two subordinate parts.,
D as in Dichotomy (n.) That phase of the moon in which it appears bisected, or shows only half its disk, as at the quadratures.,
D as in Dichotomy (n.) Successive division and subdivision, as of a stem of a plant or a vein of the body, into two parts as it proceeds from its origin; successive bifurcation.,
D as in Dichotomy (n.) The place where a stem or vein is forked.,
D as in Dichotomy (n.) Division into two; especially, the division of a class into two subclasses opposed to each other by contradiction, as the division of the term man into white and not white.,
D as in Dichroic (a.) Having the property of dichroism; as, a dichroic crystal.,
D as in Dichroiscope (n.) Same as Dichroscope.,
D as in Dichroism (n.) The property of presenting different colors by transmitted light, when viewed in two different directions, the colors being unlike in the direction of unlike or unequal axes.,
D as in Dichroite (n.) Iolite; -- so called from its presenting two different colors when viewed in two different directions. See Iolite.,
D as in Dichroitic (a.) Dichroic.,
D as in Dichromate (n.) A salt of chromic acid containing two equivalents of the acid radical to one of the base; -- called also bichromate.,
D as in Dichromatic (a.) Having or exhibiting two colors.,
D as in Dichromatic (a.) Having two color varieties, or two phases differing in color, independently of age or sex, as in certain birds and insects.,
D as in Dichromatism (n.) The state of being dichromatic.,
D as in Dichromic (a.) Furnishing or giving two colors; -- said of defective vision, in which all the compound colors are resolvable into two elements instead of three.,
D as in Dichroous (a.) Dichroic.,
D as in Dichroscope (n.) An instrument for examining the dichroism of crystals.,
D as in Dichroscopic (a.) Pertaining to the dichroscope, or to observations with it.,
D as in Dicing (n.) An ornamenting in squares or cubes.,
D as in Dicing (n.) Gambling with dice.,
D as in Dickcissel (n.) The American black-throated bunting (Spiza Americana).,
D as in Dickens (n. / interj.) The devil.,
D as in Dicker (n.) The number or quantity of ten, particularly ten hides or skins; a dakir; as, a dicker of gloves.,
D as in Dicker (n.) A chaffering, barter, or exchange, of small wares; as, to make a dicker.,
D as in Dicker (v. i. & t.) To negotiate a dicker; to barter.,
D as in Dickey (n.) Alt. of Dicky,
D as in Dicky (n.) A seat behind a carriage, for a servant.,
D as in Dicky (n.) A false shirt front or bosom.,
D as in Dicky (n.) A gentleman's shirt collar.,
D as in Diclinic (a.) Having two of the intersections between the three axes oblique. See Crystallization.,
D as in Diclinous (a.) Having the stamens and pistils in separate flowers.,
D as in Dicoccous (a.) Composed of two coherent, one-seeded carpels; as, a dicoccous capsule.,
D as in Dicotyledon (n.) A plant whose seeds divide into two seed lobes, or cotyledons, in germinating.,
D as in Dicotyledonous (a.) Having two cotyledons or seed lobes; as, a dicotyledonous plant.,
D as in Dicrotal (a.) Alt. of Dicrotous,
D as in Dicrotous (a.) Dicrotic.,
D as in Dicrotic (a.) Of or pertaining to dicrotism; as, a dicrotic pulse.,
D as in Dicrotic (a.) Of or pertaining to the second expansion of the artery in the dicrotic pulse; as, the dicrotic wave.,
D as in Dicrotism (n.) A condition in which there are two beats or waves of the arterial pulse to each beat of the heart.,
D as in Dicta (n. pl.) See Dictum.,
D as in Dictamen (n.) A dictation or dictate.,
D as in Dictamnus (n.) A suffrutescent, D. Fraxinella (the only species), with strong perfume and showy flowers. The volatile oil of the leaves is highly inflammable.,
D as in Dictated (imp. & p. p.) of Dictate,
D as in Dictating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dictate,
D as in Dictate (v. t.) To tell or utter so that another may write down; to inspire; to compose; as, to dictate a letter to an amanuensis.,
D as in Dictate (v. t.) To say; to utter; to communicate authoritatively; to deliver (a command) to a subordinate; to declare with authority; to impose; as, to dictate the terms of a treaty; a general dictates orders to his troops.,
D as in Dictate (v. i.) To speak as a superior; to command; to impose conditions (on).,
D as in Dictate (v. i.) To compose literary works; to tell what shall be written or said by another.,
D as in Dictate (v. t.) A statement delivered with authority; an order; a command; an authoritative rule, principle, or maxim; a prescription; as, listen to the dictates of your conscience; the dictates of the gospel.,
D as in Dictation (n.) The act of dictating; the act or practice of prescribing; also that which is dictated.,
D as in Dictation (n.) The speaking to, or the giving orders to, in an overbearing manner; authoritative utterance; as, his habit, even with friends, was that of dictation.,
D as in Dictator (n.) One who dictates; one who prescribes rules and maxims authoritatively for the direction of others.,
D as in Dictator (n.) One invested with absolute authority; especially, a magistrate created in times of exigence and distress, and invested with unlimited power.,
D as in Dictatorial (a.) Pertaining or suited to a dictator; absolute.,
D as in Dictatorial (a.) Characteristic of a dictator; imperious; dogmatical; overbearing; as, a dictatorial tone or manner.,
D as in Dictatorian (a.) Dictatorial.,
D as in Dictatorship (n.) The office, or the term of office, of a dictator; hence, absolute power.,
D as in Dictatory (a.) Dogmatical; overbearing; dictatorial.,
D as in Dictatress (n.) A woman who dictates or commands.,
D as in Dictatrix (n.) A dictatress.,
D as in Dictature (n.) Office of a dictator; dictatorship.,
D as in Diction (n.) Choice of words for the expression of ideas; the construction, disposition, and application of words in discourse, with regard to clearness, accuracy, variety, etc.; mode of expression; language; as, the diction of Chaucer's poems.,
D as in Dictionalrian (n.) A lexicographer.,
D as in Dictionaries (pl. ) of Dictionary,
D as in Dictionary (n.) A book containing the words of a language, arranged alphabetically, with explanations of their meanings; a lexicon; a vocabulary; a wordbook.,
D as in Dictionary (n.) Hence, a book containing the words belonging to any system or province of knowledge, arranged alphabetically; as, a dictionary of medicine or of botany; a biographical dictionary.,
D as in Dicta (pl. ) of Dictum,
D as in Dictums (pl. ) of Dictum,
D as in Dictum (n.) An authoritative statement; a dogmatic saying; an apothegm.,
D as in Dictum (n.) A judicial opinion expressed by judges on points that do not necessarily arise in the case, and are not involved in it.,
D as in Dictum (n.) The report of a judgment made by one of the judges who has given it.,
D as in Dictum (n.) An arbitrament or award.,
D as in Dictyogen (n.) A plant with net-veined leaves, and monocotyledonous embryos, belonging to the class Dictyogenae, proposed by Lindley for the orders Dioscoreaceae, Smilaceae, Trilliaceae, etc.,
D as in Dicyanide (n.) A compound of a binary type containing two cyanogen groups or radicals; -- called also bicyanide.,
D as in Dicyemata (n. pl.) An order of worms parasitic in cephalopods. They are remarkable for the extreme simplicity of their structure. The embryo exists in two forms.,
D as in Dicyemid (a.) Like or belonging to the Dicyemata.,
D as in Dicyemid (n.) One of the Dicyemata.,
D as in Dicynodont (n.) One of a group of extinct reptiles having the jaws armed with a horny beak, as in turtles, and in the genus Dicynodon, supporting also a pair of powerful tusks. Their remains are found in triassic strata of South Africa and India.,
D as in Did () imp. of Do.,
D as in Didactic (a.) Alt. of Didactical,
D as in Didactical (a.) Fitted or intended to teach; conveying instruction; preceptive; instructive; teaching some moral lesson; as, didactic essays.,
D as in Didactic (n.) A treatise on teaching or education.,
D as in Didactically (adv.) In a didactic manner.,
D as in Didacticism (n.) The didactic method or system.,
D as in Didacticity (n.) Aptitude for teaching.,
D as in Didactics (n.) The art or science of teaching.,
D as in Didactyl (n.) An animal having only two digits.,
D as in Didactylous (a.) Having only two digits; two-toed.,
D as in Didal (n.) A kind of triangular spade.,
D as in Didapper (n.) See Dabchick.,
D as in Didascalar (a.) Didascalic.,
D as in Didascalic (a.) Didactic; preceptive.,
D as in Diddle (v. i.) To totter, as a child in walking.,
D as in Diddle (v. t.) To cheat or overreach.,
D as in Diddler (n.) A cheat.,
D as in Didelphia (n. pl.) The subclass of Mammalia which includes the marsupials. See Marsupialia.,
D as in Didelphian (a.) Of or relating to the Didelphia.,
D as in Didelphian (n.) One of the Didelphia.,
D as in Didelphic (a.) Having the uterus double; of or pertaining to the Didelphia.,
D as in Didelphid (a.) Same as Didelphic.,
D as in Didelphid (n.) A marsupial animal.,
D as in Didelphous (a.) Didelphic.,
D as in Didelphyc (a.) Same as Didelphic.,
D as in Didelphous (n.) Formerly, any marsupial; but the term is now restricted to an American genus which includes the opossums, of which there are many species. See Opossum. [Written also Didelphis.] See Illustration in Appendix.,
D as in Didine (a.) Like or pertaining to the genus Didus, or the dodo.,
D as in Didos (pl. ) of Dido,
D as in Dido (n.) A shrewd trick; an antic; a caper.,
D as in Didonia (n.) The curve which on a given surface and with a given perimeter contains the greatest area.,
D as in Didrachm (n.) Alt. of Didrachma,
D as in Didrachma (n.) A two-drachma piece; an ancient Greek silver coin, worth nearly forty cents.,
D as in Didst () the 2d pers. sing. imp. of Do.,
D as in Diducement (n.) Diduction; separation into distinct parts.,
D as in Diduction (n.) The act of drawing apart; separation.,
D as in Didym (n.) See Didymium.,
D as in Didymium (n.) A rare metallic substance usually associated with the metal cerium; -- hence its name. It was formerly supposed to be an element, but has since been found to consist of two simpler elementary substances, neodymium and praseodymium. See Neodymium, and Praseodymium.,
D as in Didymous (a.) Growing in pairs or twins.,
D as in Didynamia (n. pl.) A Linnaean class of plants having four stamens disposed in pairs of unequal length.,
D as in Didynamian (a.) Didynamous.,
D as in Didynamous (a.) Of or pertaining to the Didynamia; containing four stamens disposed in pairs of unequal length.,
D as in Died (imp. & p. p.) of Die,
D as in Dying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Die,
D as in Die (v. i.) To pass from an animate to a lifeless state; to cease to live; to suffer a total and irreparable loss of action of the vital functions; to become dead; to expire; to perish; -- said of animals and vegetables; often with of, by, with, from, and rarely for, before the cause or occasion of death; as, to die of disease or hardships; to die by fire or the sword; to die with horror at the thought.,
D as in Die (v. i.) To suffer death; to lose life.,
D as in Die (v. i.) To perish in any manner; to cease; to become lost or extinct; to be extinguished.,
D as in Die (v. i.) To sink; to faint; to pine; to languish, with weakness, discouragement, love, etc.,
D as in Die (v. i.) To become indifferent; to cease to be subject; as, to die to pleasure or to sin.,
D as in Die (v. i.) To recede and grow fainter; to become imperceptible; to vanish; -- often with out or away.,
D as in Die (v. i.) To disappear gradually in another surface, as where moldings are lost in a sloped or curved face.,
D as in Die (v. i.) To become vapid, flat, or spiritless, as liquor.,
D as in Dice (pl. ) of Die,
D as in Dies (pl. ) of Die,
D as in Die (n.) A small cube, marked on its faces with spots from one to six, and used in playing games by being shaken in a box and thrown from it. See Dice.,
D as in Die (n.) Any small cubical or square body.,
D as in Die (n.) That which is, or might be, determined, by a throw of the die; hazard; chance.,
D as in Die (n.) That part of a pedestal included between base and cornice; the dado.,
D as in Die (n.) A metal or plate (often one of a pair) so cut or shaped as to give a certain desired form to, or impress any desired device on, an object or surface, by pressure or by a blow; used in forging metals, coining, striking up sheet metal, etc.,
D as in Die (n.) A perforated block, commonly of hardened steel used in connection with a punch, for punching holes, as through plates, or blanks from plates, or for forming cups or capsules, as from sheet metal, by drawing.,
D as in Die (n.) A hollow internally threaded screw-cutting tool, made in one piece or composed of several parts, for forming screw threads on bolts, etc.; one of the separate parts which make up such a tool.,
D as in Diecian (a.) Alt. of Diecious,
D as in Diecious (a.) See Dioecian, and Dioecious.,
D as in Diedral (a.) The same as Dihedral.,
D as in Diegesis (n.) A narrative or history; a recital or relation.,
D as in Dielectric (n.) Any substance or medium that transmits the electric force by a process different from conduction, as in the phenomena of induction; a nonconductor. separating a body electrified by induction, from the electrifying body.,
D as in Dielytra (n.) See Dicentra.,
D as in Diencephalon (n.) The interbrain or thalamencephalon; -- sometimes abbreviated to dien. See Thalamencephalon.,
D as in Dieresis (n.) Same as Diaeresis.,
D as in Diesinker (n.) An engraver of dies for stamping coins, medals, etc.,
D as in Diesinking (n.) The process of engraving dies.,
D as in Dieses (pl. ) of Diesis,
D as in Diesis (n.) A small interval, less than any in actual practice, but used in the mathematical calculation of intervals.,
D as in Diesis (n.) The mark /; -- called also double dagger.,
D as in Dies Irae () Day of wrath; -- the name and beginning of a famous mediaeval Latin hymn on the Last Judgment.,
D as in Dies juridici (pl. ) of Dies juridicus,
D as in Dies juridicus () A court day.,
D as in Dies non () A day on which courts are not held, as Sunday or any legal holiday.,
D as in Diestock (n.) A stock to hold the dies used for cutting screws.,
D as in Diet (n.) Course of living or nourishment; what is eaten and drunk habitually; food; victuals; fare.,
D as in Diet (n.) A course of food selected with reference to a particular state of health; prescribed allowance of food; regimen prescribed.,
D as in Dieted (imp. & p. p.) of Diet,
D as in Dieting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Diet,
D as in Diet (v. t.) To cause to take food; to feed.,
D as in Diet (v. t.) To cause to eat and drink sparingly, or by prescribed rules; to regulate medicinally the food of.,
D as in Diet (v. i.) To eat; to take one's meals.,
D as in Diet (v. i.) To eat according to prescribed rules; to ear sparingly; as, the doctor says he must diet.,
D as in Diet (n.) A legislative or administrative assembly in Germany, Poland, and some other countries of Europe; a deliberative convention; a council; as, the Diet of Worms, held in 1521.,
D as in Dietarian (n.) One who lives in accordance with prescribed rules for diet; a dieter.,
D as in Dietary (a.) Pertaining to diet, or to the rules of diet.,
D as in Dietaries (pl. ) of Dietary,
D as in Dietary (n.) A rule of diet; a fixed allowance of food, as in workhouse, prison, etc.,
D as in Dieter (n.) One who diets; one who prescribes, or who partakes of, food, according to hygienic rules.,
D as in Dietetic (a.) Alt. of Dietetical,
D as in Dietetical (a.) Of or performance to diet, or to the rules for regulating the kind and quantity of food to be eaten.,
D as in Dietetically (adv.) In a dietetical manner.,
D as in Dietetics (n.) That part of the medical or hygienic art which relates to diet or food; rules for diet.,
D as in Dietetist (n.) A physician who applies the rules of dietetics to the cure of diseases.,
D as in Diethylamine (n.) A colorless, volatile, alkaline liquid, NH(C2H5)2, having a strong fishy odor resembling that of herring or sardines. Cf. Methylamine.,
D as in Dietic (a.) Dietetic.,
D as in Dietical (a.) Dietetic.,
D as in Dietine (n.) A subordinate or local assembly; a diet of inferior rank.,
D as in Dietist (n.) Alt. of Dietitian,
D as in Dietitian (n.) One skilled in dietetics.,
D as in Diffame (n.) Evil name; bad reputation; defamation.,
D as in Diffarreation (n.) A form of divorce, among the ancient Romans, in which a cake was used. See Confarreation.,
D as in Differed (imp. & p. p.) of Differ,
D as in Differing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Differ,
D as in Differ (v. i.) To be or stand apart; to disagree; to be unlike; to be distinguished; -- with from.,
D as in Differ (v. i.) To be of unlike or opposite opinion; to disagree in sentiment; -- often with from or with.,
D as in Differ (v. i.) To have a difference, cause of variance, or quarrel; to dispute; to contend.,
D as in Differ (v. t.) To cause to be different or unlike; to set at variance.,
D as in Difference (n.) The act of differing; the state or measure of being different or unlike; distinction; dissimilarity; unlikeness; variation; as, a difference of quality in paper; a difference in degrees of heat, or of light; what is the difference between the innocent and the guilty?,
D as in Difference (n.) Disagreement in opinion; dissension; controversy; quarrel; hence, cause of dissension; matter in controversy.,
D as in Difference (n.) That by which one thing differs from another; that which distinguishes or causes to differ; mark of distinction; characteristic quality; specific attribute.,
D as in Difference (n.) Choice; preference.,
D as in Difference (n.) An addition to a coat of arms to distinguish the bearings of two persons, which would otherwise be the same. See Augmentation, and Marks of cadency, under Cadency.,
D as in Difference (n.) The quality or attribute which is added to those of the genus to constitute a species; a differentia.,
D as in Difference (n.) The quantity by which one quantity differs from another, or the remainder left after subtracting the one from the other.,
D as in Differenced (imp. & p. p.) of Difference,
D as in Differencing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Difference,
D as in Difference (v. t.) To cause to differ; to make different; to mark as different; to distinguish.,
D as in Different (a.) Distinct; separate; not the same; other.,
D as in Different (a.) Of various or contrary nature, form, or quality; partially or totally unlike; dissimilar; as, different kinds of food or drink; different states of health; different shapes; different degrees of excellence.,
D as in Differentiae (pl. ) of Differentia,
D as in Differentia (n.) The formal or distinguishing part of the essence of a species; the characteristic attribute of a species; specific difference.,
D as in Differential (a.) Relating to or indicating a difference; creating a difference; discriminating; special; as, differential characteristics; differential duties; a differential rate.,
D as in Differential (a.) Of or pertaining to a differential, or to differentials.,
D as in Differential (a.) Relating to differences of motion or leverage; producing effects by such differences; said of mechanism.,
D as in Differential (n.) An increment, usually an indefinitely small one, which is given to a variable quantity.,
D as in Differential (n.) A small difference in rates which competing railroad lines, in establishing a common tariff, allow one of their number to make, in order to get a fair share of the business. The lower rate is called a differential rate. Differentials are also sometimes granted to cities.,
D as in Differential (n.) One of two coils of conducting wire so related to one another or to a magnet or armature common to both, that one coil produces polar action contrary to that of the other.,
D as in Differential (n.) A form of conductor used for dividing and distributing the current to a series of electric lamps so as to maintain equal action in all.,
D as in Differentially (adv.) In the way of differentiation.,
D as in Differentiate (v. t.) To distinguish or mark by a specific difference; to effect a difference in, as regards classification; to develop differential characteristics in; to specialize; to desynonymize.,
D as in Differentiate (v. t.) To express the specific difference of; to describe the properties of (a thing) whereby it is differenced from another of the same class; to discriminate.,
D as in Differentiate (v. t.) To obtain the differential, or differential coefficient, of; as, to differentiate an algebraic expression, or an equation.,
D as in Differentiate (v. i.) To acquire a distinct and separate character.,
D as in Differentiation (n.) The act of differentiating.,
D as in Differentiation (n.) The act of distinguishing or describing a thing, by giving its different, or specific difference; exact definition or determination.,
D as in Differentiation (n.) The gradual formation or production of organs or parts by a process of evolution or development, as when the seed develops the root and the stem, the initial stem develops the leaf, branches, and flower buds; or in animal life, when the germ evolves the digestive and other organs and members, or when the animals as they advance in organization acquire special organs for specific purposes.,
D as in Differentiation (n.) The supposed act or tendency in being of every kind, whether organic or inorganic, to assume or produce a more complex structure or functions.,
D as in Differentiator (n.) One who, or that which, differentiates.,
D as in Differently (adv.) In a different manner; variously.,
D as in Differingly (adv.) In a differing or different manner.,
D as in Difficile (a.) Difficult; hard to manage; stubborn.,
D as in Difficilitate (v. t.) To make difficult.,
D as in Difficult (a.) Hard to do or to make; beset with difficulty; attended with labor, trouble, or pains; not easy; arduous.,
D as in Difficult (a.) Hard to manage or to please; not easily wrought upon; austere; stubborn; as, a difficult person.,
D as in Difficult (v. t.) To render difficult; to impede; to perplex.,
D as in Difficultate (v. t.) To render difficult; to difficilitate.,
D as in Difficultly (adv.) With difficulty.,
D as in Difficultness (n.) Difficulty.,
D as in Difficulties (pl. ) of Difficulty,
D as in Difficulty (n.) The state of being difficult, or hard to do; hardness; arduousness; -- opposed to easiness or facility; as, the difficulty of a task or enterprise; a work of difficulty.,
D as in Difficulty (n.) Something difficult; a thing hard to do or to understand; that which occasions labor or perplexity, and requires skill and perseverance to overcome, solve, or achieve; a hard enterprise; an obstacle; an impediment; as, the difficulties of a science; difficulties in theology.,
D as in Difficulty (n.) A controversy; a falling out; a disagreement; an objection; a cavil.,
D as in Difficulty (n.) Embarrassment of affairs, especially financial affairs; -- usually in the plural; as, to be in difficulties.,
D as in Diffide (v. i.) To be distrustful.,
D as in Diffidence (n.) The state of being diffident; distrust; want of confidence; doubt of the power, ability, or disposition of others.,
D as in Diffidence (n.) Distrust of one's self or one's own powers; lack of self-reliance; modesty; modest reserve; bashfulness.,
D as in Diffidency (n.) See Diffidence.,
D as in Diffident (a.) Wanting confidence in others; distrustful.,
D as in Diffident (a.) Wanting confidence in one's self; distrustful of one's own powers; not self-reliant; timid; modest; bashful; characterized by modest reserve.,
D as in Diffidently (adv.) In a diffident manner.,
D as in Diffind (v. t.) To split.,
D as in Diffine (v. t.) To define.,
D as in Diffinitive (a.) Definitive; determinate; final.,
D as in Diffission (n.) Act of cleaving or splitting.,
D as in Difflation (n.) A blowing apart or away.,
D as in Diffluence (n.) Alt. of Diffluency,
D as in Diffluency (n.) A flowing off on all sides; fluidity.,
D as in Diffluent (a.) Flowing apart or off; dissolving; not fixed.,
D as in Difform (a.) Irregular in form; -- opposed to uniform; anomalous; hence, unlike; dissimilar; as, to difform corolla, the parts of which do not correspond in size or proportion; difform leaves.,
D as in Difformity (n.) Irregularity of form; diversity of form; want of uniformity.,
D as in Diffracted (imp. & p. p.) of Diffract,
D as in Diffracting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Diffract,
D as in Diffract (v. t.) To break or separate into parts; to deflect, or decompose by deflection, a/ rays of light.,
D as in Diffraction (n.) The deflection and decomposition of light in passing by the edges of opaque bodies or through narrow slits, causing the appearance of parallel bands or fringes of prismatic colors, as by the action of a grating of fine lines or bars.,
D as in Diffractive (a.) That produces diffraction.,
D as in Diffranchise () Alt. of Diffranchisement,
D as in Diffranchisement () See Disfranchise, Disfranchisement.,
D as in Diffusate (n.) Material which, in the process of catalysis, has diffused or passed through the separating membrane.,
D as in Diffused (imp. & p. p.) of Diffuse,
D as in Diffusing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Diffuse,
D as in Diffuse (v. t.) To pour out and cause to spread, as a fluid; to cause to flow on all sides; to send out, or extend, in all directions; to spread; to circulate; to disseminate; to scatter; as to diffuse information.,
D as in Diffuse (v. i.) To pass by spreading every way, to diffuse itself.,
D as in Diffuse (a.) Poured out; widely spread; not restrained; copious; full; esp., of style, opposed to concise or terse; verbose; prolix; as, a diffuse style; a diffuse writer.,
D as in Diffused (a.) Spread abroad; dispersed; loose; flowing; diffuse.,
D as in Diffusely (adv.) In a diffuse manner.,
D as in Diffuseness (n.) The quality of being diffuse; especially, in writing, the use of a great or excessive number of word to express the meaning; copiousness; verbosity; prolixity.,
D as in Diffuser (n.) One who, or that which, diffuses.,
D as in Diffusibility (n.) The quality of being diffusible; capability of being poured or spread out.,
D as in Diffusible (a.) Capable of flowing or spreading in all directions; that may be diffused.,
D as in Diffusible (a.) Capable of passing through animal membranes by osmosis.,
D as in Diffusibleness (n.) Diffusibility.,
D as in Diffusion (n.) The act of diffusing, or the state of being diffused; a spreading; extension; dissemination; circulation; dispersion.,
D as in Diffusion (n.) The act of passing by osmosis through animal membranes, as in the distribution of poisons, gases, etc., through the body. Unlike absorption, diffusion may go on after death, that is, after the blood ceases to circulate.,
D as in Diffusive (a.) Having the quality of diffusing; capable of spreading every way by flowing; spreading widely; widely reaching; copious; diffuse.,
D as in Diffusively (adv.) In a diffusive manner.,
D as in Diffusiveness (n.) The quality or state of being diffusive or diffuse; extensiveness; expansion; dispersion. Especially of style: Diffuseness; want of conciseness; prolixity.,
D as in Diffusivity (n.) Tendency to become diffused; tendency, as of heat, to become equalized by spreading through a conducting medium.,
D as in Dug (imp. & p. p.) of Dig,
D as in Digged () of Dig,
D as in Digging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dig,
D as in Dig (v. t.) To turn up, or delve in, (earth) with a spade or a hoe; to open, loosen, or break up (the soil) with a spade, or other sharp instrument; to pierce, open, or loosen, as if with a spade.,
D as in Dig (v. t.) To get by digging; as, to dig potatoes, or gold.,
D as in Dig (v. t.) To hollow out, as a well; to form, as a ditch, by removing earth; to excavate; as, to dig a ditch or a well.,
D as in Dig (v. t.) To thrust; to poke.,
D as in Dig (v. i.) To work with a spade or other like implement; to do servile work; to delve.,
D as in Dig (v. i.) To take ore from its bed, in distinction from making excavations in search of ore.,
D as in Dig (v. i.) To work like a digger; to study ploddingly and laboriously.,
D as in Dig (n.) A thrust; a punch; a poke; as, a dig in the side or the ribs. See Dig, v. t., 4.,
D as in Dig (v. t.) A plodding and laborious student.,
D as in Digamist (n.) One who marries a second time; a deuterogamist.,
D as in Digamma (n.) A letter (/, /) of the Greek alphabet, which early fell into disuse.,
D as in Digammate (a.) Alt. of Digammated,
D as in Digammated (a.) Having the digamma or its representative letter or sound; as, the Latin word vis is a digammated form of the Greek /.,
D as in Digamous (a.) Pertaining to a second marriage, that is, one after the death of the first wife or the first husband.,
D as in Digamy (n.) Act, or state, of being twice married; deuterogamy.,
D as in Digastric (a.) Having two bellies; biventral; -- applied to muscles which are fleshy at each end and have a tendon in the middle, and esp. to the muscle which pulls down the lower jaw.,
D as in Digastric (a.) Pertaining to the digastric muscle of the lower jaw; as, the digastric nerves.,
D as in Digenea (n. pl.) A division of Trematoda in which alternate generations occur, the immediate young not resembling their parents.,
D as in Digenesis (n.) The faculty of multiplying in two ways; -- by ova fecundated by spermatic fluid, and asexually, as by buds. See Parthenogenesis.,
D as in Digenous (a.) Sexually reproductive.,
D as in Digerent () Digesting.,
D as in Digested (imp. & p. p.) of Digest,
D as in Digesting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Digest,
D as in Digest (v. t.) To distribute or arrange methodically; to work over and classify; to reduce to portions for ready use or application; as, to digest the laws, etc.,
D as in Digest (v. t.) To separate (the food) in its passage through the alimentary canal into the nutritive and nonnutritive elements; to prepare, by the action of the digestive juices, for conversion into blood; to convert into chyme.,
D as in Digest (v. t.) To think over and arrange methodically in the mind; to reduce to a plan or method; to receive in the mind and consider carefully; to get an understanding of; to comprehend.,
D as in Digest (v. t.) To appropriate for strengthening and comfort.,
D as in Digest (v. t.) Hence: To bear comfortably or patiently; to be reconciled to; to brook.,
D as in Digest (v. t.) To soften by heat and moisture; to expose to a gentle heat in a boiler or matrass, as a preparation for chemical operations.,
D as in Digest (v. t.) To dispose to suppurate, or generate healthy pus, as an ulcer or wound.,
D as in Digest (v. t.) To ripen; to mature.,
D as in Digest (v. t.) To quiet or abate, as anger or grief.,
D as in Digest (v. i.) To undergo digestion; as, food digests well or ill.,
D as in Digest (v. i.) To suppurate; to generate pus, as an ulcer.,
D as in Digest (v. t.) That which is digested; especially, that which is worked over, classified, and arranged under proper heads or titles,
D as in Digest (v. t.) A compilation of statutes or decisions analytically arranged. The term is applied in a general sense to the Pandects of Justinian (see Pandect), but is also specially given by authors to compilations of laws on particular topics; a summary of laws; as, Comyn's Digest; the United States Digest.,
D as in Digestedly (adv.) In a digested or well-arranged manner; methodically.,
D as in Digester (n.) One who digests.,
D as in Digester (n.) A medicine or an article of food that aids digestion, or strengthens digestive power.,
D as in Digester (n.) A strong closed vessel, in which bones or other substances may be subjected, usually in water or other liquid, to a temperature above that of boiling, in order to soften them.,
D as in Digestibility (n.) The quality of being digestible.,
D as in Digestible (a.) Capable of being digested.,
D as in Digestibleness (n.) The quality of being digestible; digestibility.,
D as in Digestion (n.) The act or process of digesting; reduction to order; classification; thoughtful consideration.,
D as in Digestion (n.) The conversion of food, in the stomach and intestines, into soluble and diffusible products, capable of being absorbed by the blood.,
D as in Digestion (n.) Generation of pus; suppuration.,
D as in Digestive (a.) Pertaining to digestion; having the power to cause or promote digestion; as, the digestive ferments.,
D as in Digestive (n.) That which aids digestion, as a food or medicine.,
D as in Digestive (n.) A substance which, when applied to a wound or ulcer, promotes suppuration.,
D as in Digestive (n.) A tonic.,
D as in Digestor (n.) See Digester.,
D as in Digesture (n.) Digestion.,
D as in Diggable (a.) Capable of being dug.,
D as in Digger (n.) One who, or that which, digs.,
D as in Diggers (n. pl.) A degraded tribe of California Indians; -- so called from their practice of digging roots for food.,
D as in Digging (n.) The act or the place of excavating.,
D as in Digging (n.) Places where ore is dug; especially, certain localities in California, Australia, and elsewhere, at which gold is obtained.,
D as in Digging (n.) Region; locality.,
D as in Dight (imp. & p. p.) of Dight,
D as in Dighted () of Dight,
D as in Dighting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dight,
D as in Dight (v. t.) To prepare; to put in order; hence, to dress, or put on; to array; to adorn.,
D as in Dight (v. t.) To have sexual intercourse with.,
D as in Dighter (n.) One who dights.,
D as in Digit (n.) One of the terminal divisions of a limb appendage; a finger or toe.,
D as in Digit (n.) A finger's breadth, commonly estimated to be three fourths of an inch.,
D as in Digit (n.) One of the ten figures or symbols, 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, by which all numbers are expressed; -- so called because of the use of the fingers in counting and computing.,
D as in Digit (n.) One twelfth part of the diameter of the sun or moon; -- a term used to express the quantity of an eclipse; as, an eclipse of eight digits is one which hides two thirds of the diameter of the disk.,
D as in Digit (v. t.) To point at or out with the finger.,
D as in Digital (a.) Of or performance to the fingers, or to digits; done with the fingers; as, digital compression; digital examination.,
D as in Digitain (n.) Any one of several extracts of foxglove (Digitalis), as the "French extract," the "German extract," etc., which differ among themselves in composition and properties.,
D as in Digitain (n.) A supposedly distinct vegetable principle as the essential ingredient of the extracts. It is a white, crystalline substance, and is regarded as a glucoside.,
D as in Digitalis (n.) A genus of plants including the foxglove.,
D as in Digitalis (n.) The dried leaves of the purple foxglove (Digitalis purpurea), used in heart disease, disturbance of the circulation, etc.,
D as in Digitate (v. t.) To point out as with the finger.,
D as in Digitate (a.) Alt. of Digitated,
D as in Digitated (a.) Having several leaflets arranged, like the fingers of the hand, at the extremity of a stem or petiole. Also, in general, characterized by digitation.,
D as in Digitation (n.) A division into fingers or fingerlike processes; also, a fingerlike process.,
D as in Digitiform (a.) Formed like a finger or fingers; finger-shaped; as, a digitiform root.,
D as in Digitigrade (a.) Walking on the toes; -- distinguished from plantigrade.,
D as in Digitigrade (n.) An animal that walks on its toes, as the cat, lion, wolf, etc.; -- distinguished from a plantigrade, which walks on the palm of the foot.,
D as in Digitipartite (a.) Parted like the fingers.,
D as in Digitize (v. t.) To finger; as, to digitize a pen.,
D as in Digitorium (n.) A small dumb keyboard used by pianists for exercising the fingers; -- called also dumb piano.,
D as in Digitule (n.) A little finger or toe, or something resembling one.,
D as in Digladiate (v. i.) To fight like gladiators; to contend fiercely; to dispute violently.,
D as in Digladiation (n.) Act of digladiating.,
D as in Diglottism (n.) Bilingualism.,
D as in Diglyph (n.) A projecting face like the triglyph, but having only two channels or grooves sunk in it.,
D as in Dignation (n.) The act of thinking worthy; honor.,
D as in Digne (a.) Worthy; honorable; deserving.,
D as in Digne (a.) Suitable; adequate; fit.,
D as in Digne (a.) Haughty; disdainful.,
D as in Dignification (n.) The act of dignifying; exaltation.,
D as in Dignified (a.) Marked with dignity; stately; as, a dignified judge.,
D as in Dignified (imp. & p. p.) of Dignify,
D as in Dignifying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dignify,
D as in Dignify (v. t.) To invest with dignity or honor; to make illustrious; to give distinction to; to exalt in rank; to honor.,
D as in Dignitaries (pl. ) of Dignitary,
D as in Dignitary (n.) One who possesses exalted rank or holds a position of dignity or honor; especially, one who holds an ecclesiastical rank above that of a parochial priest or clergyman.,
D as in Dignities (pl. ) of Dignity,
D as in Dignity (n.) The state of being worthy or honorable; elevation of mind or character; true worth; excellence.,
D as in Dignity (n.) Elevation; grandeur.,
D as in Dignity (n.) Elevated rank; honorable station; high office, political or ecclesiastical; degree of excellence; preferment; exaltation.,
D as in Dignity (n.) Quality suited to inspire respect or reverence; loftiness and grace; impressiveness; stateliness; -- said of //en, manner, style, etc.,
D as in Dignity (n.) One holding high rank; a dignitary.,
D as in Dignity (n.) Fundamental principle; axiom; maxim.,
D as in Dignotion (n.) Distinguishing mark; diagnostic.,
D as in Digonous (a.) Having two angles.,
D as in Digram (n.) A digraph.,
D as in Digraph (n.) Two signs or characters combined to express a single articulated sound; as ea in head, or th in bath.,
D as in Digraphic (a.) Of or pertaining to a digraph.,
D as in Digressed (imp. & p. p.) of Digress,
D as in Digressing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Digress,
D as in Digress (v. i.) To step or turn aside; to deviate; to swerve; especially, to turn aside from the main subject of attention, or course of argument, in writing or speaking.,
D as in Digress (v. i.) To turn aside from the right path; to transgress; to offend.,
D as in Digress (n.) Digression.,
D as in Digression (n.) The act of digressing or deviating, esp. from the main subject of a discourse; hence, a part of a discourse deviating from its main design or subject.,
D as in Digression (n.) A turning aside from the right path; transgression; offense.,
D as in Digression (n.) The elongation, or angular distance from the sun; -- said chiefly of the inferior planets.,
D as in Digressional (a.) Pertaining to, or having the character of, a digression; departing from the main purpose or subject.,
D as in Digressive (a.) Departing from the main subject; partaking of the nature of digression.,
D as in Digressively (adv.) By way of digression.,
D as in Digue (n.) A bank; a dike.,
D as in Digynia (n.) A Linnaean order of plants having two styles.,
D as in Digynian (a.) Alt. of Digynous,
D as in Digynous (a.) Of or pertaining to the Digynia; having two styles.,
D as in Dihedral (a.) Having two plane faces; as, the dihedral summit of a crystal.,
D as in Dihedron (n.) A figure with two sides or surfaces.,
D as in Dihexagonal (a.) Consisting of two hexagonal parts united; thus, a dihexagonal pyramid is composed of two hexagonal pyramids placed base to base.,
D as in Dihexagonal (a.) Having twelve similar faces; as, a dihexagonal prism.,
D as in Diiamb (n.) A diiambus.,
D as in Diiambus (n.) A double iambus; a foot consisting of two iambuses (/ / / /).,
D as in Diiodide (n.) A compound of a binary type containing two atoms of iodine; -- called also biniodide.,
D as in Diisatogen (n.) A red crystalline nitrogenous substance or artificial production, which by reduction passes directly to indigo.,
D as in Dijudicant (n.) One who dijudicates.,
D as in Dijudicated (imp. & p. p.) of Dijudicate,
D as in Dijucating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dijudicate,
D as in Dijudicate (v. i.) To make a judicial decision; to decide; to determine.,
D as in Dijudication (n.) The act of dijudicating; judgment.,
D as in Dika (n.) A kind of food, made from the almondlike seeds of the Irvingia Barteri, much used by natives of the west coast of Africa; -- called also dika bread.,
D as in Dike (n.) A ditch; a channel for water made by digging.,
D as in Dike (n.) An embankment to prevent inundations; a levee.,
D as in Dike (n.) A wall of turf or stone.,
D as in Dike (n.) A wall-like mass of mineral matter, usually an intrusion of igneous rocks, filling up rents or fissures in the original strata.,
D as in Diked (imp. & p. p.) of Dike,
D as in Diking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dike,
D as in Dike (v. t.) To surround or protect with a dike or dry bank; to secure with a bank.,
D as in Dike (v. t.) To drain by a dike or ditch.,
D as in Dike (v. i.) To work as a ditcher; to dig.,
D as in Diker (n.) A ditcher.,
D as in Diker (n.) One who builds stone walls; usually, one who builds them without lime.,
D as in Dilacerated (imp. & p. p.) of Dilacerate,
D as in Dilacerating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dilacerate,
D as in Dilacerate (v. t.) To rend asunder; to tear to pieces.,
D as in Dilaceration (n.) The act of rending asunder.,
D as in Dilaniate (v. t.) To rend in pieces; to tear.,
D as in Dilaniation (n.) A rending or tearing in pieces; dilaceration.,
D as in Dilapidated (imp. & p. p.) of Dilapidate,
D as in Dilapidating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dilapidate,
D as in Dilapidate (v. t.) To bring into a condition of decay or partial ruin, by misuse or through neglect; to destroy the fairness and good condition of; -- said of a building.,
D as in Dilapidate (v. t.) To impair by waste and abuse; to squander.,
D as in Dilapidate (v. i.) To get out of repair; to fall into partial ruin; to become decayed; as, the church was suffered to dilapidate.,
D as in Dilapidated (a.) Decayed; fallen into partial ruin; injured by bad usage or neglect.,
D as in Dilapidation (n.) The act of dilapidating, or the state of being dilapidated, reduced to decay, partially ruined, or squandered.,
D as in Dilapidation (n.) Ecclesiastical waste; impairing of church property by an incumbent, through neglect or by intention.,
D as in Dilapidation (n.) The pulling down of a building, or suffering it to fall or be in a state of decay.,
D as in Dilapidator (n.) One who causes dilapidation.,
D as in Dilatability (n.) The quality of being dilatable, or admitting expansion; -- opposed to contractibility.,
D as in Dilatable (a.) Capable of expansion; that may be dilated; -- opposed to contractible; as, the lungs are dilatable by the force of air; air is dilatable by heat.,
D as in Dilatation (n.) Prolixity; diffuse discourse.,
D as in Dilatation (n.) The act of dilating; expansion; an enlarging on al/ sides; the state of being dilated; dilation.,
D as in Dilatation (n.) A dilation or enlargement of a canal or other organ.,
D as in Dilatator (n.) A muscle which dilates any part; a dilator.,
D as in Dilated (imp. & p. p.) of Dilate,
D as in Dilating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dilate,
D as in Dilate (v. t.) To expand; to distend; to enlarge or extend in all directions; to swell; -- opposed to contract; as, the air dilates the lungs; air is dilated by increase of heat.,
D as in Dilate (v. t.) To enlarge upon; to relate at large; to tell copiously or diffusely.,
D as in Dilate (v. i.) To grow wide; to expand; to swell or extend in all directions.,
D as in Dilate (v. i.) To speak largely and copiously; to dwell in narration; to enlarge; -- with on or upon.,
D as in Dilate (a.) Extensive; expanded.,
D as in Dilated (a.) Expanded; enlarged.,
D as in Dilated (a.) Widening into a lamina or into lateral winglike appendages.,
D as in Dilated (a.) Having the margin wide and spreading.,
D as in Dilatedly (adv.) In a dilated manner.,
D as in Dilater (n.) One who, or that which, dilates, expands, o r enlarges.,
D as in Dilation (n.) Delay.,
D as in Dilation (n.) The act of dilating, or the state of being dilated; expansion; dilatation.,
D as in Dilative (a.) Causing dilation; tending to dilate, on enlarge; expansive.,
D as in Dilatometer (n.) An instrument for measuring the dilatation or expansion of a substance, especially of a fluid.,
D as in Dilator (n.) One who, or that which, widens or expands.,
D as in Dilator (n.) A muscle that dilates any part.,
D as in Dilator (n.) An instrument for expanding a part; as, a urethral dilator.,
D as in Dilatorily (adv.) With delay; tardily.,
D as in Dilatoriness (n.) The quality of being dilatory; lateness; slowness; tardiness; sluggishness.,
D as in Dilatory (a.) Inclined to defer or put off what ought to be done at once; given the procrastination; delaying; procrastinating; loitering; as, a dilatory servant.,
D as in Dilatory (a.) Marked by procrastination or delay; tardy; slow; sluggish; -- said of actions or measures.,
D as in Dildo (n.) A burden in popular songs.,
D as in Dildo (n.) A columnar cactaceous plant of the West Indies (Cereus Swartzii).,
D as in Dilection (n.) Love; choice.,
D as in Dilemma (n.) An argument which presents an antagonist with two or more alternatives, but is equally conclusive against him, whichever alternative he chooses.,
D as in Dilemma (n.) A state of things in which evils or obstacles present themselves on every side, and it is difficult to determine what course to pursue; a vexatious alternative or predicament; a difficult choice or position.,
D as in Dilettant (a.) Of or pertaining to dilettanteism; amateur; as, dilettant speculation.,
D as in Dilettant (n.) A dilettante.,
D as in Dilettanti (pl. ) of Dilettante,
D as in Dilettante (v. t.) An admirer or lover of the fine arts; popularly, an amateur; especially, one who follows an art or a branch of knowledge, desultorily, or for amusement only.,
D as in Dilettanteish (a.) Somewhat like a dilettante.,
D as in Dilettanteism (n.) The state or quality of being a dilettante; the desultory pursuit of art, science, or literature.,
D as in Dilettantish (a.) Dilettanteish.,
D as in Dilettantism (n.) Same as Dilettanteism.,
D as in Diligence (n.) The quality of being diligent; carefulness; careful attention; -- the opposite of negligence.,
D as in Diligence (n.) Interested and persevering application; devoted and painstaking effort to accomplish what is undertaken; assiduity in service.,
D as in Diligence (n.) Process by which persons, lands, or effects are seized for debt; process for enforcing the attendance of witnesses or the production of writings.,
D as in Diligence (n.) A four-wheeled public stagecoach, used in France.,
D as in Diligency (n.) Diligence; care; persevering endeavor.,
D as in Diligent (a.) Prosecuted with careful attention and effort; careful; painstaking; not careless or negligent.,
D as in Diligent (a.) Interestedly and perseveringly attentive; steady and earnest in application to a subject or pursuit; assiduous; industrious.,
D as in Diligently (adv.) In a diligent manner; not carelessly; not negligently; with industry or assiduity.,
D as in Dill (n.) An herb (Peucedanum graveolens), the seeds of which are moderately warming, pungent, and aromatic, and were formerly used as a soothing medicine for children; -- called also dillseed.,
D as in Dill (a.) To still; to calm; to soothe, as one in pain.,
D as in Dilling (n.) A darling; a favorite.,
D as in Dilluing (n.) A process of sorting ore by washing in a hand sieve.,
D as in Dilly (n.) A kind of stagecoach.,
D as in Dilly-dally (v. i.) To loiter or trifle; to waste time.,
D as in Dilogical (a.) Ambiguous; of double meaning.,
D as in Dilogies (pl. ) of Dilogy,
D as in Dilogy (n.) An ambiguous speech; a figure in which a word is used an equivocal sense.,
D as in Dilucid (a.) Clear; lucid.,
D as in Dilucidate (v. t.) To elucidate.,
D as in Dilucidation (n.) The act of making clear.,
D as in Diluent (a.) Diluting; making thinner or weaker by admixture, esp. of water.,
D as in Diluent (n.) That which dilutes.,
D as in Diluent (n.) An agent used for effecting dilution of the blood; a weak drink.,
D as in Diluted (imp. & p. p.) of Dilute,
D as in Diluting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dilute,
D as in Dilute (v. t.) To make thinner or more liquid by admixture with something; to thin and dissolve by mixing.,
D as in Dilute (v. t.) To diminish the strength, flavor, color, etc., of, by mixing; to reduce, especially by the addition of water; to temper; to attenuate; to weaken.,
D as in Dilute (v. i.) To become attenuated, thin, or weak; as, it dilutes easily.,
D as in Dilute (a.) Diluted; thin; weak.,
D as in Diluted (a.) Reduced in strength; thin; weak.,
D as in Diluteness (n.) The quality or state of being dilute.,
D as in Diluter (n.) One who, or that which, dilutes or makes thin, more liquid, or weaker.,
D as in Dilution (n.) The act of diluting, or the state of being diluted.,
D as in Diluvial (a.) Of or pertaining to a flood or deluge, esp. to the great deluge in the days of Noah; diluvian.,
D as in Diluvial (a.) Effected or produced by a flood or deluge of water; -- said of coarse and imperfectly stratified deposits along ancient or existing water courses. Similar unstratified deposits were formed by the agency of ice. The time of deposition has been called the Diluvian epoch.,
D as in Diluvialist (n.) One who explains geological phenomena by the Noachian deluge.,
D as in Diluvian (a.) Of or pertaining to a deluge, esp. to the Noachian deluge; diluvial; as, of diluvian origin.,
D as in Diluviate (v. i.) To run as a flood.,
D as in Diluviums (pl. ) of Diluvium,
D as in Diluvia (pl. ) of Diluvium,
D as in Diluvium (n.) A deposit of superficial loam, sand, gravel, stones, etc., caused by former action of flowing waters, or the melting of glacial ice.,
D as in Dim (superl.) Not bright or distinct; wanting luminousness or clearness; obscure in luster or sound; dusky; darkish; obscure; indistinct; overcast; tarnished.,
D as in Dim (superl.) Of obscure vision; not seeing clearly; hence, dull of apprehension; of weak perception; obtuse.,
D as in Dimmed (imp. & p. p.) of Dim,
D as in Dimming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dim,
D as in Dim (v. t.) To render dim, obscure, or dark; to make less bright or distinct; to take away the luster of; to darken; to dull; to obscure; to eclipse.,
D as in Dim (v. t.) To deprive of distinct vision; to hinder from seeing clearly, either by dazzling or clouding the eyes; to darken the senses or understanding of.,
D as in Dim (v. i.) To grow dim.,
D as in Dimble (n.) A bower; a dingle.,
D as in Dime (n.) A silver coin of the United States, of the value of ten cents; the tenth of a dollar.,
D as in Dimension (n.) Measure in a single line, as length, breadth, height, thickness, or circumference; extension; measurement; -- usually, in the plural, measure in length and breadth, or in length, breadth, and thickness; extent; size; as, the dimensions of a room, or of a ship; the dimensions of a farm, of a kingdom.,
D as in Dimension (n.) Extent; reach; scope; importance; as, a project of large dimensions.,
D as in Dimension (n.) The degree of manifoldness of a quantity; as, time is quantity having one dimension; volume has three dimensions, relative to extension.,
D as in Dimension (n.) A literal factor, as numbered in characterizing a term. The term dimensions forms with the cardinal numbers a phrase equivalent to degree with the ordinal; thus, a2b2c is a term of five dimensions, or of the fifth degree.,
D as in Dimension (n.) The manifoldness with which the fundamental units of time, length, and mass are involved in determining the units of other physical quantities.,
D as in Dimensional (a.) Pertaining to dimension.,
D as in Dimensioned (a.) Having dimensions.,
D as in Dimensionless (a.) Without dimensions; having no appreciable or noteworthy extent.,
D as in Dimensity (n.) Dimension.,
D as in Dimensive (a.) Without dimensions; marking dimensions or the limits.,
D as in Dimera (n. pl.) A division of Coleoptera, having two joints to the tarsi.,
D as in Dimera (n. pl.) A division of the Hemiptera, including the aphids.,
D as in Dimeran (n.) One of the Dimera.,
D as in Dimerous (a.) Composed of, or having, two parts of each kind.,
D as in Dimeter (a.) Having two poetical measures or meters.,
D as in Dimeter (n.) A verse of two meters.,
D as in Dimethyl (n.) Ethane; -- sometimes so called because regarded as consisting of two methyl radicals. See Ethane.,
D as in Dimetric (a.) Same as Tetragonal.,
D as in Dimication (n.) A fight; contest.,
D as in Dimidiate (a.) Divided into two equal parts; reduced to half in shape or form.,
D as in Dimidiate (a.) Consisting of only one half of what the normal condition requires; having the appearance of lacking one half; as, a dimidiate leaf, which has only one side developed.,
D as in Dimidiate (a.) Having the organs of one side, or half, different in function from the corresponding organs on the other side; as, dimidiate hermaphroditism.,
D as in Dimidiated (imp. & p. p.) of Dimidiate,
D as in Dimidiating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dimidiate,
D as in Dimidiate (v. t.) To divide into two equal parts.,
D as in Dimidiate (v. t.) To represent the half of; to halve.,
D as in Dimidiation (n.) The act of dimidiating or halving; the state of being dimidiate.,
D as in Diminished (imp. & p. p.) of Diminish,
D as in Diminishing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Diminish,
D as in Diminish (v. t.) To make smaller in any manner; to reduce in bulk or amount; to lessen; -- opposed to augment or increase.,
D as in Diminish (v. t.) To lessen the authority or dignity of; to put down; to degrade; to abase; to weaken.,
D as in Diminish (v. t.) To make smaller by a half step; to make (an interval) less than minor; as, a diminished seventh.,
D as in Diminish (v. t.) To take away; to subtract.,
D as in Diminish (v. i.) To become or appear less or smaller; to lessen; as, the apparent size of an object diminishes as we recede from it.,
D as in Diminishable (a.) Capable of being diminished or lessened.,
D as in Diminisher (n.) One who, or that which, diminishes anything.,
D as in Diminishingly (adv.) In a manner to diminish.,
D as in Diminishment (n.) Diminution.,
D as in Diminuendo (adv.) In a gradually diminishing manner; with abatement of tone; decrescendo; -- expressed on the staff by Dim., or Dimin., or the sign.,
D as in Diminuent (a.) Lessening.,
D as in Diminutal (a.) Indicating or causing diminution.,
D as in Diminute (a.) Small; diminished; diminutive.,
D as in Diminutely (adv.) Diminutively.,
D as in Diminution (n.) The act of diminishing, or of making or becoming less; state of being diminished; reduction in size, quantity, or degree; -- opposed to augmentation or increase.,
D as in Diminution (n.) The act of lessening dignity or consideration, or the state of being deprived of dignity; a lowering in estimation; degradation; abasement.,
D as in Diminution (n.) Omission, inaccuracy, or defect in a record.,
D as in Diminution (n.) In counterpoint, the imitation of, or reply to, a subject, in notes of half the length or value of those the subject itself.,
D as in Diminutival (a.) Indicating diminution; diminutive.,
D as in Diminutival (n.) A diminutive.,
D as in Diminutive (a.) Below the average size; very small; little.,
D as in Diminutive (a.) Expressing diminution; as, a diminutive word.,
D as in Diminutive (a.) Tending to diminish.,
D as in Diminutive (n.) Something of very small size or value; an insignificant thing.,
D as in Diminutive (n.) A derivative from a noun, denoting a small or a young object of the same kind with that denoted by the primitive; as, gosling, eaglet, lambkin.,
D as in Diminutively (adv.) In a diminutive manner.,
D as in Diminutiveness (n.) The quality of being diminutive; smallness; littleness; minuteness.,
D as in Dimish (a.) See Dimmish.,
D as in Dimission (n.) Leave to depart; a dismissing.,
D as in Dimissory (a.) Sending away; dismissing to another jurisdiction; granting leave to depart.,
D as in Dimit (v. t.) To dismiss, let go, or release.,
D as in Dimity (n.) A cotton fabric employed for hangings and furniture coverings, and formerly used for women's under-garments. It is of many patterns, both plain and twilled, and occasionally is printed in colors.,
D as in Dimly (adv.) In a dim or obscure manner; not brightly or clearly; with imperfect sight.,
D as in Dimmish (a.) Alt. of Dimmy,
D as in Dimmy (a.) Somewhat dim; as, dimmish eyes.,
D as in Dimness (n.) The state or quality / being dim; lack of brightness, clearness, or distinctness; dullness; obscurity.,
D as in Dimness (n.) Dullness, or want of clearness, of vision or of intellectual perception.,
D as in Dimorph (n.) Either one of the two forms of a dimorphous substance; as, calcite and aragonite are dimorphs.,
D as in Dimorphic (a.) Having the property of dimorphism; dimorphous.,
D as in Dimorphism (n.) Difference of form between members of the same species, as when a plant has two kinds of flowers, both hermaphrodite (as in the partridge berry), or when there are two forms of one or both sexes of the same species of butterfly.,
D as in Dimorphism (n.) Crystallization in two independent forms of the same chemical compound, as of calcium carbonate as calcite and aragonite.,
D as in Dimorphous (a.) Characterized by dimorphism; occurring under two distinct forms, not dependent on sex; dimorphic.,
D as in Dimorphous (a.) Crystallizing under two forms fundamentally different, while having the same chemical composition.,
D as in Dimple (n.) A slight natural depression or indentation on the surface of some part of the body, esp. on the cheek or chin.,
D as in Dimple (n.) A slight indentation on any surface.,
D as in Dimpled (imp. & p. p.) of Dimple,
D as in Dimpling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dimple,
D as in Dimple (v. i.) To form dimples; to sink into depressions or little inequalities.,
D as in Dimple (v. t.) To mark with dimples or dimplelike depressions.,
D as in Dimplement (n.) The state of being dimpled, or marked with gentle depressions.,
D as in Dimply (a.) Full of dimples, or small depressions; dimpled; as, the dimply pool.,
D as in Dim-sighted (a.) Having dim sight; lacking perception.,
D as in Dimya (n. pl.) Alt. of Dimyaria,
D as in Dimyaria (n. pl.) An order of lamellibranchiate mollusks having an anterior and posterior adductor muscle, as the common clam. See Bivalve.,
D as in Dimyarian (a.) Like or pertaining to the Dimya.,
D as in Dimyarian (n.) One of the Dimya.,
D as in Dimyary (a. & n.) Same as Dimyarian.,
D as in Din (n.) Loud, confused, harsh noise; a loud, continuous, rattling or clanging sound; clamor; roar.,
D as in Dinned (imp. & p. p.) of Din,
D as in Dinning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Din,
D as in Din (n.) To strike with confused or clanging sound; to stun with loud and continued noise; to harass with clamor; as, to din the ears with cries.,
D as in Din (n.) To utter with a din; to repeat noisily; to ding.,
D as in Din (v. i.) To sound with a din; a ding.,
D as in Dinaphthyl (n.) A colorless, crystalline hydrocarbon, C20H14, obtained from naphthylene, and consisting of a doubled naphthylene radical.,
D as in Dinar (n.) A petty money of accounts of Persia.,
D as in Dinar (n.) An ancient gold coin of the East.,
D as in Dinarchy (n.) See Diarchy.,
D as in Dined (imp. & p. p.) of Dine,
D as in Dining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dine,
D as in Dine (v. i.) To eat the principal regular meal of the day; to take dinner.,
D as in Dine (v. t.) To give a dinner to; to furnish with the chief meal; to feed; as, to dine a hundred men.,
D as in Dine (v. t.) To dine upon; to have to eat.,
D as in Diner (n.) One who dines.,
D as in Diner-out (n.) One who often takes his dinner away from home, or in company.,
D as in Dinetical (a.) Revolving on an axis.,
D as in Dinged (imp. & p. p.) of Ding,
D as in Dang () of Ding,
D as in Dung () of Ding,
D as in Dinging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ding,
D as in Ding (v. t.) To dash; to throw violently.,
D as in Ding (v. t.) To cause to sound or ring.,
D as in Ding (v. i.) To strike; to thump; to pound.,
D as in Ding (v. i.) To sound, as a bell; to ring; to clang.,
D as in Ding (v. i.) To talk with vehemence, importunity, or reiteration; to bluster.,
D as in Ding (n.) A thump or stroke, especially of a bell.,
D as in Dingdong (n.) The sound of, or as of, repeated strokes on a metallic body, as a bell; a repeated and monotonous sound.,
D as in Dingdong (n.) An attachment to a clock by which the quarter hours are struck upon bells of different tones.,
D as in Dingey (n.) Alt. of Dinghy,
D as in Dingy (n.) Alt. of Dinghy,
D as in Dinghy (n.) A kind of boat used in the East Indies.,
D as in Dinghy (n.) A ship's smallest boat.,
D as in Dingily (adv.) In a dingy manner.,
D as in Dinginess (n.) Quality of being dingy; a dusky hue.,
D as in Dingle (n.) A narrow dale; a small dell; a small, secluded, and embowered valley.,
D as in Dingle-dangle (adv.) In a dangling manner.,
D as in Dingo (n.) A wild dog found in Australia, but supposed to have introduced at a very early period. It has a wolflike face, bushy tail, and a reddish brown color.,
D as in Dingthrift (n.) A spendthrift.,
D as in Dingy (superl.) Soiled; sullied; of a dark or dusky color; dark brown; dirty.,
D as in Dinichthys (n.) A genus of large extinct Devonian ganoid fishes. In some parts of Ohio remains of the Dinichthys are abundant, indicating animals twenty feet in length.,
D as in Dining (n. & a.) from Dine, a.,
D as in Dink (a.) Trim; neat.,
D as in Dink (v. t.) To deck; -- often with out or up.,
D as in Dinmont (n.) A wether sheep between one and two years old.,
D as in Dinner (n.) The principal meal of the day, eaten by most people about midday, but by many (especially in cities) at a later hour.,
D as in Dinner (n.) An entertainment; a feast.,
D as in Dinnerless (a.) Having no dinner.,
D as in Dinnerly (a.) Of or pertaining to dinner.,
D as in Dinoceras (n.) A genus of large extinct Eocene mammals from Wyoming; -- called also Uintatherium. See Illustration in Appendix.,
D as in Dinornis (n.) A genus of extinct, ostrichlike birds of gigantic size, which formerly inhabited New Zealand. See Moa.,
D as in Dinosaur (n.) Alt. of Dinosaurian,
D as in Dinosaurian (n.) One of the Dinosauria.,
D as in Dinosauria (n. pl.) An order of extinct mesozoic reptiles, mostly of large size (whence the name). Notwithstanding their size, they present birdlike characters in the skeleton, esp. in the pelvis and hind limbs. Some walked on their three-toed hind feet, thus producing the large "bird tracks," so-called, of mesozoic sandstones; others were five-toed and quadrupedal. See Illust. of Compsognathus, also Illustration of Dinosaur in Appendix.,
D as in Dinothere (n.) Alt. of Dinotherium,
D as in Dinotherium (n.) A large extinct proboscidean mammal from the miocene beds of Europe and Asia. It is remarkable fora pair of tusks directed downward from the decurved apex of the lower jaw.,
D as in Dinoxide (n.) Same as Dioxide.,
D as in Dinsome (a.) Full of din.,
D as in Dint (n.) A blow; a stroke.,
D as in Dint (n.) The mark left by a blow; an indentation or impression made by violence; a dent.,
D as in Dint (n.) Force; power; -- esp. in the phrase by dint of.,
D as in Dinted (imp. & p. p.) of Dint,
D as in Dinting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dint,
D as in Dint (v. t.) To make a mark or cavity on or in, by a blow or by pressure; to dent.,
D as in Dinumeration (n.) Enumeration.,
D as in Diocesan (a.) Of or pertaining to a diocese; as, diocesan missions.,
D as in Diocesan (n.) A bishop, viewed in relation to his diocese; as, the diocesan of New York.,
D as in Diocesan (n.) The clergy or the people of a diocese.,
D as in Dioceses (pl. ) of Diocese,
D as in Diocese (n.) The circuit or extent of a bishop's jurisdiction; the district in which a bishop exercises his ecclesiastical authority.,
D as in Diocesener (n.) One who belongs to a diocese.,
D as in Diodon (n.) A genus of spinose, plectognath fishes, having the teeth of each jaw united into a single beaklike plate. They are able to inflate the body by taking in air or water, and, hence, are called globefishes, swellfishes, etc. Called also porcupine fishes, and sea hedgehogs.,
D as in Diodon (n.) A genus of whales.,
D as in Diodont (a.) Like or pertaining to the genus Diodon.,
D as in Diodont (n.) A fish of the genus Diodon, or an allied genus.,
D as in Dioecia (n. pl.) A Linnaean class of plants having the stamens and pistils on different plants.,
D as in Dioecia (n. pl.) A subclass of gastropod mollusks in which the sexes are separate. It includes most of the large marine species, like the conchs, cones, and cowries.,
D as in Dioecian (a.) Alt. of Dioecious,
D as in Dioecious (a.) Having the sexes in two separate individuals; -- applied to plants in which the female flowers occur on one individual and the male flowers on another of the same species, and to animals in which the ovum is produced by one individual and the sperm cell by another; -- opposed to monoecious.,
D as in Dioeciously (adv.) In a dioecious manner.,
D as in Dioeciousness (n.) The state or quality of being dioecious.,
D as in Dioecism (n.) The condition of being dioecious.,
D as in Diogenes (n.) A Greek Cynic philosopher (412?-323 B. C.) who lived much in Athens and was distinguished for contempt of the common aims and conditions of life, and for sharp, caustic sayings.,
D as in Dioicous (a.) See Dioecious.,
D as in Diomedea (n.) A genus of large sea birds, including the albatross. See Albatross.,
D as in Dionaea (n.) An insectivorous plant. See Venus's flytrap.,
D as in Dionysian (a.) Relating to Dionysius, a monk of the 6th century; as, the Dionysian, or Christian, era.,
D as in Diophantine (a.) Originated or taught by Diophantus, the Greek writer on algebra.,
D as in Diopside (n.) A crystallized variety of pyroxene, of a clear, grayish green color; mussite.,
D as in Dioptase (n.) A hydrous silicate of copper, occurring in emerald-green crystals.,
D as in Diopter (n.) Alt. of Dioptra,
D as in Dioptra (n.) An optical instrument, invented by Hipparchus, for taking altitudes, leveling, etc.,
D as in Dioptre (n.) A unit employed by oculists in numbering glasses according to the metric system; a refractive power equal to that of a glass whose principal focal distance is one meter.,
D as in Dioptric (a.) Of or pertaining to the dioptre, or to the metric system of numbering glasses.,
D as in Dioptric (n.) A dioptre. See Dioptre.,
D as in Dioptric (a.) Alt. of Dioptrical,
D as in Dioptrical (a.) Of or pertaining to dioptrics; assisting vision by means of the refraction of light; refractive; as, the dioptric system; a dioptric glass or telescope.,
D as in Dioptrics (n.) The science of the refraction of light; that part of geometrical optics which treats of the laws of the refraction of light in passing from one medium into another, or through different mediums, as air, water, or glass, and esp. through different lenses; -- distinguished from catoptrics, which refers to reflected light.,
D as in Dioptry (n.) A dioptre.,
D as in Diorama (n.) A mode of scenic representation, invented by Daguerre and Bouton, in which a painting is seen from a distance through a large opening. By a combination of transparent and opaque painting, and of transmitted and reflected light, and by contrivances such as screens and shutters, much diversity of scenic effect is produced.,
D as in Diorama (n.) A building used for such an exhibition.,
D as in Dioramic (a.) Pertaining to a diorama.,
D as in Diorism (n.) Definition; logical direction.,
D as in Dioristic (a.) Distinguishing; distinctive; defining.,
D as in Diorite (n.) An igneous, crystalline in structure, consisting essentially of a triclinic feldspar and hornblende. It includes part of what was called greenstone.,
D as in Dioritic (a.) Containing diorite.,
D as in Diorthotic (a.) Relating to the correcting or straightening out of something; corrective.,
D as in Dioscorea (n.) A genus of plants. See Yam.,
D as in Diota (n.) A vase or drinking cup having two handles or ears.,
D as in Dioxide (n.) An oxide containing two atoms of oxygen in each molecule; binoxide.,
D as in Dioxide (n.) An oxide containing but one atom or equivalent of oxygen to two of a metal; a suboxide.,
D as in Dioxindol (n.) A white, crystalline, nitrogenous substance obtained by the reduction of isatin. It is a member of the indol series; -- hence its name.,
D as in Dipped (imp. & p. p.) of Dip,
D as in Dipt () of Dip,
D as in Dipping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dip,
D as in Dip (v. t.) To plunge or immerse; especially, to put for a moment into a liquid; to insert into a fluid and withdraw again.,
D as in Dip (v. t.) To immerse for baptism; to baptize by immersion.,
D as in Dip (v. t.) To wet, as if by immersing; to moisten.,
D as in Dip (v. t.) To plunge or engage thoroughly in any affair.,
D as in Dip (v. t.) To take out, by dipping a dipper, ladle, or other receptacle, into a fluid and removing a part; -- often with out; as, to dip water from a boiler; to dip out water.,
D as in Dip (v. t.) To engage as a pledge; to mortgage.,
D as in Dip (v. i.) To immerse one's self; to become plunged in a liquid; to sink.,
D as in Dip (v. i.) To perform the action of plunging some receptacle, as a dipper, ladle. etc.; into a liquid or a soft substance and removing a part.,
D as in Dip (v. i.) To pierce; to penetrate; -- followed by in or into.,
D as in Dip (v. i.) To enter slightly or cursorily; to engage one's self desultorily or by the way; to partake limitedly; -- followed by in or into.,
D as in Dip (v. i.) To incline downward from the plane of the horizon; as, strata of rock dip.,
D as in Dip (v. i.) To dip snuff.,
D as in Dip (n.) The action of dipping or plunging for a moment into a liquid.,
D as in Dip (n.) Inclination downward; direction below a horizontal line; slope; pitch.,
D as in Dip (n.) A liquid, as a sauce or gravy, served at table with a ladle or spoon.,
D as in Dip (n.) A dipped candle.,
D as in Dipaschal (a.) Including two passovers.,
D as in Dipchick (n.) See Dabchick.,
D as in Dipetalous (a.) Having two petals; two-petaled.,
D as in Diphenyl (n.) A white crystalline substance, C6H5.C6H5, obtained by leading benzene through a heated iron tube. It consists of two benzene or phenyl radicals united.,
D as in Diphtheria (n.) A very dangerous contagious disease in which the air passages, and especially the throat, become coated with a false membrane, produced by the solidification of an inflammatory exudation. Cf. Group.,
D as in Diphtherial (a.) Alt. of Diphtheric,
D as in Diphtheric (a.) Relating to diphtheria; diphtheritic.,
D as in Diphtheritic (a.) Pertaining to, or connected with, diphtheria.,
D as in Diphtheritic (a.) Having characteristics resembling those of diphtheria; as, diphtheritic inflammation of the bladder.,
D as in Diphthong (n.) A coalition or union of two vowel sounds pronounced in one syllable; as, ou in out, oi in noise; -- called a proper diphthong.,
D as in Diphthong (n.) A vowel digraph; a union of two vowels in the same syllable, only one of them being sounded; as, ai in rain, eo in people; -- called an improper diphthong.,
D as in Diphthong (v. t.) To form or pronounce as a diphthong; diphthongize.,
D as in Diphthongal (a.) Relating or belonging to a diphthong; having the nature of a diphthong.,
D as in Diphthongalize (v. t.) To make into a diphthong; to pronounce as a diphthong.,
D as in Diphthongation (n.) See Diphthongization.,
D as in Diphthongic (a.) Of the nature of diphthong; diphthongal.,
D as in Diphthongization (n.) The act of changing into a diphthong.,
D as in Diphthongize (v. t. & i.) To change into a diphthong, as by affixing another vowel to a simple vowel.,
D as in Diphycercal (a.) Having the tail fin divided into two equal parts by the notochord, or end of the vertebral column; protocercal. See Protocercal.,
D as in Diphygenic (a.) Having two modes of embryonic development.,
D as in Diphyllous (a.) Having two leaves, as a calyx, etc.,
D as in Diphyodont (a.) Having two successive sets of teeth (deciduous and permanent), one succeeding the other; as, a diphyodont mammal; diphyodont dentition; -- opposed to monophyodont.,
D as in Diphyodont (n.) An animal having two successive sets of teeth.,
D as in Diphyozooid (n.) One of the free-swimming sexual zooids of Siphonophora.,
D as in Diplanar (a.) Of or pertaining to two planes.,
D as in Dipleidoscope (n.) An instrument for determining the time of apparent noon. It consists of two mirrors and a plane glass disposed in the form of a prism, so that, by the reflections of the sun's rays from their surfaces, two images are presented to the eye, moving in opposite directions, and coinciding at the instant the sun's center is on the meridian.,
D as in Diploblastic (a.) Characterizing the ovum when it has two primary germinal layers.,
D as in Diplocardiac (a.) Having the heart completely divided or double, one side systemic, the other pulmonary.,
D as in Diplococci (pl. ) of Diplococcus,
D as in Diplococcus (n.) A form of micrococcus in which cocci are united in a binary manner. See Micrococcus.,
D as in Diploe (n.) The soft, spongy, or cancellated substance between the plates of the skull.,
D as in Diploetic (a.) Diploic.,
D as in Diplogenic (a.) Partaking of the nature of two bodies; producing two substances.,
D as in Diploic (a.) Of or pertaining to the diploe.,
D as in Diploid (n.) A solid bounded by twenty-four similar quadrilateral faces. It is a hemihedral form of the hexoctahedron.,
D as in Diplomas (pl. ) of Diploma,
D as in Diploma (n.) A letter or writing, usually under seal, conferring some privilege, honor, or power; a document bearing record of a degree conferred by a literary society or educational institution.,
D as in Diplomacy (n.) The art and practice of conducting negotiations between nations (particularly in securing treaties), including the methods and forms usually employed.,
D as in Diplomacy (n.) Dexterity or skill in securing advantages; tact.,
D as in Diplomacy (n.) The body of ministers or envoys resident at a court; the diplomatic body.,
D as in Diplomat (n.) Alt. of Diplomate,
D as in Diplomate (n.) A diplomatist.,
D as in Diplomate (v. t.) To invest with a title o/ privilege by diploma.,
D as in Diplomatial (a.) Diplomatic.,
D as in Diplomatic (a.) Alt. of Diplomatical,
D as in Diplomatical (a.) Pertaining to diplomacy; relating to the foreign ministers at a court, who are called the diplomatic body.,
D as in Diplomatical (a.) Characterized by tact and shrewdness; dexterous; artful; as, diplomatic management.,
D as in Diplomatical (a.) Pertaining to diplomatics; paleographic.,
D as in Diplomatic (n.) A minister, official agent, or envoy to a foreign court; a diplomatist.,
D as in Diplomatically (adv.) According to the rules of diplomacy; in the manner of a diplomatist; artfully.,
D as in Diplomatic (n.) The science of diplomas, or the art of deciphering ancient writings, and determining their age, authenticity, etc.; paleography.,
D as in Diplomatism (n.) Diplomacy.,
D as in Diplomatist (n.) A person employed in, or skilled in, diplomacy; a diplomat.,
D as in Diplopia (n.) Alt. of Diplopy,
D as in Diplopy (n.) The act or state of seeing double.,
D as in Diplopod (n.) One of the Diplopoda.,
D as in Diplopoda (n. pl.) An order of myriapods having two pairs of legs on each segment; the Chilognatha.,
D as in Diplostemonous (a.) Having twice as many stamens as petals, as the geranium.,
D as in Diplostemony (n.) The condition of being diplostemonous.,
D as in Dipneumona (n. pl.) A group of spiders having only two lunglike organs.,
D as in Dipnoi (n. pl.) A group of ganoid fishes, including the living genera Ceratodus and Lepidosiren, which present the closest approximation to the Amphibia. The air bladder acts as a lung, and the nostrils open inside the mouth. See Ceratodus, and Illustration in Appendix.,
D as in Dipodies (pl. ) of Dipody,
D as in Dipody (n.) Two metrical feet taken together, or included in one measure.,
D as in Dipolar (a.) Having two poles, as a magnetic bar.,
D as in Dippel's oil () See Bone oil, under Bone.,
D as in Dipper (n.) One who, or that which, dips; especially, a vessel used to dip water or other liquid; a ladle.,
D as in Dipper (n.) A small grebe; the dabchick.,
D as in Dipper (n.) The buffel duck.,
D as in Dipper (n.) The water ouzel (Cinolus aquaticus) of Europe.,
D as in Dipper (n.) The American dipper or ouzel (Cinclus Mexicanus).,
D as in Dipping (n.) The act or process of immersing.,
D as in Dipping (n.) The act of inclining downward.,
D as in Dipping (n.) The act of lifting or moving a liquid with a dipper, ladle, or the like.,
D as in Dipping (n.) The process of cleaning or brightening sheet metal or metalware, esp. brass, by dipping it in acids, etc.,
D as in Dipping (n.) The practice of taking snuff by rubbing the teeth or gums with a stick or brush dipped in snuff.,
D as in Diprismatic (a.) Doubly prismatic.,
D as in Dipropargyl (n.) A pungent, mobile, volatile liquid, C6H6, produced artificially from certain allyl derivatives. Though isomeric with benzine, it is very different in its chemical relations. Called also dipropinyl.,
D as in Dipropyl (n.) One of the hexane paraffins, found in petroleum, consisting of two propyl radicals. See Hexane.,
D as in Diprotodon (n.) An extinct Quaternary marsupial from Australia, about as large as the hippopotamus; -- so named because of its two large front teeth. See Illustration in Appendix.,
D as in Dipsas (n.) A serpent whose bite was fabled to produce intense thirst.,
D as in Dipsas (n.) A genus of harmless colubrine snakes.,
D as in Dipsetic (a.) Tending to produce thirst.,
D as in Dipsomania (n.) A morbid an uncontrollable craving (often periodic) for drink, esp. for alcoholic liquors; also improperly used to denote acute and chronic alcoholism.,
D as in Dipsomaniac (n.) One who has an irrepressible desire for alcoholic drinks.,
D as in Dipsomaniacal (a.) Of or pertaining to dipsomania.,
D as in Dipsosis (n.) Excessive thirst produced by disease.,
D as in Diptera (n. pl.) An extensive order of insects having only two functional wings and two balancers, as the house fly, mosquito, etc. They have a suctorial proboscis, often including two pairs of sharp organs (mandibles and maxillae) with which they pierce the skin of animals. They undergo a complete metamorphosis, their larvae (called maggots) being usually without feet.,
D as in Dipteral (a.) Having two wings only; belonging to the order Diptera.,
D as in Dipteral (a.) Having a double row of columns on each on the flanks, as well as in front and rear; -- said of a temple.,
D as in Dipteran (n.) An insect of the order Diptera.,
D as in Dipterocarpus (n.) A genus of trees found in the East Indies, some species of which produce a fragrant resin, other species wood oil. The fruit has two long wings.,
D as in Dipterous (a.) Having two wings, as certain insects; belonging to the order Diptera.,
D as in Dipterous (a.) Having two wings; two-winged.,
D as in Dipterygian (a.) Having two dorsal fins; -- said of certain fishes.,
D as in Diptote (n.) A noun which has only two cases.,
D as in Diptych (n.) Anything consisting of two leaves.,
D as in Diptych (n.) A writing tablet consisting of two leaves of rigid material connected by hinges and shutting together so as to protect the writing within.,
D as in Diptych (n.) A picture or series of pictures painted on two tablets connected by hinges. See Triptych.,
D as in Diptych (n.) A double catalogue, containing in one part the names of living, and in the other of deceased, ecclesiastics and benefactors of the church; a catalogue of saints.,
D as in Dipyre (n.) A mineral of the scapolite group; -- so called from the double effect of fire upon it, in fusing it, and rendering it phosphorescent.,
D as in Dipyrenous (a.) Containing two stones or nutlets.,
D as in Dipyridine (n.) A polymeric form of pyridine, C10H10N2, obtained as a colorless oil by the action of sodium on pyridine.,
D as in Dipyridil (n.) A crystalline nitrogenous base, C10H8N2, obtained by the reduction of pyridine.,
D as in Diradiation (n.) The emission and diffusion of rays of light.,
D as in Dire (superl.) Ill-boding; portentous; as, dire omens.,
D as in Dire (superl.) Evil in great degree; dreadful; dismal; horrible; terrible; lamentable.,
D as in Direct (a.) Straight; not crooked, oblique, or circuitous; leading by the short or shortest way to a point or end; as, a direct line; direct means.,
D as in Direct (a.) Straightforward; not of crooked ways, or swerving from truth and openness; sincere; outspoken.,
D as in Direct (a.) Immediate; express; plain; unambiguous.,
D as in Direct (a.) In the line of descent; not collateral; as, a descendant in the direct line.,
D as in Direct (a.) In the direction of the general planetary motion, or from west to east; in the order of the signs; not retrograde; -- said of the motion of a celestial body.,
D as in Directed (imp. & p. p.) of Direct,
D as in Directing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Direct,
D as in Direct (v. t.) To arrange in a direct or straight line, as against a mark, or towards a goal; to point; to aim; as, to direct an arrow or a piece of ordnance.,
D as in Direct (v. t.) To point out or show to (any one), as the direct or right course or way; to guide, as by pointing out the way; as, he directed me to the left-hand road.,
D as in Direct (v. t.) To determine the direction or course of; to cause to go on in a particular manner; to order in the way to a certain end; to regulate; to govern; as, to direct the affairs of a nation or the movements of an army.,
D as in Direct (v. t.) To point out to with authority; to instruct as a superior; to order; as, he directed them to go.,
D as in Direct (v. t.) To put a direction or address upon; to mark with the name and residence of the person to whom anything is sent; to superscribe; as, to direct a letter.,
D as in Direct (v. i.) To give direction; to point out a course; to act as guide.,
D as in Direct (n.) A character, thus [/], placed at the end of a staff on the line or space of the first note of the next staff, to apprise the performer of its situation.,
D as in Direct-acting (a.) Acting directly, as one part upon another, without the intervention of other working parts.,
D as in Directer (n.) One who directs; a director.,
D as in Direction (n.) The act of directing, of aiming, regulating, guiding, or ordering; guidance; management; superintendence; administration; as, the direction o/ public affairs or of a bank.,
D as in Direction (n.) That which is imposed by directing; a guiding or authoritative instruction; prescription; order; command; as, he grave directions to the servants.,
D as in Direction (n.) The name and residence of a person to whom any thing is sent, written upon the thing sent; superscription; address; as, the direction of a letter.,
D as in Direction (n.) The line or course upon which anything is moving or aimed to move, or in which anything is lying or pointing; aim; line or point of tendency; direct line or course; as, the ship sailed in a southeasterly direction.,
D as in Direction (n.) The body of managers of a corporation or enterprise; board of directors.,
D as in Direction (n.) The pointing of a piece with reference to an imaginary vertical axis; -- distinguished from elevation. The direction is given when the plane of sight passes through the object.,
D as in Directive (a.) Having power to direct; tending to direct, guide, or govern; showing the way.,
D as in Directive (a.) Able to be directed; manageable.,
D as in Directly (adv.) In a direct manner; in a straight line or course.,
D as in Directly (adv.) In a straightforward way; without anything intervening; not by secondary, but by direct, means.,
D as in Directly (adv.) Without circumlocution or ambiguity; absolutely; in express terms.,
D as in Directly (adv.) Exactly; just.,
D as in Directly (adv.) Straightforwardly; honestly.,
D as in Directly (adv.) Manifestly; openly.,
D as in Directly (adv.) Straightway; next in order; without delay; immediately.,
D as in Directly (adv.) Immediately after; as soon as.,
D as in Directness (n.) The quality of being direct; straightness; straightforwardness; immediateness.,
D as in Director (n.) One who, or that which, directs; one who regulates, guides, or orders; a manager or superintendent.,
D as in Director (n.) One of a body of persons appointed to manage the affairs of a company or corporation; as, the directors of a bank, insurance company, or railroad company.,
D as in Director (n.) A part of a machine or instrument which directs its motion or action.,
D as in Director (n.) A slender grooved instrument upon which a knife is made to slide when it is wished to limit the extent of motion of the latter, or prevent its injuring the parts beneath.,
D as in Directorate (n.) The office of director; also, a body of directors taken jointly.,
D as in Directorial (a.) Having the quality of a director, or authoritative guide; directive.,
D as in Directorial (a.) Pertaining to: director or directory; specifically, relating to the Directory of France under the first republic. See Directory, 3.,
D as in Directorship (n.) The condition or office of a director; directorate.,
D as in Directory (a.) Containing directions; enjoining; instructing; directorial.,
D as in Directories (pl. ) of Directory,
D as in Directory (n.) A collection or body of directions, rules, or ordinances; esp., a book of directions for the conduct of worship; as, the Directory used by the nonconformists instead of the Prayer Book.,
D as in Directory (n.) A book containing the names and residences of the inhabitants of any place, or of classes of them; an address book; as, a business directory.,
D as in Directory (n.) A body of directors; board of management; especially, a committee which held executive power in France under the first republic.,
D as in Directory (n.) Direction; guide.,
D as in Directress (n.) A woman who directs.,
D as in Directrixes (pl. ) of Directrix,
D as in Directrix (n.) A directress.,
D as in Directrix (n.) A line along which a point in another line moves, or which in any way governs the motion of the point and determines the position of the curve generated by it; the line along which the generatrix moves in generating a surface.,
D as in Directrix (n.) A straight line so situated with respect to a conic section that the distance of any point of the curve from it has a constant ratio to the distance of the same point from the focus.,
D as in Direful (a.) Dire; dreadful; terrible; calamitous; woeful; as, a direful fiend; a direful day.,
D as in Direly (adv.) In a dire manner.,
D as in Dirempt (a.) Divided; separated.,
D as in Dirempt (v. t.) To separate by force; to tear apart.,
D as in Diremption (n.) A tearing apart; violent separation.,
D as in Direness (n.) Terribleness; horror; woefulness.,
D as in Direption (n.) The act of plundering, despoiling, or snatching away.,
D as in Direptitious (a.) Characterized by direption.,
D as in Direptitiously (adv.) With plundering violence; by violent injustice.,
D as in Dirge (a.) A piece of music of a mournful character, to accompany funeral rites; a funeral hymn.,
D as in Dirgeful (a.) Funereal; moaning.,
D as in Dirige (n.) A service for the dead, in the Roman Catholic Church, being the first antiphon of Matins for the dead, of which Dirige is the first word; a dirge.,
D as in Dirigent (a.) Directing.,
D as in Dirigent (n.) The line of motion along which a describent line or surface is carried in the genesis of any plane or solid figure; a directrix.,
D as in Dirigible (a.) Capable of being directed; steerable; as, a dirigible balloon.,
D as in Diriment (a.) Absolute.,
D as in Dirk (n.) A kind of dagger or poniard; -- formerly much used by the Scottish Highlander.,
D as in Dirked (imp. & p. p.) of Dirk,
D as in Dirking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dirk,
D as in Dirk (v. t.) To stab with a dirk.,
D as in Dirk (a.) Dark.,
D as in Dirk (v. t.) To darken.,
D as in Dirkness (n.) Darkness.,
D as in Dirl (v. i. & t.) To thrill; to vibrate; to penetrate.,
D as in Dirt (n.) Any foul of filthy substance, as excrement, mud, dust, etc.; whatever, adhering to anything, renders it foul or unclean; earth; as, a wagonload of dirt.,
D as in Dirt (n.) Meanness; sordidness.,
D as in Dirt (n.) In placer mining, earth, gravel, etc., before washing.,
D as in Dirt (v. t.) To make foul of filthy; to dirty.,
D as in Dirtily (adv.) In a dirty manner; foully; nastily; filthily; meanly; sordidly.,
D as in Dirtiness (n.) The state of being dirty; filthiness; foulness; nastiness; baseness; sordidness.,
D as in Dirty (superl.) Defiled with dirt; foul; nasty; filthy; not clean or pure; serving to defile; as, dirty hands; dirty water; a dirty white.,
D as in Dirty (superl.) Sullied; clouded; -- applied to color.,
D as in Dirty (superl.) Sordid; base; groveling; as, a dirty fellow.,
D as in Dirty (superl.) Sleety; gusty; stormy; as, dirty weather.,
D as in Dirtied (imp. & p. p.) of Dirty,
D as in Dirtying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dirty,
D as in Dirty (v. t.) To foul; to make filthy; to soil; as, to dirty the clothes or hands.,
D as in Dirty (v. t.) To tarnish; to sully; to scandalize; -- said of reputation, character, etc.,
D as in Diruption (a.) Disruption.,
D as in Dis- () .,
D as in Dis- () A prefix from the Latin, whence F. des, or sometimes de-, dis-. The Latin dis-appears as di-before b, d, g, l, m, n, r, v, becomes dif-before f, and either dis-or di- before j. It is from the same root as bis twice, and duo, E. two. See Two, and cf. Bi-, Di-, Dia-. Dis-denotes separation, a parting from, as in distribute, disconnect; hence it often has the force of a privative and negative, as in disarm, disoblige, disagree. Also intensive, as in dissever.,
D as in Dis- () A prefix from Gr. di`s- twice. See Di-.,
D as in Dis (n.) The god Pluto.,
D as in Disabilities (pl. ) of Disability,
D as in Disability (n.) State of being disabled; deprivation or want of ability; absence of competent physical, intellectual, or moral power, means, fitness, and the like.,
D as in Disability (n.) Want of legal qualification to do a thing; legal incapacity or incompetency.,
D as in Disable (a.) Lacking ability; unable.,
D as in Disabled (imp. & p. p.) of Disable,
D as in Disabling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disable,
D as in Disable (v. t.) To render unable or incapable; to destroy the force, vigor, or power of action of; to deprive of competent physical or intellectual power; to incapacitate; to disqualify; to make incompetent or unfit for service; to impair.,
D as in Disable (v. t.) To deprive of legal right or qualification; to render legally incapable.,
D as in Disable (v. t.) To deprive of that which gives value or estimation; to declare lacking in competency; to disparage; to undervalue.,
D as in Disablement (n.) Deprivation of ability; incapacity.,
D as in Disabused (imp. & p. p.) of Disabuse,
D as in Disabusing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disabuse,
D as in Disabuse (v. t.) To set free from mistakes; to undeceive; to disengage from fallacy or deception; to set right.,
D as in Disaccommodate (v. t.) To put to inconvenience; to incommode.,
D as in Disaccommodation (n.) A state of being unaccommodated or unsuited.,
D as in Disaccord (v. i.) To refuse to assent.,
D as in Disaccord (n.) Disagreement.,
D as in Disaccordant (a.) Not accordant.,
D as in Disaccustom (v. t.) To destroy the force of habit in; to wean from a custom.,
D as in Disacidify (v. t.) To free from acid.,
D as in Disacknowledged (imp. & p. p.) of Disacknowledge,
D as in Disacknowledging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disacknowledge,
D as in Disacknowledge (v. t.) To refuse to acknowledge; to deny; to disown.,
D as in Disacquaint (v. t.) To render unacquainted; to make unfamiliar.,
D as in Disacquaintance (n.) Neglect of disuse of familiarity, or familiar acquaintance.,
D as in Disacryl (n.) A white amorphous substance obtained as a polymeric modification of acrolein.,
D as in Disadorn (v. t.) To deprive of ornaments.,
D as in Disadvance (v. t. & i.) To draw back, or cause to draw back.,
D as in Disadvantage (n.) Deprivation of advantage; unfavorable or prejudicial quality, condition, circumstance, or the like; that which hinders success, or causes loss or injury.,
D as in Disadvantage (n.) Loss; detriment; hindrance; prejudice to interest, fame, credit, profit, or other good.,
D as in Disadvantage (v. t.) To injure the interest of; to be detrimental to.,
D as in Disadvantageable (a.) Injurious; disadvantageous.,
D as in Disadvantageous (a.) Attended with disadvantage; unfavorable to success or prosperity; inconvenient; prejudicial; -- opposed to advantageous; as, the situation of an army is disadvantageous for attack or defense.,
D as in Disadventure (n.) Misfortune; mishap.,
D as in Disadventurous (a.) Unprosperous; unfortunate.,
D as in Disadvise (v. t.) To advise against; to dissuade from.,
D as in Disaffected (imp. & p. p.) of Disaffect,
D as in Disaffecting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disaffect,
D as in Disaffect (v. t.) To alienate or diminish the affection of; to make unfriendly or less friendly; to fill with discontent and unfriendliness.,
D as in Disaffect (v. t.) To disturb the functions of; to disorder.,
D as in Disaffect (v. t.) To lack affection for; to be alienated from, or indisposed toward; to dislike.,
D as in Disaffected (a.) Alienated in feeling; not wholly loyal.,
D as in Disaffection (n.) State of being disaffected; alienation or want of affection or good will, esp. toward those in authority; unfriendliness; dislike.,
D as in Disaffection (n.) Disorder; bad constitution.,
D as in Disaffectionate (a.) Not disposed to affection; unfriendly; disaffected.,
D as in Disaffirm (v. t.) To assert the contrary of; to contradict; to deny; -- said of that which has been asserted.,
D as in Disaffirm (v. t.) To refuse to confirm; to annul, as a judicial decision, by a contrary judgment of a superior tribunal.,
D as in Disaffirmance (n.) The act of disaffirming; denial; negation.,
D as in Disaffirmance (n.) Overthrow or annulment by the decision of a superior tribunal; as, disaffirmance of judgment.,
D as in Disaffirmation (n.) The act of disaffirming; negation; refutation.,
D as in Disafforested (imp. & p. p.) of Disafforest,
D as in Disafforesting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disafforest,
D as in Disafforest (v. t.) To reduce from the privileges of a forest to the state of common ground; to exempt from forest laws.,
D as in Disaggregate (v. t.) To destroy the aggregation of; to separate into component parts, as an aggregate mass.,
D as in Disaggregation (n.) The separation of an aggregate body into its component parts.,
D as in Disagreed (imp. & p. p.) of Disagree,
D as in Disageeing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disagree,
D as in Disagree (v. i.) To fail to accord; not to agree; to lack harmony; to differ; to be unlike; to be at variance.,
D as in Disagree (v. i.) To differ in opinion; to hold discordant views; to be at controversy; to quarrel.,
D as in Disagree (v. i.) To be unsuited; to have unfitness; as, medicine sometimes disagrees with the patient; food often disagrees with the stomach or the taste.,
D as in Disagreeable (a.) Not agreeable, conformable, or congruous; contrary; unsuitable.,
D as in Disagreeable (a.) Exciting repugnance; offensive to the feelings or senses; displeasing; unpleasant.,
D as in Disagreeableness (n.) The state or quality of being; disagreeable; unpleasantness.,
D as in Disagreeably (adv.) In a disagreeable manner; unsuitably; offensively.,
D as in Disagreeance (n.) Disagreement.,
D as in Disagreement (n.) The state of disagreeing; a being at variance; dissimilitude; diversity.,
D as in Disagreement (n.) Unsuitableness; unadaptedness.,
D as in Disagreement (n.) Difference of opinion or sentiment.,
D as in Disagreement (n.) A falling out, or controversy; difference.,
D as in Disagreer (n.) One who disagrees.,
D as in Disalliege (v. t.) To alienate from allegiance.,
D as in Disallowed (imp. & p. p.) of Disallow,
D as in Disallowing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disallow,
D as in Disallow (v. t.) To refuse to allow; to deny the force or validity of; to disown and reject; as, the judge disallowed the executor's charge.,
D as in Disallowable (a.) Not allowable; not to be suffered.,
D as in Disallowance (n.) The act of disallowing; refusal to admit or permit; rejection.,
D as in Disally (v. t.) To part, as an alliance; to sunder.,
D as in Disanchor (v. t. & i.) To raise the anchor of, as a ship; to weigh anchor.,
D as in Disangelical (a.) Not angelical.,
D as in Disanimated (imp. & p. p.) of Disanimate,
D as in Disanimating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disanimate,
D as in Disanimate (v. t.) To deprive of life.,
D as in Disanimate (v. t.) To deprive of spirit; to dishearten.,
D as in Disanimation (n.) Privation of life.,
D as in Disanimation (n.) The state of being disanimated or discouraged; depression of spirits.,
D as in Disannex (v. t.) To disunite; to undo or repeal the annexation of.,
D as in Disannul (v. t.) To annul completely; to render void or of no effect.,
D as in Disannuller (n.) One who disannuls.,
D as in Disannulment (n.) Complete annulment.,
D as in Disanoint (v. t.) To invalidate the consecration of; as, to disanoint a king.,
D as in Disapparel (v. t.) To disrobe; to strip of apparel; to make naked.,
D as in Disappeared (imp. & p. p.) of Disappear,
D as in Disappearing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disappear,
D as in Disappear (v. i.) To cease to appear or to be perceived; to pass from view, gradually or suddenly; to vanish; to be no longer seen; as, darkness disappears at the approach of light; a ship disappears as she sails from port.,
D as in Disappear (v. i.) To cease to be or exist; as, the epidemic has disappeared.,
D as in Disappearance (n.) The act of disappearing; cessation of appearance; removal from sight; vanishing.,
D as in Disappendency (n.) A detachment or separation from a former connection.,
D as in Disappendent (a.) Freed from a former connection or dependence; disconnected.,
D as in Disapointed (imp. & p. p.) of Disappoint,
D as in Disappointing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disappoint,
D as in Disappoint (v. t.) To defeat of expectation or hope; to hinder from the attainment of that which was expected, hoped, or desired; to balk; as, a man is disappointed of his hopes or expectations, or his hopes, desires, intentions, expectations, or plans are disappointed; a bad season disappoints the farmer of his crops; a defeat disappoints an enemy of his spoil.,
D as in Disappoint (v. t.) To frustrate; to fail; to hinder of result.,
D as in Disappointed (a.) Defeated of expectation or hope; balked; as, a disappointed person or hope.,
D as in Disappointed (a.) Unprepared; unequipped.,
D as in Disappointment (n.) The act of disappointing, or the state of being disappointed; defeat or failure of expectation or hope; miscarriage of design or plan; frustration.,
D as in Disappointment (n.) That which disappoints.,
D as in Disappreciate (v. t.) To undervalue; not to esteem.,
D as in Disapprobation (n.) The act of disapproving; mental condemnation of what is judged wrong, unsuitable, or inexpedient; feeling of censure.,
D as in Disapprobatory (a.) Containing disapprobation; serving to disapprove.,
D as in Disappropriate (a.) Severed from the appropriation or possession of a spiritual corporation.,
D as in Disappropriate (v. t.) To release from individual ownership or possession.,
D as in Disappropriate (v. t.) To sever from appropriation or possession a spiritual corporation.,
D as in Disappropriation (n.) The act of disappropriating.,
D as in Disapproval (n.) Disapprobation; dislike; censure; adverse judgment.,
D as in Disapproved (imp. & p. p.) of Disapprove,
D as in Disapproving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disapprove,
D as in Disapprove (v. t.) To pass unfavorable judgment upon; to condemn by an act of the judgment; to regard as wrong, unsuitable, or inexpedient; to censure; as, to disapprove the conduct of others.,
D as in Disapprove (v. t.) To refuse official approbation to; to disallow; to decline to sanction; as, the sentence of the court-martial was disapproved by the commander in chief.,
D as in Disapprover (n.) One who disapproves.,
D as in Disapprovingly (adv.) In a disapproving manner.,
D as in Disard (n.) See Dizzard.,
D as in Disarming (imp. & p. p.) of Disarm,
D as in Disarming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disarm,
D as in Disarm (v. t.) To deprive of arms; to take away the weapons of; to deprive of the means of attack or defense; to render defenseless.,
D as in Disarm (v. t.) To deprive of the means or the disposition to harm; to render harmless or innocuous; as, to disarm a man's wrath.,
D as in Disarmament (n.) The act of disarming.,
D as in Disarmature (n.) The act of divesting of armature.,
D as in Disarmed (a.) Deprived of arms.,
D as in Disarmed (a.) Deprived of claws, and teeth or beaks.,
D as in Disarmer (n.) One who disarms.,
D as in Disarranged (imp. & p. p.) of Disarrange,
D as in Disarranging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disarrange,
D as in Disarrange (v. t.) To unsettle or disturb the order or due arrangement of; to throw out of order.,
D as in Disarrangement (n.) The act of disarranging, or the state of being disarranged; confusion; disorder.,
D as in Disarrayed (imp. & p. p.) of Disarray,
D as in Disarraying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disarray,
D as in Disarray (v. t.) To throw into disorder; to break the array of.,
D as in Disarray (v. t.) To take off the dress of; to unrobe.,
D as in Disarray (n.) Want of array or regular order; disorder; confusion.,
D as in Disarray (n.) Confused attire; undress.,
D as in Disarrayment (n.) Disorder.,
D as in Disarticulate (v. t.) To sunder; to separate, as joints.,
D as in Disarticulator (n.) One who disarticulates and prepares skeletons.,
D as in Disassent (v. i.) To dissent.,
D as in Disassent (n.) Dissent.,
D as in Disassenter (n.) One who disassents; a dissenter.,
D as in Disassiduity (n.) Want of assiduity or care.,
D as in Disassimilate (v. t.) To subject to disassimilation.,
D as in Disassimilation (n.) The decomposition of complex substances, within the organism, into simpler ones suitable only for excretion, with evolution of energy, -- a normal nutritional process the reverse of assimilation; downward metabolism.,
D as in Disassimilative (a.) Having power to disassimilate; of the nature of disassimilation.,
D as in Disassociated (imp. & p. p.) of Disassociate,
D as in Disassociating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disassociate,
D as in Disassociate (v. t.) To disconnect from things associated; to disunite; to dissociate.,
D as in Disaster (n.) An unpropitious or baleful aspect of a planet or star; malevolent influence of a heavenly body; hence, an ill portent.,
D as in Disaster (n.) An adverse or unfortunate event, esp. a sudden and extraordinary misfortune; a calamity; a serious mishap.,
D as in Disaster (v. t.) To blast by the influence of a baleful star.,
D as in Disaster (v. t.) To bring harm upon; to injure.,
D as in Disasterly (adv.) Disastrously.,
D as in Disastrous (a.) Full of unpropitious stellar influences; unpropitious; ill-boding.,
D as in Disastrous (a.) Attended with suffering or disaster; very unfortunate; calamitous; ill-fated; as, a disastrous day; a disastrous termination of an undertaking.,
D as in Disattire (v. t.) To unrobe; to undress.,
D as in Disaugment (v. t.) To diminish.,
D as in Disauthorize (v. t.) To deprive of credit or authority; to discredit.,
D as in Disavaunce (v. t.) To retard; to repel; to do damage to.,
D as in Disaventure (n.) Misfortune.,
D as in Disaventurous (a.) Misadventurous; unfortunate.,
D as in Disavouch (v. t.) To disavow.,
D as in Disavowed (imp. & p. p.) of Disavow,
D as in Disavowing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disavow,
D as in Disavow (v. t.) To refuse strongly and solemnly to own or acknowledge; to deny responsibility for, approbation of, and the like; to disclaim; to disown; as, he was charged with embezzlement, but he disavows the crime.,
D as in Disavow (v. t.) To deny; to show the contrary of; to disprove.,
D as in Disavowal (n.) The act of disavowing, disclaiming, or disowning; rejection and denial.,
D as in Disavowance (n.) Disavowal.,
D as in Disavower (n.) One who disavows.,
D as in Disavowment (n.) Disavowal.,
D as in Disbanded (imp. & p. p.) of Disband,
D as in Disbanding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disband,
D as in Disband (v. t.) To loose the bands of; to set free; to disunite; to scatter; to disperse; to break up the organization of; especially, to dismiss from military service; as, to disband an army.,
D as in Disband (v. t.) To divorce.,
D as in Disband (v. i.) To become separated, broken up, dissolved, or scattered; especially, to quit military service by breaking up organization.,
D as in Disbandment (n.) The act of disbanding.,
D as in Disbarred (imp. & p. p.) of Disbar,
D as in Disbarring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disbar,
D as in Disbar (v. t.) To expel from the bar, or the legal profession; to deprive (an attorney, barrister, or counselor) of his status and privileges as such.,
D as in Disbark (v. t.) To disembark.,
D as in Disbark (v. t.) To strip of bark; to bark.,
D as in Disbarment (n.) Act of disbarring.,
D as in Disbase (v. t.) To debase or degrade.,
D as in Disbecome (v. t.) To misbecome.,
D as in Disbelief (n.) The act of disbelieving;; a state of the mind in which one is fully persuaded that an opinion, assertion, or doctrine is not true; refusal of assent, credit, or credence; denial of belief.,
D as in Disbelieved (imp. & p. p.) of Disbelieve,
D as in Disbelieving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disbelieve,
D as in Disbelieve (v. t.) Not to believe; to refuse belief or credence to; to hold not to be true or actual.,
D as in Disbeliever (n.) One who disbelieves, or refuses belief; an unbeliever. Specifically, one who does not believe the Christian religion.,
D as in Disbench (v. t.) To drive from a bench or seat.,
D as in Disbench (v. t.) To deprive (a bencher) of his privileges.,
D as in Disbend (v. t.) To unbend.,
D as in Disbind (v. t.) To unbind; to loosen.,
D as in Disblame (v. t.) To clear from blame.,
D as in Disbodied (a.) Disembodied.,
D as in Disboscation (n.) Converting forest land into cleared or arable land; removal of a forest.,
D as in Disbowel (v. t.) To disembowel.,
D as in Disbranch (v.) To divest of a branch or branches; to tear off.,
D as in Disbud (v.) To deprive of buds or shoots, as for training, or economizing the vital strength of a tree.,
D as in Disburden (v. t.) To rid of a burden; to free from a load borne or from something oppressive; to unload; to disencumber; to relieve.,
D as in Disburden (v. i.) To relieve one's self of a burden; to ease the mind.,
D as in Disburgeon (v. t.) To strip of burgeons or buds; to disbud.,
D as in Disbursed (imp. & p. p.) of Disburse,
D as in Disbursing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disburse,
D as in Disburse (v. t.) To pay out; to expend; -- usually from a public fund or treasury.,
D as in Disbursement (n.) The act of disbursing or paying out.,
D as in Disbursement (n.) That which is disbursed or paid out; as, the annual disbursements exceed the income.,
D as in Disburser (n.) One who disburses money.,
D as in Disburthened (imp. & p. p.) of Disburthen,
D as in Disburthening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disburthen,
D as in Disburthen (v. t.) To disburden; to relieve of a load.,
D as in Disc (n.) A flat round plate,
D as in Disc (n.) A circular structure either in plants or animals; as, a blood disc, a germinal disc, etc. Same as Disk.,
D as in Discage (v. t.) To uncage.,
D as in Discal (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, a disk; as, discal cells.,
D as in Discalceate (v. t.) To pull off shoes or sandals from.,
D as in Discalceated (a.) Deprived off shoes or sandals; unshod; discalced.,
D as in Discalced (a.) Unshod; barefooted; -- in distinction from calced.,
D as in Discalceation (n.) The act of pulling off the shoes or sandals.,
D as in Discamp (v. t.) To drive from a camp.,
D as in Discandy (v. i.) To melt; to dissolve; to thaw.,
D as in Discant (n.) See Descant, n.,
D as in Discapacitate (v. t.) To deprive of capacity; to incapacitate.,
D as in Discarded (imp. & p. p.) of Discard,
D as in Discarding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Discard,
D as in Discard (v. t.) To throw out of one's hand, as superfluous cards; to lay aside (a card or cards).,
D as in Discard (v. t.) To cast off as useless or as no longer of service; to dismiss from employment, confidence, or favor; to discharge; to turn away.,
D as in Discard (v. t.) To put or thrust away; to reject.,
D as in Discard (v. i.) To make a discard.,
D as in Discard (n.) The act of discarding; also, the card or cards discarded.,
D as in Discardure (n.) Rejection; dismissal.,
D as in Discarnate (a.) Stripped of flesh.,
D as in Discase (v. t.) To strip; to undress.,
D as in Discede (v. i.) To yield or give up; to depart.,
D as in Discept (v. i.) To debate; to discuss.,
D as in Disceptation (n.) Controversy; disputation; discussion.,
D as in Disceptator (n.) One who arbitrates or decides.,
D as in Discerned (imp. & p. p.) of Discern,
D as in Discerning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Discern,
D as in Discern (v. t.) To see and identify by noting a difference or differences; to note the distinctive character of; to discriminate; to distinguish.,
D as in Discern (v. t.) To see by the eye or by the understanding; to perceive and recognize; as, to discern a difference.,
D as in Discern (v. i.) To see or understand the difference; to make distinction; as, to discern between good and evil, truth and falsehood.,
D as in Discern (v. i.) To make cognizance.,
D as in Discernance (n.) Discernment.,
D as in Discerner (n.) One who, or that which, discerns, distinguishes, perceives, or judges; as, a discerner of truth, of right and wrong.,
D as in Discernible (a.) Capable of being discerned by the eye or the understanding; as, a star is discernible by the eye; the identity of difference of ideas is discernible by the understanding.,
D as in Discernibleness (n.) The quality of being discernible.,
D as in Discernibly (adv.) In a manner to be discerned; perceptibly; visibly.,
D as in Discerning (a.) Acute; shrewd; sagacious; sharp-sighted.,
D as in Discerningly (adv.) In a discerning manner; with judgment; judiciously; acutely.,
D as in Discernment (n.) The act of discerning.,
D as in Discernment (n.) The power or faculty of the mind by which it distinguishes one thing from another; power of viewing differences in objects, and their relations and tendencies; penetrative and discriminate mental vision; acuteness; sagacity; insight; as, the errors of youth often proceed from the want of discernment.,
D as in Discerp (v. t.) To tear in pieces; to rend.,
D as in Discerp (v. t.) To separate; to disunite.,
D as in Discerpibility (n.) Alt. of Discerptibility,
D as in Discerptibility (n.) Capability or liableness to be discerped.,
D as in Discerpible (a.) Alt. of Discerptible,
D as in Discerptible (a.) Capable of being discerped.,
D as in Discerption (n.) The act of pulling to pieces, or of separating the parts.,
D as in Discerptive (a.) Tending to separate or disunite parts.,
D as in Discession (n.) Departure.,
D as in Discharged (imp. & p. p.) of Discharge,
D as in Discharging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Discharge,
D as in Discharge (v. t.) To relieve of a charge, load, or burden; to empty of a load or cargo; to unburden; to unload; as, to discharge a vessel.,
D as in Discharge (v. t.) To free of the missile with which anything is charged or loaded; to let go the charge of; as, to discharge a bow, catapult, etc.; especially, said of firearms, -- to fire off; to shoot off; also, to relieve from a state of tension, as a Leyden jar.,
D as in Discharge (v. t.) To of something weighing upon or impeding over one, as a debt, claim, obligation, responsibility, accusation, etc.; to absolve; to acquit; to clear.,
D as in Discharge (v. t.) To relieve of an office or employment; to send away from service; to dismiss.,
D as in Discharge (v. t.) To release legally from confinement; to set at liberty; as, to discharge a prisoner.,
D as in Discharge (v. t.) To put forth, or remove, as a charge or burden; to take out, as that with which anything is loaded or filled; as, to discharge a cargo.,
D as in Discharge (v. t.) To let fly, as a missile; to shoot.,
D as in Discharge (v. t.) To set aside; to annul; to dismiss.,
D as in Discharge (v. t.) To throw off the obligation of, as a duty or debt; to relieve one's self of, by fulfilling conditions, performing duty, trust, and the like; hence, to perform or execute, as an office, or part.,
D as in Discharge (v. t.) To send away (a creditor) satisfied by payment; to pay one's debt or obligation to.,
D as in Discharge (v. t.) To give forth; to emit or send out; as, a pipe discharges water; to let fly; to give expression to; to utter; as, to discharge a horrible oath.,
D as in Discharge (v. t.) To prohibit; to forbid.,
D as in Discharge (v. i.) To throw off or deliver a load, charge, or burden; to unload; to emit or give vent to fluid or other contents; as, the water pipe discharges freely.,
D as in Discharge (v. t.) The act of discharging; the act of relieving of a charge or load; removal of a load or burden; unloading; as, the discharge of a ship; discharge of a cargo.,
D as in Discharge (v. t.) Firing off; explosive removal of a charge; explosion; letting off; as, a discharge of arrows, of artillery.,
D as in Discharge (v. t.) Act of relieving of something which oppresses or weighs upon one, as an obligation, liability, debt, accusation, etc.; acquittance; as, the discharge of a debtor.,
D as in Discharge (v. t.) Act of removing, or getting rid of, an obligation, liability, etc.; fulfillment, as by the payment of a debt, or the performance of a trust or duty.,
D as in Discharge (v. t.) Release or dismissal from an office, employment, etc.; dismission; as, the discharge of a workman by his employer.,
D as in Discharge (v. t.) Legal release from confinement; liberation; as, the discharge of a prisoner.,
D as in Discharge (v. t.) The state of being discharged or relieved of a debt, obligation, office, and the like; acquittal.,
D as in Discharge (v. t.) That which discharges or releases from an obligation, liability, penalty, etc., as a price of ransom, a legal document.,
D as in Discharge (v. t.) A flowing or issuing out; emission; vent; evacuation; also, that which is discharged or emitted; as, a rapid discharge of water from the pipe.,
D as in Discharger (n.) One who, or that which, discharges. Specifically, in electricity, an instrument for discharging a Leyden jar, or electrical battery, by making a connection between the two surfaces; a discharging rod.,
D as in Dischevele (a.) Disheveled.,
D as in Dischurch (v. t.) To deprive of status as a church, or of membership in a church.,
D as in Discide (v. t.) To divide; to cleave in two.,
D as in Disciferous (a.) Bearing disks.,
D as in Discifloral (a.) Alt. of Disciflorous,
D as in Disciflorous (a.) Bearing the stamens on a discoid outgrowth of the receptacle; -- said of a subclass of plants. Cf. Calycifloral.,
D as in Disciform (a.) Discoid.,
D as in Discina (n.) A genus of Branchiopoda, having a disklike shell, attached by one valve, which is perforated by the peduncle.,
D as in Discinct (a.) Ungirded; loosely dressed.,
D as in Discind (v. t.) To part; to divide.,
D as in Disciple (n.) One who receives instruction from another; a scholar; a learner; especially, a follower who has learned to believe in the truth of the doctrine of his teacher; an adherent in doctrine; as, the disciples of Plato; the disciples of our Savior.,
D as in Discipled (imp. & p. p.) of Disciple,
D as in Discipling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disciple,
D as in Disciple (v. t.) To teach; to train.,
D as in Disciple (v. t.) To punish; to discipline.,
D as in Disciple (v. t.) To make disciples of; to convert to doctrines or principles.,
D as in Discipleship (n.) The state of being a disciple or follower in doctrines and precepts.,
D as in Discipless (n.) A female disciple.,
D as in Disciplinable (a.) Capable of being disciplined or improved by instruction and training.,
D as in Disciplinable (a.) Liable or deserving to be disciplined; subject to disciplinary punishment; as, a disciplinable offense.,
D as in Disciplinableness (n.) The quality of being improvable by discipline.,
D as in Disciplinal (a.) Relating to discipline.,
D as in Disciplinant (n.) A flagellant. See Flagellant.,
D as in Disciplinarian (a.) Pertaining to discipline.,
D as in Disciplinarian (n.) One who disciplines; one who excels in training, especially with training, especially with regard to order and obedience; one who enforces rigid discipline; a stickler for the observance of rules and methods of training; as, he is a better disciplinarian than scholar.,
D as in Disciplinarian (n.) A Puritan or Presbyterian; -- because of rigid adherence to religious or church discipline.,
D as in Disciplinary (a.) Pertaining to discipline; intended for discipline; corrective; belonging to a course of training.,
D as in Discipline (n.) The treatment suited to a disciple or learner; education; development of the faculties by instruction and exercise; training, whether physical, mental, or moral.,
D as in Discipline (n.) Training to act in accordance with established rules; accustoming to systematic and regular action; drill.,
D as in Discipline (n.) Subjection to rule; submissiveness to order and control; habit of obedience.,
D as in Discipline (n.) Severe training, corrective of faults; instruction by means of misfortune, suffering, punishment, etc.,
D as in Discipline (n.) Correction; chastisement; punishment inflicted by way of correction and training.,
D as in Discipline (n.) The subject matter of instruction; a branch of knowledge.,
D as in Discipline (n.) The enforcement of methods of correction against one guilty of ecclesiastical offenses; reformatory or penal action toward a church member.,
D as in Discipline (n.) Self-inflicted and voluntary corporal punishment, as penance, or otherwise; specifically, a penitential scourge.,
D as in Discipline (n.) A system of essential rules and duties; as, the Romish or Anglican discipline.,
D as in Disciplined (imp. & p. p.) of Discipline,
D as in Disciplining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Discipline,
D as in Discipline (v. t.) To educate; to develop by instruction and exercise; to train.,
D as in Discipline (v. t.) To accustom to regular and systematic action; to bring under control so as to act systematically; to train to act together under orders; to teach subordination to; to form a habit of obedience in; to drill.,
D as in Discipline (v. t.) To improve by corrective and penal methods; to chastise; to correct.,
D as in Discipline (v. t.) To inflict ecclesiastical censures and penalties upon.,
D as in Discipliner (n.) One who disciplines.,
D as in Disclaimed (imp. & p. p.) of Disclaim,
D as in Disclaiming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disclaim,
D as in Disclaim (v. t.) To renounce all claim to deny; ownership of, or responsibility for; to disown; to disavow; to reject.,
D as in Disclaim (v. t.) To deny, as a claim; to refuse.,
D as in Disclaim (v. t.) To relinquish or deny having a claim; to disavow another's claim; to decline accepting, as an estate, interest, or office.,
D as in Disclaim (v. t.) To disavow or renounce all part, claim, or share.,
D as in Disclaimer (n.) One who disclaims, disowns, or renounces.,
D as in Disclaimer (n.) A denial, disavowal, or renunciation, as of a title, claim, interest, estate, or trust; relinquishment or waiver of an interest or estate.,
D as in Disclaimer (n.) A public disavowal, as of pretensions, claims, opinions, and the like.,
D as in Disclamation (n.) A disavowing or disowning.,
D as in Disclame (v. t.) To disclaim; to expel.,
D as in Disclaunder (v. t.) To injure one's good name; to slander.,
D as in Discloak (v. t.) To take off a cloak from; to uncloak.,
D as in Disclosed (imp. & p. p.) of Disclose,
D as in Disclosing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disclose,
D as in Disclose (v. t.) To unclose; to open; -- applied esp. to eggs in the sense of to hatch.,
D as in Disclose (v. t.) To remove a cover or envelope from;; to set free from inclosure; to uncover.,
D as in Disclose (v. t.) To lay open or expose to view; to cause to appear; to bring to light; to reveal.,
D as in Disclose (v. t.) To make known, as that which has been kept secret or hidden; to reveal; to expose; as, events have disclosed his designs.,
D as in Disclose (n.) Disclosure.,
D as in Disclosed (p. a.) Represented with wings expanded; -- applied to doves and other birds not of prey.,
D as in Discloser (n.) One who discloses.,
D as in Disclosure (v. t.) The act of disclosing, uncovering, or revealing; bringing to light; exposure.,
D as in Disclosure (v. t.) That which is disclosed or revealed.,
D as in Discloud (v. t.) To clear from clouds.,
D as in Disclout (v. t.) To divest of a clout.,
D as in Disclusion (n.) A shutting off; exclusion.,
D as in Discoast (v. i.) To depart; to quit the coast (that is, the side or border) of anything; to be separated.,
D as in Discoblastic (a.) Applied to a form of egg cleavage seen in osseous fishes, which occurs only in a small disk that separates from the rest of the egg.,
D as in Discoboli (pl. ) of Discobolus,
D as in Discobolus (n.) A thrower of the discus.,
D as in Discobolus (n.) A statue of an athlete holding the discus, or about to throw it.,
D as in Discodactyl (n.) One of the tree frogs.,
D as in Discodactylia (n. pl.) A division of amphibians having suctorial disks on the toes, as the tree frogs.,
D as in Discodactylous (a.) Having sucking disks on the toes, as the tree frogs.,
D as in Discoherent (a.) Incoherent.,
D as in Discoid (a.) Having the form of a disk, as those univalve shells which have the whorls in one plane, so as to form a disk, as the pearly nautilus.,
D as in Discoid (n.) Anything having the form of a discus or disk; particularly, a discoid shell.,
D as in Discoidal (a.) Disk-shaped; discoid.,
D as in Discolith (n.) One of a species of coccoliths, having an oval discoidal body, with a thick strongly refracting rim, and a thinner central portion. One of them measures about / of an inch in its longest diameter.,
D as in Discolored (imp. & p. p.) of Discolor,
D as in Discoloring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Discolor,
D as in Discolor (v. t.) To alter the natural hue or color of; to change to a different color; to stain; to tinge; as, a drop of wine will discolor water; silver is discolored by sea water.,
D as in Discolor (v. t.) To alter the true complexion or appearance of; to put a false hue upon.,
D as in Discolorate (v. t.) To discolor.,
D as in Discoloration (n.) The act of discoloring, or the state of being discolored; alteration of hue or appearance.,
D as in Discoloration (n.) A discolored spot; a stain.,
D as in Discolored (a.) Altered in color; /tained.,
D as in Discolored (a.) Variegated; of divers colors.,
D as in Discomfited (imp. & p. p.) of Discomfit,
D as in Discomfiting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Discomfit,
D as in Discomfit (v. t.) To scatter in fight; to put to rout; to defeat.,
D as in Discomfit (v. t.) To break up and frustrate the plans of; to balk/ to throw into perplexity and dejection; to disconcert.,
D as in Discomfit (a.) Discomfited; overthrown.,
D as in Discomfit (n.) Rout; overthrow; discomfiture.,
D as in Discomfiture (v. t.) The act of discomfiting, or the state of being discomfited; rout; overthrow; defeat; frustration; confusion and dejection.,
D as in Discomforted (imp. & p. p.) of Discomfort,
D as in Discomforting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Discomfort,
D as in Discomfort (v. t.) To discourage; to deject.,
D as in Discomfort (v. t.) To destroy or disturb the comfort of; to deprive o/ quiet enjoyment; to make uneasy; to pain; as, a smoky chimney discomforts a family.,
D as in Discomfort (v. t.) Discouragement.,
D as in Discomfort (v. t.) Want of comfort; uneasiness, mental or physical; disturbance of peace; inquietude; pain; distress; sorrow.,
D as in Discomfortable (a.) Causing discomfort; occasioning uneasiness; making sad.,
D as in Discomfortable (a.) Destitute of comfort; uncomfortable.,
D as in Discommend (v. t.) To mention with disapprobation; to blame; to disapprove.,
D as in Discommend (v. t.) To expose to censure or ill favor; to put out of the good graces of any one.,
D as in Discommendable (a.) Deserving, disapprobation or blame.,
D as in Discommendation (n.) Blame; censure; reproach.,
D as in Discommender (n.) One who discommends; a dispraiser.,
D as in Discommission (v. t.) To deprive of a commission or trust.,
D as in Discommodate (v. t.) To discommode.,
D as in Discommoded (imp. & p. p.) of Discommode,
D as in Discommoding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Discommode,
D as in Discommode (v. t.) To put inconvenience; to incommode; to trouble.,
D as in Discommodious (a.) Inconvenient; troublesome; incommodious.,
D as in Discommodity (n.) Disadvantage; inconvenience.,
D as in Discommon (v. t.) To deprive of the right of common.,
D as in Discommon (v. t.) To deprive of privileges.,
D as in Discommon (v. t.) To deprive of commonable quality, as lands, by inclosing or appropriating.,
D as in Discommunity (n.) A lack of common possessions, properties, or relationship.,
D as in Discompany (v. t.) To free from company; to dissociate.,
D as in Discomplexion (v. t.) To change the complexion or hue of.,
D as in Discompliance (n.) Failure or refusal to comply; noncompliance.,
D as in Discomposed (imp. & p. p.) of Discompose,
D as in Discomposing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Discompose,
D as in Discompose (v. t.) To disarrange; to interfere with; to disturb; to disorder; to unsettle; to break up.,
D as in Discompose (v. t.) To throw into disorder; to ruffle; to destroy the composure or equanimity; to agitate.,
D as in Discompose (v. t.) To put out of place or service; to discharge; to displace.,
D as in Discomposed (a.) Disordered; disturbed; disquieted.,
D as in Discomposition (n.) Inconsistency; discordance.,
D as in Discomposure (n.) The state of being discomposed; disturbance; disorder; agitation; perturbation.,
D as in Discomposure (n.) Discordance; disagreement of parts.,
D as in Discompt (v. t.) To discount. See Discount.,
D as in Disconcerted (imp. & p. p.) of Disconcert,
D as in Disconcerting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disconcert,
D as in Disconcert (v. t.) To break up the harmonious progress of; to throw into disorder or confusion; as, the emperor disconcerted the plans of his enemy.,
D as in Disconcert (v. t.) To confuse the faculties of; to disturb the composure of; to discompose; to abash.,
D as in Disconcert (n.) Want of concert; disagreement.,
D as in Disconcertion (n.) The act of disconcerting, or state of being disconcerted; discomposure; perturbation.,
D as in Disconducive (a.) Not conductive; impeding; disadvantageous.,
D as in Disconformable (a.) Not conformable.,
D as in Disconformity (n.) Want of conformity or correspondence; inconsistency; disagreement.,
D as in Discongruity (n.) Incongruity; disagreement; unsuitableness.,
D as in Disconnected (imp. & p. p.) of Disconnect,
D as in Disconnecting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disconnect,
D as in Disconnect (v. t.) To dissolve the union or connection of; to disunite; to sever; to separate; to disperse.,
D as in Disconnection (n.) The act of disconnecting, or state of being disconnected; separation; want of union.,
D as in Disconsecrate (v. t.) To deprive of consecration or sacredness.,
D as in Discosent (v. i.) To differ; to disagree; to dissent.,
D as in Disconsolacy (n.) The state of being disconsolate.,
D as in Disconsolate (n.) Disconsolateness.,
D as in Disconsolate (v. t.) Destitute of consolation; deeply dejected and dispirited; hopelessly sad; comfortless; filled with grief; as, a bereaved and disconsolate parent.,
D as in Disconsolate (v. t.) Inspiring dejection; saddening; cheerless; as, the disconsolate darkness of the winter nights.,
D as in Disconsolated (a.) Disconsolate.,
D as in Disconsolation (n.) Dejection; grief.,
D as in Discontent (a.) Not content; discontented; dissatisfied.,
D as in Discontented (imp. & p. p.) of Discontent,
D as in Discontenting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Discontent,
D as in Discontent (v. t.) To deprive of content; to make uneasy; to dissatisfy.,
D as in Discontent (n.) Want of content; uneasiness and inquietude of mind; dissatisfaction; disquiet.,
D as in Discontent (n.) A discontented person; a malcontent.,
D as in Discontentation (n.) Discontent.,
D as in Discontented (p. p. & a.) Dissatisfied; uneasy in mind; malcontent.,
D as in Discontentful (a.) Full of discontent.,
D as in Discontenting (a.) Discontented.,
D as in Discontenting (a.) Causing discontent; dissatisfying.,
D as in Discontentive (a.) Relating or tending to discontent.,
D as in Discontentment (n.) The state of being discontented; uneasiness; inquietude.,
D as in Discontinuable (a.) Admitting of being discontinued.,
D as in Discontinuance (n.) The act of discontinuing, or the state of being discontinued; want of continued connection or continuity; breaking off; cessation; interruption; as, a discontinuance of conversation or intercourse; discontinuance of a highway or of travel.,
D as in Discontinuance (n.) A breaking off or interruption of an estate, which happened when an alienation was made by a tenant in tail, or other tenant, seized in right of another, of a larger estate than the tenant was entitled to, whereby the party ousted or injured was driven to his real action, and could not enter. This effect of such alienation is now obviated by statute in both England and the United States.,
D as in Discontinuance (n.) The termination of an action in practice by the voluntary act of the plaintiff; an entry on the record that the plaintiff discontinues his action.,
D as in Discontinuance (n.) That technical interruption of the proceedings in pleading in an action, which follows where a defendant does not answer the whole of the plaintiff's declaration, and the plaintiff omits to take judgment for the part unanswered.,
D as in Discontinuation (n.) Breach or interruption of continuity; separation of parts in a connected series; discontinuance.,
D as in Discontinued (imp. & p. p.) of Discontinue,
D as in Discontinuing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Discontinue,
D as in Discontinue (v. t.) To interrupt the continuance of; to intermit, as a practice or habit; to put an end to; to cause to cease; to cease using, to stop; to leave off.,
D as in Discontinue (v. i.) To lose continuity or cohesion of parts; to be disrupted or broken off.,
D as in Discontinue (v. i.) To be separated or severed; to part.,
D as in Discontinuee (n.) One whose possession of an estate is broken off, or discontinued; one whose estate is subject to discontinuance.,
D as in Discontinuer (n.) One who discontinues, or breaks off or away from; an absentee.,
D as in Discontinuity (n.) Want of continuity or cohesion; disunion of parts.,
D as in Discontinuor (n.) One who deprives another of the possession of an estate by discontinuance. See Discontinuance, 2.,
D as in Discontinuous (a.) Not continuous; interrupted; broken off.,
D as in Discontinuous (a.) Exhibiting a dissolution of continuity; gaping.,
D as in Disconvenience (n.) Unsuitableness; incongruity.,
D as in Disconvenient (a.) Not convenient or congruous; unsuitable; ill-adapted.,
D as in Discophora (n. pl.) A division of acalephs or jellyfishes, including most of the large disklike species.,
D as in Discord (v. i.) Want of concord or agreement; absence of unity or harmony in sentiment or action; variance leading to contention and strife; disagreement; -- applied to persons or to things, and to thoughts, feelings, or purposes.,
D as in Discord (v. i.) Union of musical sounds which strikes the ear harshly or disagreeably, owing to the incommensurability of the vibrations which they produce; want of musical concord or harmony; a chord demanding resolution into a concord.,
D as in Discord (n.) To disagree; to be discordant; to jar; to clash; not to suit.,
D as in Discordable (a.) That may produce discord; disagreeing; discordant.,
D as in Discordance (n.) Alt. of Discordancy,
D as in Discordancy (n.) State or quality of being discordant; disagreement; inconsistency.,
D as in Discordant (n.) Disagreeing; incongruous; being at variance; clashing; opposing; not harmonious.,
D as in Discordant (n.) Dissonant; not in harmony or musical concord; harsh; jarring; as, discordant notes or sounds.,
D as in Discordant (n.) Said of strata which lack conformity in direction of bedding, either as in unconformability, or as caused by a fault.,
D as in Discordful (a.) Full of discord; contentious.,
D as in Discordous (a.) Full of discord.,
D as in Discorporate (a.) Deprived of the privileges or form of a body corporate.,
D as in Discorrespondent (a.) Incongruous.,
D as in Discost (v. i.) Same as Discoast.,
D as in Discounsel (v. t.) To dissuade.,
D as in Discounted (imp. & p. p.) of Discount,
D as in Discounting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Discount,
D as in Discount (v.) To deduct from an account, debt, charge, and the like; to make an abatement of; as, merchants sometimes discount five or six per cent for prompt payment of bills.,
D as in Discount (v.) To lend money upon, deducting the discount or allowance for interest; as, the banks discount notes and bills of exchange.,
D as in Discount (v.) To take into consideration beforehand; to anticipate and form conclusions concerning (an event).,
D as in Discount (v.) To leave out of account; to take no notice of.,
D as in Discount (v. i.) To lend, or make a practice of lending, money, abating the discount; as, the discount for sixty or ninety days.,
D as in Discount (v. t.) A counting off or deduction made from a gross sum on any account whatever; an allowance upon an account, debt, demand, price asked, and the like; something taken or deducted.,
D as in Discount (v. t.) A deduction made for interest, in advancing money upon, or purchasing, a bill or note not due; payment in advance of interest upon money.,
D as in Discount (v. t.) The rate of interest charged in discounting.,
D as in Discountable (a.) Capable of being, or suitable to be, discounted; as, certain forms are necessary to render notes discountable at a bank.,
D as in Discountenanced (imp. & p. p.) of Discountenance,
D as in Discountenancing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Discountenance,
D as in Discountenance (v. t.) To ruffle or discompose the countenance of; to put of countenance; to put to shame; to abash.,
D as in Discountenance (v. t.) To refuse to countenance, or give the support of one's approval to; to give one's influence against; to restrain by cold treatment; to discourage.,
D as in Discountenance (n.) Unfavorable aspect; unfriendly regard; cold treatment; disapprobation; whatever tends to check or discourage.,
D as in Discountenancer (n.) One who discountenances; one who disfavors.,
D as in Discounter (n.) One who discounts; a discount broker.,
D as in Discouraged (imp. & p. p.) of Discourage,
D as in Discouraging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Discourage,
D as in Discourage (v. t.) To extinguish the courage of; to dishearten; to depress the spirits of; to deprive of confidence; to deject; -- the opposite of encourage; as, he was discouraged in his undertaking; he need not be discouraged from a like attempt.,
D as in Discourage (v. t.) To dishearten one with respect to; to discountenance; to seek to check by disfavoring; to deter one from; as, they discouraged his efforts.,
D as in Discourage (n.) Lack of courage; cowardliness.,
D as in Discourageable (a.) Capable of being discouraged; easily disheartened.,
D as in Discouragement (n.) The act of discouraging, or the state of being discouraged; depression or weakening of confidence; dejection.,
D as in Discouragement (n.) That which discourages; that which deters, or tends to deter, from an undertaking, or from the prosecution of anything; a determent; as, the revolution was commenced under every possible discouragement.,
D as in Discourager (n.) One who discourages.,
D as in Discouraging (a.) Causing or indicating discouragement.,
D as in Discoure (v. t.) To discover.,
D as in Discourse (n.) The power of the mind to reason or infer by running, as it were, from one fact or reason to another, and deriving a conclusion; an exercise or act of this power; reasoning; range of reasoning faculty.,
D as in Discourse (n.) Conversation; talk.,
D as in Discourse (n.) The art and manner of speaking and conversing.,
D as in Discourse (n.) Consecutive speech, either written or unwritten, on a given line of thought; speech; treatise; dissertation; sermon, etc.; as, the preacher gave us a long discourse on duty.,
D as in Discourse (n.) Dealing; transaction.,
D as in Discoursed (imp. & p. p.) of Discourse,
D as in Discoursing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Discourse,
D as in Discourse (v. i.) To exercise reason; to employ the mind in judging and inferring; to reason.,
D as in Discourse (v. i.) To express one's self in oral discourse; to expose one's views; to talk in a continuous or formal manner; to hold forth; to speak; to converse.,
D as in Discourse (v. i.) To relate something; to tell.,
D as in Discourse (v. i.) To treat of something in writing and formally.,
D as in Discourse (v. t.) To treat of; to expose or set forth in language.,
D as in Discourse (v. t.) To utter or give forth; to speak.,
D as in Discourse (v. t.) To talk to; to confer with.,
D as in Discourser (n.) One who discourse; a narrator; a speaker; an haranguer.,
D as in Discourser (n.) The writer of a treatise or dissertation.,
D as in Discoursive (a.) Reasoning; characterized by reasoning; passing from premises to consequences; discursive.,
D as in Discoursive (a.) Containing dialogue or conversation; interlocutory.,
D as in Discoursive (a.) Inclined to converse; conversable; communicative; as, a discoursive man.,
D as in Discoursive (n.) The state or quality of being discoursive or able to reason.,
D as in Discourteous (a.) Uncivil; rude; wanting in courtesy or good manners; uncourteous.,
D as in Discourtesy (n.) Rudeness of behavior or language; ill manners; manifestation of disrespect; incivility.,
D as in Discourtship (n.) Want of courtesy.,
D as in Discous (a.) Disklike; discoid.,
D as in Discovenant (v. t.) To dissolve covenant with.,
D as in Discovered (imp. & p. p.) of Discover,
D as in Discovering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Discover,
D as in Discover (v. t.) To uncover.,
D as in Discover (v. t.) To disclose; to lay open to view; to make visible; to reveal; to make known; to show (what has been secret, unseen, or unknown).,
D as in Discover (v. t.) To obtain for the first time sight or knowledge of, as of a thing existing already, but not perceived or known; to find; to ascertain; to espy; to detect.,
D as in Discover (v. t.) To manifest without design; to show.,
D as in Discover (v. t.) To explore; to examine.,
D as in Discover (v. i.) To discover or show one's self.,
D as in Discoverability (n.) The quality of being discoverable.,
D as in Discoverable (a.) Capable of being discovered, found out, or perceived; as, many minute animals are discoverable only by the help of the microscope; truths discoverable by human industry.,
D as in Discoverer (n.) One who discovers; one who first comes to the knowledge of something; one who discovers an unknown country, or a new principle, truth, or fact.,
D as in Discoverer (n.) A scout; an explorer.,
D as in Discoverment (n.) Discovery.,
D as in Discovert (a.) Not covert; not within the bonds of matrimony; unmarried; -- applied either to a woman who has never married or to a widow.,
D as in Discovert (n.) An uncovered place or part.,
D as in Discoverture (n.) Discovery.,
D as in Discoverture (n.) A state of being released from coverture; freedom of a woman from the coverture of a husband.,
D as in Discoveries (pl. ) of Discovery,
D as in Discovery (n.) The action of discovering; exposure to view; laying open; showing; as, the discovery of a plot.,
D as in Discovery (n.) A making known; revelation; disclosure; as, a bankrupt is bound to make a full discovery of his assets.,
D as in Discovery (n.) Finding out or ascertaining something previously unknown or unrecognized; as, Harvey's discovery of the circulation of the blood.,
D as in Discovery (n.) That which is discovered; a thing found out, or for the first time ascertained or recognized; as, the properties of the magnet were an important discovery.,
D as in Discovery (n.) Exploration; examination.,
D as in Discradle (v. t.) To take from a cradle.,
D as in Discredit (n.) The act of discrediting or disbelieving, or the state of being discredited or disbelieved; as, later accounts have brought the story into discredit.,
D as in Discredit (n.) Hence, some degree of dishonor or disesteem; ill repute; reproach; -- applied to persons or things.,
D as in Discredited (imp. & p. p.) of Discredit,
D as in Discrediting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Discredit,
D as in Discredit (v. t.) To refuse credence to; not to accept as true; to disbelieve; as, the report is discredited.,
D as in Discredit (v. t.) To deprive of credibility; to destroy confidence or trust in; to cause disbelief in the accuracy or authority of.,
D as in Discredit (v. t.) To deprive of credit or good repute; to bring reproach upon; to make less reputable; to disgrace.,
D as in Discreditable (a.) Not creditable; injurious to reputation; disgraceful; disreputable.,
D as in Discreditor (n.) One who discredits.,
D as in Discreet (superl.) Possessed of discernment, especially in avoiding error or evil, and in the adaptation of means to ends; prudent; sagacious; judicious; not rash or heedless; cautious.,
D as in Discreet (superl.) Differing; distinct.,
D as in -ances (pl. ) of Discrepancy,
D as in -ancies (pl. ) of Discrepancy,
D as in Discrepance (n.) Alt. of Discrepancy,
D as in Discrepancy (n.) The state or quality of being discrepant; disagreement; variance; discordance; dissimilarity; contrariety.,
D as in Discrepant (a.) Discordant; at variance; disagreeing; contrary; different.,
D as in Discrepant (n.) A dissident.,
D as in Discrete (a.) Separate; distinct; disjunct.,
D as in Discrete (a.) Disjunctive; containing a disjunctive or discretive clause; as, "I resign my life, but not my honor," is a discrete proposition.,
D as in Discrete (a.) Separate; not coalescent; -- said of things usually coalescent.,
D as in Discrete (v. t.) To separate.,
D as in Discretely (adv.) Separately; disjunctively.,
D as in Discretion (n.) Disjunction; separation.,
D as in Discretion (n.) The quality of being discreet; wise conduct and management; cautious discernment, especially as to matters of propriety and self-control; prudence; circumspection; wariness.,
D as in Discretion (n.) Discrimination.,
D as in Discretion (n.) Freedom to act according to one's own judgment; unrestrained exercise of choice or will.,
D as in Discretional () Alt. of Discretionary,
D as in Discretionary () Left to discretion; unrestrained except by discretion or judgment; as, an ambassador with discretionary powers.,
D as in Discretionally (adv.) Alt. of Discretionarily,
D as in Discretionarily (adv.) At discretion; according to one's discretion or judgment.,
D as in Discretive (a.) Marking distinction or separation; disjunctive.,
D as in Discretively (adv.) In a discretive manner.,
D as in Discriminable (a.) Capable of being discriminated.,
D as in Discriminal (a.) In palmistry, applied to the line which marks the separation between the hand and the arm.,
D as in Discriminant (n.) The eliminant of the n partial differentials of any homogenous function of n variables. See Eliminant.,
D as in Discriminate (a.) Having the difference marked; distinguished by certain tokens.,
D as in Discriminated (imp. & p. p.) of Discriminate,
D as in Discriminating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Discriminate,
D as in Discriminate (v. t.) To set apart as being different; to mark as different; to separate from another by discerning differences; to distinguish.,
D as in Discriminate (v. i.) To make a difference or distinction; to distinguish accurately; as, in judging of evidence, we should be careful to discriminate between probability and slight presumption.,
D as in Discriminate (v. i.) To treat unequally.,
D as in Discriminate (v. i.) To impose unequal tariffs for substantially the same service.,
D as in Discriminately (adv.) In a discriminating manner; distinctly.,
D as in Discriminateness (n.) The state of being discriminated; distinctness.,
D as in Discriminating (a.) Marking a difference; distinguishing.,
D as in Discrimination (n.) The act of discriminating, distinguishing, or noting and marking differences.,
D as in Discrimination (n.) The state of being discriminated, distinguished, or set apart.,
D as in Discrimination (n.) The arbitrary imposition of unequal tariffs for substantially the same service.,
D as in Discrimination (n.) The quality of being discriminating; faculty of nicely distinguishing; acute discernment; as, to show great discrimination in the choice of means.,
D as in Discrimination (n.) That which discriminates; mark of distinction.,
D as in Discriminative (a.) Marking a difference; distinguishing; distinctive; characteristic.,
D as in Discriminative (a.) Observing distinctions; making differences; discriminating.,
D as in Discriminatively (adv.) With discrimination or distinction.,
D as in Discriminator (n.) One who discriminates.,
D as in Discriminatory (a.) Discriminative.,
D as in Discriminous (a.) Hazardous; dangerous.,
D as in Discrive (v. t.) To describe.,
D as in Discrowned (imp. & p. p.) of Discrown,
D as in Discrowning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Discrown,
D as in Discrown (v. t.) To deprive of a crown.,
D as in Discruciated (imp. & p. p.) of Discruciate,
D as in Discruciating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Discruciate,
D as in Discruciate (v. t.) To torture; to excruciate.,
D as in Discubitory (a.) Leaning; fitted for a reclining posture.,
D as in Disculpated (imp. & p. p.) of Disculpate,
D as in Disculpating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disculpate,
D as in Disculpate (v. t.) To free from blame or the imputation of a fault; to exculpate.,
D as in Disculpation (n.) Exculpation.,
D as in Disculpatory (a.) Tending to exculpate; exculpatory.,
D as in Discumbency (n.) The act of reclining at table according to the manner of the ancients at their meals.,
D as in Discumber (v. t.) To free from that which cumbers or impedes; to disencumber.,
D as in Discure (v. t.) To discover; to reveal; to discoure.,
D as in Discurrent (a.) Not current or free to circulate; not in use.,
D as in Discursion (n.) The act of discoursing or reasoning; range, as from thought to thought.,
D as in Discursist (n.) A discourser.,
D as in Discursive (a.) Passing from one thing to another; ranging over a wide field; roving; digressive; desultory.,
D as in Discursive (a.) Reasoning; proceeding from one ground to another, as in reasoning; argumentative.,
D as in Discursory (a.) Argumentative; discursive; reasoning.,
D as in Discursus (n.) Argumentation; ratiocination; discursive reasoning.,
D as in Discuses (pl. ) of Discus,
D as in Disci (pl. ) of Discus,
D as in Discus (n.) A quoit; a circular plate of some heavy material intended to be pitched or hurled as a trial of strength and skill.,
D as in Discus (n.) The exercise with the discus.,
D as in Discus (n.) A disk. See Disk.,
D as in Discussed (imp. & p. p.) of Discuss,
D as in Discussing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Discuss,
D as in Discuss (v. t.) To break to pieces; to shatter.,
D as in Discuss (v. t.) To break up; to disperse; to scatter; to dissipate; to drive away; -- said especially of tumors.,
D as in Discuss (v. t.) To shake; to put away; to finish.,
D as in Discuss (v. t.) To examine in detail or by disputation; to reason upon by presenting favorable and adverse considerations; to debate; to sift; to investigate; to ventilate.,
D as in Discuss (v. t.) To deal with, in eating or drinking.,
D as in Discuss (v. t.) To examine or search thoroughly; to exhaust a remedy against, as against a principal debtor before proceeding against the surety.,
D as in Discusser (n.) One who discusses; one who sifts or examines.,
D as in Discussion (n.) The act or process of discussing by breaking up, or dispersing, as a tumor, or the like.,
D as in Discussion (n.) The act of discussing or exchanging reasons; examination by argument; debate; disputation; agitation.,
D as in Discussional (a.) Pertaining to discussion.,
D as in Discussive (a.) Able or tending to discuss or disperse tumors or coagulated matter.,
D as in Discussive (a.) Doubt-dispelling; decisive.,
D as in Discussive (n.) A medicine that discusses or disperses morbid humors; a discutient.,
D as in Discutient (a.) Serving to disperse morbid matter; discussive; as, a discutient application.,
D as in Discutient (n.) An agent (as a medicinal application) which serves to disperse morbid matter.,
D as in Disdain (v. t.) A feeling of contempt and aversion; the regarding anything as unworthy of or beneath one; scorn.,
D as in Disdain (v. t.) That which is worthy to be disdained or regarded with contempt and aversion.,
D as in Disdain (v. t.) The state of being despised; shame.,
D as in Disdained (imp. & p. p.) of Disdain,
D as in Disdaining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disdain,
D as in Disdain (v. t.) To think unworthy; to deem unsuitable or unbecoming; as, to disdain to do a mean act.,
D as in Disdain (v. t.) To reject as unworthy of one's self, or as not deserving one's notice; to look with scorn upon; to scorn, as base acts, character, etc.,
D as in Disdain (v. i.) To be filled with scorn; to feel contemptuous anger; to be haughty.,
D as in Disdained (a.) Disdainful.,
D as in Disdainful (a.) Full of disdain; expressing disdain; scornful; contemptuous; haughty.,
D as in Disdainishly (adv.) Disdainfully.,
D as in Disdainous (a.) Disdainful.,
D as in Disdainously (adv.) Disdainfully.,
D as in Disdeify (v. t.) To divest or deprive of deity or of a deific rank or condition.,
D as in Disdeign (v. t.) To disdain.,
D as in Disdiaclast (n.) One of the dark particles forming the doubly refracting disks of muscle fibers.,
D as in Disdiapason (n.) An interval of two octaves, or a fifteenth; -- called also bisdiapason.,
D as in Disease (n.) Lack of ease; uneasiness; trouble; vexation; disquiet.,
D as in Disease (n.) An alteration in the state of the body or of some of its organs, interrupting or disturbing the performance of the vital functions, and causing or threatening pain and weakness; malady; affection; illness; sickness; disorder; -- applied figuratively to the mind, to the moral character and habits, to institutions, the state, etc.,
D as in Diseased (imp. & p. p.) of Disease,
D as in Diseasing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disease,
D as in Disease (v. t.) To deprive of ease; to disquiet; to trouble; to distress.,
D as in Disease (v. t.) To derange the vital functions of; to afflict with disease or sickness; to disorder; -- used almost exclusively in the participle diseased.,
D as in Diseased (a.) Afflicted with disease.,
D as in Diseasedness (n.) The state of being diseased; a morbid state; sickness.,
D as in Diseaseful (a.) Causing uneasiness.,
D as in Diseaseful (a.) Abounding with disease; producing diseases; as, a diseaseful climate.,
D as in Diseasefulness (n.) The quality of being diseaseful; trouble; trial.,
D as in Diseasement (n.) Uneasiness; inconvenience.,
D as in Disedge (v. t.) To deprive of an edge; to blunt; to dull.,
D as in Disedify (v. t.) To fail of edifying; to injure.,
D as in Diselder (v. t.) To deprive of an elder or elders, or of the office of an elder.,
D as in Diselenide (n.) A selenide containing two atoms of selenium in each molecule.,
D as in Disembarked (imp. & p. p.) of Disembark,
D as in Disembarking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disembark,
D as in Disembark (v. t.) To remove from on board a vessel; to put on shore; to land; to debark; as, the general disembarked the troops.,
D as in Disembark (v. i.) To go ashore out of a ship or boat; to leave a ship; to debark.,
D as in Disembarkation (n.) The act of disembarking.,
D as in Disembarkment (n.) Disembarkation.,
D as in Disembarrassed (imp. & p. p.) of Disembarrass,
D as in Disembarrassing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disembarrass,
D as in Disembarrass (v. t.) To free from embarrassment, or perplexity; to clear; to extricate.,
D as in Disembarrassment (n.) Freedom or relief from impediment or perplexity.,
D as in Disembayed (imp. & p. p.) of Disembay,
D as in Disembaying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disembay,
D as in Disembay (v. t.) To clear from a bay.,
D as in Disembellish (v. t.) To deprive of embellishment; to disadorn.,
D as in Disembitter (v. t.) To free from,
D as in Disembodied (a.) Divested of a body; ceased to be corporal; incorporeal.,
D as in Disembodiment (n.) The act of disembodying, or the state of being disembodied.,
D as in Disembodied (imp. & p. p.) of Disembody,
D as in Disembodying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disembody,
D as in Disembody (v. t.) To divest of the body or corporeal existence.,
D as in Disembody (v. t.) To disarm and disband, as a body of soldiers.,
D as in Disembogued (imp. & p. p.) of Disembogue,
D as in Disemboguing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disembogue,
D as in Disembogue (v. t.) To pour out or discharge at the mouth, as a stream; to vent; to discharge into an ocean, a lake, etc.,
D as in Disembogue (v. t.) To eject; to cast forth.,
D as in Disembogue (v. i.) To become discharged; to flow out; to find vent; to pour out contents.,
D as in Disemboguement (n.) The act of disemboguing; discharge.,
D as in Disembossom (v. t.) To separate from the bosom.,
D as in Disembowel (v. t.) To take or let out the bowels or interior parts of; to eviscerate.,
D as in Disembowel (v. t.) To take or draw from the body, as the web of a spider.,
D as in Disembowelment (n.) The act of disemboweling, or state of being disemboweled; evisceration.,
D as in Disembowered (a.) Deprived of, or removed from, a bower.,
D as in Disembrangle (v. t.) To free from wrangling or litigation.,
D as in Disembroiled (imp. & p. p.) of Disembroil,
D as in Disembroiling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disembroil,
D as in Disembroil (v. t.) To disentangle; to free from perplexity; to extricate from confusion.,
D as in Disemploy (v. t.) To throw out of employment.,
D as in Disemployment (n.) The state of being disemployed, or deprived of employment.,
D as in Disempower (v. t.) To deprive of power; to divest of strength.,
D as in Disenable (v. t.) To disable; to disqualify.,
D as in Disenamor (v. t.) To free from the captivity of love.,
D as in Disenchained (a.) Freed from restraint; unrestrained.,
D as in Disenchanted (imp. & p. p.) of Disenchant,
D as in Disenchanting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disenchant,
D as in Disenchant (v. t.) To free from enchantment; to deliver from the power of charms or spells; to free from fascination or delusion.,
D as in Disenchanter (n.) One who, or that which, disenchants.,
D as in Disenchantment (n.) The act of disenchanting, or state of being disenchanted.,
D as in Disencharm (v. t.) To free from the influence of a charm or spell; to disenchant.,
D as in Disenclose (v. t.) See Disinclose.,
D as in Disencouragement (n.) Discouragement.,
D as in Disencrese (v. i.) To decrease.,
D as in Disencrese (n.) Decrease.,
D as in Disencumbered (imp. & p. p.) of Disencumber,
D as in Disencumbering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disencumber,
D as in Disencumber (v. t.) To free from encumbrance, or from anything which clogs, impedes, or obstructs; to disburden.,
D as in Disencumbrance (n.) Freedom or deliverance from encumbrance, or anything burdensome or troublesome.,
D as in Disendow (v. t.) To deprive of an endowment, as a church.,
D as in Disendowment (n.) The act of depriving of an endowment or endowments.,
D as in Disenfranchise (v. t.) To disfranchise; to deprive of the rights of a citizen.,
D as in Disengaged (imp. & p. p.) of Disengage,
D as in Disengaging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disengage,
D as in Disengage (v. t.) To release from that with which anything is engaged, engrossed, involved, or entangled; to extricate; to detach; to set free; to liberate; to clear; as, to disengage one from a party, from broils and controversies, from an oath, promise, or occupation; to disengage the affections a favorite pursuit, the mind from study.,
D as in Disengage (v. i.) To release one's self; to become detached; to free one's self.,
D as in Disengaged (a.) Not engaged; free from engagement; at leisure; free from occupation or care; vacant.,
D as in Disengagement (n.) The act of disengaging or setting free, or the state of being disengaged.,
D as in Disengagement (n.) Freedom from engrossing occupation; leisure.,
D as in Disengaging (a.) Loosing; setting free; detaching.,
D as in Disennoble (v. t.) To deprive of that which ennobles; to degrade.,
D as in Disenrolled (imp. & p. p.) of Disenroll,
D as in Disenrolling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disenroll,
D as in Disenroll (v. i.) To erase from a roll or list.,
D as in Disensanity (n.) Insanity; folly.,
D as in Disenshrouded (a.) Freed from a shroudlike covering; unveiled.,
D as in Disenslave (v. t.) To free from bondage or slavery; to disenthrall.,
D as in Disentail (v. t.) To free from entailment.,
D as in Disentangled (imp. & p. p.) of Disentangle,
D as in Disentangling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disentangle,
D as in Disentangle (v. t.) To free from entanglement; to release from a condition of being intricately and confusedly involved or interlaced; to reduce to orderly arrangement; to straighten out; as, to disentangle a skein of yarn.,
D as in Disentangle (v. t.) To extricate from complication and perplexity; disengage from embarrassing connection or intermixture; to disembroil; to set free; to separate.,
D as in Disentanglement (n.) The act of disentangling or clearing from difficulties.,
D as in Disenter (v. t.) See Disinter.,
D as in Disenthrall (v. t.) To release from thralldom or slavery; to give freedom to; to disinthrall.,
D as in Disenthrallment (n.) Liberation from bondage; emancipation; disinthrallment.,
D as in Disenthrone (v. t.) To dethrone; to depose from sovereign authority.,
D as in Disentitle (v. t.) To deprive of title or claim.,
D as in Disentomb (v. t.) To take out from a tomb; a disinter.,
D as in Disentrail (v. t.) To disembowel; to let out or draw forth, as the entrails.,
D as in Disentrance (v. t.) To awaken from a trance or an enchantment.,
D as in Disentwine (v. t.) To free from being entwined or twisted.,
D as in Disepalous (a.) Having two sepals; two-sepaled.,
D as in Disert (a.) Eloquent.,
D as in Disertitude (n.) Eloquence.,
D as in Diserty (adv.) Expressly; clearly; eloquently.,
D as in Disespouse (v. t.) To release from espousal or plighted faith.,
D as in Disestablish (v. t.) To unsettle; to break up (anything established); to deprive, as a church, of its connection with the state.,
D as in Disestablishment (n.) The act or process of unsettling or breaking up that which has been established; specifically, the withdrawal of the support of the state from an established church; as, the disestablishment and disendowment of the Irish Church by Act of Parliament.,
D as in Disestablishment (n.) The condition of being disestablished.,
D as in Disesteem (n.) Want of esteem; low estimation, inclining to dislike; disfavor; disrepute.,
D as in Disesteemed (imp. & p. p.) of Disesteem,
D as in Disesteeming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disesteem,
D as in Disesteem (v. t.) To feel an absence of esteem for; to regard with disfavor or slight contempt; to slight.,
D as in Disesteem (v. t.) To deprive of esteem; to bring into disrepute; to cause to be regarded with disfavor.,
D as in Disesteemer (n.) One who disesteems.,
D as in Disestimation (n.) Disesteem.,
D as in Disexercise (v. t.) To deprive of exercise; to leave untrained.,
D as in Disfame (n.) Disrepute.,
D as in Disfancy (v. t.) To dislike.,
D as in Disfashion (v. t.) To disfigure.,
D as in Disfavor (n.) Want of favor of favorable regard; disesteem; disregard.,
D as in Disfavor (n.) The state of not being in favor; a being under the displeasure of some one; state of unacceptableness; as, to be in disfavor at court.,
D as in Disfavor (n.) An unkindness; a disobliging act.,
D as in Disfavored (imp. & p. p.) of Disfavor,
D as in Disfavoring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disfavor,
D as in Disfavor (v. t.) To withhold or withdraw favor from; to regard with disesteem; to show disapprobation of; to discountenance.,
D as in Disfavor (v. t.) To injure the form or looks of.,
D as in Disfavorable (a.) Unfavorable.,
D as in Disfavorably (adv.) Unpropitiously.,
D as in Disfavorer (n.) One who disfavors.,
D as in Disfeature (v. t.) To deprive of features; to mar the features of.,
D as in Disfellowship (v. t.) To exclude from fellowship; to refuse intercourse with, as an associate.,
D as in Disfiguration (n.) The act of disfiguring, or the state of being disfigured; defacement; deformity; disfigurement.,
D as in Disfigured (imp. & p. p.) of Disfigure,
D as in Disfiguring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disfigure,
D as in Disfigure (v. t.) To mar the figure of; to render less complete, perfect, or beautiful in appearance; to deface; to deform.,
D as in Disfigure (n.) Disfigurement; deformity.,
D as in Disfigurement (n.) Act of disfiguring, or state of being disfigured; deformity.,
D as in Disfigurement (n.) That which disfigures; a defacement; a blot.,
D as in Disfigurer (n.) One who disfigures.,
D as in Disflesh (v. t.) To reduce the flesh or obesity of.,
D as in Disforest (v. t.) To disafforest.,
D as in Disforest (v. t.) To clear or deprive of forests or trees.,
D as in Disforestation (n.) The act of clearing land of forests.,
D as in Disformity (n.) Discordance or diversity of form; unlikeness in form.,
D as in Disfranchised (imp. & p. p.) of Disfranchise,
D as in Disfranchising (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disfranchise,
D as in Disfranchise (v. t.) To deprive of a franchise or chartered right; to dispossess of the rights of a citizen, or of a particular privilege, as of voting, holding office, etc.,
D as in Disfranchisement (n.) The act of disfranchising, or the state disfranchised; deprivation of privileges of citizenship or of chartered immunities.,
D as in Disfriar (v. t.) To depose or withdraw from the condition of a friar.,
D as in Disfrock (v. t.) To unfrock.,
D as in Disfurnished (imp. & p. p.) of Disfurnish,
D as in Disfurnishing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disfurnish,
D as in Disfurnish (v. t.) To deprive of that with which anything is furnished (furniture, equipments, etc.); to strip; to render destitute; to divest.,
D as in Disfurnishment (n.) The act of disfurnishing, or the state of being disfurnished.,
D as in Disfurniture (n.) The act of disfurnishing, or the state of being disfurnished.,
D as in Disfurniture (v. t.) To disfurnish.,
D as in Disgage (v. t.) To free from a gage or pledge; to disengage.,
D as in Disgallant (v. t.) To deprive of gallantry.,
D as in Disgarland (v. t.) To strip of a garland.,
D as in Disgarnish (v. t.) To divest of garniture; to disfurnish; to dismantle.,
D as in Disgarrison (v. t.) To deprive of a garrison.,
D as in Disgaveled (imp. & p. p.) of Disgavel,
D as in Disgaveled () of Disgavel,
D as in Disgaveling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disgavel,
D as in Disgavel (v. t.) To deprive of that principal quality of gavelkind tenure by which lands descend equally among all the sons of the tenant; -- said of lands.,
D as in Disgest (v. t.) To digest.,
D as in Disgestion (n.) Digestion.,
D as in Disglorified (imp. & p. p.) of Disglorify,
D as in Disglorifying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disglorify,
D as in Disglorify (v. t.) To deprive of glory; to treat with indignity.,
D as in Disglory (n.) Dishonor.,
D as in Disgorged (imp. & p. p.) of Disgorge,
D as in Disgorging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disgorge,
D as in Disgorge (v. t.) To eject or discharge by the throat and mouth; to vomit; to pour forth or throw out with violence, as if from the mouth; to discharge violently or in great quantities from a confined place.,
D as in Disgorge (v. t.) To give up unwillingly as what one has wrongfully seized and appropriated; to make restitution of; to surrender; as, he was compelled to disgorge his ill-gotten gains.,
D as in Disgorge (v. i.) To vomit forth what anything contains; to discharge; to make restitution.,
D as in Disgorgement (n.) The act of disgorging; a vomiting; that which is disgorged.,
D as in Disgospel (v. i.) To be inconsistent with, or act contrary to, the precepts of the gospel; to pervert the gospel.,
D as in Disgrace (n.) The condition of being out of favor; loss of favor, regard, or respect.,
D as in Disgrace (n.) The state of being dishonored, or covered with shame; dishonor; shame; ignominy.,
D as in Disgrace (n.) That which brings dishonor; cause of shame or reproach; great discredit; as, vice is a disgrace to a rational being.,
D as in Disgrace (n.) An act of unkindness; a disfavor.,
D as in Disgraced (imp. & p. p.) of Disgrace,
D as in Disgracing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disgrace,
D as in Disgrace (n.) To put out favor; to dismiss with dishonor.,
D as in Disgrace (n.) To do disfavor to; to bring reproach or shame upon; to dishonor; to treat or cover with ignominy; to lower in estimation.,
D as in Disgrace (n.) To treat discourteously; to upbraid; to revile.,
D as in Disgraceful (a.) Bringing disgrace; causing shame; shameful; dishonorable; unbecoming; as, profaneness is disgraceful to a man.,
D as in Disgracer (n.) One who disgraces.,
D as in Disgracious (a.) Wanting grace; unpleasing; disagreeable.,
D as in Disgracive (a.) Disgracing.,
D as in Disgradation (n.) Degradation; a stripping of titles and honors.,
D as in Disgrade (v. t.) To degrade.,
D as in Disgraduate (v. t.) To degrade; to reduce in rank.,
D as in Disgregate (v. t.) To disperse; to scatter; -- opposite of congregate.,
D as in Disgregation (n.) The process of separation, or the condition of being separate, as of the molecules of a body.,
D as in Disgruntle (v. t.) To dissatisfy; to disaffect; to anger.,
D as in Disguised (imp. & p. p.) of Disguise,
D as in Disguising (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disguise,
D as in Disguise (v. t.) To change the guise or appearance of; especially, to conceal by an unusual dress, or one intended to mislead or deceive.,
D as in Disguise (v. t.) To hide by a counterfeit appearance; to cloak by a false show; to mask; as, to disguise anger; to disguise one's sentiments, character, or intentions.,
D as in Disguise (v. t.) To affect or change by liquor; to intoxicate.,
D as in Disguise (n.) A dress or exterior put on for purposes of concealment or of deception; as, persons doing unlawful acts in disguise are subject to heavy penalties.,
D as in Disguise (n.) Artificial language or manner assumed for deception; false appearance; counterfeit semblance or show.,
D as in Disguise (n.) Change of manner by drink; intoxication.,
D as in Disguise (n.) A masque or masquerade.,
D as in Disguisedfy (adv.) In disguise.,
D as in Disguisedness (n.) The state of being disguised.,
D as in Disguisement (n.) Disguise.,
D as in Disguiser (n.) One who, or that which, disguises.,
D as in Disguiser (n.) One who wears a disguise; an actor in a masquerade; a masker.,
D as in Disguising (n.) A masque or masquerade.,
D as in Disgusted (imp. & p. p.) of Disgust,
D as in Disgusting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disgust,
D as in Disgust (v. t.) To provoke disgust or strong distaste in; to cause (any one) loathing, as of the stomach; to excite aversion in; to offend the moral taste of; -- often with at, with, or by.,
D as in Disgust (v. t.) Repugnance to what is offensive; aversion or displeasure produced by something loathsome; loathing; strong distaste; -- said primarily of the sickening opposition felt for anything which offends the physical organs of taste; now rather of the analogous repugnance excited by anything extremely unpleasant to the moral taste or higher sensibilities of our nature; as, an act of cruelty may excite disgust.,
D as in Disgustful (a.) Provoking disgust; offensive to the taste; exciting aversion; disgusting.,
D as in Disgustfulness (n.) The state of being disgustful.,
D as in Disgusting (a.) That causes disgust; sickening; offensive; revolting.,
D as in Dish (n.) A vessel, as a platter, a plate, a bowl, used for serving up food at the table.,
D as in Dish (n.) The food served in a dish; hence, any particular kind of food; as, a cold dish; a warm dish; a delicious dish. "A dish fit for the gods.",
D as in Dish (n.) The state of being concave, or like a dish, or the degree of such concavity; as, the dish of a wheel.,
D as in Dish (n.) A hollow place, as in a field.,
D as in Dish (n.) A trough about 28 inches long, 4 deep, and 6 wide, in which ore is measured.,
D as in Dish (n.) That portion of the produce of a mine which is paid to the land owner or proprietor.,
D as in Dished (imp. & p. p.) of Dish,
D as in Dishing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dish,
D as in Dish (v. t.) To put in a dish, ready for the table.,
D as in Dish (v. t.) To make concave, or depress in the middle, like a dish; as, to dish a wheel by inclining the spokes.,
D as in Dish (v. t.) To frustrate; to beat; to ruin.,
D as in Dishabilitate (v. t.) To disqualify.,
D as in Dishabille (n.) An undress; a loose, negligent dress; deshabille.,
D as in Dishabit (v. t.) To dislodge.,
D as in Dishabited (p. a.) Rendered uninhabited.,
D as in Dishabituate (v. t.) To render unaccustomed.,
D as in Dishable (v. t.) To disable.,
D as in Dishable (v. t.) To disparage.,
D as in Dishallow (v. t.) To make unholy; to profane.,
D as in Disharmonious (a.) Unharmonious; discordant.,
D as in Disharmony (n.) Want of harmony; discord; incongruity.,
D as in Dishaunt (v. t.) To leave; to quit; to cease to haunt.,
D as in Dishcloth (n.) A cloth used for washing dishes.,
D as in Dishclout (n.) A dishcloth.,
D as in Disheart (v. t.) To dishearten.,
D as in Disheartened (imp. & p. p.) of Dishearten,
D as in Disheartening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dishearten,
D as in Dishearten (v. t.) To discourage; to deprive of courage and hope; to depress the spirits of; to deject.,
D as in Disheartenment (n.) Discouragement; dejection; depression of spirits.,
D as in Disheir (v. t.) To disinherit.,
D as in Dishelm (v. t.) To deprive of the helmet.,
D as in Disherison (n.) The act of disheriting, or debarring from inheritance; disinhersion.,
D as in Disherited (imp. & p. p.) of Disherit,
D as in Disheriting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disherit,
D as in Disherit (v. t.) To disinherit; to cut off, or detain, from the possession or enjoyment of an inheritance.,
D as in Disheritance (n.) The act of disinheriting or state of being disinherited; disinheritance.,
D as in Disheritor (n.) One who puts another out of his inheritance.,
D as in Disheveled (imp. & p. p.) of Dishevel,
D as in Dishevelled () of Dishevel,
D as in Disheveling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dishevel,
D as in Dishevelling () of Dishevel,
D as in Dishevel (v. t.) To suffer (the hair) to hang loosely or disorderly; to spread or throw (the hair) in disorder; -- used chiefly in the passive participle.,
D as in Dishevel (v. t.) To spread loosely or disorderly.,
D as in Dishevel (v. i.) To be spread in disorder or hang negligently, as the hair.,
D as in Dishevele (p. p. & a.) Disheveled.,
D as in Disheveled (a.) Having in loose disorder; disarranged; as, disheveled hair.,
D as in Disheveled (a.) Having the hair in loose disorder.,
D as in Dishfuls (pl. ) of Dishful,
D as in Dishful (n.) As much as a dish holds when full.,
D as in Dishing (a.) Dish-shaped; concave.,
D as in Dishonest (a.) Dishonorable; shameful; indecent; unchaste; lewd.,
D as in Dishonest (a.) Dishonored; disgraced; disfigured.,
D as in Dishonest (a.) Wanting in honesty; void of integrity; faithless; disposed to cheat or defraud; not trustworthy; as, a dishonest man.,
D as in Dishonest (a.) Characterized by fraud; indicating a want of probity; knavish; fraudulent; unjust.,
D as in Dishonest (v. t.) To disgrace; to dishonor; as, to dishonest a maid.,
D as in Dishonestly (adv.) In a dishonest manner.,
D as in Dishonesty (n.) Dishonor; dishonorableness; shame.,
D as in Dishonesty (n.) Want of honesty, probity, or integrity in principle; want of fairness and straightforwardness; a disposition to defraud, deceive, or betray; faithlessness.,
D as in Dishonesty (n.) Violation of trust or of justice; fraud; any deviation from probity; a dishonest act.,
D as in Dishonesty (n.) Lewdness; unchastity.,
D as in Dishonor (n.) Lack of honor; disgrace; ignominy; shame; reproach.,
D as in Dishonor (n.) The nonpayment or nonacceptance of commercial paper by the party on whom it is drawn.,
D as in Dishonored (imp. & p. p.) of Dishonor,
D as in Dishonoring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dishonor,
D as in Dishonor (v. t.) To deprive of honor; to disgrace; to bring reproach or shame on; to treat with indignity, or as unworthy in the sight of others; to stain the character of; to lessen the reputation of; as, the duelist dishonors himself to maintain his honor.,
D as in Dishonor (v. t.) To violate the chastity of; to debauch.,
D as in Dishonor (v. t.) To refuse or decline to accept or pay; -- said of a bill, check, note, or draft which is due or presented; as, to dishonor a bill exchange.,
D as in Dishonorable (a.) Wanting in honor; not honorable; bringing or deserving dishonor; staining the character, and lessening the reputation; shameful; disgraceful; base.,
D as in Dishonorable (a.) Wanting in honor or esteem; disesteemed.,
D as in Dishonorary (a.) Bringing dishonor on; tending to disgrace; lessening reputation.,
D as in Dishonorer (n.) One who dishonors or disgraces; one who treats another indignity.,
D as in Dishorn (v. t.) To deprive of horns; as, to dishorn cattle.,
D as in Dishorse (v. t.) To dismount.,
D as in Dishouse (v. t.) To deprive of house or home.,
D as in Dishumor (n.) Ill humor.,
D as in Dishumor (v. t.) To deprive of humor or desire; to put out of humor.,
D as in Dishwasher (n.) One who, or that which, washes dishes.,
D as in Dishwasher (n.) A European bird; the wagtail.,
D as in Dishwater (n.) Water in which dishes have been washed.,
D as in Disillusion (n.) The act or process of freeing from an illusion, or the state of being freed therefrom.,
D as in Disillusion (v. t.) To free from an illusion; to disillusionize.,
D as in Disillusionize (v. t.) To disenchant; to free from illusion.,
D as in Disillusionment (n.) The act of freeing from an illusion, or the state of being freed therefrom.,
D as in Disimbitter (v. t.) To free from bitterness.,
D as in Disimpark (v. t.) To free from the barriers or restrictions of a park.,
D as in Disimpassioned (a.) Free from warmth of passion or feeling.,
D as in Disimprove (v. t.) To make worse; -- the opposite of improve.,
D as in Disimprove (v. i.) To grow worse; to deteriorate.,
D as in Disimprovement (n.) Reduction from a better to a worse state; as, disimprovement of the earth.,
D as in Disincarcerate (v. t.) To liberate from prison.,
D as in Disinclination (n.) The state of being disinclined; want of propensity, desire, or affection; slight aversion or dislike; indisposition.,
D as in Disinclined (imp. & p. p.) of Disincline,
D as in Disinclining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disincline,
D as in Disincline (v. t.) To incline away the affections of; to excite a slight aversion in; to indispose; to make unwilling; to alienate.,
D as in Disinclose (v. t.) To free from being inclosed.,
D as in Disincorporated (imp. & p. p.) of Disincorporate,
D as in Disincorporating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disincorporate,
D as in Disincorporate (v. t.) To deprive of corporate powers, rights, or privileges; to divest of the condition of a corporate body.,
D as in Disincorporate (v. t.) To detach or separate from a corporation.,
D as in Disincorporate (a.) Separated from, or not included in, a corporation; disincorporated.,
D as in Disincorporation (n.) Deprivation of the rights and privileges of a corporation.,
D as in Disinfected (imp. & p. p.) of Disinfect,
D as in Disinfecting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disinfect,
D as in Disinfect (v. t.) To free from infectious or contagious matter; to destroy putrefaction; to purify; to make innocuous.,
D as in Disinfectant (n.) That which disinfects; an agent for removing the causes of infection, as chlorine.,
D as in Disinfection (n.) The act of disinfecting; purification from infecting matter.,
D as in Disinfector (n.) One who, or that which, disinfects; an apparatus for applying disinfectants.,
D as in Disinflame (v. t.) To divest of flame or ardor.,
D as in Disingenuity (n.) Disingenuousness.,
D as in Disingenuous (a.) Not noble; unbecoming true honor or dignity; mean; unworthy; as, disingenuous conduct or schemes.,
D as in Disingenuous (a.) Not ingenuous; wanting in noble candor or frankness; not frank or open; uncandid; unworthily or meanly artful.,
D as in Disinhabited (a.) Uninhabited.,
D as in Disinherison (v. t.) Same as Disherison.,
D as in Disinherited (imp. & p. p.) of Disinherit,
D as in Disinheriting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disinherit,
D as in Disinherit (v. t.) To cut off from an inheritance or from hereditary succession; to prevent, as an heir, from coming into possession of any property or right, which, by law or custom, would devolve on him in the course of descent.,
D as in Disinherit (v. t.) To deprive of heritage; to dispossess.,
D as in Disinheritance (n.) The act of disinheriting, or the condition of being; disinherited; disherison.,
D as in Disinhume (v. t.) To disinter.,
D as in Disinsure (v. t.) To render insecure; to put in danger.,
D as in Disintegrable (a.) Capable of being disintegrated, or reduced to fragments or powder.,
D as in Disintegrated (imp. & p. p.) of Disintegrate,
D as in Disintegrating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disintegrate,
D as in Disintegrate (v. t.) To separate into integrant parts; to reduce to fragments or to powder; to break up, or cause to fall to pieces, as a rock, by blows of a hammer, frost, rain, and other mechanical or atmospheric influences.,
D as in Disintegrate (v. i.) To decompose into integrant parts; as, chalk rapidly disintegrates.,
D as in Disintegration (n.) The process by which anything is disintegrated; the condition of anything which is disintegrated.,
D as in Disintegration (n.) The wearing away or falling to pieces of rocks or strata, produced by atmospheric action, frost, ice, etc.,
D as in Disintegrator (n.) A machine for grinding or pulverizing by percussion.,
D as in Disinterred (imp. & p. p.) of Disinter,
D as in Disinterring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disinter,
D as in Disinter (v. t.) To take out of the grave or tomb; to unbury; to exhume; to dig up.,
D as in Disinter (v. t.) To bring out, as from a grave or hiding place; to bring from obscurity into view.,
D as in Disinteress (v. t.) To deprive or rid of interest in, or regard for; to disengage.,
D as in Disinteressment (n.) Disinterestedness; impartiality; fairness.,
D as in Disinterest (p. a.) Disinterested.,
D as in Disinterest (n.) What is contrary to interest or advantage; disadvantage.,
D as in Disinterest (n.) Indifference to profit; want of regard to private advantage; disinterestedness.,
D as in Disinterest (v. t.) To divest of interest or interested motives.,
D as in Disinterested (a.) Not influenced by regard to personal interest or advantage; free from selfish motive; having no relation of interest or feeling; not biased or prejudiced; as, a disinterested decision or judge.,
D as in Disinterestedly (adv.) In a disinterested manner; without bias or prejudice.,
D as in Disinterestedness (n.) The state or quality of being disinterested; impartiality.,
D as in Disinteresting (a.) Uninteresting.,
D as in Disinterment (n.) The act of disinterring, or taking out of the earth; exhumation.,
D as in Disinthralled (imp. & p. p.) of Disinthrall,
D as in Disinthralling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disinthrall,
D as in Disinthrall (v. t.) To free from thralldom; to disenthrall.,
D as in Disinthrallment (n.) A releasing from thralldom or slavery; disenthrallment.,
D as in Disintricate (v. t.) To disentangle.,
D as in Disinured (imp. & p. p.) of Disinure,
D as in Disinuring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disinure,
D as in Disinure (v. t.) To render unaccustomed or unfamiliar.,
D as in Disinvestiture (n.) The act of depriving of investiture.,
D as in Disinvigorate (v. t.) To enervate; to weaken.,
D as in Disinvolve (v. t.) To uncover; to unfold or unroll; to disentangle.,
D as in Disjection (n.) Destruction; dispersion.,
D as in Disjoined (imp. & p. p.) of Disjoin,
D as in Disjoining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disjoin,
D as in Disjoin (v. t.) To part; to disunite; to separate; to sunder.,
D as in Disjoin (v. i.) To become separated; to part.,
D as in Disjoint (a.) Disjointed; unconnected; -- opposed to conjoint.,
D as in Disjoint (v. t.) Difficult situation; dilemma; strait.,
D as in Disjointed (imp. & p. p.) of Disjoint,
D as in Disjointing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disjoint,
D as in Disjoint (v. t.) To separate the joints of; to separate, as parts united by joints; to put out of joint; to force out of its socket; to dislocate; as, to disjoint limbs; to disjoint bones; to disjoint a fowl in carving.,
D as in Disjoint (v. t.) To separate at junctures or joints; to break where parts are united; to break in pieces; as, disjointed columns; to disjoint and edifice.,
D as in Disjoint (v. t.) To break the natural order and relations of; to make incoherent; as, a disjointed speech.,
D as in Disjoint (v. i.) To fall in pieces.,
D as in Disjointed (a.) Separated at the joints; disconnected; incoherent.,
D as in Disjointly (adv.) In a disjointed state.,
D as in Disjudication (n.) Judgment; discrimination. See Dijudication.,
D as in Disjunct (a.) Disjoined; separated.,
D as in Disjunct (a.) Having the head, thorax, and abdomen separated by a deep constriction.,
D as in Disjuncttion (n.) The act of disjoining; disunion; separation; a parting; as, the disjunction of soul and body.,
D as in Disjuncttion (n.) A disjunctive proposition.,
D as in Disjunctive (a.) Tending to disjoin; separating; disjoining.,
D as in Disjunctive (a.) Pertaining to disjunct tetrachords.,
D as in Disjunctive (n.) A disjunctive conjunction.,
D as in Disjunctive (n.) A disjunctive proposition.,
D as in Disjunctively (adv.) In a disjunctive manner; separately.,
D as in Disjuncture (n.) The act of disjoining, or state of being disjoined; separation.,
D as in Disk (n.) A discus; a quoit.,
D as in Disk (n.) A flat, circular plate; as, a disk of metal or paper.,
D as in Disk (n.) The circular figure of a celestial body, as seen projected of the heavens.,
D as in Disk (n.) A circular structure either in plants or animals; as, a blood disk; germinal disk, etc.,
D as in Disk (n.) The whole surface of a leaf.,
D as in Disk (n.) The central part of a radiate compound flower, as in sunflower.,
D as in Disk (n.) A part of the receptacle enlarged or expanded under, or around, or even on top of, the pistil.,
D as in Disk (n.) The anterior surface or oral area of coelenterate animals, as of sea anemones.,
D as in Disk (n.) The lower side of the body of some invertebrates, especially when used for locomotion, when it is often called a creeping disk.,
D as in Disk (n.) In owls, the space around the eyes.,
D as in Diskindness (n.) Unkindness; disservice.,
D as in Diskless (a.) Having no disk; appearing as a point and not expanded into a disk, as the image of a faint star in a telescope.,
D as in Dislade (v. t.) To unlade.,
D as in Disleal (a.) Disloyal; perfidious.,
D as in Disleave (v. t.) To deprive of leaves.,
D as in Disliked (imp. & p. p.) of Dislike,
D as in Disliking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dislike,
D as in Dislike (v. t.) To regard with dislike or aversion; to disapprove; to disrelish.,
D as in Dislike (v. t.) To awaken dislike in; to displease.,
D as in Dislike (n.) A feeling of positive and usually permanent aversion to something unpleasant, uncongenial, or offensive; disapprobation; repugnance; displeasure; disfavor; -- the opposite of liking or fondness.,
D as in Dislike (n.) Discord; dissension.,
D as in Dislikeful (a.) Full of dislike; disaffected; malign; disagreeable.,
D as in Dislikelihood (n.) The want of likelihood; improbability.,
D as in Disliken (v. t.) To make unlike; to disguise.,
D as in Dislikeness (n.) Unlikeness.,
D as in Disliker (n.) One who dislikes or disrelishes.,
D as in Dislimb (v. t.) To tear limb from limb; to dismember.,
D as in Dislimn (v. t.) To efface, as a picture.,
D as in Dislink (v. t.) To unlink; to disunite; to separate.,
D as in Dislive (v. t.) To deprive of life.,
D as in Dislocated (imp. & p. p.) of Dislocate,
D as in Dislocating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dislocate,
D as in Dislocate (v. t.) To displace; to put out of its proper place. Especially, of a bone: To remove from its normal connections with a neighboring bone; to put out of joint; to move from its socket; to disjoint; as, to dislocate your bones.,
D as in Dislocate (a.) Dislocated.,
D as in Dislocation (n.) The act of displacing, or the state of being displaced.,
D as in Dislocation (n.) The displacement of parts of rocks or portions of strata from the situation which they originally occupied. Slips, faults, and the like, are dislocations.,
D as in Dislocation (n.) The act of dislocating, or putting out of joint; also, the condition of being thus displaced.,
D as in Dislodged (imp. & p. p.) of Dislodge,
D as in Dislodging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dislodge,
D as in Dislodge (v. t.) To drive from a lodge or place of rest; to remove from a place of quiet or repose; as, shells resting in the sea at a considerate depth are not dislodged by storms.,
D as in Dislodge (v. t.) To drive out from a place of hiding or defense; as, to dislodge a deer, or an enemy.,
D as in Dislodge (v. i.) To go from a place of rest.,
D as in Dislodge (n.) Dwelling apart; separation.,
D as in Dislodgment (n.) The act or process of dislodging, or the state of being dislodged.,
D as in Disloign (v. t.) To put at a distance; to remove.,
D as in Disloyal (a.) Not loyal; not true to a sovereign or lawful superior, or to the government under which one lives; false where allegiance is due; faithless; as, a subject disloyal to the king; a husband disloyal to his wife.,
D as in Disloyally (adv.) In a disloyal manner.,
D as in Disloyalty (n.) Want of loyalty; lack of fidelity; violation of allegiance.,
D as in Dismail (v. t.) To divest of coat of mail.,
D as in Dismal (a.) Fatal; ill-omened; unlucky.,
D as in Dismal (a.) Gloomy to the eye or ear; sorrowful and depressing to the feelings; foreboding; cheerless; dull; dreary; as, a dismal outlook; dismal stories; a dismal place.,
D as in Dismally (adv.) In a dismal manner; gloomily; sorrowfully; uncomfortably.,
D as in Dismalness (n.) The quality of being dismal; gloominess.,
D as in Disman (v. t.) To unman.,
D as in Dismantled (imp. & p. p.) of Dismantle,
D as in Dismantling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dismantle,
D as in Dismantle (v. t.) To strip or deprive of dress; to divest.,
D as in Dismantle (v. t.) To strip of furniture and equipments, guns, etc.; to unrig; to strip of walls or outworks; to break down; as, to dismantle a fort, a town, or a ship.,
D as in Dismantle (v. t.) To disable; to render useless.,
D as in Dismarch (v. i.) To march away.,
D as in Dismarry (v. t.) To free from the bonds of marriage; to divorce.,
D as in Dismarshal (v. t.) To disarrange; to derange; to put in disorder.,
D as in Dismask (v. t.) To divest of a mask.,
D as in Dismasted (imp. & p. p.) of Dismast,
D as in Dismasting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dismast,
D as in Dismast (v. t.) To deprive of a mast of masts; to break and carry away the masts from; as, a storm dismasted the ship.,
D as in Dismastment (n.) The act of dismasting; the state of being dismasted.,
D as in Dismaw (v. t.) To eject from the maw; to disgorge.,
D as in Dismayed (imp. & p. p.) of Dismay,
D as in Dismaying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dismay,
D as in Dismay (v. i.) To disable with alarm or apprehensions; to depress the spirits or courage of; to deprive or firmness and energy through fear; to daunt; to appall; to terrify.,
D as in Dismay (v. i.) To render lifeless; to subdue; to disquiet.,
D as in Dismay (v. i.) To take dismay or fright; to be filled with dismay.,
D as in Dismay (v. t.) Loss of courage and firmness through fear; overwhelming and disabling terror; a sinking of the spirits; consternation.,
D as in Dismay (v. t.) Condition fitted to dismay; ruin.,
D as in Dismayedness (n.) A state of being dismayed; dejection of courage; dispiritedness.,
D as in Dismayful (a.) Terrifying.,
D as in Disme (n.) A tenth; a tenth part; a tithe.,
D as in Dismembered (imp. & p. p.) of Dismember,
D as in Dismembering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dismember,
D as in Dismember (v. t.) To tear limb from limb; to dilacerate; to disjoin member from member; to tear or cut in pieces; to break up.,
D as in Dismember (v. t.) To deprive of membership.,
D as in Dismemberment (n.) The act of dismembering, or the state of being dismembered; cutting in piece; m/tilation; division; separation.,
D as in Dismettled (a.) Destitute of mettle, that is, or fire or spirit.,
D as in Dismissed (imp. & p. p.) of Dismiss,
D as in Dismissing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dismiss,
D as in Dismiss (v. t.) To send away; to give leave of departure; to cause or permit to go; to put away.,
D as in Dismiss (v. t.) To discard; to remove or discharge from office, service, or employment; as, the king dismisses his ministers; the matter dismisses his servant.,
D as in Dismiss (v. t.) To lay aside or reject as unworthy of attentions or regard, as a petition or motion in court.,
D as in Dismiss (n.) Dismission.,
D as in Dismissal (n.) Dismission; discharge.,
D as in Dismission (n.) The act dismissing or sending away; permission to leave; leave to depart; dismissal; as, the dismission of the grand jury.,
D as in Dismission (n.) Removal from office or employment; discharge, either with honor or with disgrace.,
D as in Dismission (n.) Rejection; a setting aside as trivial, invalid, or unworthy of consideration.,
D as in Dismissive (a.) Giving dismission.,
D as in Dismortaged (imp. & p. p.) of Dismortgage,
D as in Dismortgaging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dismortgage,
D as in Dismortgage (v. t.) To redeem from mortgage.,
D as in Dismounted (imp. & p. p.) of Dismount,
D as in Dismounting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dismount,
D as in Dismount (v. i.) To come down; to descend.,
D as in Dismount (v. i.) To alight from a horse; to descend or get off, as a rider from his beast; as, the troops dismounted.,
D as in Dismount (v. t.) To throw or bring down from an elevation, place of honor and authority, or the like.,
D as in Dismount (v. t.) To throw or remove from a horse; to unhorse; as, the soldier dismounted his adversary.,
D as in Dismount (v. t.) To take down, or apart, as a machine.,
D as in Dismount (v. t.) To throw or remove from the carriage, or from that on which a thing is mounted; to break the carriage or wheels of, and render useless; to deprive of equipments or mountings; -- said esp. of artillery.,
D as in Disnaturalize (v. t.) To make alien; to deprive of the privileges of birth.,
D as in Disnatured (a.) Deprived or destitute of natural feelings; unnatural.,
D as in Disobedience (n.) Neglect or refusal to obey; violation of a command or prohibition.,
D as in Disobediency (n.) Disobedience.,
D as in Disobedient (a.) Neglecting or refusing to obey; omitting to do what is commanded, or doing what is prohibited; refractory; not observant of duty or rules prescribed by authority; -- applied to persons and acts.,
D as in Disobedient (a.) Not yielding.,
D as in Disobediently (adv.) In a disobedient manner.,
D as in Disobeisance (n.) Disobedience.,
D as in Disobeisant (a.) Disobedient.,
D as in Disobeyed (imp. & p. p.) of Disobey,
D as in Disobeying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disobey,
D as in Disobey (v. t.) Not to obey; to neglect or refuse to obey (a superior or his commands, the laws, etc.); to transgress the commands of (one in authority); to violate, as an order; as, refractory children disobey their parents; men disobey their Maker and the laws.,
D as in Disobey (v. i.) To refuse or neglect to obey; to violate commands; to be disobedient.,
D as in Disobeyer (n.) One who disobeys.,
D as in Disobligation (n.) The act of disobliging.,
D as in Disobligation (n.) A disobliging act; an offense.,
D as in Disobligation (n.) Release from obligation.,
D as in Disobligatory (a.) Releasing from obligation.,
D as in Disobliged (imp. & p. p.) of Disoblige,
D as in Disobliging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disoblige,
D as in Disoblige (v. t.) To do an act which contravenes the will or desires of; to offend by an act of unkindness or incivility; to displease; to refrain from obliging; to be unaccommodating to.,
D as in Disoblige (v. t.) To release from obligation.,
D as in Disobligement (n.) Release from obligation.,
D as in Disobliger (n.) One who disobliges.,
D as in Disobliging (a.) Not obliging; not disposed to do a favor; unaccommodating; as, a disobliging person or act.,
D as in Disobliging (a.) Displeasing; offensive.,
D as in Disoccident (v. t.) To turn away from the west; to throw out of reckoning as to longitude.,
D as in Disoccupation (n.) The state of being unemployed; want of occupation.,
D as in Disopinion (n.) Want or difference of belief; disbelief.,
D as in Disoppilate (v. t.) To open.,
D as in Disorb (v. t.) To throw out of the proper orbit; to unsphere.,
D as in Disord (n.) Disorder.,
D as in Disordeined (a.) Inordinate; irregular; vicious.,
D as in Disorder (n.) Want of order or regular disposition; lack of arrangement; confusion; disarray; as, the troops were thrown into disorder; the papers are in disorder.,
D as in Disorder (n.) Neglect of order or system; irregularity.,
D as in Disorder (n.) Breach of public order; disturbance of the peace of society; tumult.,
D as in Disorder (n.) Disturbance of the functions of the animal economy of the soul; sickness; derangement.,
D as in Disordered (imp. & p. p.) of Disorder,
D as in Disordering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disorder,
D as in Disorder (v. t.) To disturb the order of; to derange or disarrange; to throw into confusion; to confuse.,
D as in Disorder (v. t.) To disturb or interrupt the regular and natural functions of (either body or mind); to produce sickness or indisposition in; to discompose; to derange; as, to disorder the head or stomach.,
D as in Disorder (v. t.) To depose from holy orders.,
D as in Disordered (a.) Thrown into disorder; deranged; as, a disordered house, judgment.,
D as in Disordered (a.) Disorderly.,
D as in Disorderliness (n.) The state of being disorderly.,
D as in Disorderly (a.) Not in order; marked by disorder; disarranged; immethodical; as, the books and papers are in a disorderly state.,
D as in Disorderly (a.) Not acting in an orderly way, as the functions of the body or mind.,
D as in Disorderly (a.) Not complying with the restraints of order and law; tumultuous; unruly; lawless; turbulent; as, disorderly people; disorderly assemblies.,
D as in Disorderly (a.) Offensive to good morals and public decency; notoriously offensive; as, a disorderly house.,
D as in Disorderly (adv.) In a disorderly manner; without law or order; irregularly; confusedly.,
D as in Disordinance (n.) Disarrangement; disturbance.,
D as in Disordinate (a.) Inordinate; disorderly.,
D as in Disordinately (adv.) Inordinately.,
D as in Disordination (n.) The state of being in disorder; derangement; confusion.,
D as in Disorganization (v. t.) The act of disorganizing; destruction of system.,
D as in Disorganization (v. t.) The state of being disorganized; as, the disorganization of the body, or of government.,
D as in Disorganized (imp. & p. p.) of Disorganize,
D as in Disorganizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disorganize,
D as in Disorganize (v. t.) To destroy the organic structure or regular system of (a government, a society, a party, etc.); to break up (what is organized); to throw into utter disorder; to disarrange.,
D as in Disorganizer (n.) One who disorganizes or causes disorder and confusion.,
D as in Disorient (v. t.) To turn away from the cast; to confuse as to which way is east; to cause to lose one's bearings.,
D as in Disorientate (v. t.) To turn away from the east, or (figuratively) from the right or the truth.,
D as in Disowned (imp. & p. p.) of Disown,
D as in Disowning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disown,
D as in Disown (v. t.) To refuse to own or acknowledge as belonging to one's self; to disavow or deny, as connected with one's self personally; as, a parent can hardly disown his child; an author will sometimes disown his writings.,
D as in Disown (v. t.) To refuse to acknowledge or allow; to deny.,
D as in Disownment (n.) Act of disowning.,
D as in Disoxidate (v. t.) To deoxidate; to deoxidize.,
D as in Disoxidation (n.) Deoxidation.,
D as in Disoxygenate (v. t.) To deprive of oxygen; to deoxidize.,
D as in Disoxygenation (n.) Deoxidation.,
D as in Dispace (v. i.) To roam.,
D as in Dispair (v. t.) To separate (a pair).,
D as in Dispand (v. t.) To spread out; to expand.,
D as in Dispansion (n.) Act of dispanding, or state of being dispanded.,
D as in Disparadised (a.) Removed from paradise.,
D as in Disparaged (imp. & p. p.) of Disparage,
D as in Disparaging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disparage,
D as in Disparage (v. t.) To match unequally; to degrade or dishonor by an unequal marriage.,
D as in Disparage (v. t.) To dishonor by a comparison with what is inferior; to lower in rank or estimation by actions or words; to speak slightingly of; to depreciate; to undervalue.,
D as in Disparage (n.) Inequality in marriage; marriage with an inferior.,
D as in Disparagement (n.) Matching any one in marriage under his or her degree; injurious union with something of inferior excellence; a lowering in rank or estimation.,
D as in Disparagement (n.) Injurious comparison with an inferior; a depreciating or dishonoring opinion or insinuation; diminution of value; dishonor; indignity; reproach; disgrace; detraction; -- commonly with to.,
D as in Disparager (n.) One who disparages or dishonors; one who vilifies or disgraces.,
D as in Disparagingly (adv.) In a manner to disparage or dishonor; slightingly.,
D as in Disparate (a.) Unequal; dissimilar; separate.,
D as in Disparate (a.) Pertaining to two coordinate species or divisions.,
D as in Disparates (n. pl.) Things so unequal or unlike that they can not be compared with each other.,
D as in Disparition (n.) Act of disappearing; disappearance.,
D as in Disparities (pl. ) of Disparity,
D as in Disparity (n.) Inequality; difference in age, rank, condition, or excellence; dissimilitude; -- followed by between, in, of, as to, etc.; as, disparity in, or of, years; a disparity as to color.,
D as in Dispark (v. t.) To throw (a park or inclosure); to treat (a private park) as a common.,
D as in Dispark (v. t.) To set at large; to release from inclosure.,
D as in Disparkle (v. t.) To scatter abroad.,
D as in Disparted (imp. & p. p.) of Dispart,
D as in Disparting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dispart,
D as in Dispart (v. t.) To part asunder; to divide; to separate; to sever; to rend; to rive or split; as, disparted air; disparted towers.,
D as in Dispart (v. i.) To separate, to open; to cleave.,
D as in Dispart (n.) The difference between the thickness of the metal at the mouth and at the breech of a piece of ordnance.,
D as in Dispart (n.) A piece of metal placed on the muzzle, or near the trunnions, on the top of a piece of ordnance, to make the line of sight parallel to the axis of the bore; -- called also dispart sight, and muzzle sight.,
D as in Dispart (v. t.) To make allowance for the dispart in (a gun), when taking aim.,
D as in Dispart (v. t.) To furnish with a dispart sight.,
D as in Dispassion (n.) Freedom from passion; an undisturbed state; apathy.,
D as in Dispassionate (a.) Free from passion; not warped, prejudiced, swerved, or carried away by passion or feeling; judicial; calm; composed.,
D as in Dispassionate (a.) Not dictated by passion; not proceeding from temper or bias; impartial; as, dispassionate proceedings; a dispassionate view.,
D as in Dispassioned (a.) Free from passion; dispassionate.,
D as in Dispatched (imp. & p. p.) of Dispatch,
D as in Dispatching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dispatch,
D as in Dispatch (v. t.) To dispose of speedily, as business; to execute quickly; to make a speedy end of; to finish; to perform.,
D as in Dispatch (v. t.) To rid; to free.,
D as in Dispatch (v. t.) To get rid of by sending off; to send away hastily.,
D as in Dispatch (v. t.) To send off or away; -- particularly applied to sending off messengers, messages, letters, etc., on special business, and implying haste.,
D as in Dispatch (v. t.) To send out of the world; to put to death.,
D as in Dispatch (v. i.) To make haste; to conclude an affair; to finish a matter of business.,
D as in Dispatch (v. t.) The act of sending a message or messenger in haste or on important business.,
D as in Dispatch (v. t.) Any sending away; dismissal; riddance.,
D as in Dispatch (v. t.) The finishing up of a business; speedy performance, as of business; prompt execution; diligence; haste.,
D as in Dispatch (v. t.) A message dispatched or sent with speed; especially, an important official letter sent from one public officer to another; -- often used in the plural; as, a messenger has arrived with dispatches for the American minister; naval or military dispatches.,
D as in Dispatch (v. t.) A message transmitted by telegraph.,
D as in Dispatcher (n.) One who dispatches.,
D as in Dispatchful (a.) Bent on haste; intent on speedy execution of business or any task; indicating haste; quick; as, dispatchful looks.,
D as in Dispatchment (n.) The act of dispatching.,
D as in Dispathies (pl. ) of Dispathy,
D as in Dispathy (n.) Lack of sympathy; want of passion; apathy.,
D as in Dispauper (v. t.) To deprive of the claim of a pauper to public support; to deprive of the privilege of suing in forma pauperis.,
D as in Dispauperize (v. t.) To free a state of pauperism, or from paupers.,
D as in Dispeed (v. t.) To send off with speed; to dispatch.,
D as in Dispelled (imp. & p. p.) of Dispel,
D as in Dispelling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dispel,
D as in Dispel (v. t.) To drive away by scattering, or so to cause to vanish; to clear away; to banish; to dissipate; as, to dispel a cloud, vapors, cares, doubts, illusions.,
D as in Dispence (v. i. & n.) See Dispense.,
D as in Dispend (v. t.) To spend; to lay out; to expend.,
D as in Dispender (n.) One who dispends or expends; a steward.,
D as in Dispensable (a.) Capable of being dispensed or administered.,
D as in Dispensable (a.) Capable of being dispensed with.,
D as in Dispensableness (n.) Quality of being dispensable.,
D as in Dispensaries (pl. ) of Dispensary,
D as in Dispensary (n.) A place where medicines are prepared and dispensed; esp., a place where the poor can obtain medical advice and medicines gratuitously or at a nominal price.,
D as in Dispensary (n.) A dispensatory.,
D as in Dispensation (n.) The act of dispensing or dealing out; distribution; often used of the distribution of good and evil by God to man, or more generically, of the acts and modes of his administration.,
D as in Dispensation (n.) That which is dispensed, dealt out, or appointed; that which is enjoined or bestowed,
D as in Dispensation (n.) A system of principles, promises, and rules ordained and administered; scheme; economy; as, the Patriarchal, Mosaic, and Christian dispensations.,
D as in Dispensation (n.) The relaxation of a law in a particular case; permission to do something forbidden, or to omit doing something enjoined; specifically, in the Roman Catholic Church, exemption from some ecclesiastical law or obligation to God which a man has incurred of his own free will (oaths, vows, etc.).,
D as in Dispensative (a.) Granting dispensation.,
D as in Dispensatively (adv.) By dispensation.,
D as in Dispensator (n.) A distributer; a dispenser.,
D as in Dispensatorily (adv.) In the way of dispensation; dispensatively.,
D as in Dispensatory (v. t.) Granting, or authorized to grant, dispensations.,
D as in Dispensatories (pl. ) of Dispensatory,
D as in Dispensatory (n.) A book or medicinal formulary containing a systematic description of drugs, and of preparations made from them. It is usually, but not always, distinguished from a pharmacop/ia in that it issued by private parties, and not by an official body or by government.,
D as in Dispensed (imp. & p. p.) of Dispense,
D as in Dispensing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dispense,
D as in Dispense (v. t.) To deal out in portions; to distribute; to give; as, the steward dispenses provisions according directions; Nature dispenses her bounties; to dispense medicines.,
D as in Dispense (v. t.) To apply, as laws to particular cases; to administer; to execute; to manage; to direct.,
D as in Dispense (v. t.) To pay for; to atone for.,
D as in Dispense (v. t.) To exempt; to excuse; to absolve; -- with from.,
D as in Dispense (v. i.) To compensate; to make up; to make amends.,
D as in Dispense (v. i.) To give dispensation.,
D as in Dispense (v. t.) Dispensation; exemption.,
D as in Dispense (n.) Expense; profusion; outlay.,
D as in Dispenser (n.) One who, or that which, dispenses; a distributer; as, a dispenser of favors.,
D as in Dispeopled (imp. & p. p.) of Dispeople,
D as in Dispeopling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dispeople,
D as in Dispeople (v. t.) To deprive of inhabitants; to depopulate.,
D as in Dispeopler (n.) One who, or that which, dispeoples; a depopulator.,
D as in Disperge (v. t.) To sprinkle.,
D as in Disspermous (a.) Containing only two seeds; two-seeded.,
D as in Disperple (v. t.) To scatter; to sprinkle.,
D as in Dispersal (n.) The act or result of dispersing or scattering; dispersion.,
D as in Dispersed (imp. & p. p.) of Disperse,
D as in Dispersing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disperse,
D as in Disperse (v. t.) To scatter abroad; to drive to different parts; to distribute; to diffuse; to spread; as, the Jews are dispersed among all nations.,
D as in Disperse (v. t.) To scatter, so as to cause to vanish; to dissipate; as, to disperse vapors.,
D as in Disperse (v. i.) To separate; to go or move into different parts; to vanish; as, the company dispersed at ten o'clock; the clouds disperse.,
D as in Disperse (v. i.) To distribute wealth; to share one's abundance with others.,
D as in Dispersed (a.) Scattered.,
D as in Disperseness (n.) Dispersedness.,
D as in Disperser (n.) One that disperses.,
D as in Dispersion (n.) The act or process of scattering or dispersing, or the state of being scattered or separated; as, the Jews in their dispersion retained their rites and ceremonies; a great dispersion of the human family took place at the building of Babel.,
D as in Dispersion (n.) The separation of light into its different colored rays, arising from their different refrangibilities.,
D as in Dispersive (a.) Tending to disperse.,
D as in Disperson'ate (v. t.) To deprive of personality or individuality.,
D as in Dispirited (imp. & p. p.) of Dispirit,
D as in Dispiriting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dispirit,
D as in Dispirit (v. t.) To deprive of cheerful spirits; to depress the spirits of; to dishearten; to discourage.,
D as in Dispirit (v. t.) To distill or infuse the spirit of.,
D as in Dispirited (a.) Depressed in spirits; disheartened; daunted.,
D as in Dispiritment (n.) Depression of spirits; discouragement.,
D as in Dispiteous (a.) Full of despite; cruel; spiteful; pitiless.,
D as in Displaced (imp. & p. p.) of Displace,
D as in Displacing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Displace,
D as in Displace (v. t.) To change the place of; to remove from the usual or proper place; to put out of place; to place in another situation; as, the books in the library are all displaced.,
D as in Displace (v. t.) To crowd out; to take the place of.,
D as in Displace (v. t.) To remove from a state, office, dignity, or employment; to discharge; to depose; as, to displace an officer of the revenue.,
D as in Displace (v. t.) To dislodge; to drive away; to banish.,
D as in Displaceable (a.) Capable of being displaced.,
D as in Displacement (n.) The act of displacing, or the state of being displaced; a putting out of place.,
D as in Displacement (n.) The quantity of anything, as water, displaced by a floating body, as by a ship, the weight of the displaced liquid being equal to that of the displacing body.,
D as in Displacement (n.) The process of extracting soluble substances from organic material and the like, whereby a quantity of saturated solvent is displaced, or removed, for another quantity of the solvent.,
D as in Displacency (n.) Want of complacency or gratification; envious displeasure; dislike.,
D as in Displacer (n.) One that displaces.,
D as in Displacer (n.) The funnel part of the apparatus for solution by displacement.,
D as in Di/planted (imp. & p. p.) of Displant,
D as in Displanting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Displant,
D as in Displant (v. t.) To remove (what is planted or fixed); to unsettle and take away; to displace; to root out; as, to displant inhabitants.,
D as in Displant (v. t.) To strip of what is planted or settled; as, to displant a country of inhabitants.,
D as in Displantation (n.) The act of displanting; removal; displacement.,
D as in Displat (v. t.) To untwist; to uncurl; to unplat.,
D as in Displayed (imp. & p. p.) of Display,
D as in Displaying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Display,
D as in Display (v. t.) To unfold; to spread wide; to expand; to stretch out; to spread.,
D as in Display (v. t.) To extend the front of (a column), bringing it into line.,
D as in Display (v. t.) To spread before the view; to show; to exhibit to the sight, or to the mind; to make manifest.,
D as in Display (v. t.) To make an exhibition of; to set in view conspicuously or ostentatiously; to exhibit for the sake of publicity; to parade.,
D as in Display (v. t.) To make conspicuous by large or prominent type.,
D as in Display (v. t.) To discover; to descry.,
D as in Display (v. i.) To make a display; to act as one making a show or demonstration.,
D as in Display (n.) An opening or unfolding; exhibition; manifestation.,
D as in Display (n.) Ostentatious show; exhibition for effect; parade.,
D as in Displayed (a.) Unfolded; expanded; exhibited conspicuously or ostentatiously.,
D as in Displayed (a.) With wings expanded; -- said of a bird of pray, esp. an eagle.,
D as in Displayed (a.) Set with lines of prominent type interspersed, to catch the eye.,
D as in Displayer (n.) One who, or that which, displays.,
D as in Disple (v. t.) To discipline; to correct.,
D as in Displeasance (n.) Displeasure; discontent; annoyance.,
D as in Displeasant (a.) Unpleasing; offensive; unpleasant.,
D as in Displeased (imp. & p. p.) of Displease,
D as in Displeasing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Displease,
D as in Displease (v. t.) To make not pleased; to excite a feeling of disapprobation or dislike in; to be disagreeable to; to offend; to vex; -- often followed by with or at. It usually expresses less than to anger, vex, irritate, or provoke.,
D as in Displease (v. t.) To fail to satisfy; to miss of.,
D as in Displease (v. i.) To give displeasure or offense.,
D as in Displeasedly (adv.) With displeasure.,
D as in Displeasedness (n.) Displeasure.,
D as in Displeaser (n.) One who displeases.,
D as in Displeasing (a.) Causing displeasure or dissatisfaction; offensive; disagreeable.,
D as in Displeasure (n.) The feeling of one who is displeased; irritation or uneasiness of the mind, occasioned by anything that counteracts desire or command, or which opposes justice or a sense of propriety; disapprobation; dislike; dissatisfaction; disfavor; indignation.,
D as in Displeasure (n.) That which displeases; cause of irritation or annoyance; offense; injury.,
D as in Displeasure (n.) State of disgrace or disfavor; disfavor.,
D as in Displeasure (v. t.) To displease.,
D as in Displenish (v. t.) To deprive or strip, as a house of furniture, or a barn of stock.,
D as in Displicence (n.) Alt. of Displicency,
D as in Displicency (n.) Dislike; dissatisfaction; discontent.,
D as in Disploded (imp. & p. p.) of Displode,
D as in Disploding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Displode,
D as in Displode (v. t.) To discharge; to explode.,
D as in Displode (v. i.) To burst with a loud report; to explode.,
D as in Displosion (n.) Explosion.,
D as in Displosive (a.) Explosive.,
D as in Displumed (imp. & p. p.) of Displume,
D as in Displuming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Displume,
D as in Displume (v. t.) To strip of, or as of, a plume, or plumes; to deprive of decoration; to dishonor; to degrade.,
D as in Dispoline (n.) One of several isomeric organic bases of the quinoline series of alkaloids.,
D as in Dispond (n.) See Despond.,
D as in Dispondee (n.) A double spondee; a foot consisting of four long syllables.,
D as in Dispone (v. t.) To dispose.,
D as in Dispone (v. t.) To dispose of.,
D as in Dispone (v. t.) To make over, or convey, legally.,
D as in Disponee (n.) The person to whom any property is legally conveyed.,
D as in Disponer (n.) One who legally transfers property from himself to another.,
D as in Disponge (v. t.) To sprinkle, as with water from a sponge.,
D as in Dispope (v. t.) To refuse to consider as pope; to depose from the popedom.,
D as in Disporous (a.) Having two spores.,
D as in Disport (v. i.) Play; sport; pastime; diversion; playfulness.,
D as in Disported (imp. & p. p.) of Disport,
D as in Disporting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disport,
D as in Disport (v. i.) To play; to wanton; to move in gayety; to move lightly and without restraint; to amuse one's self.,
D as in Disport (v. i.) To divert or amuse; to make merry.,
D as in Disport (v. i.) To remove from a port; to carry away.,
D as in Disportment (n.) Act of disporting; diversion; play.,
D as in Disposable (a.) Subject to disposal; free to be used or employed as occasion may require; not assigned to any service or use.,
D as in Disposal (n.) The act of disposing, or disposing of, anything; arrangement; orderly distribution; a putting in order; as, the disposal of the troops in two lines.,
D as in Disposal (n.) Ordering; regulation; adjustment; management; government; direction.,
D as in Disposal (n.) Regulation of the fate, condition, application, etc., of anything; the transference of anything into new hands, a new place, condition, etc.; alienation, or parting; as, a disposal of property.,
D as in Disposal (n.) Power or authority to dispose of, determine the condition of, control, etc., especially in the phrase at, or in, the disposal of.,
D as in Disposed (imp. & p. p.) of Dispose,
D as in Disposing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dispose,
D as in Dispose (v. t.) To distribute and put in place; to arrange; to set in order; as, to dispose the ships in the form of a crescent.,
D as in Dispose (v. t.) To regulate; to adjust; to settle; to determine.,
D as in Dispose (v. t.) To deal out; to assign to a use; to bestow for an object or purpose; to apply; to employ; to dispose of.,
D as in Dispose (v. t.) To give a tendency or inclination to; to adapt; to cause to turn; especially, to incline the mind of; to give a bent or propension to; to incline; to make inclined; -- usually followed by to, sometimes by for before the indirect object.,
D as in Dispose (v. t.) To exercise finally one's power of control over; to pass over into the control of some one else, as by selling; to alienate; to part with; to relinquish; to get rid of; as, to dispose of a house; to dispose of one's time.,
D as in Dispose (v. i.) To bargain; to make terms.,
D as in Dispose (n.) Disposal; ordering; management; power or right of control.,
D as in Dispose (n.) Cast of mind; disposition; inclination; behavior; demeanor.,
D as in Disposed (p. a.) Inclined; minded.,
D as in Disposed (p. a.) Inclined to mirth; jolly.,
D as in Disposedness (n.) The state of being disposed or inclined; inclination; propensity.,
D as in Disposement (n.) Disposal.,
D as in Disposer (n.) One who, or that which, disposes; a regulator; a director; a bestower.,
D as in Disposingly (adv.) In a manner to dispose.,
D as in Disposited (a.) Disposed.,
D as in Disposition (n.) The act of disposing, arranging, ordering, regulating, or transferring; application; disposal; as, the disposition of a man's property by will.,
D as in Disposition (n.) The state or the manner of being disposed or arranged; distribution; arrangement; order; as, the disposition of the trees in an orchard; the disposition of the several parts of an edifice.,
D as in Disposition (n.) Tendency to any action or state resulting from natural constitution; nature; quality; as, a disposition in plants to grow in a direction upward; a disposition in bodies to putrefaction.,
D as in Disposition (n.) Conscious inclination; propension or propensity.,
D as in Disposition (n.) Natural or prevailing spirit, or temperament of mind, especially as shown in intercourse with one's fellow-men; temper of mind.,
D as in Disposition (n.) Mood; humor.,
D as in Dispositional (a.) Pertaining to disposition.,
D as in Dispositioned (a.) Having (such) a disposition; -- used in compounds; as, well-dispositioned.,
D as in Dispositive (a.) Disposing; tending to regulate; decretive.,
D as in Dispositive (a.) Belonging to disposition or natural, tendency.,
D as in Dispositively (adv.) In a dispositive manner; by natural or moral disposition.,
D as in Dispositor (n.) A disposer.,
D as in Dispositor (n.) The planet which is lord of the sign where another planet is.,
D as in Dispossessed (imp. & p. p.) of Dispossess,
D as in Dispossessing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dispossess,
D as in Dispossess (v. t.) To put out of possession; to deprive of the actual occupancy of, particularly of land or real estate; to disseize; to eject; -- usually followed by of before the thing taken away; as, to dispossess a king of his crown.,
D as in Dispossession (n.) The act of putting out of possession; the state of being dispossessed.,
D as in Dispossession (n.) The putting out of possession, wrongfully or otherwise, of one who is in possession of a freehold, no matter in what title; -- called also ouster.,
D as in Dispossessor (n.) One who dispossesses.,
D as in Dispost (v. t.) To eject from a post; to displace.,
D as in Disposure (n.) The act of disposing; power to dispose of; disposal; direction.,
D as in Disposure (n.) Disposition; arrangement; position; posture.,
D as in Dispraisable (a.) Blamable.,
D as in Dispraised (imp. & p. p.) of Dispraise,
D as in Dispraising (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dispraise,
D as in Dispraise (v. t.) To withdraw praise from; to notice with disapprobation or some degree of censure; to disparage; to blame.,
D as in Dispraise (v. t.) The act of dispraising; detraction; blame censure; reproach; disparagement.,
D as in Dispraiser (n.) One who blames or dispraises.,
D as in Dispraisingly (adv.) By way of dispraise.,
D as in Dispread (v. t.) To spread abroad, or different ways; to spread apart; to open; as, the sun dispreads his beams.,
D as in Dispread (v. i.) To extend or expand itself.,
D as in Dispreader (n.) One who spreads abroad.,
D as in Disprejudice (v. t.) To free from prejudice.,
D as in Disprepare (v. t.) To render unprepared.,
D as in Disprince (v. t.) To make unlike a prince.,
D as in Disprison (v. t.) To let loose from prison, to set at liberty.,
D as in Disprivilege (v. t.) To deprive of a privilege or privileges.,
D as in Disprize (v. t.) To depreciate.,
D as in Disprofess (v. t.) To renounce the profession or pursuit of.,
D as in Disprofit (n.) Loss; damage.,
D as in Disprofit (v. i. & i.) To be, or to cause to be, without profit or benefit.,
D as in Disprofitable (a.) Unprofitable.,
D as in Disproof (n.) A proving to be false or erroneous; confutation; refutation; as, to offer evidence in disproof of a statement.,
D as in Disproperty (v. t.) To cause to be no longer property; to dispossess of.,
D as in Disproportion (n.) Want of proportion in form or quantity; lack of symmetry; as, the arm may be in disproportion to the body; the disproportion of the length of a building to its height.,
D as in Disproportion (n.) Want of suitableness, adequacy, or due proportion to an end or use; unsuitableness; disparity; as, the disproportion of strength or means to an object.,
D as in Disproportioned (imp. & p. p.) of Disproportion,
D as in Disproportioning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disproportion,
D as in Disproportion (v. t.) To make unsuitable in quantity, form, or fitness to an end; to violate symmetry in; to mismatch; to join unfitly.,
D as in Disproportionable (a.) Disproportional; unsuitable in form, size, quantity, or adaptation; disproportionate; inadequate.,
D as in Disproportional (a.) Not having due proportion to something else; not having proportion or symmetry of parts; unsuitable in form, quantity or value; inadequate; unequal; as, a disproportional limb constitutes deformity in the body; the studies of youth should not be disproportional to their understanding.,
D as in Disproportionality (n.) The state of being disproportional.,
D as in Disproportionally (adv.) In a disproportional manner; unsuitably in form, quantity, or value; unequally.,
D as in Disproportionate (a.) Not proportioned; unsymmetrical; unsuitable to something else in bulk, form, value, or extent; out of proportion; inadequate; as, in a perfect body none of the limbs are disproportionate; it is wisdom not to undertake a work disproportionate means.,
D as in Dispropriate (v. t.) To cancel the appropriation of; to disappropriate.,
D as in Disprovable (a.) Capable of being disproved or refuted.,
D as in Disproval (n.) Act of disproving; disproof.,
D as in Disproved (imp. & p. p.) of Disprove,
D as in Disproving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disprove,
D as in Disprove (v. t.) To prove to be false or erroneous; to confute; to refute.,
D as in Disprove (v. t.) To disallow; to disapprove of.,
D as in Disprover (n.) One who disproves or confutes.,
D as in Disprovide (v. t.) Not to provide; to fail to provide.,
D as in Dispunct (a.) Wanting in punctilious respect; discourteous.,
D as in Dispunct (v. t.) To expunge.,
D as in Dispunge (v. t.) To expunge; to erase.,
D as in Dispunge (v. t.) See Disponge.,
D as in Dispunishable (a.) Without penal restraint; not punishable.,
D as in Dispurpose (v. t.) To dissuade; to frustrate; as, to dispurpose plots.,
D as in Dispurse (v. t.) To disburse.,
D as in Dispurvey (v. t.) To disfurnish; to strip.,
D as in Dispurveyance (n.) Want of provisions; /ack of food.,
D as in Disputable (v. i.) Capable of being disputed; liable to be called in question, controverted, or contested; or doubtful certainty or propriety; controvertible; as, disputable opinions, propositions, points, or questions.,
D as in Disputable (v. i.) Disputatious; contentious.,
D as in Disputableness (n.) State of being disputable.,
D as in Disputacity (v. i.) Proneness to dispute.,
D as in Disputant (v. i.) Disputing; engaged in controversy.,
D as in Disputant (n.) One who disputes; one who argues // opposition to another; one appointed to dispute; a controvertist; a reasoner in opposition.,
D as in Disputation (v. i.) The act of disputing; a reasoning or argumentation in opposition to something, or on opposite sides; controversy in words; verbal contest respecting the truth of some fact, opinion, proposition, or argument.,
D as in Disputation (v. i.) A rhetorical exercise in which parties reason in opposition to each other on some question proposed.,
D as in Disputatious (a.) Inclined to dispute; apt to civil or controvert; characterized by dispute; as, a disputatious person or temper.,
D as in Disputative (a.) Disposed to dispute; inclined to cavil or to reason in opposition; as, a disputative temper.,
D as in Disputed (imp. & p. p.) of Dispute,
D as in Disputing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dispute,
D as in Dispute (v. i.) To contend in argument; to argue against something maintained, upheld, or claimed, by another; to discuss; to reason; to debate; to altercate; to wrangle.,
D as in Dispute (v. t.) To make a subject of disputation; to argue pro and con; to discuss.,
D as in Dispute (v. t.) To oppose by argument or assertion; to attempt to overthrow; to controvert; to express dissent or opposition to; to call in question; to deny the truth or validity of; as, to dispute assertions or arguments.,
D as in Dispute (v. t.) To strive or contend about; to contest.,
D as in Dispute (v. t.) To struggle against; to resist.,
D as in Dispute (v. i.) Verbal controversy; contest by opposing argument or expression of opposing views or claims; controversial discussion; altercation; debate.,
D as in Dispute (v. i.) Contest; struggle; quarrel.,
D as in Disputeless (a.) Admitting no dispute; incontrovertible.,
D as in Disputer (n.) One who disputes, or who is given to disputes; a controvertist.,
D as in Disputison (n.) Dispute; discussion.,
D as in Disqualification (n.) The act of disqualifying, or state of being disqualified; want of qualification; incompetency; disability; as, the disqualification of men for holding certain offices.,
D as in Disqualification (n.) That which disqualifies; that which incapacitates or makes unfit; as, conviction of crime is a disqualification of a person for office; sickness is a disqualification for labor.,
D as in Disqualified (imp. & p. p.) of Disqualify,
D as in Disqualifying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disqualify,
D as in Disqualify (v. t.) To deprive of the qualities or properties necessary for any purpose; to render unfit; to incapacitate; -- with for or from before the purpose, state, or act.,
D as in Disqualify (v. t.) To deprive of some power, right, or privilege, by positive restriction; to disable; to debar legally; as, a conviction of perjury disqualifies a man to be a witness.,
D as in Disquantity (v. t.) To diminish the quantity of; to lessen.,
D as in Disquiet (a.) Deprived of quiet; impatient; restless; uneasy.,
D as in Disquiet (n.) Want of quiet; want of tranquility in body or mind; uneasiness; restlessness; disturbance; anxiety.,
D as in Disquieted (imp. & p. p.) of Disquiet,
D as in Disquieting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disquiet,
D as in Disquiet (v. t.) To render unquiet; to deprive of peace, rest, or tranquility; to make uneasy or restless; to disturb.,
D as in Disquietal (n.) The act of disquieting; a state of disquiet.,
D as in Disquieter (n.) One who, or that which, disquiets, or makes uneasy; a disturber.,
D as in Disquietful (a.) Producing inquietude or uneasiness.,
D as in Disquietive (a.) Tending to disquiet.,
D as in Disquietly (adv.) In a disquiet manner; uneasily; as, he rested disquietly that night.,
D as in Disquietment (n.) State of being disquieted; uneasiness; harassment.,
D as in Disquietness (n.) Disturbance of quiet in body or mind; restlessness; uneasiness.,
D as in Disquietous (a.) Causing uneasiness.,
D as in Disquiettude (n.) Want of peace or tranquility; uneasiness; disturbance; agitation; anxiety.,
D as in Disquisition (n.) A formal or systematic inquiry into, or discussion of, any subject; a full examination or investigation of a matter, with the arguments and facts bearing upon it; elaborate essay; dissertation.,
D as in Disquisitional (a.) Pertaining to disquisition; of the nature of disquisition.,
D as in Disquisitionary (a.) Pertaining to disquisition; disquisitional.,
D as in Disquisitive (a.) Relating to disquisition; fond discussion or investigation; examining; inquisitive.,
D as in Disquisitorial (a.) Disquisitory.,
D as in Disquisitory (a.) Of or pertaining to disquisition; disquisitive.,
D as in Disrange (v. t.) To disarrange.,
D as in Disrank (v. t.) To degrade from rank.,
D as in Disrank (v. t.) To throw out of rank or into confusion.,
D as in Disrate (v. t.) To reduce to a lower rating or rank; to degrade.,
D as in Disray (variant) of Disarray.,
D as in Disrealize (v. t.) To divest of reality; to make uncertain.,
D as in Disregarded (imp. & p. p.) of Disregard,
D as in Disregarding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disregard,
D as in Disregard (v. t.) Not to regard; to pay no heed to; to omit to take notice of; to neglect to observe; to slight as unworthy of regard or notice; as, to disregard the admonitions of conscience.,
D as in Disregard (n.) The act of disregarding, or the state of being disregarded; intentional neglect; omission of notice; want of attention; slight.,
D as in Disregarder (n.) One who disregards.,
D as in Disregardful (a.) Neglect; negligent; heedless; regardless.,
D as in Disregardfully (adv.) Negligently; heedlessly.,
D as in Disrelish (n.) Want of relish; dislike (of the palate or of the mind); distaste; a slight degree of disgust; as, a disrelish for some kinds of food.,
D as in Disrelish (n.) Absence of relishing or palatable quality; bad taste; nauseousness.,
D as in Disrelished (imp. & p. p.) of Disrelish,
D as in Disrelishing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disrelish,
D as in Disrelish (v. t.) Not to relish; to regard as unpalatable or offensive; to feel a degree of disgust at.,
D as in Disrelish (v. t.) To deprive of relish; to make nauseous or disgusting in a slight degree.,
D as in Disremember (v. t.) To fail to remember; to forget.,
D as in Disrepair (n.) A state of being in bad condition, and wanting repair.,
D as in Disreputability (n.) The state of being disreputable.,
D as in Disreputable (a.) Not reputable; of bad repute; not in esteem; dishonorable; disgracing the reputation; tending to bring into disesteem; as, it is disreputable to associate familiarly with the mean, the lewd, and the profane.,
D as in Disreputably (adv.) In a disreputable manner.,
D as in Disreputation (n.) Loss or want of reputation or good name; dishonor; disrepute; disesteem.,
D as in Disrepute (n.) Loss or want of reputation; ill character; disesteem; discredit.,
D as in Disrepute (v. t.) To bring into disreputation; to hold in dishonor.,
D as in Disrespect (n.) Want of respect or reverence; disesteem; incivility; discourtesy.,
D as in Disrespect (v. t.) To show disrespect to.,
D as in Disrespectability (n.) Want of respectability.,
D as in Disrespectable (a.) Not respectable; disreputable.,
D as in Disrespecter (n.) One who disrespects.,
D as in Disrespectful (a.) Wanting in respect; manifesting disesteem or lack of respect; uncivil; as, disrespectful behavior.,
D as in Disrespective (a.) Showing want of respect; disrespectful.,
D as in Disreverence (v. t.) To treat irreverently or with disrespect.,
D as in Disrobed (imp. & p. p.) of Disrobe,
D as in Disrobing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disrobe,
D as in Disrobe (v. t. & i.) To divest of a robe; to undress; figuratively, to strip of covering; to divest of that which clothes or decorates; as, autumn disrobes the fields of verdure.,
D as in Disrober (n.) One who, or that which, disrobes.,
D as in Disroof (v. t.) To unroof.,
D as in Disrooted (imp. & p. p.) of Disroot,
D as in Disrooting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disroot,
D as in Disroot (v. t.) To tear up the roots of, or by the roots; hence, to tear from a foundation; to uproot.,
D as in Disrout (v. i.) To put to rout.,
D as in Disrudder (v. t.) To deprive of the rudder, as a ship.,
D as in Disrulily (adv.) In a disorderly manner.,
D as in Disruly (a.) Unruly; disorderly.,
D as in Disrupt (a.) Rent off; torn asunder; severed; disrupted.,
D as in Disrupted (imp. & p. p.) of Disrupt,
D as in Disrupting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disrupt,
D as in Disrupt (v. t.) To break asunder; to rend.,
D as in Disruption (n.) The act or rending asunder, or the state of being rent asunder or broken in pieces; breach; rent; dilaceration; rupture; as, the disruption of rocks in an earthquake; disruption of a state.,
D as in Disruptive (a.) Causing, or tending to cause, disruption; caused by disruption; breaking through; bursting; as, the disruptive discharge of an electrical battery.,
D as in Disrupture (n.) Disruption.,
D as in Dissatisfaction (n.) The state of being dissatisfied, unsatisfied, or discontented; uneasiness proceeding from the want of gratification, or from disappointed wishes and expectations.,
D as in Dissatisfactory (a.) Causing dissatisfaction; unable to give content; unsatisfactory; displeasing.,
D as in Dissatisfied (imp. & p. p.) of Dissatisfy,
D as in Dissatisfying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dissatisfy,
D as in Dissatisfy (v. t.) To render unsatisfied or discontented; to excite uneasiness in by frustrating wishes or expectations; to displease by the want of something requisite; as, to be dissatisfied with one's fortune.,
D as in Disseat (v. t.) To unseat.,
D as in Dissected (imp. & p. p.) of Dissect,
D as in Dissecting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dissect,
D as in Dissect (v. t.) To divide into separate parts; to cut in pieces; to separate and expose the parts of, as an animal or a plant, for examination and to show their structure and relations; to anatomize.,
D as in Dissect (v. t.) To analyze, for the purposes of science or criticism; to divide and examine minutely.,
D as in Dissected (a.) Cut into several parts; divided into sections; as, a dissected map.,
D as in Dissected (a.) Cut deeply into many lobes or divisions; as, a dissected leaf.,
D as in Dissectible (a.) Capable of being dissected, or separated by dissection.,
D as in Dissecting (a.) Dividing or separating the parts of an animal or vegetable body; as, a dissecting aneurism, one which makes its way between or within the coats of an artery.,
D as in Dissecting (a.) Of or pertaining to, or received during, a dissection; as, a dissecting wound.,
D as in Dissecting (a.) Used for or in dissecting; as, a dissecting knife; a dissecting microscope.,
D as in Dissection (n.) The act of dissecting an animal or plant; as, dissection of the human body was held sacrilege till the time of Francis I.,
D as in Dissection (n.) Fig.: The act of separating or dividing for the purpose of critical examination.,
D as in Dissection (n.) Anything dissected; especially, some part, or the whole, of an animal or plant dissected so as to exhibit the structure; an anatomical so prepared.,
D as in Dissector (n.) One who dissects; an anatomist.,
D as in Disseized (imp. & p. p.) of Disseize,
D as in Disseizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disseize,
D as in Disseize (v. t.) To deprive of seizin or possession; to dispossess or oust wrongfully (one in freehold possession of land); -- followed by of; as, to disseize a tenant of his freehold.,
D as in Disseizee (n.) A person disseized, or put out of possession of an estate unlawfully; -- correlative to disseizor.,
D as in Disseizin (n.) The act of disseizing; an unlawful dispossessing and ouster of a person actually seized of the freehold.,
D as in Disseizor (n.) One who wrongfully disseizes, or puts another out of possession of a freehold.,
D as in Disseizoress (n.) A woman disseizes.,
D as in Disseizure (n.) Disseizin.,
D as in Dissemblance (n.) Want of resemblance; dissimilitude.,
D as in Dissemblance (n.) The act or art of dissembling; dissimulation.,
D as in Dissembled (imp. & p. p.) of Dissemble,
D as in Dissembling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dissemble,
D as in Dissemble (v. t.) To hide under a false semblance or seeming; to feign (something) not to be what it really is; to put an untrue appearance upon; to disguise; to mask.,
D as in Dissemble (v. t.) To put on the semblance of; to make pretense of; to simulate; to feign.,
D as in Dissemble (v. i.) To conceal the real fact, motives, /tention, or sentiments, under some pretense; to assume a false appearance; to act the hypocrite.,
D as in Dissembler (n.) One who dissembles; one who conceals his opinions or dispositions under a false appearance; a hypocrite.,
D as in Dissembling (a.) That dissembles; hypocritical; false.,
D as in Disseminated (imp. & p. p.) of Disseminate,
D as in Disseminating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disseminate,
D as in Disseminate (v. t. & i.) To sow broadcast or as seed; to scatter for growth and propagation, like seed; to spread abroad; to diffuse; as, principles, ideas, opinions, and errors are disseminated when they are spread abroad for propagation.,
D as in Disseminate (v. t. & i.) To spread or extend by dispersion.,
D as in Disseminated (p. a.) Occurring in small portions scattered through some other substance.,
D as in Dissemination (n.) The act of disseminating, or the state of being disseminated; diffusion for propagation and permanence; a scattering or spreading abroad, as of ideas, beliefs, etc.,
D as in Disseminative (a.) Tending to disseminate, or to become disseminated.,
D as in Disseminator (n.) One who, or that which, disseminates, spreads, or propagates; as, disseminators of disease.,
D as in Dissension (n.) Disagreement in opinion, usually of a violent character, producing warm debates or angry words; contention in words; partisan and contentious divisions; breach of friendship and union; strife; discord; quarrel.,
D as in Dissensious (a.) Disposed to discord; contentious; dissentious.,
D as in Dissented (imp. & p. p.) of Dissent,
D as in Dissenting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dissent,
D as in Dissent (v. i.) To differ in opinion; to be of unlike or contrary sentiment; to disagree; -- followed by from.,
D as in Dissent (v. i.) To differ from an established church in regard to doctrines, rites, or government.,
D as in Dissent (v. i.) To differ; to be of a contrary nature.,
D as in Dissent (n.) The act of dissenting; difference of opinion; refusal to adopt something proposed; nonagreement, nonconcurrence, or disagreement.,
D as in Dissent (n.) Separation from an established church, especially that of England; nonconformity.,
D as in Dissent (n.) Contrariety of nature; diversity in quality.,
D as in Dissentaneous (a.) Disagreeing; contrary; differing; -- opposed to consentaneous.,
D as in Dissentany (a.) Dissentaneous; inconsistent.,
D as in Dissentation (n.) Dissension.,
D as in Dissenter (n.) One who dissents; one who differs in opinion, or declares his disagreement.,
D as in Dissenter (n.) One who separates from the service and worship of an established church; especially, one who disputes the authority or tenets of the Church of England; a nonconformist.,
D as in Dissenterism (n.) The spirit or principles of dissenters.,
D as in Dissentiate (v. t.) To throw into a state of dissent.,
D as in Dissentient (v. i.) Disagreeing; declaring dissent; dissenting.,
D as in Dissentient (n.) One who dissents.,
D as in Dissentious (a.) Marked by dissensions; apt to breed discord; quarrelsome; contentious; factious.,
D as in Dissentive (a.) Disagreeing; inconsistent.,
D as in Dissepiment (n.) A separating tissue; a partition; a septum.,
D as in Dissepiment (n.) One of the partitions which divide a compound ovary into cells.,
D as in Dissepiment (n.) One of the transverse, calcareous partitions between the radiating septa of a coral.,
D as in Dissert (v. i.) To discourse or dispute; to discuss.,
D as in Dissertate (v. i.) To deal in dissertation; to write dissertations; to discourse.,
D as in Dissertation (n.) A formal or elaborate argumentative discourse, oral or written; a disquisition; an essay; a discussion; as, Dissertations on the Prophecies.,
D as in Dissertational (a.) Relating to dissertations; resembling a dissertation.,
D as in Dissertationist (n.) A writer of dissertations.,
D as in Dissertator (n.) One who writers a dissertation; one who discourses.,
D as in Dissertly (adv.) See Disertly.,
D as in Di///// (imp. & p. p.) of Disserve,
D as in Disserving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disserve,
D as in Disserve (v. t.) To fail to serve; to do injury or mischief to; to damage; to hurt; to harm.,
D as in Disservice (n.) Injury; mischief.,
D as in Disserviceable (a.) Calculated to do disservice or harm; not serviceable; injurious; harmful; unserviceable.,
D as in Dissettle (v. t.) To unsettle.,
D as in Dissettlement (n.) The act of unsettling, or the state of being unsettled.,
D as in Dissevered (imp. & p. p.) of Dissever,
D as in Dissevering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dissever,
D as in Dissever (v. t.) To part in two; to sever thoroughly; to sunder; to disunite; to separate; to disperse.,
D as in Dissever (v. i.) To part; to separate.,
D as in Disseverance (n.) The act of disserving; separation.,
D as in Disseveration (n.) The act of disserving; disseverance.,
D as in Disseverment (n.) Disseverance.,
D as in Disshadow (v. t.) To free from shadow or shade.,
D as in Dissheathe (v. i.) To become unsheathed.,
D as in Disship (v. t.) To dismiss from service on board ship.,
D as in Disshiver (v. t. & i.) To shiver or break in pieces.,
D as in Dissidence (a.) Disagreement; dissent; separation from the established religion.,
D as in Dissident (a.) No agreeing; dissenting; discordant; different.,
D as in Dissident (n.) One who disagrees or dissents; one who separates from the established religion.,
D as in Dissidently (adv.) In a dissident manner.,
D as in Dissilience (n.) Alt. of Dissiliency,
D as in Dissiliency (n.) The act of leaping or starting asunder.,
D as in Dissilient (a.) Starting asunder; bursting and opening with an elastic force; dehiscing explosively; as, a dissilient pericarp.,
D as in Dissilition (n.) The act of bursting or springing apart.,
D as in Dissimilar (a.) Not similar; unlike; heterogeneous; as, the tempers of men are as dissimilar as their features.,
D as in Dissimilarity (n.) Want of resemblance; unlikeness; dissimilitude; variety; as, the dissimilarity of human faces and forms.,
D as in Dissimilarly (adv.) In a dissimilar manner; in a varied style.,
D as in Dissimilate (v. t.) To render dissimilar.,
D as in Dissimilation (n.) The act of making dissimilar.,
D as in Dissimile (n.) Comparison or illustration by contraries.,
D as in Dissimilitude (n.) Want of resemblance; unlikeness; dissimilarity.,
D as in Dissimilitude (n.) A comparison by contrast; a dissimile.,
D as in Dissimulate (a.) Feigning; simulating; pretending.,
D as in Dissimulate (v. i.) To dissemble; to feign; to pretend.,
D as in Dissimulation (n.) The act of dissembling; a hiding under a false appearance; concealment by feigning; false pretension; hypocrisy.,
D as in Dissimulator (n.) One who dissimulates; a dissembler.,
D as in Dissimule (v. t. & i.) To dissemble.,
D as in Dissimuler (n.) A dissembler.,
D as in Dissimulour (n.) A dissembler.,
D as in Dissipable (a.) Capable of being scattered or dissipated.,
D as in Dissipated (imp. & p. p.) of Dissipate,
D as in Dissipating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dissipate,
D as in Dissipate (v. t.) To scatter completely; to disperse and cause to disappear; -- used esp. of the dispersion of things that can never again be collected or restored.,
D as in Dissipate (v. t.) To destroy by wasteful extravagance or lavish use; to squander.,
D as in Dissipate (v. i.) To separate into parts and disappear; to waste away; to scatter; to disperse; to vanish; as, a fog or cloud gradually dissipates before the rays or heat of the sun; the heat of a body dissipates.,
D as in Dissipate (v. i.) To be extravagant, wasteful, or dissolute in the pursuit of pleasure; to engage in dissipation.,
D as in Dissipated (a.) Squandered; scattered.,
D as in Dissipated (a.) Wasteful of health, money, etc., in the pursuit of pleasure; dissolute; intemperate.,
D as in Dissipation (n.) The act of dissipating or dispersing; a state of dispersion or separation; dispersion; waste.,
D as in Dissipation (n.) A dissolute course of life, in which health, money, etc., are squandered in pursuit of pleasure; profuseness in vicious indulgence, as late hours, riotous living, etc.; dissoluteness.,
D as in Dissipation (n.) A trifle which wastes time or distracts attention.,
D as in Dissipative (a.) Tending to dissipate.,
D as in Dissipativity (n.) The rate at which palpable energy is dissipated away into other forms of energy.,
D as in Dissite (a.) Lying apart.,
D as in Disslander (v. t.) To slander.,
D as in Disslander (n.) Slander.,
D as in Disslanderous (a.) Slanderous.,
D as in Dissociability (n.) Want of sociability; unsociableness.,
D as in Dissociable (a.) Not /ell associated or assorted; incongruous.,
D as in Dissociable (a.) Having a tendency to dissolve social connections; unsuitable to society; unsociable.,
D as in Dissocial (v. t.) Unfriendly to society; contracted; selfish; as, dissocial feelings.,
D as in Dissocialize (v. t.) To render unsocial.,
D as in Dissociated (imp. & p. p.) of Dissociate,
D as in Dissociating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dissociate,
D as in Dissociate (v. t.) To separate from fellowship or union; to disunite; to disjoin; as, to dissociate the particles of a concrete substance.,
D as in Dissociation (n.) The act of dissociating or disuniting; a state of separation; disunion.,
D as in Dissociation (n.) The process by which a compound body breaks up into simpler constituents; -- said particularly of the action of heat on gaseous or volatile substances; as, the dissociation of the sulphur molecules; the dissociation of ammonium chloride into hydrochloric acid and ammonia.,
D as in Dissociative (a.) Tending or leading to dissociation.,
D as in Dissolubility (n.) The quality of being dissoluble; capacity of being dissoluble; capacity of being dissolved by heat or moisture, and converted into a fluid.,
D as in Dissoluble (a.) Capable of being dissolved; having its parts separable by heat or moisture; convertible into a fluid.,
D as in Dissoluble (a.) Capable of being disunited.,
D as in Dissolubleness (n.) The quality of being dissoluble; dissolubility.,
D as in Dissolute (a.) With nerves unstrung; weak.,
D as in Dissolute (a.) Loosed from restraint; esp., loose in morals and conduct; recklessly abandoned to sensual pleasures; profligate; wanton; lewd; debauched.,
D as in Dissolutely (adv.) In a dissolute manner.,
D as in Dissoluteness (n.) State or quality of being dissolute; looseness of morals and manners; addictedness to sinful pleasures; debauchery; dissipation.,
D as in Dissolution (n.) The act of dissolving, sundering, or separating into component parts; separation.,
D as in Dissolution (n.) Change from a solid to a fluid state; solution by heat or moisture; liquefaction; melting.,
D as in Dissolution (n.) Change of form by chemical agency; decomposition; resolution.,
D as in Dissolution (n.) The dispersion of an assembly by terminating its sessions; the breaking up of a partnership.,
D as in Dissolution (n.) The extinction of life in the human body; separation of the soul from the body; death.,
D as in Dissolution (n.) The state of being dissolved, or of undergoing liquefaction.,
D as in Dissolution (n.) The new product formed by dissolving a body; a solution.,
D as in Dissolution (n.) Destruction of anything by the separation of its parts; ruin.,
D as in Dissolution (n.) Corruption of morals; dissipation; dissoluteness.,
D as in Dissolvability (n.) Capacity of being dissolved; solubility.,
D as in Dissolvable (a.) Capable of being dissolved, or separated into component parts; capable of being liquefied; soluble.,
D as in Dissolvative (n.) Having the power to dissolve anything; solvent.,
D as in Dissolved (imp. & p. p.) of Dissolve,
D as in Dissolving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dissolve,
D as in Dissolve (v. t.) To separate into competent parts; to disorganize; to break up; hence, to bring to an end by separating the parts, sundering a relation, etc.; to terminate; to destroy; to deprive of force; as, to dissolve a partnership; to dissolve Parliament.,
D as in Dissolve (v. t.) To break the continuity of; to disconnect; to disunite; to sunder; to loosen; to undo; to separate.,
D as in Dissolve (v. t.) To convert into a liquid by means of heat, moisture, etc.,; to melt; to liquefy; to soften.,
D as in Dissolve (v. t.) To solve; to clear up; to resolve.,
D as in Dissolve (v. t.) To relax by pleasure; to make powerless.,
D as in Dissolve (v. t.) To annul; to rescind; to discharge or release; as, to dissolve an injunction.,
D as in Dissolve (v. i.) To waste away; to be dissipated; to be decomposed or broken up.,
D as in Dissolve (v. i.) To become fluid; to be melted; to be liquefied.,
D as in Dissolve (v. i.) To fade away; to fall to nothing; to lose power.,
D as in Dissolvent (a.) Having power to dissolve power to dissolve a solid body; as, the dissolvent juices of the stomach.,
D as in Dissolvent (n.) That which has the power of dissolving or melting other substances, esp. by mixture with them; a menstruum; a solvent.,
D as in Dissolvent (n.) A remedy supposed capable of dissolving concretions in the body, such as calculi, tubercles, etc.,
D as in Dissolver (n.) One who, or that which, has power to dissolve or dissipate.,
D as in Dissolving (a.) Melting; breaking up; vanishing.,
D as in Dissonance (n.) A mingling of discordant sounds; an inharmonious combination of sounds; discord.,
D as in Dissonance (n.) Want of agreement; incongruity.,
D as in Dissonancy (n.) Discord; dissonance.,
D as in Dissonant (a.) Sounding harshly; discordant; unharmonious.,
D as in Dissonant (a.) Disagreeing; incongruous; discrepant, -- with from or to.,
D as in Disspirit (v. t.) See Dispirit.,
D as in Dissuaded (imp. & p. p.) of Dissuade,
D as in Dissuading (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dissuade,
D as in Dissuade (v. t.) To advise or exhort against; to try to persuade (one from a course).,
D as in Dissuade (v. t.) To divert by persuasion; to turn from a purpose by reasons or motives; -- with from; as, I could not dissuade him from his purpose.,
D as in Dissuader (n.) One who dissuades; a dehorter.,
D as in Dissuasion (n.) The act of dissuading; exhortation against a thing; dehortation.,
D as in Dissuasion (n.) A motive or consideration tending to dissuade; a dissuasive.,
D as in Dissuasive (a.) Tending to dissuade or divert from a measure or purpose; dehortatory; as, dissuasive advice.,
D as in Dissuasive (n.) A dissuasive argument or counsel; dissuasion; dehortation.,
D as in Dissuasory (n.) A dissuasive.,
D as in Dissundered (imp. & p. p.) of Dissunder,
D as in Dissundering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dissunder,
D as in Dissunder (v. t.) To separate; to sunder; to destroy.,
D as in Dissweeten (v. t.) To deprive of sweetness.,
D as in Dissyllabic (a.) Consisting of two syllables only; as, a dissyllabic foot in poetry.,
D as in Dissyllabification (n.) A forming into two syllables.,
D as in Dissyllabify (v. t.) To form into two syllables.,
D as in Dissyllabize (v. t.) To form into two syllables; to dissyllabify.,
D as in Dissyllable (n.) A word of two syllables; as, pa-per.,
D as in Dissymmetrical (a.) Not having symmetry; asymmetrical; unsymmetrical.,
D as in Dissymmetry (n.) Absence or defect of symmetry; asymmetry.,
D as in Dissympathy (n.) Lack of sympathy; want of interest; indifference.,
D as in Distad (adv.) Toward a distal part; on the distal side of; distally.,
D as in Distaffs (pl. ) of Distaff,
D as in Distaves (pl. ) of Distaff,
D as in Distaff (n.) The staff for holding a bunch of flax, tow, or wool, from which the thread is drawn in spinning by hand.,
D as in Distaff (n.) Used as a symbol of the holder of a distaff; hence, a woman; women, collectively.,
D as in Distained (imp. & p. p.) of Distain,
D as in Distaining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Distain,
D as in Distain (v. t.) To tinge with a different color from the natural or proper one; to stain; to discolor; to sully; to tarnish; to defile; -- used chiefly in poetry.,
D as in Distal (a.) Remote from the point of attachment or origin; as, the distal end of a bone or muscle,
D as in Distal (a.) Pertaining to that which is distal; as, the distal tuberosities of a bone.,
D as in Distally (adv.) Toward a distal part.,
D as in Distance (n.) The space between two objects; the length of a line, especially the shortest line joining two points or things that are separate; measure of separation in place.,
D as in Distance (n.) Remoteness of place; a remote place.,
D as in Distance (n.) A space marked out in the last part of a race course.,
D as in Distance (n.) Relative space, between troops in ranks, measured from front to rear; -- contrasted with interval, which is measured from right to left.,
D as in Distance (n.) Space between two antagonists in fencing.,
D as in Distance (n.) The part of a picture which contains the representation of those objects which are the farthest away, esp. in a landscape.,
D as in Distance (n.) Ideal disjunction; discrepancy; contrariety.,
D as in Distance (n.) Length or interval of time; period, past or future, between two eras or events.,
D as in Distance (n.) The remoteness or reserve which respect requires; hence, respect; ceremoniousness.,
D as in Distance (n.) A withholding of intimacy; alienation; coldness; disagreement; variance; restraint; reserve.,
D as in Distance (n.) Remoteness in succession or relation; as, the distance between a descendant and his ancestor.,
D as in Distance (n.) The interval between two notes; as, the distance of a fourth or seventh.,
D as in Distanced (imp. & p. p.) of Distance,
D as in Distancing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Distance,
D as in Distance (v. t.) To place at a distance or remotely.,
D as in Distance (v. t.) To cause to appear as if at a distance; to make seem remote.,
D as in Distance (v. t.) To outstrip by as much as a distance (see Distance, n., 3); to leave far behind; to surpass greatly.,
D as in Distancy (n.) Distance.,
D as in Distant (a.) Separated; having an intervening space; at a distance; away.,
D as in Distant (a.) Far separated; far off; not near; remote; -- in place, time, consanguinity, or connection; as, distant times; distant relatives.,
D as in Distant (a.) Reserved or repelling in manners; cold; not cordial; somewhat haughty; as, a distant manner.,
D as in Distant (a.) Indistinct; faint; obscure, as from distance.,
D as in Distant (a.) Not conformable; discrepant; repugnant; as, a practice so widely distant from Christianity.,
D as in Distantial (a.) Distant.,
D as in Distantly (adv.) At a distance; remotely; with reserve.,
D as in Distaste (n.) Aversion of the taste; dislike, as of food or drink; disrelish.,
D as in Distaste (n.) Discomfort; uneasiness.,
D as in Distaste (n.) Alienation of affection; displeasure; anger.,
D as in Distasted (imp. & p. p.) of Distaste,
D as in Distasting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Distaste,
D as in Distaste (v. t.) Not to have relish or taste for; to disrelish; to loathe; to dislike.,
D as in Distaste (v. t.) To offend; to disgust; to displease.,
D as in Distaste (v. t.) To deprive of taste or relish; to make unsavory or distasteful.,
D as in Distaste (v. i.) To be distasteful; to taste ill or disagreeable.,
D as in Distasteful (a.) Unpleasant or disgusting to the taste; nauseous; loathsome.,
D as in Distasteful (a.) Offensive; displeasing to the feelings; disagreeable; as, a distasteful truth.,
D as in Distasteful (a.) Manifesting distaste or dislike; repulsive.,
D as in Distasteive (a.) Tending to excite distaste.,
D as in Distasteive (n.) That which excites distaste or aversion.,
D as in Distasture (n.) Something which excites distaste or disgust.,
D as in Distempered (imp. & p. p.) of Distemper,
D as in Distempering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Distemper,
D as in Distemper (v. t.) To temper or mix unduly; to make disproportionate; to change the due proportions of.,
D as in Distemper (v. t.) To derange the functions of, whether bodily, mental, or spiritual; to disorder; to disease.,
D as in Distemper (v. t.) To deprive of temper or moderation; to disturb; to ruffle; to make disaffected, ill-humored, or malignant.,
D as in Distemper (v. t.) To intoxicate.,
D as in Distemper (v. t.) To mix (colors) in the way of distemper; as, to distemper colors with size.,
D as in Distemper (v. t.) An undue or unnatural temper, or disproportionate mixture of parts.,
D as in Distemper (v. t.) Severity of climate; extreme weather, whether hot or cold.,
D as in Distemper (v. t.) A morbid state of the animal system; indisposition; malady; disorder; -- at present chiefly applied to diseases of brutes; as, a distemper in dogs; the horse distemper; the horn distemper in cattle.,
D as in Distemper (v. t.) Morbid temper of the mind; undue predominance of a passion or appetite; mental derangement; bad temper; ill humor.,
D as in Distemper (v. t.) Political disorder; tumult.,
D as in Distemper (v. t.) A preparation of opaque or body colors, in which the pigments are tempered or diluted with weak glue or size (cf. Tempera) instead of oil, usually for scene painting, or for walls and ceilings of rooms.,
D as in Distemper (v. t.) A painting done with this preparation.,
D as in Distemperance (n.) Distemperature.,
D as in Distemperate (a.) Immoderate.,
D as in Distemperate (a.) Diseased; disordered.,
D as in Distemperately (adv.) Unduly.,
D as in Distemperature (n.) Bad temperature; intemperateness; excess of heat or cold, or of other qualities; as, the distemperature of the air.,
D as in Distemperature (n.) Disorder; confusion.,
D as in Distemperature (n.) Disorder of body; slight illness; distemper.,
D as in Distemperature (n.) Perturbation of mind; mental uneasiness.,
D as in Distemperment (n.) Distempered state; distemperature.,
D as in Distended (imp. & p. p.) of Distend,
D as in Distending (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Distend,
D as in Distend (v. t.) To extend in some one direction; to lengthen out; to stretch.,
D as in Distend (v. t.) To stretch out or extend in all directions; to dilate; to enlarge, as by elasticity of parts; to inflate so as to produce tension; to cause to swell; as, to distend a bladder, the stomach, etc.,
D as in Distend (v. i.) To become expanded or inflated; to swell.,
D as in Distensibility (n.) The quality or capacity of being distensible.,
D as in Distensible (a.) Capable of being distended or dilated.,
D as in Distension (n.) Same as Distention.,
D as in Distensive (a.) Distending, or capable of being distended.,
D as in Distent (a.) Distended.,
D as in Distent (n.) Breadth.,
D as in Distention (n.) The act of distending; the act of stretching in breadth or in all directions; the state of being Distended; as, the distention of the lungs.,
D as in Distention (n.) Breadth; extent or space occupied by the thing distended.,
D as in Dister (v. t.) To banish or drive from a country.,
D as in Disterminate (a.) Separated by bounds.,
D as in Distermination (n.) Separation by bounds.,
D as in Disthene (n.) Cyanite or kyanite; -- so called in allusion to its unequal hardness in two different directions. See Cyanite.,
D as in Disthrone (v. t.) To dethrone.,
D as in Disthronize (v. t.) To dethrone.,
D as in Distich (n.) A couple of verses or poetic lines making complete sense; an epigram of two verses.,
D as in Distich (n.) Alt. of Distichous,
D as in Distichous (n.) Disposed in two vertical rows; two-ranked.,
D as in Distichously (adv.) In a distichous manner.,
D as in Distil (v. t. & i.) See Distill.,
D as in Distilled (imp. & p. p.) of Distill,
D as in Distilling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Distill,
D as in Distill (n. & v) To drop; to fall in drops; to trickle.,
D as in Distill (n. & v) To flow gently, or in a small stream.,
D as in Distill (n. & v) To practice the art of distillation.,
D as in Distill (v. t.) To let fall or send down in drops.,
D as in Distill (v. t.) To obtain by distillation; to extract by distillation, as spirits, essential oil, etc.; to rectify; as, to distill brandy from wine; to distill alcoholic spirits from grain; to distill essential oils from flowers, etc.; to distill fresh water from sea water.,
D as in Distill (v. t.) To subject to distillation; as, to distill molasses in making rum; to distill barley, rye, corn, etc.,
D as in Distill (v. t.) To dissolve or melt.,
D as in Distillable (a.) Capable of being distilled; especially, capable of being distilled without chemical change or decomposition; as, alcohol is distillable; olive oil is not distillable.,
D as in Distillate (n.) The product of distillation; as, the distillate from molasses.,
D as in Distillation (n.) The act of falling in drops, or the act of pouring out in drops.,
D as in Distillation (n.) That which falls in drops.,
D as in Distillation (n.) The separation of the volatile parts of a substance from the more fixed; specifically, the operation of driving off gas or vapor from volatile liquids or solids, by heat in a retort or still, and the condensation of the products as far as possible by a cool receiver, alembic, or condenser; rectification; vaporization; condensation; as, the distillation of illuminating gas and coal, of alcohol from sour mash, or of boric acid in steam.,
D as in Distillation (n.) The substance extracted by distilling.,
D as in Distillatory (a.) Belonging to, or used in, distilling; as, distillatory vessels.,
D as in Distillatory (n.) A distillatory apparatus; a still.,
D as in Distiller (n.) One who distills; esp., one who extracts alcoholic liquors by distillation.,
D as in Distiller (n.) The condenser of a distilling apparatus.,
D as in Distilleries (pl. ) of Distillery,
D as in Distillery (n.) The building and works where distilling, esp. of alcoholic liquors, is carried on.,
D as in Distillery (n.) The act of distilling spirits.,
D as in Distillment (n.) Distillation; the substance obtained by distillation.,
D as in Distinct (a.) Distinguished; having the difference marked; separated by a visible sign; marked out; specified.,
D as in Distinct (a.) Marked; variegated.,
D as in Distinct (a.) Separate in place; not conjunct; not united by growth or otherwise; -- with from.,
D as in Distinct (a.) Not identical; different; individual.,
D as in Distinct (a.) So separated as not to be confounded with any other thing; not liable to be misunderstood; not confused; well-defined; clear; as, we have a distinct or indistinct view of a prospect.,
D as in Distinct (v. t.) To distinguish.,
D as in Distinction (n.) A marking off by visible signs; separation into parts; division.,
D as in Distinction (n.) The act of distinguishing or denoting the differences between objects, or the qualities by which one is known from others; exercise of discernment; discrimination.,
D as in Distinction (n.) That which distinguishes one thing from another; distinguishing quality; sharply defined difference; as, the distinction between real and apparent good.,
D as in Distinction (n.) Estimation of difference; regard to differences or distinguishing circumstance.,
D as in Distinction (n.) Conspicuous station; eminence; superiority; honorable estimation; as, a man of distinction.,
D as in Distinctive (a.) Marking or expressing distinction or difference; distinguishing; characteristic; peculiar.,
D as in Distinctive (a.) Having the power to distinguish and discern; discriminating.,
D as in Distinctively (adv.) With distinction; plainly.,
D as in Distinctiveness (n.) State of being distinctive.,
D as in Distinctly (adv.) With distinctness; not confusedly; without the blending of one part or thing another; clearly; plainly; as, to see distinctly.,
D as in Distinctly (adv.) With meaning; significantly.,
D as in Distinctness (n.) The quality or state of being distinct; a separation or difference that prevents confusion of parts or things.,
D as in Distinctness (n.) Nice discrimination; hence, clearness; precision; as, he stated his arguments with great distinctness.,
D as in Distincture (n.) Distinctness.,
D as in Distinguished (imp. & p. p.) of Distinguish,
D as in Distinguishing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Distinguish,
D as in Distinguish (v. t.) Not set apart from others by visible marks; to make distinctive or discernible by exhibiting differences; to mark off by some characteristic.,
D as in Distinguish (v. t.) To separate by definition of terms or logical division of a subject with regard to difference; as, to distinguish sounds into high and low.,
D as in Distinguish (v. t.) To recognize or discern by marks, signs, or characteristic quality or qualities; to know and discriminate (anything) from other things with which it might be confounded; as, to distinguish the sound of a drum.,
D as in Distinguish (v. t.) To constitute a difference; to make to differ.,
D as in Distinguish (v. t.) To separate from others by a mark of honor; to make eminent or known; to confer distinction upon; -- with by or for.,
D as in Distinguish (v. i.) To make distinctions; to perceive the difference; to exercise discrimination; -- with between; as, a judge distinguishes between cases apparently similar, but differing in principle.,
D as in Distinguish (v. i.) To become distinguished or distinctive; to make one's self or itself discernible.,
D as in Distinguishable (a.) Capable of being distinguished; separable; divisible; discernible; capable of recognition; as, a tree at a distance is distinguishable from a shrub.,
D as in Distinguishable (a.) Worthy of note or special regard.,
D as in Distinguishableness (n.) The quality of being distinguishable.,
D as in Distinguishably (adv.) So as to be distinguished.,
D as in Distinguished (a.) Marked; special.,
D as in Distinguished (a.) Separated from others by distinct difference; having, or indicating, superiority; eminent or known; illustrious; -- applied to persons and deeds.,
D as in Distinguishedly (adv.) In a distinguished manner.,
D as in Distinguisher (n.) One who, or that which, distinguishes or separates one thing from another by marks of diversity.,
D as in Distinguisher (n.) One who discerns accurately the difference of things; a nice or judicious observer.,
D as in Distinguishing (a.) Constituting difference, or distinction from everything else; distinctive; peculiar; characteristic.,
D as in Distinguishingly (adv.) With distinction; with some mark of preference.,
D as in Distinguishment (n.) Observation of difference; distinction.,
D as in Distitle (v. t.) To deprive of title or right.,
D as in Distoma (n.) A genus of parasitic, trematode worms, having two suckers for attaching themselves to the part they infest. See 1st Fluke, 2.,
D as in Distort (a.) Distorted; misshapen.,
D as in Distorted (imp. & p. p.) of Distort,
D as in Distorting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Distort,
D as in Distort (v. t.) To twist of natural or regular shape; to twist aside physically; as, to distort the limbs, or the body.,
D as in Distort (v. t.) To force or put out of the true posture or direction; to twist aside mentally or morally.,
D as in Distort (v. t.) To wrest from the true meaning; to pervert; as, to distort passages of Scripture, or their meaning.,
D as in Distorter (n.) One who, or that which, distorts.,
D as in Distortion (n.) The act of distorting, or twisting out of natural or regular shape; a twisting or writhing motion; as, the distortions of the face or body.,
D as in Distortion (n.) A wresting from the true meaning.,
D as in Distortion (n.) The state of being distorted, or twisted out of shape or out of true position; crookedness; perversion.,
D as in Distortion (n.) An unnatural deviation of shape or position of any part of the body producing visible deformity.,
D as in Distortive (a.) Causing distortion.,
D as in Distract (a.) Separated; drawn asunder.,
D as in Distract (a.) Insane; mad.,
D as in Distracted (imp. & p. p.) of Distract,
D as in Distraught (p. p.) of Distract,
D as in Distracting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Distract,
D as in Distract (v. t.) To draw apart or away; to divide; to disjoin.,
D as in Distract (v. t.) To draw (the sight, mind, or attention) in different directions; to perplex; to confuse; as, to distract the eye; to distract the attention.,
D as in Distract (v. t.) To agitate by conflicting passions, or by a variety of motives or of cares; to confound; to harass.,
D as in Distract (v. t.) To unsettle the reason of; to render insane; to craze; to madden; -- most frequently used in the participle, distracted.,
D as in Distracted (a.) Mentally disordered; unsettled; mad.,
D as in Distractedly (adv.) Disjointedly; madly.,
D as in Distractedness (n.) A state of being distracted; distraction.,
D as in Distracter (n.) One who, or that which, distracts away.,
D as in Distractful (a.) Distracting.,
D as in Distractible (a.) Capable of being drawn aside or distracted.,
D as in Distractile (a.) Tending or serving to draw apart.,
D as in Distracting (a.) Tending or serving to distract.,
D as in Distraction (n.) The act of distracting; a drawing apart; separation.,
D as in Distraction (n.) That which diverts attention; a diversion.,
D as in Distraction (n.) A diversity of direction; detachment.,
D as in Distraction (n.) State in which the attention is called in different ways; confusion; perplexity.,
D as in Distraction (n.) Confusion of affairs; tumult; disorder; as, political distractions.,
D as in Distraction (n.) Agitation from violent emotions; perturbation of mind; despair.,
D as in Distraction (n.) Derangement of the mind; madness.,
D as in Distractious (a.) Distractive.,
D as in Distractive (a.) Causing perplexity; distracting.,
D as in Distrained (imp. & p. p.) of Distrain,
D as in Distraining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Distrain,
D as in Distrain (v. t.) To press heavily upon; to bear down upon with violence; hence, to constrain or compel; to bind; to distress, torment, or afflict.,
D as in Distrain (v. t.) To rend; to tear.,
D as in Distrain (v. t.) To seize, as a pledge or indemnification; to take possession of as security for nonpayment of rent, the reparation of an injury done, etc.; to take by distress; as, to distrain goods for rent, or of an amercement.,
D as in Distrain (v. t.) To subject to distress; to coerce; as, to distrain a person by his goods and chattels.,
D as in Distrain (v. i.) To levy a distress.,
D as in Distrainable (a.) Capable of being, or liable to be, distrained.,
D as in Distrainer (n.) Same as Distrainor.,
D as in Distrainor (n.) One who distrains; the party distraining goods or chattels.,
D as in Distraint (n.) The act or proceeding of seizing personal property by distress.,
D as in Distrait (a.) Absent-minded; lost in thought; abstracted.,
D as in Distraught (a.) Torn asunder; separated.,
D as in Distraught (a.) Distracted; perplexed.,
D as in Distraughted (a.) Distracted.,
D as in Distream (v. i.) To flow.,
D as in Distress (n.) Extreme pain or suffering; anguish of body or mind; as, to suffer distress from the gout, or from the loss of friends.,
D as in Distress (n.) That which occasions suffering; painful situation; misfortune; affliction; misery.,
D as in Distress (n.) A state of danger or necessity; as, a ship in distress, from leaking, loss of spars, want of provisions or water, etc.,
D as in Distress (n.) The act of distraining; the taking of a personal chattel out of the possession of a wrongdoer, by way of pledge for redress of an injury, or for the performance of a duty, as for nonpayment of rent or taxes, or for injury done by cattle, etc.,
D as in Distress (n.) The thing taken by distraining; that which is seized to procure satisfaction.,
D as in Distressed (imp. & p. p.) of Distress,
D as in Distressing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Distress,
D as in Distress (n.) To cause pain or anguish to; to pain; to oppress with calamity; to afflict; to harass; to make miserable.,
D as in Distress (n.) To compel by pain or suffering.,
D as in Distress (n.) To seize for debt; to distrain.,
D as in Distressedness (n.) A state of being distressed or greatly pained.,
D as in Distressful (a.) Full of distress; causing, indicating, or attended with, distress; as, a distressful situation.,
D as in Distressing (a.) Causing distress; painful; unpleasant.,
D as in Distressing (adv.) In a distressing manner.,
D as in Distributable (a.) Capable of being distributed.,
D as in Distributary (a.) Tending to distribute or be distributed; that distributes; distributive.,
D as in Distributed (imp. & p. p.) of Distribute,
D as in Distributing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Distribute,
D as in Distribute (v. t.) To divide among several or many; to deal out; to apportion; to allot.,
D as in Distribute (v. t.) To dispense; to administer; as, to distribute justice.,
D as in Distribute (v. t.) To divide or separate, as into classes, orders, kinds, or species; to classify; to assort, as specimens, letters, etc.,
D as in Distribute (v. t.) To separate (type which has been used) and return it to the proper boxes in the cases.,
D as in Distribute (v. t.) To spread (ink) evenly, as upon a roller or a table.,
D as in Distribute (v. t.) To employ (a term) in its whole extent; to take as universal in one premise.,
D as in Distribute (v. i.) To make distribution.,
D as in Distributer (n.) One who, or that which, distributes or deals out anything; a dispenser.,
D as in Distributing (a.) That distributes; dealing out.,
D as in Distribution (n.) The act of distributing or dispensing; the act of dividing or apportioning among several or many; apportionment; as, the distribution of an estate among heirs or children.,
D as in Distribution (n.) Separation into parts or classes; arrangement of anything into parts; disposition; classification.,
D as in Distribution (n.) That which is distributed.,
D as in Distribution (n.) A resolving a whole into its parts.,
D as in Distribution (n.) The sorting of types and placing them in their proper boxes in the cases.,
D as in Distribution (n.) The steps or operations by which steam is supplied to and withdrawn from the cylinder at each stroke of the piston; viz., admission, suppression or cutting off, release or exhaust, and compression of exhaust steam prior to the next admission.,
D as in Distributional (a.) Of or pertaining to distribution.,
D as in Distributionist (n.) A distributer.,
D as in Distributive (a.) Tending to distribute; serving to divide and assign in portions; dealing to each his proper share.,
D as in Distributive (a.) Assigning the species of a general term.,
D as in Distributive (a.) Expressing separation; denoting a taking singly, not collectively; as, a distributive adjective or pronoun, such as each, either, every; a distributive numeral, as (Latin) bini (two by two).,
D as in Distributive (n.) A distributive adjective or pronoun; also, a distributive numeral.,
D as in Distributively (adv.) By distribution; singly; not collectively; in a distributive manner.,
D as in Distributiveness (n.) Quality of being distributive.,
D as in District (a.) Rigorous; stringent; harsh.,
D as in District (n.) The territory within which the lord has the power of coercing and punishing.,
D as in District (n.) A division of territory; a defined portion of a state, town, or city, etc., made for administrative, electoral, or other purposes; as, a congressional district, judicial district, land district, school district, etc.,
D as in District (n.) Any portion of territory of undefined extent; a region; a country; a tract.,
D as in Districted (imp. & p. p.) of District,
D as in Districting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of District,
D as in District (v. t.) To divide into districts or limited portions of territory; as, legislatures district States for the choice of representatives.,
D as in Distriction (n.) Sudden display; flash; glitter.,
D as in Districtly (adv.) Strictly.,
D as in Distringas (n.) A writ commanding the sheriff to distrain a person by his goods or chattels, to compel a compliance with something required of him.,
D as in Distrouble (v. t.) To trouble.,
D as in Distrusted (imp. & p. p.) of Distrust,
D as in Distrusting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Distrust,
D as in Distrust (v. t.) To feel absence of trust in; not to confide in or rely upon; to deem of questionable sufficiency or reality; to doubt; to be suspicious of; to mistrust.,
D as in Distrust (n.) Doubt of sufficiency, reality, or sincerity; want of confidence, faith, or reliance; as, distrust of one's power, authority, will, purposes, schemes, etc.,
D as in Distrust (n.) Suspicion of evil designs.,
D as in Distrust (n.) State of being suspected; loss of trust.,
D as in Distruster (n.) One who distrusts.,
D as in Distrustful (a.) Not confident; diffident; wanting confidence or thrust; modest; as, distrustful of ourselves, of one's powers.,
D as in Distrustful (a.) Apt to distrust; suspicious; mistrustful.,
D as in Distrusting (a.) That distrusts; suspicious; lacking confidence in.,
D as in Distrustless (a.) Free from distrust.,
D as in Distune (v. t.) To put out of tune.,
D as in Disturbed (imp. & p. p.) of Disturb,
D as in Disturbing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disturb,
D as in Disturb (v. t.) To throw into disorder or confusion; to derange; to interrupt the settled state of; to excite from a state of rest.,
D as in Disturb (v. t.) To agitate the mind of; to deprive of tranquillity; to disquiet; to render uneasy; as, a person is disturbed by receiving an insult, or his mind is disturbed by envy.,
D as in Disturb (v. t.) To turn from a regular or designed course.,
D as in Disturb (n.) Disturbance.,
D as in Disturbance (n.) An interruption of a state of peace or quiet; derangement of the regular course of things; disquiet; disorder; as, a disturbance of religious exercises; a disturbance of the galvanic current.,
D as in Disturbance (n.) Confusion of the mind; agitation of the feelings; perplexity; uneasiness.,
D as in Disturbance (n.) Violent agitation in the body politic; public commotion; tumult.,
D as in Disturbance (n.) The hindering or disquieting of a person in the lawful and peaceable enjoyment of his right; the interruption of a right; as, the disturbance of a franchise, of common, of ways, and the like.,
D as in Disturbation (n.) Act of disturbing; disturbance.,
D as in Disturber (n.) One who, or that which, disturbs of disquiets; a violator of peace; a troubler.,
D as in Disturber (n.) One who interrupts or incommodes another in the peaceable enjoyment of his right.,
D as in Disturn (v. t.) To turn aside.,
D as in Distyle (a.) Having two columns in front; -- said of a temple, portico, or the like.,
D as in Disulphate (n.) A salt of disulphuric or pyrosulphuric acid; a pyrosulphate.,
D as in Disulphate (n.) An acid salt of sulphuric acid, having only one equivalent of base to two of the acid.,
D as in Disulphide (n.) A binary compound of sulphur containing two atoms of sulphur in each molecule; -- formerly called disulphuret. Cf. Bisulphide.,
D as in Disulphuret (n.) See Disulphide.,
D as in Disulphuric (a.) Applied to an acid having in each molecule two atoms of sulphur in the higher state of oxidation.,
D as in Disuniform (a.) Not uniform.,
D as in Disunion (n.) The termination of union; separation; disjunction; as, the disunion of the body and the soul.,
D as in Disunion (n.) A breach of concord and its effect; alienation.,
D as in Disunion (n.) The termination or disruption of the union of the States forming the United States.,
D as in Disunionist (n.) An advocate of disunion, specifically, of disunion of the United States.,
D as in Disunited (imp. & p. p.) of Disunite,
D as in Disuniting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disunite,
D as in Disunite (v. t.) To destroy the union of; to divide; to part; to sever; to disjoin; to sunder; to separate; as, to disunite particles of matter.,
D as in Disunite (v. t.) To alienate in spirit; to break the concord of.,
D as in Disunite (v. i.) To part; to fall asunder; to become separated.,
D as in Disuniter (n.) One who, or that which, disjoins or causes disunion.,
D as in Disunity (n.) A state of separation or disunion; want of unity.,
D as in Disusage (n.) Gradual cessation of use or custom; neglect of use; disuse.,
D as in Disused (imp. & p. p.) of Disuse,
D as in Disusing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Disuse,
D as in Disuse (v. t.) To cease to use; to discontinue the practice of.,
D as in Disuse (v. t.) To disaccustom; -- with to or from; as, disused to toil.,
D as in Disuse (n.) Cessation of use, practice, or exercise; inusitation; desuetude; as, the limbs lose their strength by disuse.,
D as in Disutilize (v. t.) To deprive of utility; to render useless.,
D as in Disvaluation (n.) Disesteem; depreciation; disrepute.,
D as in Disvalue (v. t.) To undervalue; to depreciate.,
D as in Disvalue (n.) Disesteem; disregard.,
D as in Disvantageous (a.) Disadvantageous.,
D as in Disvelop (v. t.) To develop.,
D as in Disventure (n.) A disadventure.,
D as in Disvouch (v. t.) To discredit; to contradict.,
D as in Diswarn (v. t.) To dissuade from by previous warning.,
D as in Diswitted (a.) Deprived of wits or understanding; distracted.,
D as in Diswont (v. t.) To deprive of wonted usage; to disaccustom.,
D as in Disworkmanship (n.) Bad workmanship.,
D as in Disworship (v. t.) To refuse to worship; to treat as unworthy.,
D as in Disworship (n.) A deprivation of honor; a cause of disgrace; a discredit.,
D as in Disworth (v. t.) To deprive of worth; to degrade.,
D as in Disyoke (v. t.) To unyoke; to free from a yoke; to disjoin.,
D as in Dit (n.) A word; a decree.,
D as in Dit (n.) A ditty; a song.,
D as in Dit (v. t.) To close up.,
D as in Ditation (n.) The act of making rich; enrichment.,
D as in Ditches (pl. ) of Ditch,
D as in Ditch (n.) A trench made in the earth by digging, particularly a trench for draining wet land, for guarding or fencing inclosures, or for preventing an approach to a town or fortress. In the latter sense, it is called also a moat or a fosse.,
D as in Ditch (n.) Any long, narrow receptacle for water on the surface of the earth.,
D as in Ditched (imp. & p. p.) of Ditch,
D as in Ditching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ditch,
D as in Ditch (v. t.) To dig a ditch or ditches in; to drain by a ditch or ditches; as, to ditch moist land.,
D as in Ditch (v. t.) To surround with a ditch.,
D as in Ditch (v. t.) To throw into a ditch; as, the engine was ditched and turned on its side.,
D as in Ditch (v. i.) To dig a ditch or ditches.,
D as in Ditcher (n.) One who digs ditches.,
D as in Dite (v. t.) To prepare for action or use; to make ready; to dight.,
D as in Diterebene (n.) See Colophene.,
D as in Dithecal (a.) Alt. of Dithecous,
D as in Dithecous (a.) Having two thecae, cells, or compartments.,
D as in Ditheism (n.) The doctrine of those who maintain the existence of two gods or of two original principles (as in Manicheism), one good and one evil; dualism.,
D as in Ditheist (n.) One who holds the doctrine of ditheism; a dualist.,
D as in Ditheistic (a.) Alt. of Ditheistical,
D as in Ditheistical (a.) Pertaining to ditheism; dualistic.,
D as in Dithionic (a.) Containing two equivalents of sulphur; as, dithionic acid.,
D as in Dithyramb (n.) A kind of lyric poetry in honor of Bacchus, usually sung by a band of revelers to a flute accompaniment; hence, in general, a poem written in a wild irregular strain.,
D as in Dithyrambic (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, a dithyramb; wild and boisterous.,
D as in Dithyrambic (n.) A dithyrambic poem; a dithyramb.,
D as in Dithyrambus (n.) See Dithyramb.,
D as in Dition (n.) Dominion; rule.,
D as in Ditionary (a.) Under rule; subject; tributary.,
D as in Ditionary (n.) A subject; a tributary.,
D as in Ditokous (a.) Having two kinds of young, as certain annelids.,
D as in Ditokous (a.) Producing only two eggs for a clutch, as certain birds do.,
D as in Ditolyl (n.) A white, crystalline, aromatic hydrocarbon, C14H14, consisting of two radicals or residues of toluene.,
D as in Ditone (n.) The Greek major third, which comprehend two major tones (the modern major third contains one major and one minor whole tone).,
D as in Ditrichotomous (a.) Divided into twos or threes.,
D as in Ditrichotomous (a.) Dividing into double or treble ramifications; -- said of a leaf or stem.,
D as in Ditrochean (a.) Containing two trochees.,
D as in Ditrochee (n.) A double trochee; a foot made up of two trochees.,
D as in Ditroite (n.) An igneous rock composed of orthoclase, elaeolite, and sodalite.,
D as in Ditt (n.) See Dit, n., 2.,
D as in Dittander (n.) A kind of peppergrass (Lepidium latifolium).,
D as in Dittany (n.) A plant of the Mint family (Origanum Dictamnus), a native of Crete.,
D as in Dittany (n.) The Dictamnus Fraxinella. See Dictamnus.,
D as in Dittany (n.) In America, the Cunila Mariana, a fragrant herb of the Mint family.,
D as in Dittied (a.) Set, sung, or composed as a ditty; -- usually in composition.,
D as in Dittos (pl. ) of Ditto,
D as in Ditto (n.) The aforesaid thing; the same (as before). Often contracted to do., or to two "turned commas" ("), or small marks. Used in bills, books of account, tables of names, etc., to save repetition.,
D as in Ditto (adv.) As before, or aforesaid; in the same manner; also.,
D as in Dittology (n.) A double reading, or twofold interpretation, as of a Scripture text.,
D as in Ditties (pl. ) of Ditty,
D as in Ditty (v. t.) A saying or utterance; especially, one that is short and frequently repeated; a theme.,
D as in Ditty (v. t.) A song; a lay; a little poem intended to be sung.,
D as in Ditty (v. i.) To sing; to warble a little tune.,
D as in Ditty-bag (n.) A sailor's small bag to hold thread, needles, tape, etc.; -- also called sailor's housewife.,
D as in Ditty-box (n.) A small box to hold a sailor's thread, needless, comb, etc.,
D as in Diureide (n.) One of a series of complex nitrogenous substances regarded as containing two molecules of urea or their radicals, as uric acid or allantoin. Cf. Ureide.,
D as in Diuresis (n.) Free excretion of urine.,
D as in Diuretic (a.) Tending to increase the secretion and discharge of urine.,
D as in Diuretic (n.) A medicine with diuretic properties.,
D as in Diuretical (a.) Diuretic.,
D as in Diureticalness (n.) The quality of being diuretical; diuretic property.,
D as in Diurna (n. pl.) A division of Lepidoptera, including the butterflies; -- so called because they fly only in the daytime.,
D as in Diurnal (a.) Relating to the daytime; belonging to the period of daylight, distinguished from the night; -- opposed to nocturnal; as, diurnal heat; diurnal hours.,
D as in Diurnal (a.) Daily; recurring every day; performed in a day; going through its changes in a day; constituting the measure of a day; as, a diurnal fever; a diurnal task; diurnal aberration, or diurnal parallax; the diurnal revolution of the earth.,
D as in Diurnal (a.) Opening during the day, and closing at night; -- said of flowers or leaves.,
D as in Diurnal (a.) Active by day; -- applied especially to the eagles and hawks among raptorial birds, and to butterflies (Diurna) among insects.,
D as in Diurnal (a.) A daybook; a journal.,
D as in Diurnal (a.) A small volume containing the daily service for the "little hours," viz., prime, tierce, sext, nones, vespers, and compline.,
D as in Diurnal (a.) A diurnal bird or insect.,
D as in Diurnalist (n.) A journalist.,
D as in Diurnally (adv.) Daily; every day.,
D as in Diurnalness (n.) The quality of being diurnal.,
D as in Diurnation (n.) Continuance during the day.,
D as in Diurnation (n.) The condition of sleeping or becoming dormant by day, as is the case of the bats.,
D as in Diuturnal (a.) Of long continuance; lasting.,
D as in Diuturnity (n.) Long duration; lastingness.,
D as in Divagation (n.) A wandering about or going astray; digression.,
D as in Divalent (a.) Having two units of combining power; bivalent. Cf. Valence.,
D as in Divan (n.) A book; esp., a collection of poems written by one author; as, the divan of Hafiz.,
D as in Divan (n.) In Turkey and other Oriental countries: A council of state; a royal court. Also used by the poets for a grand deliberative council or assembly.,
D as in Divan (n.) A chief officer of state.,
D as in Divan (n.) A saloon or hall where a council is held, in Oriental countries, the state reception room in places, and in the houses of the richer citizens. Cushions on the floor or on benches are ranged round the room.,
D as in Divan (n.) A cushioned seat, or a large, low sofa or couch; especially, one fixed to its place, and not movable.,
D as in Divan (n.) A coffee and smoking saloon.,
D as in Divaricated (imp. & p. p.) of Divaricate,
D as in Divaricating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Divaricate,
D as in Divaricate (v. i.) To part into two branches; to become bifid; to fork.,
D as in Divaricate (v. i.) To diverge; to be divaricate.,
D as in Divaricate (v. t.) To divide into two branches; to cause to branch apart.,
D as in Divaricate (a.) Diverging; spreading asunder; widely diverging.,
D as in Divaricate (a.) Forking and diverging; widely diverging; as the branches of a tree, or as lines of sculpture, or color markings on animals, etc.,
D as in Divaricately (adv.) With divarication.,
D as in Divarication (n.) A separation into two parts or branches; a forking; a divergence.,
D as in Divarication (n.) An ambiguity of meaning; a disagreement of difference in opinion.,
D as in Divarication (n.) A divergence of lines of color sculpture, or of fibers at different angles.,
D as in Divaricator (n.) One of the muscles which open the shell of brachiopods; a cardinal muscle. See Illust. of Brachiopoda.,
D as in Divast (a.) Devastated; laid waste.,
D as in Dived (imp. & p. p.) of Dive,
D as in Dove () of Dive,
D as in Diving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dive,
D as in Dive (v. i.) To plunge into water head foremost; to thrust the body under, or deeply into, water or other fluid.,
D as in Dive (v. i.) Fig.: To plunge or to go deeply into any subject, question, business, etc.; to penetrate; to explore.,
D as in Dive (v. t.) To plunge (a person or thing) into water; to dip; to duck.,
D as in Dive (v. t.) To explore by diving; to plunge into.,
D as in Dive (n.) A plunge headforemost into water, the act of one who dives, literally or figuratively.,
D as in Dive (n.) A place of low resort.,
D as in Divedapper (n.) A water fowl; the didapper. See Dabchick.,
D as in Divel (v. t.) To rend apart.,
D as in Divellent (a.) Drawing asunder.,
D as in Divellicate (v. t.) To pull in pieces.,
D as in Diver (n.) One who, or that which, dives.,
D as in Diver (n.) Fig.: One who goes deeply into a subject, study, or business.,
D as in Diver (n.) Any bird of certain genera, as Urinator (formerly Colymbus), or the allied genus Colymbus, or Podiceps, remarkable for their agility in diving.,
D as in Diverb (n.) A saying in which two members of the sentence are contrasted; an antithetical proverb.,
D as in Diverberate (v. t.) To strike or sound through.,
D as in Diverberation (n.) A sounding through.,
D as in Diverged (imp. & p. p.) of Diverge,
D as in Diverging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Diverge,
D as in Diverge (v. i.) To extend from a common point in different directions; to tend from one point and recede from each other; to tend to spread apart; to turn aside or deviate (as from a given direction); -- opposed to converge; as, rays of light diverge as they proceed from the sun.,
D as in Diverge (v. i.) To differ from a typical form; to vary from a normal condition; to dissent from a creed or position generally held or taken.,
D as in Divergement (n.) Divergence.,
D as in Divergence (n.) Alt. of Divergency,
D as in Divergency (n.) A receding from each other in moving from a common center; the state of being divergent; as, an angle is made by the divergence of straight lines.,
D as in Divergency (n.) Disagreement; difference.,
D as in Divergent (a.) Receding farther and farther from each other, as lines radiating from one point; deviating gradually from a given direction; -- opposed to convergent.,
D as in Divergent (a.) Causing divergence of rays; as, a divergent lens.,
D as in Divergent (a.) Fig.: Disagreeing from something given; differing; as, a divergent statement.,
D as in Diverging (a.) Tending in different directions from a common center; spreading apart; divergent.,
D as in Divergingly (adv.) In a diverging manner.,
D as in Divers (a.) Different in kind or species; diverse.,
D as in Divers (a.) Several; sundry; various; more than one, but not a great number; as, divers philosophers. Also used substantively or pronominally.,
D as in Diverse (a.) Different; unlike; dissimilar; distinct; separate.,
D as in Diverse (a.) Capable of various forms; multiform.,
D as in Diverse (adv.) In different directions; diversely.,
D as in Diverse (v. i.) To turn aside.,
D as in Diversely (adv.) In different ways; differently; variously.,
D as in Diversely (adv.) In different directions; to different points.,
D as in Diverseness (n.) The quality of being diverse.,
D as in Diversifiability (n.) The quality or capacity of being diversifiable.,
D as in Diversifiable (a.) Capable of being diversified or varied.,
D as in Diversification (n.) The act of making various, or of changing form or quality.,
D as in Diversification (n.) State of diversity or variation; variegation; modification; change; alternation.,
D as in Diversified (a.) Distinguished by various forms, or by a variety of aspects or objects; variegated; as, diversified scenery or landscape.,
D as in Diversifier (n.) One who, or that which, diversifies.,
D as in Diversiform (a.) Of a different form; of varied forms.,
D as in Diversified (imp. & p. p.) of Diversify,
D as in Diversifying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Diversify,
D as in Diversify (v. t.) To make diverse or various in form or quality; to give variety to; to variegate; to distinguish by numerous differences or aspects.,
D as in Diversiloquent (a.) Speaking in different ways.,
D as in Diversion (n.) The act of turning aside from any course, occupation, or object; as, the diversion of a stream from its channel; diversion of the mind from business.,
D as in Diversion (n.) That which diverts; that which turns or draws the mind from care or study, and thus relaxes and amuses; sport; play; pastime; as, the diversions of youth.,
D as in Diversion (n.) The act of drawing the attention and force of an enemy from the point where the principal attack is to be made; the attack, alarm, or feint which diverts.,
D as in Diversities (pl. ) of Diversity,
D as in Diversity (n.) A state of difference; dissimilitude; unlikeness.,
D as in Diversity (n.) Multiplicity of difference; multiformity; variety.,
D as in Diversity (n.) Variegation.,
D as in Diversivolent (a.) Desiring different things.,
D as in Diversory (a.) Serving or tending to divert; also, distinguishing.,
D as in Diversory (n.) A wayside inn.,
D as in Diverted (imp. & p. p.) of Divert,
D as in Diverting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Divert,
D as in Divert (v. t.) To turn aside; to turn off from any course or intended application; to deflect; as, to divert a river from its channel; to divert commerce from its usual course.,
D as in Divert (v. t.) To turn away from any occupation, business, or study; to cause to have lively and agreeable sensations; to amuse; to entertain; as, children are diverted with sports; men are diverted with works of wit and humor.,
D as in Divert (v. i.) To turn aside; to digress.,
D as in Diverter (n.) One who, or that which, diverts, turns off, or pleases.,
D as in Divertible (a.) Capable of being diverted.,
D as in Diverticle (n.) A turning; a byway; a bypath.,
D as in Diverticle (n.) A diverticulum.,
D as in Diverticular (a.) Pertaining to a diverticulum.,
D as in Diverticula (pl. ) of Diverticulum,
D as in Diverticulum (n.) A blind tube branching out of a longer one.,
D as in -ti (pl. ) of Divertimento,
D as in Divertimento (n.) A light and pleasing composition.,
D as in Diverting (a.) Amusing; entertaining.,
D as in Divertise (v. t.) To divert; to entertain.,
D as in Divertisement (n.) Diversion; amusement; recreation.,
D as in Divertissement (n.) A short ballet, or other entertainment, between the acts of a play.,
D as in Divertive (a.) Tending to divert; diverting; amusing; interesting.,
D as in Dives (n.) The name popularly given to the rich man in our Lord's parable of the "Rich Man and Lazarus" (Luke xvi. 19-31). Hence, a name for a rich worldling.,
D as in Divested (imp. & p. p.) of Divest,
D as in Divesting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Divest,
D as in Divest (v. t.) To unclothe; to strip, as of clothes, arms, or equipage; -- opposed to invest.,
D as in Divest (v. t.) Fig.: To strip; to deprive; to dispossess; as, to divest one of his rights or privileges; to divest one's self of prejudices, passions, etc.,
D as in Divest (v. t.) See Devest.,
D as in Divestible (a.) Capable of being divested.,
D as in Divestiture (n.) The act of stripping, or depriving; the state of being divested; the deprivation, or surrender, of possession of property, rights, etc.,
D as in Divestment (n.) The act of divesting.,
D as in Divesture (n.) Divestiture.,
D as in Divet (n.) See Divot.,
D as in Dividable (a.) Capable of being divided; divisible.,
D as in Dividable (a.) Divided; separated; parted.,
D as in Dividant (a.) Different; distinct.,
D as in Divided (imp. & p. p.) of Divide,
D as in Dividing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Divide,
D as in Divide (v. t.) To part asunder (a whole); to sever into two or more parts or pieces; to sunder; to separate into parts.,
D as in Divide (v. t.) To cause to be separate; to keep apart by a partition, or by an imaginary line or limit; as, a wall divides two houses; a stream divides the towns.,
D as in Divide (v. t.) To make partition of among a number; to apportion, as profits of stock among proprietors; to give in shares; to distribute; to mete out; to share.,
D as in Divide (v. t.) To disunite in opinion or interest; to make discordant or hostile; to set at variance.,
D as in Divide (v. t.) To separate into two parts, in order to ascertain the votes for and against a measure; as, to divide a legislative house upon a question.,
D as in Divide (v. t.) To subject to arithmetical division.,
D as in Divide (v. t.) To separate into species; -- said of a genus or generic term.,
D as in Divide (v. t.) To mark divisions on; to graduate; as, to divide a sextant.,
D as in Divide (v. t.) To play or sing in a florid style, or with variations.,
D as in Divide (v. i.) To be separated; to part; to open; to go asunder.,
D as in Divide (v. i.) To cause separation; to disunite.,
D as in Divide (v. i.) To break friendship; to fall out.,
D as in Divide (v. i.) To have a share; to partake.,
D as in Divide (v. i.) To vote, as in the British Parliament, by the members separating themselves into two parties (as on opposite sides of the hall or in opposite lobbies), that is, the ayes dividing from the noes.,
D as in Divide (n.) A dividing ridge of land between the tributaries of two streams; a watershed.,
D as in Divided (a.) Parted; disunited; distributed.,
D as in Divided (a.) Cut into distinct parts, by incisions which reach the midrib; -- said of a leaf.,
D as in Dividedly (adv.) Separately; in a divided manner.,
D as in Dividend (n.) A sum of money to be divided and distributed; the share of a sum divided that falls to each individual; a distribute sum, share, or percentage; -- applied to the profits as appropriated among shareholders, and to assets as apportioned among creditors; as, the dividend of a bank, a railway corporation, or a bankrupt estate.,
D as in Dividend (n.) A number or quantity which is to be divided.,
D as in Divident (n.) Dividend; share.,
D as in Divider (n.) One who, or that which, divides; that which separates anything into parts.,
D as in Divider (n.) One who deals out to each his share.,
D as in Divider (n.) One who, or that which, causes division.,
D as in Divider (n.) An instrument for dividing lines, describing circles, etc., compasses. See Compasses.,
D as in Dividing (a.) That divides; separating; marking divisions; graduating.,
D as in Dividingly (adv.) By division.,
D as in Divi-divi (n.) A small tree of tropical America (Caesalpinia coriaria), whose legumes contain a large proportion of tannic and gallic acid, and are used by tanners and dyers.,
D as in Dividual (a.) Divided, shared, or participated in, in common with others.,
D as in Dividually (adv.) By dividing.,
D as in Dividuous (a.) Divided; dividual.,
D as in Divination (n.) The act of divining; a foreseeing or foretelling of future events; the pretended art discovering secret or future by preternatural means.,
D as in Divination (n.) An indication of what is future or secret; augury omen; conjectural presage; prediction.,
D as in Divinator (n.) One who practices or pretends to divination; a diviner.,
D as in Divinatory (a.) Professing, or relating to, divination.,
D as in Divine (a.) Of or belonging to God; as, divine perfections; the divine will.,
D as in Divine (a.) Proceeding from God; as, divine judgments.,
D as in Divine (a.) Appropriated to God, or celebrating his praise; religious; pious; holy; as, divine service; divine songs; divine worship.,
D as in Divine (a.) Pertaining to, or proceeding from, a deity; partaking of the nature of a god or the gods.,
D as in Divine (a.) Godlike; heavenly; excellent in the highest degree; supremely admirable; apparently above what is human. In this application, the word admits of comparison; as, the divinest mind. Sir J. Davies.,
D as in Divine (a.) Presageful; foreboding; prescient.,
D as in Divine (a.) Relating to divinity or theology.,
D as in Divine (a.) One skilled in divinity; a theologian.,
D as in Divine (a.) A minister of the gospel; a priest; a clergyman.,
D as in Divined (imp. & p. p.) of Divine,
D as in Divining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Divine,
D as in Divine (v. t.) To foresee or foreknow; to detect; to anticipate; to conjecture.,
D as in Divine (v. t.) To foretell; to predict; to presage.,
D as in Divine (v. t.) To render divine; to deify.,
D as in Divine (v. i.) To use or practice divination; to foretell by divination; to utter prognostications.,
D as in Divine (v. i.) To have or feel a presage or foreboding.,
D as in Divine (v. i.) To conjecture or guess; as, to divine rightly.,
D as in Divinely (adv.) In a divine or godlike manner; holily; admirably or excellently in a supreme degree.,
D as in Divinely (adv.) By the agency or influence of God.,
D as in Divinement (n.) Divination.,
D as in Divineness (n.) The quality of being divine; superhuman or supreme excellence.,
D as in Diviner (n.) One who professes divination; one who pretends to predict events, or to reveal occult things, by supernatural means.,
D as in Diviner (n.) A conjecture; a guesser; one who makes out occult things.,
D as in Divineress (n.) A woman who divines.,
D as in Diving (a.) That dives or is used or diving.,
D as in Divinify (v. t.) To render divine; to deify.,
D as in Divining (a.) That divines; for divining.,
D as in Diviningly (adv.) In a divining manner.,
D as in Divinistre (n.) A diviner.,
D as in Divinities (pl. ) of Divinity,
D as in Divinity (a.) The state of being divine; the nature or essence of God; deity; godhead.,
D as in Divinity (a.) The Deity; the Supreme Being; God.,
D as in Divinity (a.) A pretended deity of pagans; a false god.,
D as in Divinity (a.) A celestial being, inferior to the supreme God, but superior to man.,
D as in Divinity (a.) Something divine or superhuman; supernatural power or virtue; something which inspires awe.,
D as in Divinity (a.) The science of divine things; the science which treats of God, his laws and moral government, and the way of salvation; theology.,
D as in Divinization (n.) A making divine.,
D as in Divinize (v. t.) To invest with a divine character; to deify.,
D as in Divisibility (n.) The quality of being divisible; the property of bodies by which their parts are capable of separation.,
D as in Divisible (a.) Capable of being divided or separated.,
D as in Divisible (n.) A divisible substance.,
D as in Division (n.) The act or process of diving anything into parts, or the state of being so divided; separation.,
D as in Division (n.) That which divides or keeps apart; a partition.,
D as in Division (n.) The portion separated by the divining of a mass or body; a distinct segment or section.,
D as in Division (n.) Disunion; difference in opinion or feeling; discord; variance; alienation.,
D as in Division (n.) Difference of condition; state of distinction; distinction; contrast.,
D as in Division (n.) Separation of the members of a deliberative body, esp. of the Houses of Parliament, to ascertain the vote.,
D as in Division (n.) The process of finding how many times one number or quantity is contained in another; the reverse of multiplication; also, the rule by which the operation is performed.,
D as in Division (n.) The separation of a genus into its constituent species.,
D as in Division (n.) Two or more brigades under the command of a general officer.,
D as in Division (n.) Two companies of infantry maneuvering as one subdivision of a battalion.,
D as in Division (n.) One of the larger districts into which a country is divided for administering military affairs.,
D as in Division (n.) One of the groups into which a fleet is divided.,
D as in Division (n.) A course of notes so running into each other as to form one series or chain, to be sung in one breath to one syllable.,
D as in Division (n.) The distribution of a discourse into parts; a part so distinguished.,
D as in Division (n.) A grade or rank in classification; a portion of a tribe or of a class; or, in some recent authorities, equivalent to a subkingdom.,
D as in Divisional (a.) That divides; pertaining to, making, or noting, a division; as, a divisional line; a divisional general; a divisional surgeon of police.,
D as in Divisionally (adv.) So as to be divisional.,
D as in Divisionary (a.) Divisional.,
D as in Divisionor (n.) One who divides or makes division.,
D as in Divisive (a.) Indicating division or distribution.,
D as in Divisive (a.) Creating, or tending to create, division, separation, or difference.,
D as in Divisor (n.) The number by which the dividend is divided.,
D as in Divorce (n.) A legal dissolution of the marriage contract by a court or other body having competent authority. This is properly a divorce, and called, technically, divorce a vinculo matrimonii.,
D as in Divorce (n.) The separation of a married woman from the bed and board of her husband -- divorce a mensa et toro (/ thoro), "from bed board.",
D as in Divorce (n.) The decree or writing by which marriage is dissolved.,
D as in Divorce (n.) Separation; disunion of things closely united.,
D as in Divorce (n.) That which separates.,
D as in Divorced (imp. & p. p.) of Divorce,
D as in Divorcing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Divorce,
D as in Divorce (n.) To dissolve the marriage contract of, either wholly or partially; to separate by divorce.,
D as in Divorce (n.) To separate or disunite; to sunder.,
D as in Divorce (n.) To make away; to put away.,
D as in Divorceable (a.) Capable of being divorced.,
D as in Divorcee (n.) A person divorced.,
D as in Divorceless (a.) Incapable of being divorced or separated; free from divorce.,
D as in Divorcement (n.) Dissolution of the marriage tie; divorce; separation.,
D as in Divorcer (n.) The person or cause that produces or effects a divorce.,
D as in Divorcible (a.) Divorceable.,
D as in Divorcive (a.) Having power to divorce; tending to divorce.,
D as in Divot (n.) A thin, oblong turf used for covering cottages, and also for fuel.,
D as in Divulgate (a.) Published.,
D as in Divulgate (v. t.) To divulge.,
D as in Divulgater (n.) A divulger.,
D as in Divulgation (n.) The act of divulging or publishing.,
D as in Divulged (imp. & p. p.) of Divulge,
D as in Divulging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Divulge,
D as in Divulge (v. t.) To make public; to several or communicate to the public; to tell (a secret) so that it may become generally known; to disclose; -- said of that which had been confided as a secret, or had been before unknown; as, to divulge a secret.,
D as in Divulge (v. t.) To indicate publicly; to proclaim.,
D as in Divulge (v. t.) To impart; to communicate.,
D as in Divulge (v. i.) To become publicly known.,
D as in Divulsive (a.) Tending to pull asunder, tear, or rend; distracting.,
D as in Dixie (n.) A colloquial name for the Southern portion of the United States, esp. during the Civil War.,
D as in Dizened (imp. & p. p.) of Dizen,
D as in Dizening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dizen,
D as in Dizen (v. t.) To dress; to attire.,
D as in Dizen (v. t.) To dress gaudily; to overdress; to bedizen; to deck out.,
D as in Dizz (v. t.) To make dizzy; to astonish; to puzzle.,
D as in Dizzard (n.) A blockhead. [Obs.] [Written also dizard, and disard.],
D as in Dizzily (adv.) In a dizzy manner or state.,
D as in Dizziness (n.) Giddiness; a whirling sensation in the head; vertigo.,
D as in Dizzy (superl.) Having in the head a sensation of whirling, with a tendency to fall; vertiginous; giddy; hence, confused; indistinct.,
D as in Dizzy (superl.) Causing, or tending to cause, giddiness or vertigo.,
D as in Dizzy (superl.) Without distinct thought; unreflecting; thoughtless; heedless.,
D as in Dizzied (imp. & p. p.) of Dizzy,
D as in Dizzying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dizzy,
D as in Dizzy (v. t.) To make dizzy or giddy; to give the vertigo to; to confuse.,
D as in Djereed (n.) Alt. of Djerrid,
D as in Djerrid (n.) A blunt javelin used in military games in Moslem countries.,
D as in Djerrid (n.) A game played with it.,
D as in Jjinn (pl. ) of Djinnee,
D as in Djinns (pl. ) of Djinnee,
D as in Djinnee (n.) See Jinnee, Jinn.,
D as in Do. (n.) An abbreviation of Ditto.,
D as in Do (n.) A syllable attached to the first tone of the major diatonic scale for the purpose of solmization, or solfeggio. It is the first of the seven syllables used by the Italians as manes of musical tones, and replaced, for the sake of euphony, the syllable Ut, applied to the note C. In England and America the same syllables are used by mane as a scale pattern, while the tones in respect to absolute pitch are named from the first seven letters of the alphabet.,
D as in Din (imp.) of Do,
D as in Done (p. p.) of Do,
D as in Doing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Do,
D as in Do (v. t. / auxiliary) To place; to put.,
D as in Do (v. t. / auxiliary) To cause; to make; -- with an infinitive.,
D as in Do (v. t. / auxiliary) To bring about; to produce, as an effect or result; to effect; to achieve.,
D as in Do (v. t. / auxiliary) To perform, as an action; to execute; to transact to carry out in action; as, to do a good or a bad act; do our duty; to do what I can.,
D as in Do (v. t. / auxiliary) To bring to an end by action; to perform completely; to finish; to accomplish; -- a sense conveyed by the construction, which is that of the past participle done.,
D as in Do (v. t. / auxiliary) To make ready for an object, purpose, or use, as food by cooking; to cook completely or sufficiently; as, the meat is done on one side only.,
D as in Do (v. t. / auxiliary) To put or bring into a form, state, or condition, especially in the phrases, to do death, to put to death; to slay; to do away (often do away with), to put away; to remove; to do on, to put on; to don; to do off, to take off, as dress; to doff; to do into, to put into the form of; to translate or transform into, as a text.,
D as in Do (v. t. / auxiliary) To cheat; to gull; to overreach.,
D as in Do (v. t. / auxiliary) To see or inspect; to explore; as, to do all the points of interest.,
D as in Do (v. t. / auxiliary) To cash or to advance money for, as a bill or note.,
D as in Do (v. i.) To act or behave in any manner; to conduct one's self.,
D as in Do (v. i.) To fare; to be, as regards health; as, they asked him how he did; how do you do to-day?,
D as in Do (v. i.) To succeed; to avail; to answer the purpose; to serve; as, if no better plan can be found, he will make this do.,
D as in Do (n.) Deed; act; fear.,
D as in Do (n.) Ado; bustle; stir; to do.,
D as in Do (n.) A cheat; a swindle.,
D as in Doab () A tongue or tract of land included between two rivers; as, the doab between the Ganges and the Jumna.,
D as in Doable (a.) Capable of being done.,
D as in Do-all (n.) General manager; factotum.,
D as in Doand (p. pr.) Doing.,
D as in Doat (v. i.) See Dote.,
D as in Dobber (n.) See Dabchick.,
D as in Dobber (n.) A float to a fishing line.,
D as in Dobbin (n.) An old jaded horse.,
D as in Dobbin (n.) Sea gravel mixed with sand.,
D as in Dobchick (n.) See Dabchick.,
D as in Dobson (n.) The aquatic larva of a large neuropterous insect (Corydalus cornutus), used as bait in angling. See Hellgamite.,
D as in Dobule (n.) The European dace.,
D as in Docent (a.) Serving to instruct; teaching.,
D as in Docetae (n. pl.) Ancient heretics who held that Christ's body was merely a phantom or appearance.,
D as in Docetic (a.) Pertaining to, held by, or like, the Docetae.,
D as in Docetism (n.) The doctrine of the Docetae.,
D as in Dochmiac (a.) Pertaining to, or containing, the dochmius.,
D as in Dochmius (n.) A foot of five syllables (usually / -- -/ -).,
D as in Docibility (n.) Alt. of Docibleness,
D as in Docibleness (n.) Aptness for being taught; teachableness; docility.,
D as in Docible (a.) Easily taught or managed; teachable.,
D as in Docile (a.) Teachable; easy to teach; docible.,
D as in Docile (a.) Disposed to be taught; tractable; easily managed; as, a docile child.,
D as in Docility (n.) teachableness; aptness for being taught; docibleness.,
D as in Docility (n.) Willingness to be taught; tractableness.,
D as in Docimacy (n.) The art or practice of applying tests to ascertain the nature, quality, etc., of objects, as of metals or ores, of medicines, or of facts pertaining to physiology.,
D as in Docimastic (a.) Proving by experiments or tests.,
D as in Docimology (n.) A treatise on the art of testing, as in assaying metals, etc.,
D as in Docity (n.) Teachableness.,
D as in Dock (n.) A genus of plants (Rumex), some species of which are well-known weeds which have a long taproot and are difficult of extermination.,
D as in Dock (n.) The solid part of an animal's tail, as distinguished from the hair; the stump of a tail; the part of a tail left after clipping or cutting.,
D as in Dock (n.) A case of leather to cover the clipped or cut tail of a horse.,
D as in Docked (imp. & p. p.) of Dock,
D as in Docking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dock,
D as in Dock (v. t.) to cut off, as the end of a thing; to curtail; to cut short; to clip; as, to dock the tail of a horse.,
D as in Dock (v. t.) To cut off a part from; to shorten; to deduct from; to subject to a deduction; as, to dock one's wages.,
D as in Dock (v. t.) To cut off, bar, or destroy; as, to dock an entail.,
D as in Dock (n.) An artificial basin or an inclosure in connection with a harbor or river, -- used for the reception of vessels, and provided with gates for keeping in or shutting out the tide.,
D as in Dock (n.) The slip or water way extending between two piers or projecting wharves, for the reception of ships; -- sometimes including the piers themselves; as, to be down on the dock.,
D as in Dock (n.) The place in court where a criminal or accused person stands.,
D as in Dock (v. t.) To draw, law, or place (a ship) in a dock, for repairing, cleaning the bottom, etc.,
D as in Dockage (n.) A charge for the use of a dock.,
D as in Dock-cress (n.) Nipplewort.,
D as in Docket (n.) A small piece of paper or parchment, containing the heads of a writing; a summary or digest.,
D as in Docket (n.) A bill tied to goods, containing some direction, as the name of the owner, or the place to which they are to be sent; a label.,
D as in Docket (n.) An abridged entry of a judgment or proceeding in an action, or register or such entries; a book of original, kept by clerks of courts, containing a formal list of the names of parties, and minutes of the proceedings, in each case in court.,
D as in Docket (n.) A list or calendar of causes ready for hearing or trial, prepared for the use of courts by the clerks.,
D as in Docket (n.) A list or calendar of business matters to be acted on in any assembly.,
D as in Docketed (imp. & p. p.) of Docket,
D as in Docketing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Docket,
D as in Docket (v. t.) To make a brief abstract of (a writing) and indorse it on the back of the paper, or to indorse the title or contents on the back of; to summarize; as, to docket letters and papers.,
D as in Docket (v. t.) To make a brief abstract of and inscribe in a book; as, judgments regularly docketed.,
D as in Docket (v. t.) To enter or inscribe in a docket, or list of causes for trial.,
D as in Docket (v. t.) To mark with a ticket; as, to docket goods.,
D as in Dockyard (n.) A yard or storage place for all sorts of naval stores and timber for shipbuilding.,
D as in Docoglossa (n. pl.) An order of gastropods, including the true limpets, and having the teeth on the odontophore or lingual ribbon.,
D as in Docquet (n. & v.) See Docket.,
D as in Doctor (n.) A teacher; one skilled in a profession, or branch of knowledge learned man.,
D as in Doctor (n.) An academical title, originally meaning a men so well versed in his department as to be qualified to teach it. Hence: One who has taken the highest degree conferred by a university or college, or has received a diploma of the highest degree; as, a doctor of divinity, of law, of medicine, of music, or of philosophy. Such diplomas may confer an honorary title only.,
D as in Doctor (n.) One duly licensed to practice medicine; a member of the medical profession; a physician.,
D as in Doctor (n.) Any mechanical contrivance intended to remedy a difficulty or serve some purpose in an exigency; as, the doctor of a calico-printing machine, which is a knife to remove superfluous coloring matter; the doctor, or auxiliary engine, called also donkey engine.,
D as in Doctor (n.) The friar skate.,
D as in Doctored (imp. & p. p.) of Doctor,
D as in Doctoring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Doctor,
D as in Doctor (v. t.) To treat as a physician does; to apply remedies to; to repair; as, to doctor a sick man or a broken cart.,
D as in Doctor (v. t.) To confer a doctorate upon; to make a doctor.,
D as in Doctor (v. t.) To tamper with and arrange for one's own purposes; to falsify; to adulterate; as, to doctor election returns; to doctor whisky.,
D as in Doctor (v. i.) To practice physic.,
D as in Doctoral (a.) Of or relating to a doctor, or to the degree of doctor.,
D as in Doctorally (adv.) In the manner of a doctor.,
D as in Doctorate (n.) The degree, title, or rank, of a doctor.,
D as in Doctorate (v. t.) To make (one) a doctor.,
D as in Doctoress (n.) A female doctor.,
D as in Doctorly (a.) Like a doctor or learned man.,
D as in Doctorship (n.) Doctorate.,
D as in Doctress (n.) A female doctor.,
D as in Doctrinable (a.) Of the nature of, or constituting, doctrine.,
D as in Doctrinaire (n.) One who would apply to political or other practical concerns the abstract doctrines or the theories of his own philosophical system; a propounder of a new set of opinions; a dogmatic theorist. Used also adjectively; as, doctrinaire notions.,
D as in Doctrinal (a.) Pertaining to, or containing, doctrine or something taught and to be believed; as, a doctrinal observation.,
D as in Doctrinal (a.) Pertaining to, or having to do with, teaching.,
D as in Doctrinal (n.) A matter of doctrine; also, a system of doctrines.,
D as in Doctrinally (adv.) In a doctrinal manner or for; by way of teaching or positive direction.,
D as in Doctrinarian (n.) A doctrinaire.,
D as in Doctrinarianism (n.) The principles or practices of the Doctrinaires.,
D as in Doctrine (n.) Teaching; instruction.,
D as in Doctrine (n.) That which is taught; what is held, put forth as true, and supported by a teacher, a school, or a sect; a principle or position, or the body of principles, in any branch of knowledge; any tenet or dogma; a principle of faith; as, the doctrine of atoms; the doctrine of chances.,
D as in Document (n.) That which is taught or authoritatively set forth; precept; instruction; dogma.,
D as in Document (n.) An example for instruction or warning.,
D as in Document (n.) An original or official paper relied upon as the basis, proof, or support of anything else; -- in its most extended sense, including any writing, book, or other instrument conveying information in the case; any material substance on which the thoughts of men are represented by any species of conventional mark or symbol.,
D as in Document (v. t.) To teach; to school.,
D as in Document (v. t.) To furnish with documents or papers necessary to establish facts or give information; as, a a ship should be documented according to the directions of law.,
D as in Documental (a.) Of or pertaining to instruction.,
D as in Documental (a.) Of or pertaining to written evidence; documentary; as, documental testimony.,
D as in Documentary (a.) Pertaining to written evidence; contained or certified in writing.,
D as in Dodd (v. t.) Alt. of Dod,
D as in Dod (v. t.) To cut off, as wool from sheep's tails; to lop or clip off.,
D as in Doddart (n.) A game much like hockey, played in an open field; also, the, bent stick for playing the game.,
D as in Dodded (a.) Without horns; as, dodded cattle; without beards; as, dodded corn.,
D as in Dodder (n.) A plant of the genus Cuscuta. It is a leafless parasitical vine with yellowish threadlike stems. It attaches itself to some other plant, as to flax, goldenrod, etc., and decaying at the root, is nourished by the plant that supports it.,
D as in Dodder (v. t. & i.) To shake, tremble, or totter.,
D as in Doddered (a.) Shattered; infirm.,
D as in Dodecagon (n.) A figure or polygon bounded by twelve sides and containing twelve angles.,
D as in Dodecagynia (n. pl.) A Linnaean order of plants having twelve styles.,
D as in Dodecagynian (a.) Alt. of Dodecagynous,
D as in Dodecagynous (a.) Of or pertaining to the Dodecagynia; having twelve styles.,
D as in Dodecahedral (a.) Pertaining to, or like, a dodecahedion; consisting of twelve equal sides.,
D as in Dodecahedron (n.) A solid having twelve faces.,
D as in Dodecandria (n. pl.) A Linnaean class of plants including all that have any number of stamens between twelve and nineteen.,
D as in Dodecandrian (a.) Alt. of Dodecandrous,
D as in Dodecandrous (a.) Of or pertaining to the Dodecandria; having twelve stamens, or from twelve to nineteen.,
D as in Dodecane (n.) Any one of a group of thick oily hydrocarbons, C12H26, of the paraffin series.,
D as in Dodecastyle (a.) Having twelve columns in front.,
D as in Dodecastyle (n.) A dodecastyle portico, or building.,
D as in Dodecasyllabic (a.) Having twelve syllables.,
D as in Dodecasyllable (n.) A word consisting of twelve syllables.,
D as in Dodecatemory (n.) A tern applied to the twelve houses, or parts, of the zodiac of the primum mobile, to distinguish them from the twelve signs; also, any one of the twelve signs of the zodiac.,
D as in Dodged (imp. & p. p.) of Dodge,
D as in Dodging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dodge,
D as in Dodge (v. i.) To start suddenly aside, as to avoid a blow or a missile; to shift place by a sudden start.,
D as in Dodge (v. i.) To evade a duty by low craft; to practice mean shifts; to use tricky devices; to play fast and loose; to quibble.,
D as in Dodge (v. t.) To evade by a sudden shift of place; to escape by starting aside; as, to dodge a blow aimed or a ball thrown.,
D as in Dodge (v. t.) Fig.: To evade by craft; as, to dodge a question; to dodge responsibility.,
D as in Dodge (v. t.) To follow by dodging, or suddenly shifting from place to place.,
D as in Dodge (n.) The act of evading by some skillful movement; a sudden starting aside; hence, an artful device to evade, deceive, or cheat; a cunning trick; an artifice.,
D as in Dodger (n.) One who dodges or evades; one who plays fast and loose, or uses tricky devices.,
D as in Dodger (n.) A small handbill.,
D as in Dodger (n.) See Corndodger.,
D as in Dodgery (n.) trickery; artifice.,
D as in Dodipate (n.) Alt. of Dodipoll,
D as in Dodipoll (n.) A stupid person; a fool; a blockhead.,
D as in Dodkin (n.) A doit; a small coin.,
D as in Dodman (n.) A snail; also, a snail shell; a hodmandod.,
D as in Dodman (n.) Any shellfish which casts its shell, as a lobster.,
D as in Dodoes (pl. ) of Dodo,
D as in Dodo (n.) A large, extinct bird (Didus ineptus), formerly inhabiting the Island of Mauritius. It had short, half-fledged wings, like those of the ostrich, and a short neck and legs; -- called also dronte. It was related to the pigeons.,
D as in Doe (n.) A female deer or antelope; specifically, the female of the fallow deer, of which the male is called a buck. Also applied to the female of other animals, as the rabbit. See the Note under Buck.,
D as in Doe (n.) A feat. [Obs.] See Do, n.,
D as in Doeglic (a.) Pertaining to, or obtained from, the doegling; as, doeglic acid (Chem.), an oily substance resembling oleic acid.,
D as in Doegling (n.) The beaked whale (Balaenoptera rostrata), from which doegling oil is obtained.,
D as in Doer (v. t. & i.) One who does; one performs or executes; one who is wont and ready to act; an actor; an agent.,
D as in Doer (v. t. & i.) An agent or attorney; a factor.,
D as in Does () The 3d pers. sing. pres. of Do.,
D as in Doeskin (n.) The skin of the doe.,
D as in Doeskin (n.) A firm woolen cloth with a smooth, soft surface like a doe's skin; -- made for men's wear.,
D as in Doffed (imp. & p. p.) of Doff,
D as in Doffing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Doff,
D as in Doff (v. t.) To put off, as dress; to divest one's self of; hence, figuratively, to put or thrust away; to rid one's self of.,
D as in Doff (v. t.) To strip; to divest; to undress.,
D as in Doff (v. i.) To put off dress; to take off the hat.,
D as in Doffer (n.) A revolving cylinder, or a vibrating bar with teeth, in a carding machine, which doffs, or strips off, the cotton from the cards.,
D as in Dog (n.) A quadruped of the genus Canis, esp. the domestic dog (C. familiaris).,
D as in Dog (n.) A mean, worthless fellow; a wretch.,
D as in Dog (n.) A fellow; -- used humorously or contemptuously; as, a sly dog; a lazy dog.,
D as in Dog (n.) One of the two constellations, Canis Major and Canis Minor, or the Greater Dog and the Lesser Dog. Canis Major contains the Dog Star (Sirius).,
D as in Dog (n.) An iron for holding wood in a fireplace; a firedog; an andiron.,
D as in Dog (n.) A grappling iron, with a claw or claws, for fastening into wood or other heavy articles, for the purpose of raising or moving them.,
D as in Dog (n.) An iron with fangs fastening a log in a saw pit, or on the carriage of a sawmill.,
D as in Dog (n.) A piece in machinery acting as a catch or clutch; especially, the carrier of a lathe, also, an adjustable stop to change motion, as in a machine tool.,
D as in Dogged (imp. & p. p.) of Dog,
D as in Dogging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dog,
D as in Dog (v. t.) To hunt or track like a hound; to follow insidiously or indefatigably; to chase with a dog or dogs; to worry, as if by dogs; to hound with importunity.,
D as in Dogal (a.) Of or pertaining to a doge.,
D as in Dogate (n.) The office or dignity of a doge.,
D as in Dogbane (n.) A small genus of perennial herbaceous plants, with poisonous milky juice, bearing slender pods pods in pairs.,
D as in Dog bee () A male or drone bee.,
D as in Dogberry (n.) The berry of the dogwood; -- called also dogcherry.,
D as in Dogbolt (n.) The bolt of the cap-square over the trunnion of a cannon.,
D as in Dog-brier (n.) The dog-rose.,
D as in Dogcart (n.) A light one-horse carriage, commonly two-wheeled, patterned after a cart. The original dogcarts used in England by sportsmen had a box at the back for carrying dogs.,
D as in Dog day () Alt. of Dogday,
D as in Dogday () One of the dog days.,
D as in Dog days () A period of from four to six weeks, in the summer, variously placed by almanac makers between the early part of July and the early part of September; canicular days; -- so called in reference to the rising in ancient times of the Dog Star (Sirius) with the sun. Popularly, the sultry, close part of the summer.,
D as in Dogdraw (n.) The act of drawing after, or pursuing, deer with a dog.,
D as in Doge (n.) The chief magistrate in the republics of Venice and Genoa.,
D as in Dog-eared (a.) Having the corners of the leaves turned down and soiled by careless or long-continued usage; -- said of a book.,
D as in Dogeate (n.) Dogate.,
D as in Dogeless (a.) Without a doge.,
D as in Dog-faced (a.) Having a face resembling that of a dog.,
D as in Dog fancier () One who has an unusual fancy for, or interest in, dogs; also, one who deals in dogs.,
D as in Dogfish (n.) A small shark, of many species, of the genera Mustelus, Scyllium, Spinax, etc.,
D as in Dogfish (n.) The bowfin (Amia calva). See Bowfin.,
D as in Dogfish (n.) The burbot of Lake Erie.,
D as in Dog-fox (n.) A male fox. See the Note under Dog, n., 6.,
D as in Dog-fox (n.) The Arctic or blue fox; -- a name also applied to species of the genus Cynalopex.,
D as in Dogged (a.) Sullen; morose.,
D as in Dogged (a.) Sullenly obstinate; obstinately determined or persistent; as, dogged resolution; dogged work.,
D as in Doggedly (adv.) In a dogged manner; sullenly; with obstinate resolution.,
D as in Doggedness (n.) Sullenness; moroseness.,
D as in Doggedness (n.) Sullen or obstinate determination; grim resolution or persistence.,
D as in Dogger (n.) A two-masted fishing vessel, used by the Dutch.,
D as in Dogger (n.) A sort of stone, found in the mines with the true alum rock, chiefly of silica and iron.,
D as in Doggerel (a.) Low in style, and irregular in measure; as, doggerel rhymes.,
D as in Doggerel (n.) A sort of loose or irregular verse; mean or undignified poetry.,
D as in Doggerman (n.) A sailor belonging to a dogger.,
D as in Dogget (n.) Docket. See Docket.,
D as in Doggish (a.) Like a dog; having the bad qualities of a dog; churlish; growling; brutal.,
D as in Doggrel (a. & n.) Same as Doggerel.,
D as in Dog-headed (a.) Having a head shaped like that of a dog; -- said of certain baboons.,
D as in Dog-hearted (a.) Inhuman; cruel.,
D as in Doghole (n.) A place fit only for dogs; a vile, mean habitation or apartment.,
D as in dog-legged (a.) Noting a flight of stairs, consisting of two or more straight portions connected by a platform (landing) or platforms, and running in opposite directions without an intervening wellhole.,
D as in Dogmas (pl. ) of Dogma,
D as in Dogmata (pl. ) of Dogma,
D as in Dogma (n.) That which is held as an opinion; a tenet; a doctrine.,
D as in Dogma (n.) A formally stated and authoritatively settled doctrine; a definite, established, and authoritative tenet.,
D as in Dogma (n.) A doctrinal notion asserted without regard to evidence or truth; an arbitrary dictum.,
D as in Dogmatic (n.) One of an ancient sect of physicians who went by general principles; -- opposed to the Empiric.,
D as in Dogmatic (a.) Alt. of Dogmatical,
D as in Dogmatical (a.) Pertaining to a dogma, or to an established and authorized doctrine or tenet.,
D as in Dogmatical (a.) Asserting a thing positively and authoritatively; positive; magisterial; hence, arrogantly authoritative; overbearing.,
D as in Dogmatically (adv.) In a dogmatic manner; positively; magisterially.,
D as in Dogmaticalness (n.) The quality of being dogmatical; positiveness.,
D as in Dogmatician (n.) A dogmatist.,
D as in Dogmatics (n.) The science which treats of Christian doctrinal theology.,
D as in Dogmatism (n.) The manner or character of a dogmatist; arrogance or positiveness in stating opinion.,
D as in Dogmatist (n.) One who dogmatizes; one who speaks dogmatically; a bold and arrogant advancer of principles.,
D as in Dogmatized (imp. & p. p.) of Dogmatize,
D as in Dogmatizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dogmatize,
D as in Dogmatize (v. i.) To assert positively; to teach magisterially or with bold and undue confidence; to advance with arrogance.,
D as in Dogmatize (v. t.) To deliver as a dogma.,
D as in Dogmatizer (n.) One who dogmatizes; a bold asserter; a magisterial teacher.,
D as in Dog-rose (n.) A common European wild rose, with single pink or white flowers.,
D as in Dog's-bane (n.) See Dogbane.,
D as in Dog's-ear (n.) The corner of a leaf, in a book, turned down like the ear of a dog.,
D as in Dogship (n.) The character, or individuality, of a dog.,
D as in Dogshore (n.) One of several shores used to hold a ship firmly and prevent her moving while the blocks are knocked away before launching.,
D as in Dogsick (a.) Sick as a dog sometimes is very sick.,
D as in Dogskin (n.) The skin of a dog, or leather made of the skin. Also used adjectively.,
D as in Dogsleep (n.) Pretended sleep.,
D as in Dogsleep (n.) The fitful naps taken when all hands are kept up by stress.,
D as in Dog's-tail grass (n.) A hardy species of British grass (Cynosurus cristatus) which abounds in grass lands, and is well suited for making straw plait; -- called also goldseed.,
D as in Dog Star () Sirius, a star of the constellation Canis Major, or the Greater Dog, and the brightest star in the heavens; -- called also Canicula, and, in astronomical charts, / Canis Majoris. See Dog days.,
D as in Dog's-tongue (n.) Hound's-tongue.,
D as in Dogtie (n.) A cramp.,
D as in Dogteeth (pl. ) of Dogtooth,
D as in Dogtooth (n.) See Canine tooth, under Canine.,
D as in Dogtooth (n.) An ornament common in Gothic architecture, consisting of pointed projections resembling teeth; -- also called tooth ornament.,
D as in Dogtrick (n.) A gentle trot, like that of a dog.,
D as in Dogvane (n.) A small vane of bunting, feathers, or any other light material, carried at the masthead to indicate the direction of the wind.,
D as in Dogwatch (n.) A half watch; a watch of two hours, of which there are two, the first dogwatch from 4 to 6 o'clock, p. m., and the second dogwatch from 6 to 8 o'clock, p. m.,
D as in Dog-weary (a.) Extremely weary.,
D as in Dogwood (n.) The Cornus, a genus of large shrubs or small trees, the wood of which is exceedingly hard, and serviceable for many purposes.,
D as in Dohtren (n. pl.) Daughters.,
D as in Doily (n.) A kind of woolen stuff.,
D as in Doily (n.) A small napkin, used at table with the fruit, etc.; -- commonly colored and fringed.,
D as in Doings (pl. ) of Doing,
D as in Doing (n.) Anything done; a deed; an action good or bad; hence, in the plural, conduct; behavior. See Do.,
D as in Doit (n.) A small Dutch coin, worth about half a farthing; also, a similar small coin once used in Scotland; hence, any small piece of money.,
D as in Doit (n.) A thing of small value; as, I care not a doit.,
D as in Doitkin (n.) A very small coin; a doit.,
D as in Dokimastic (a.) Docimastic.,
D as in Doko (n.) See Lepidosiren.,
D as in Dolabra (n.) A rude ancient ax or hatchet, seen in museums.,
D as in Dolabriform (a.) Shaped like the head of an ax or hatchet, as some leaves, and also certain organs of some shellfish.,
D as in Dolce (adv.) Alt. of Dolcemente,
D as in Dolcemente (adv.) Softly; sweetly; with soft, smooth, and delicate execution.,
D as in Dolcino (n.) Alt. of Dulcino,
D as in Dulcino (n.) A small bassoon, formerly much used.,
D as in Doldrums (n. pl.) A part of the ocean near the equator, abounding in calms, squalls, and light, baffling winds, which sometimes prevent all progress for weeks; -- so called by sailors.,
D as in Dole (n.) grief; sorrow; lamentation.,
D as in Dole (n.) See Dolus.,
D as in Dole (n.) Distribution; dealing; apportionment.,
D as in Dole (n.) That which is dealt out; a part, share, or portion also, a scanty share or allowance.,
D as in Dole (n.) Alms; charitable gratuity or portion.,
D as in Dole (n.) A boundary; a landmark.,
D as in Dole (n.) A void space left in tillage.,
D as in Doled (imp. & p. p.) of Dole,
D as in Doling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dole,
D as in Dole (v. t.) To deal out in small portions; to distribute, as a dole; to deal out scantily or grudgingly.,
D as in Doleful (a.) Full of dole or grief; expressing or exciting sorrow; sorrowful; sad; dismal.,
D as in Dolent (a.) Sorrowful.,
D as in Dolente (a. & adv.) Plaintively. See Doloroso.,
D as in Dolerite (n.) A dark-colored, basic, igneous rock, composed essentially of pyroxene and a triclinic feldspar with magnetic iron. By many authors it is considered equivalent to a coarse-grained basalt.,
D as in Doleritic (a.) Of the nature of dolerite; as, much lava is doleritic lava.,
D as in Dolesome (a.) Doleful; dismal; gloomy; sorrowful.,
D as in Dolf (imp.) of Delve.,
D as in Dolichocephalic (a.) Alt. of Dolichocephalous,
D as in Dolichocephalous (a.) Having the cranium, or skull, long to its breadth; long-headed; -- opposed to brachycephalic.,
D as in Dolichocephaly (n.) Alt. of Dolichocephalism,
D as in Dolichocephalism (n.) The quality or condition of being dolichocephalic.,
D as in Dolioform (a.) Barrel-shaped, or like a cask in form.,
D as in Doliolum (n.) A genus of freeswimming oceanic tunicates, allied to Salpa, and having alternate generations.,
D as in Do-little (n.) One who performs little though professing much.,
D as in Dolium (n.) A genus of large univalve mollusks, including the partridge shell and tun shells.,
D as in Doll (n.) A child's puppet; a toy baby for a little girl.,
D as in Dollar (n.) A silver coin of the United States containing 371.25 grains of silver and 41.25 grains of alloy, that is, having a total weight of 412.5 grains.,
D as in Dollar (n.) A gold coin of the United States containing 23.22 grains of gold and 2.58 grains of alloy, that is, having a total weight of 25.8 grains, nine-tenths fine. It is no longer coined.,
D as in Dollar (n.) A coin of the same general weight and value, though differing slightly in different countries, current in Mexico, Canada, parts of South America, also in Spain, and several other European countries.,
D as in Dollar (n.) The value of a dollar; the unit commonly employed in the United States in reckoning money values.,
D as in Dollardee (n.) A species of sunfish (Lepomis pallidus), common in the United States; -- called also blue sunfish, and copper-nosed bream.,
D as in Dollman (n.) See Dolman.,
D as in Dollies (pl. ) of Dolly,
D as in Dolly (n.) A contrivance, turning on a vertical axis by a handle or winch, and giving a circular motion to the ore to be washed; a stirrer.,
D as in Dolly (n.) A tool with an indented head for shaping the head of a rivet.,
D as in Dolly (n.) In pile driving, a block interposed between the head of the pile and the ram of the driver.,
D as in Dolly (n.) A small truck with a single wide roller used for moving heavy beams, columns, etc., in bridge building.,
D as in Dolly (n.) A compact, narrow-gauge locomotive used for moving construction trains, switching, etc.,
D as in Dolly (n.) A child's mane for a doll.,
D as in Dolly Varden () A character in Dickens's novel "Barnaby Rudge," a beautiful, lively, and coquettish girl who wore a cherry-colored mantle and cherry-colored ribbons.,
D as in Dolly Varden () A style of light, bright-figured dress goods for women; also, a style of dress.,
D as in Dolman (n.) A long robe or outer garment, with long sleeves, worn by the Turks.,
D as in Dolman (n.) A cloak of a peculiar fashion worn by women.,
D as in Dolmen (n.) A cromlech. See Cromlech.,
D as in Dolomite (n.) A mineral consisting of the carbonate of lime and magnesia in varying proportions. It occurs in distinct crystals, and in extensive beds as a compact limestone, often crystalline granular, either white or clouded. It includes much of the common white marble. Also called bitter spar.,
D as in Dolomitic (a.) Pertaining to dolomite.,
D as in Dolomize (v. t.) To convert into dolomite.,
D as in Dolor (n.) Pain; grief; distress; anguish.,
D as in Doloriferous (a.) Producing pain.,
D as in Dolorific (a.) Alt. of Dolorifical,
D as in Dolorifical (a.) Causing pain or grief.,
D as in Doloroso (a. & adv.) Plaintive; pathetic; -- used adverbially as a musical direction.,
D as in Dolorous (a.) Full of grief; sad; sorrowful; doleful; dismal; as, a dolorous object; dolorous discourses.,
D as in Dolorous (a.) Occasioning pain or grief; painful.,
D as in Dolphin (n.) A cetacean of the genus Delphinus and allied genera (esp. D. delphis); the true dolphin.,
D as in Dolphin (n.) The Coryphaena hippuris, a fish of about five feet in length, celebrated for its surprising changes of color when dying. It is the fish commonly known as the dolphin. See Coryphaenoid.,
D as in Dolphin (n.) A mass of iron or lead hung from the yardarm, in readiness to be dropped on the deck of an enemy's vessel.,
D as in Dolphin (n.) A kind of wreath or strap of plaited cordage.,
D as in Dolphin (n.) A spar or buoy held by an anchor and furnished with a ring to which ships may fasten their cables.,
D as in Dolphin (n.) A mooring post on a wharf or beach.,
D as in Dolphin (n.) A permanent fender around a heavy boat just below the gunwale.,
D as in Dolphin (n.) In old ordnance, one of the handles above the trunnions by which the gun was lifted.,
D as in Dolphin (n.) A small constellation between Aquila and Pegasus. See Delphinus, n., 2.,
D as in Dolphinet (n.) A female dolphin.,
D as in Dolt (n.) A heavy, stupid fellow; a blockhead; a numskull; an ignoramus; a dunce; a dullard.,
D as in Dolt (v. i.) To behave foolishly.,
D as in Doltish (a.) Doltlike; dull in intellect; stupid; blockish; as, a doltish clown.,
D as in Dolus (n.) Evil intent, embracing both malice and fraud. See Culpa.,
D as in Dolven (p. p.) of Delve.,
D as in -dom () A suffix denoting,
D as in -dom () Jurisdiction or property and jurisdiction, dominion, as in kingdom earldom.,
D as in -dom () State, condition, or quality of being, as in wisdom, freedom.,
D as in Dom (n.) A title anciently given to the pope, and later to other church dignitaries and some monastic orders. See Don, and Dan.,
D as in Dom (n.) In Portugal and Brazil, the title given to a member of the higher classes.,
D as in Domable (a.) Capable of being tamed; tamable.,
D as in Domableness (n.) Tamableness.,
D as in Domage (n.) Damage; hurt.,
D as in Domage (n.) Subjugation.,
D as in Domain (n.) Dominion; empire; authority.,
D as in Domain (n.) The territory over which dominion or authority is exerted; the possessions of a sovereign or commonwealth, or the like. Also used figuratively.,
D as in Domain (n.) Landed property; estate; especially, the land about the mansion house of a lord, and in his immediate occupancy; demesne.,
D as in Domain (n.) Ownership of land; an estate or patrimony which one has in his own right; absolute proprietorship; paramount or sovereign ownership.,
D as in Domal (a.) Pertaining to a house.,
D as in Domanial (a.) Of or relating to a domain or to domains.,
D as in Dome (n.) A building; a house; an edifice; -- used chiefly in poetry.,
D as in Dome (n.) A cupola formed on a large scale.,
D as in Dome (n.) Any erection resembling the dome or cupola of a building; as the upper part of a furnace, the vertical steam chamber on the top of a boiler, etc.,
D as in Dome (n.) A prism formed by planes parallel to a lateral axis which meet above in a horizontal edge, like the roof of a house; also, one of the planes of such a form.,
D as in Dome (n.) Decision; judgment; opinion; a court decision.,
D as in Domebook (n.) A book said to have been compiled under the direction of King Alfred. It is supposed to have contained the principal maxims of the common law, the penalties for misdemeanors, and the forms of judicial proceedings. Domebook was probably a general name for book of judgments.,
D as in Domed (a.) Furnished with a dome; shaped like a dome.,
D as in Domesday (n.) A day of judgment. See Doomsday.,
D as in Domesmen (pl. ) of Domesman,
D as in Domesman (n.) A judge; an umpire.,
D as in Domestic (a.) Of or pertaining to one's house or home, or one's household or family; relating to home life; as, domestic concerns, life, duties, cares, happiness, worship, servants.,
D as in Domestic (a.) Of or pertaining to a nation considered as a family or home, or to one's own country; intestine; not foreign; as, foreign wars and domestic dissensions.,
D as in Domestic (a.) Remaining much at home; devoted to home duties or pleasures; as, a domestic man or woman.,
D as in Domestic (a.) Living in or near the habitations of man; domesticated; tame as distinguished from wild; as, domestic animals.,
D as in Domestic (a.) Made in one's own house, nation, or country; as, domestic manufactures, wines, etc.,
D as in Domestic (n.) One who lives in the family of an other, as hired household assistant; a house servant.,
D as in Domestic (n.) Articles of home manufacture, especially cotton goods.,
D as in Domestical (a.) Domestic.,
D as in Domestical (n.) A family; a household.,
D as in Domestically (adv.) In a domestic manner; privately; with reference to domestic affairs.,
D as in Domesticant (a.) Forming part of the same family.,
D as in Domesticated (imp. & p. p.) of Domesticate,
D as in Domesticating. (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Domesticate,
D as in Domesticate (a.) To make domestic; to habituate to home life; as, to domesticate one's self.,
D as in Domesticate (a.) To cause to be, as it were, of one's family or country; as, to domesticate a foreign custom or word.,
D as in Domesticate (a.) To tame or reclaim from a wild state; as, to domesticate wild animals; to domesticate a plant.,
D as in Domestication (n.) The act of domesticating, or accustoming to home; the action of taming wild animals.,
D as in Domesticator (n.) One who domesticates.,
D as in Domesticity (n.) The state of being domestic; domestic character; household life.,
D as in Domett (n.) A kind of baize of which the ward is cotton and the weft woolen.,
D as in Domeykite (n.) A massive mineral of tin-white or steel-gray color, an arsenide of copper.,
D as in Domical (a.) Relating to, or shaped like, a dome.,
D as in Domicile (n.) An abode or mansion; a place of permanent residence, either of an individual or a family.,
D as in Domicile (n.) A residence at a particular place accompanied with an intention to remain there for an unlimited time; a residence accepted as a final abode.,
D as in Domiciled (imp. & p. p.) of Domicile,
D as in Domiciling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Domicile,
D as in Domicile (v. t.) To establish in a fixed residence, or a residence that constitutes habitancy; to domiciliate.,
D as in Domiciliar (n.) A member of a household; a domestic.,
D as in Domicillary (a.) Of or pertaining to a domicile, or the residence of a person or family.,
D as in Domiciliated (imp. & p. p.) of Domiciliate,
D as in Domiciliating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Domiciliate,
D as in Domiciliate (v. t.) To establish in a permanent residence; to domicile.,
D as in Domiciliate (v. t.) To domesticate.,
D as in Domiciliation (n.) The act of domiciliating; permanent residence; inhabitancy.,
D as in Domiculture (n.) The art of house-keeping, cookery, etc.,
D as in Domify (v. t.) To divide, as the heavens, into twelve houses. See House, in astrological sense.,
D as in Domify (v. t.) To tame; to domesticate.,
D as in Domina (n.) Lady; a lady; -- a title formerly given to noble ladies who held a barony in their own right.,
D as in Dominance (n.) Alt. of Dominancy,
D as in Dominancy (n.) Predominance; ascendency; authority.,
D as in Dominant (a.) Ruling; governing; prevailing; controlling; predominant; as, the dominant party, church, spirit, power.,
D as in Dominant (n.) The fifth tone of the scale; thus G is the dominant of C, A of D, and so on.,
D as in Dominated (imp. & p. p.) of Dominate,
D as in Dominating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dominate,
D as in Dominate (v. t.) To predominate over; to rule; to govern.,
D as in Dominate (v. i.) To be dominant.,
D as in Domination (n.) The act of dominating; exercise of power in ruling; dominion; supremacy; authority; often, arbitrary or insolent sway.,
D as in Domination (n.) A ruling party; a party in power.,
D as in Domination (n.) A high order of angels in the celestial hierarchy; -- a meaning given by the schoolmen.,
D as in Dominative (a.) Governing; ruling; imperious.,
D as in Dominator (n.) A ruler or ruling power.,
D as in Domine (n.) A name given to a pastor of the Reformed Church. The word is also applied locally in the United States, in colloquial speech, to any clergyman.,
D as in Domine (n.) A West Indian fish (Epinula magistralis), of the family Trichiuridae. It is a long-bodied, voracious fish.,
D as in Domineered (imp. & p. p.) of Domineer,
D as in Domineering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Domineer,
D as in Domineer (v. t.) To rule with insolence or arbitrary sway; to play the master; to be overbearing; to tyrannize; to bluster; to swell with conscious superiority or haughtiness; -- often with over; as, to domineer over dependents.,
D as in Domineering (a.) Ruling arrogantly; overbearing.,
D as in Dominical (a.) Indicating, or pertaining to, the Lord's day, or Sunday.,
D as in Dominical (a.) Relating to, or given by, our Lord; as, the dominical (or Lord's) prayer.,
D as in Dominical (n.) The Lord's day or Sunday; also, the Lord's prayer.,
D as in Dominican (a.) Of or pertaining to St. Dominic (Dominic de Guzman), or to the religions communities named from him.,
D as in Dominican (n.) One of an order of mendicant monks founded by Dominic de Guzman, in 1215. A province of the order was established in England in 1221. The first foundation in the United States was made in 1807. The Master of the Sacred Palace at Rome is always a Dominican friar. The Dominicans are called also preaching friars, friars preachers, black friars (from their black cloak), brothers of St. Mary, and in France, Jacobins.,
D as in Dominicide (n.) The act of killing a master.,
D as in Dominicide (n.) One who kills his master.,
D as in Dominie (n.) A schoolmaster; a pedagogue.,
D as in Dominie (n.) A clergyman. See Domine, 1.,
D as in Dominion (n.) Sovereign or supreme authority; the power of governing and controlling; independent right of possession, use, and control; sovereignty; supremacy.,
D as in Dominion (n.) Superior prominence; predominance; ascendency.,
D as in Dominion (n.) That which is governed; territory over which authority is exercised; the tract, district, or county, considered as subject; as, the dominions of a king. Also used figuratively; as, the dominion of the passions.,
D as in Dominion (n.) A supposed high order of angels; dominations. See Domination, 3.,
D as in Dominos (pl. ) of Domino,
D as in Dominoes (pl. ) of Domino,
D as in Domino (n.) A kind of hood worn by the canons of a cathedral church; a sort of amice.,
D as in Domino (n.) A mourning veil formerly worn by women.,
D as in Domino (n.) A kind of mask; particularly, a half mask worn at masquerades, to conceal the upper part of the face. Dominos were formerly worn by ladies in traveling.,
D as in Domino (n.) A costume worn as a disguise at masquerades, consisting of a robe with a hood adjustable at pleasure.,
D as in Domino (n.) A person wearing a domino.,
D as in Domino (n.) A game played by two or more persons, with twenty-eight pieces of wood, bone, or ivory, of a flat, oblong shape, plain at the back, but on the face divided by a line in the middle, and either left blank or variously dotted after the manner of dice. The game is played by matching the spots or the blank of an unmatched half of a domino already played,
D as in Domino (n.) One of the pieces with which the game of dominoes is played.,
D as in Domini (pl. ) of Dominus,
D as in Dominus (n.) Master; sir; -- a title of respect formerly applied to a knight or a clergyman, and sometimes to the lord of a manor.,
D as in Domitable (a.) That can be tamed.,
D as in Domite (n.) A grayish variety of trachyte; -- so called from the Puy-de-Dome in Auvergne, France, where it is found.,
D as in Don (n.) Sir; Mr; Signior; -- a title in Spain, formerly given to noblemen and gentlemen only, but now common to all classes.,
D as in Don (n.) A grand personage, or one making pretension to consequence; especially, the head of a college, or one of the fellows at the English universities.,
D as in Donned (imp. & p. p.) of Don,
D as in Donning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Don,
D as in Don (v. t.) To put on; to dress in; to invest one's self with.,
D as in Do�a (n.) Lady; mistress; madam; -- a title of respect used in Spain, prefixed to the Christian name of a lady.,
D as in Donable (a.) Capable of being donated or given.,
D as in Donary (n.) A thing given to a sacred use.,
D as in Donat (n.) A grammar.,
D as in Donatary (n.) See Donatory.,
D as in Donated (imp. & p. p.) of Donate,
D as in Donating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Donate,
D as in Donate (v. t.) To give; to bestow; to present; as, to donate fifty thousand dollars to a college.,
D as in Donation (n.) The act of giving or bestowing; a grant.,
D as in Donation (n.) That which is given as a present; that which is transferred to another gratuitously; a gift.,
D as in Donation (n.) The act or contract by which a person voluntarily transfers the title to a thing of which be is the owner, from himself to another, without any consideration, as a free gift.,
D as in Donatism (n.) The tenets of the Donatists.,
D as in Donatist (n.) A follower of Donatus, the leader of a body of North African schismatics and purists, who greatly disturbed the church in the 4th century. They claimed to be the true church.,
D as in Donatistic (a.) Pertaining to Donatism.,
D as in Donative (n.) A gift; a largess; a gratuity; a present.,
D as in Donative (n.) A benefice conferred on a person by the founder or patron, without either presentation or institution by the ordinary, or induction by his orders. See the Note under Benefice, n., 3.,
D as in Donative (a.) Vested or vesting by donation; as, a donative advowson.,
D as in Donator (n.) One who makes a gift; a donor; a giver.,
D as in Donatory (n.) A donee of the crown; one the whom, upon certain condition, escheated property is made over.,
D as in Do-naught (n.) A lazy, good-for-nothing fellow.,
D as in Donax (n.) A canelike grass of southern Europe (Arundo Donax), used for fishing rods, etc.,
D as in Doncella (n.) A handsome fish of Florida and the West Indies (Platyglossus radiatus). The name is applied also to the ladyfish (Harpe rufa) of the same region.,
D as in Done () p. p. from Do, and formerly the infinitive.,
D as in Done (infinitive.) Performed; executed; finished.,
D as in Done (infinitive.) It is done or agreed; let it be a match or bargain; -- used elliptically.,
D as in Done (a.) Given; executed; issued; made public; -- used chiefly in the clause giving the date of a proclamation or public act.,
D as in Donee (n.) The person to whom a gift or donation is made.,
D as in Donee (n.) Anciently, one to whom lands were given; in later use, one to whom lands and tenements are given in tail; in modern use, one on whom a power is conferred for execution; -- sometimes called the appointor.,
D as in Donet (n.) Same as Donat. Piers Plowman.,
D as in Doni (n.) A clumsy craft, having one mast with a long sail, used for trading purposes on the coasts of Coromandel and Ceylon.,
D as in Doniferous (a.) Bearing gifts.,
D as in Donjon (n.) The chief tower, also called the keep; a massive tower in ancient castles, forming the strongest part of the fortifications. See Illust. of Castle.,
D as in Donkeys (pl. ) of Donkey,
D as in Donkey (n.) An ass; or (less frequently) a mule.,
D as in Donkey (n.) A stupid or obstinate fellow; an ass.,
D as in Donna (n.) A lady; madam; mistress; -- the title given a lady in Italy.,
D as in Donnat (n.) See Do-naught.,
D as in Donnism (n) Self-importance; loftiness of carriage.,
D as in Donor (n.) One who gives or bestows; one who confers anything gratuitously; a benefactor.,
D as in Donor (n.) One who grants an estate; in later use, one who confers a power; -- the opposite of donee.,
D as in Do-nothing (a.) Doing nothing; inactive; idle; lazy; as, a do-nothing policy.,
D as in Do-nothingism (n.) Alt. of Do-nothingness,
D as in Do-nothingness (n.) Inactivity; habitual sloth; idleness.,
D as in Donship (n.) The quality or rank of a don, gentleman, or knight.,
D as in Donzel (n.) A young squire, or knight's attendant; a page.,
D as in Doo (n.) A dove.,
D as in Doob grass () A perennial, creeping grass (Cynodon dactylon), highly prized, in Hindostan, as food for cattle, and acclimated in the United States.,
D as in Doodle (n.) A trifler; a simple fellow.,
D as in Doodlesack (n.) The Scotch bagpipe.,
D as in Doole (n.) Sorrow; dole.,
D as in Doolies (pl. ) of Dooly,
D as in Dooly (n.) A kind of litter suspended from men's shoulders, for carrying persons or things; a palanquin.,
D as in Doom (v. t.) Judgment; judicial sentence; penal decree; condemnation.,
D as in Doom (v. t.) That to which one is doomed or sentenced; destiny or fate, esp. unhappy destiny; penalty.,
D as in Doom (v. t.) Ruin; death.,
D as in Doom (v. t.) Discriminating opinion or judgment; discrimination; discernment; decision.,
D as in Doomed (imp. & p. p.) of Doom,
D as in Dooming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Doom,
D as in Doom (v. t.) To judge; to estimate or determine as a judge.,
D as in Doom (v. t.) To pronounce sentence or judgment on; to condemn; to consign by a decree or sentence; to sentence; as, a criminal doomed to chains or death.,
D as in Doom (v. t.) To ordain as penalty; hence, to mulct or fine.,
D as in Doom (v. t.) To assess a tax upon, by estimate or at discretion.,
D as in Doom (v. t.) To destine; to fix irrevocably the destiny or fate of; to appoint, as by decree or by fate.,
D as in Doomage (n.) A penalty or fine for neglect.,
D as in Doomful (a.) Full of condemnation or destructive power.,
D as in Doom palm () A species of palm tree (Hyphaene Thebaica), highly valued for the fibrous pulp of its fruit, which has the flavor of gingerbread, and is largely eaten in Egypt and Abyssinia.,
D as in Doomsday (n.) A day of sentence or condemnation; day of death.,
D as in Doomsday (n.) The day of the final judgment.,
D as in Doomsman (n.) A judge; an umpire.,
D as in Doomster (n.) Same as Dempster.,
D as in Door (n.) An opening in the wall of a house or of an apartment, by which to go in and out; an entrance way.,
D as in Door (n.) The frame or barrier of boards, or other material, usually turning on hinges, by which an entrance way into a house or apartment is closed and opened.,
D as in Door (n.) Passage; means of approach or access.,
D as in Door (n.) An entrance way, but taken in the sense of the house or apartment to which it leads.,
D as in Doorcase (n.) The surrounding frame into which a door shuts.,
D as in Doorcheek (n.) The jamb or sidepiece of a door.,
D as in Doorga (n.) A Hindoo divinity, the consort of Siva, represented with ten arms.,
D as in Dooring (n.) The frame of a door.,
D as in Doorkeeper (n.) One who guards the entrance of a house or apartment; a porter; a janitor.,
D as in Doorless (a.) Without a door.,
D as in Doornail (n.) The nail or knob on which in ancient doors the knocker struck; -- hence the old saying, "As dead as a doornail.",
D as in Doorplane (n.) A plane on a door, giving the name, and sometimes the employment, of the occupant.,
D as in Doorpost (n.) The jamb or sidepiece of a doorway.,
D as in Doorsill (n.) The sill or threshold of a door.,
D as in Doorstead (n.) Entrance or place of a door.,
D as in Doorstep (n.) The stone or plank forming a step before an outer door.,
D as in Doorstone (n.) The stone forming a threshold.,
D as in Doorstop (n.) The block or strip of wood or similar material which stops, at the right place, the shutting of a door.,
D as in Doorway (n.) The passage of a door; entrance way into a house or a room.,
D as in Dooryard (n.) A yard in front of a house or around the door of a house.,
D as in Dop (n.) Alt. of Doop,
D as in Doop (n.) A little copper cup in which a diamond is held while being cut.,
D as in Dop (v. i.) To dip.,
D as in Dop (n.) A dip; a low courtesy.,
D as in Dopper (n.) An Anabaptist or Baptist.,
D as in Dopplerite (n.) A brownish black native hydrocarbon occurring in elastic or jellylike masses.,
D as in Doquet (n.) A warrant. See Docket.,
D as in Dor (n.) A large European scaraboid beetle (Geotrupes stercorarius), which makes a droning noise while flying. The name is also applied to allied American species, as the June bug. Called also dorr, dorbeetle, or dorrbeetle, dorbug, dorrfly, and buzzard clock.,
D as in Dor (n.) A trick, joke, or deception.,
D as in Dor (v. t.) To make a fool of; to deceive.,
D as in Dorado (n.) A southern constellation, within which is the south pole of the ecliptic; -- called also sometimes Xiphias, or the Swordfish.,
D as in Dorado (n.) A large, oceanic fish of the genus Coryphaena.,
D as in Dorbeetle (n.) See 1st Dor.,
D as in Doree (n.) A European marine fish (Zeus faber), of a yellow color. See Illust. of John Doree.,
D as in Doretree (n.) A doorpost.,
D as in Dorhawk (n.) The European goatsucker; -- so called because it eats the dor beetle. See Goatsucker.,
D as in Dorian (a.) Of or pertaining to the ancient Greeks of Doris; Doric; as, a Dorian fashion.,
D as in Dorian (a.) Same as Doric, 3.,
D as in Dorian (n.) A native or inhabitant of Doris in Greece.,
D as in Doric (a.) Pertaining to Doris, in ancient Greece, or to the Dorians; as, the Doric dialect.,
D as in Doric (a.) Belonging to, or resembling, the oldest and simplest of the three orders of architecture used by the Greeks, but ranked as second of the five orders adopted by the Romans. See Abacus, Capital, Order.,
D as in Doric (a.) Of or relating to one of the ancient Greek musical modes or keys. Its character was adapted both to religions occasions and to war.,
D as in Doric (n.) The Doric dialect.,
D as in Doricism (n.) A Doric phrase or idiom.,
D as in Doris (n.) A genus of nudibranchiate mollusks having a wreath of branchiae on the back.,
D as in Dorism (n.) A Doric phrase or idiom.,
D as in Dorking fowl () One of a breed of large-bodied domestic fowls, having five toes, or the hind toe double. There are several strains, as the white, gray, and silver-gray. They are highly esteemed for the table.,
D as in Dormancy (n.) The state of being dormant; quiescence; abeyance.,
D as in Dormant (a.) Sleeping; as, a dormant animal; hence, not in action or exercise; quiescent; at rest; in abeyance; not disclosed, asserted, or insisted on; as, dormant passions; dormant claims or titles.,
D as in Dormant (a.) In a sleeping posture; as, a lion dormant; -- distinguished from couchant.,
D as in Dormant (a.) A large beam in the roof of a house upon which portions of the other timbers rest or " sleep.",
D as in Dormer (n.) Alt. of Dormer window,
D as in Dormer window (n.) A window pierced in a roof, and so set as to be vertical while the roof slopes away from it. Also, the gablet, or houselike structure, in which it is contained.,
D as in Dormitive (a.) Causing sleep; as, the dormitive properties of opium.,
D as in Dormitive (n.) A medicine to promote sleep; a soporific; an opiate.,
D as in Dormitories (pl. ) of Dormitory,
D as in Dormitory (n.) A sleeping room, or a building containing a series of sleeping rooms; a sleeping apartment capable of containing many beds; esp., one connected with a college or boarding school.,
D as in Dormitory (n.) A burial place.,
D as in Dormice (pl. ) of Dormouse,
D as in Dormouse (n.) A small European rodent of the genus Myoxus, of several species. They live in trees and feed on nuts, acorns, etc.; -- so called because they are usually torpid in winter.,
D as in Dorn (n.) A British ray; the thornback.,
D as in Dornick (n.) Alt. of Dornock,
D as in Dornock (n.) A coarse sort of damask, originally made at Tournay (in Flemish, Doornick), Belgium, and used for hangings, carpets, etc. Also, a stout figured linen manufactured in Scotland.,
D as in Dorp (n.) A hamlet.,
D as in Dorr (n.) The dorbeetle; also, a drone or an idler. See 1st Dor.,
D as in Dorr (v. t.) To deceive. [Obs.] See Dor, v. t.,
D as in Dorr (v. t.) To deafen with noise.,
D as in Dorrfly (n.) See 1st Dor.,
D as in Dorrhawk (n.) See Dorhawk.,
D as in Dorsad (adv.) Toward the dorsum or back; on the dorsal side; dorsally.,
D as in Dorsal (a.) Pertaining to, or situated near, the back, or dorsum, of an animal or of one of its parts; notal; tergal; neural; as, the dorsal fin of a fish; the dorsal artery of the tongue; -- opposed to ventral.,
D as in Dorsal (a.) Pertaining to the surface naturally inferior, as of a leaf.,
D as in Dorsal (a.) Pertaining to the surface naturally superior, as of a creeping hepatic moss.,
D as in Dorsal (a.) A hanging, usually of rich stuff, at the back of a throne, or of an altar, or in any similar position.,
D as in Dorsale (n.) Same as Dorsal, n.,
D as in Dorsally (adv.) On, or toward, the dorsum, or back; on the dorsal side of; dorsad.,
D as in Dorse (n.) Same as dorsal, n.,
D as in Dorse (n.) The back of a book.,
D as in Dorse (n.) The Baltic or variable cod (Gadus callarias), by some believed to be the young of the common codfish.,
D as in Dorsel (n.) A pannier.,
D as in Dorsel (n.) Same as Dorsal, n.,
D as in Dorser (n.) See Dosser.,
D as in dorsibranchiata (n. pl.) A division of chaetopod annelids in which the branchiae are along the back, on each side, or on the parapodia. [See Illusts. under Annelida and Chaetopoda.],
D as in Dorsibranchiate (a.) Having branchiae along the back; belonging to the Dorsibranchiata.,
D as in Dorsibranchiate (n.) One of the Dorsibranchiata.,
D as in Dorsiferous () Bearing, or producing, on the back; -- applied to ferns which produce seeds on the back of the leaf, and to certain Batrachia, the ova of which become attached to the skin of the back of the parent, where they develop; dorsiparous.,
D as in Dorsimeson (n.) (Anat.) See Meson.,
D as in Dorsiparous (a.) Same as Dorsiferous.,
D as in Dorsiventral (a.) Having distinct upper and lower surfaces, as most common leaves. The leaves of the iris are not dorsiventral.,
D as in Dorsiventral (a.) See Dorsoventral.,
D as in Dorsoventral (a.) From the dorsal to the ventral side of an animal; as, the dorsoventral axis.,
D as in Dorsum (n.) The ridge of a hill.,
D as in Dorsum (n.) The back or dorsal region of an animal; the upper side of an appendage or part; as, the dorsum of the tongue.,
D as in Dortour (n.) Alt. of Dorture,
D as in Dorture (n.) A dormitory.,
D as in Dories (pl. ) of Dory,
D as in Dory (n.) A European fish. See Doree, and John Doree.,
D as in Dory (n.) The American wall-eyed perch; -- called also dore. See Pike perch.,
D as in Dories (pl. ) of Dory,
D as in Dory (n.) A small, strong, flat-bottomed rowboat, with sharp prow and flaring sides.,
D as in Doryphora (n.) A genus of plant-eating beetles, including the potato beetle. See Potato beetle.,
D as in Doryphoros (n.) A spear bearer; a statue of a man holding a spear or in the attitude of a spear bearer. Several important sculptures of this subject existed in antiquity, copies of which remain to us.,
D as in Dose (n.) The quantity of medicine given, or prescribed to be taken, at one time.,
D as in Dose (n.) A sufficient quantity; a portion; as much as one can take, or as falls to one to receive.,
D as in Dose (n.) Anything nauseous that one is obliged to take; a disagreeable portion thrust upon one.,
D as in Dosed (imp. & p. p.) of Dose,
D as in dosing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dose,
D as in Dose (n.) To proportion properly (a medicine), with reference to the patient or the disease; to form into suitable doses.,
D as in Dose (n.) To give doses to; to medicine or physic to; to give potions to, constantly and without need.,
D as in Dose (n.) To give anything nauseous to.,
D as in Dosel (n.) Same as Dorsal, n.,
D as in Dosology (n.) Posology.,
D as in Dossel (n.) Same as Dorsal, n.,
D as in Dosser (n.) A pannier, or basket.,
D as in Dosser (n.) A hanging tapestry; a dorsal.,
D as in Dossil (n.) A small ovoid or cylindrical roil or pledget of lint, for keeping a sore, wound, etc., open; a tent.,
D as in Dossil (n.) A roll of cloth for wiping off the face of a copperplate, leaving the ink in the engraved lines.,
D as in Dost (2d pers. sing. pres.) of Do.,
D as in Dot (n.) A marriage portion; dowry.,
D as in Dot (n.) A small point or spot, made with a pen or other pointed instrument; a speck, or small mark.,
D as in Dot (n.) Anything small and like a speck comparatively; a small portion or specimen; as, a dot of a child.,
D as in Dotted (imp. & p. p.) of Dot,
D as in Dotting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dot,
D as in Dot (v. t.) To mark with dots or small spots; as, to dot a line.,
D as in Dot (v. t.) To mark or diversify with small detached objects; as, a landscape dotted with cottages.,
D as in Dot (v. i.) To make dots or specks.,
D as in Dotage (v. i.) Feebleness or imbecility of understanding or mind, particularly in old age; the childishness of old age; senility; as, a venerable man, now in his dotage.,
D as in Dotage (v. i.) Foolish utterance; drivel.,
D as in Dotage (v. i.) Excessive fondness; weak and foolish affection.,
D as in Dotal (a.) Pertaining to dower, or a woman's marriage portion; constituting dower, or comprised in it.,
D as in Dotant (n.) A dotard.,
D as in Dotard (v. i.) One whose mind is impaired by age; one in second childhood.,
D as in Dotardly (a.) Foolish; weak.,
D as in Dotary (n.) A dotard's weakness; dotage.,
D as in Dotation (n.) The act of endowing, or bestowing a marriage portion on a woman.,
D as in Dotation (n.) Endowment; establishment of funds for support, as of a hospital or eleemosynary corporation.,
D as in Dote (n.) A marriage portion. [Obs.] See 1st Dot, n.,
D as in Dote (n.) Natural endowments.,
D as in Doted (imp. & p. p.) of Dote,
D as in Doting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dote,
D as in Dote (v. i.) To act foolishly.,
D as in Dote (v. i.) To be weak-minded, silly, or idiotic; to have the intellect impaired, especially by age, so that the mind wanders or wavers; to drivel.,
D as in Dote (v. i.) To be excessively or foolishly fond; to love to excess; to be weakly affectionate; -- with on or upon; as, the mother dotes on her child.,
D as in Dote (n.) An imbecile; a dotard.,
D as in Doted (a.) Stupid; foolish.,
D as in Doted (a.) Half-rotten; as, doted wood.,
D as in Dotehead (n.) A dotard.,
D as in Doter (n.) One who dotes; a man whose understanding is enfeebled by age; a dotard.,
D as in Doter (n.) One excessively fond, or weak in love.,
D as in Dotery (n.) The acts or speech of a dotard; drivel.,
D as in Doth (3d pers. sing. pres.) of Do.,
D as in Doting (a.) That dotes; silly; excessively fond.,
D as in Dotish (a.) Foolish; weak; imbecile.,
D as in Dottard (n.) An old, decayed tree.,
D as in Dotted (a.) Marked with, or made of, dots or small spots; diversified with small, detached objects.,
D as in Dotterel (a.) Decayed.,
D as in Dotterel (v. i.) A European bird of the Plover family (Eudromias, / Charadrius, morinellus). It is tame and easily taken, and is popularly believed to imitate the movements of the fowler.,
D as in Dotterel (v. i.) A silly fellow; a dupe; a gull.,
D as in Dotting pen () See under Pun.,
D as in Dottrel (n.) See Dotterel.,
D as in Doty (a.) Half-rotten; as, doty timber.,
D as in Douane (n.) A customhouse.,
D as in Douanier (n.) An officer of the French customs.,
D as in Douar (n.) A village composed of Arab tents arranged in streets.,
D as in Douay Bible () A translation of the Scriptures into the English language for the use of English-speaking Roman Catholics; -- done from the Latin Vulgate by English scholars resident in France. The New Testament portion was published at Rheims, A. D. 1582, the Old Testament at Douai, A. D. 1609-10. Various revised editions have since been published.,
D as in Doub grass () Doob grass.,
D as in Double (a.) Twofold; multiplied by two; increased by its equivalent; made twice as large or as much, etc.,
D as in Double (a.) Being in pairs; presenting two of a kind, or two in a set together; coupled.,
D as in Double (a.) Divided into two; acting two parts, one openly and the other secretly; equivocal; deceitful; insincere.,
D as in Double (a.) Having the petals in a flower considerably increased beyond the natural number, usually as the result of cultivation and the expense of the stamens, or stamens and pistils. The white water lily and some other plants have their blossoms naturally double.,
D as in Double (adv.) Twice; doubly.,
D as in Doubled (imp. & p. p.) of Double,
D as in Doubling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Double,
D as in Double (a.) To increase by adding an equal number, quantity, length, value, or the like; multiply by two; to double a sum of money; to double a number, or length.,
D as in Double (a.) To make of two thicknesses or folds by turning or bending together in the middle; to fold one part upon another part of; as, to double the leaf of a book, and the like; to clinch, as the fist; -- often followed by up; as, to double up a sheet of paper or cloth.,
D as in Double (a.) To be the double of; to exceed by twofold; to contain or be worth twice as much as.,
D as in Double (a.) To pass around or by; to march or sail round, so as to reverse the direction of motion.,
D as in Double (a.) To unite, as ranks or files, so as to form one from each two.,
D as in Double (v. i.) To be increased to twice the sum, number, quantity, length, or value; to increase or grow to twice as much.,
D as in Double (v. i.) To return upon one's track; to turn and go back over the same ground, or in an opposite direction.,
D as in Double (v. i.) To play tricks; to use sleights; to play false.,
D as in Double (v. i.) To set up a word or words a second time by mistake; to make a doublet.,
D as in Double (n.) Twice as much; twice the number, sum, quantity, length, value, and the like.,
D as in Double (n.) Among compositors, a doublet (see Doublet, 2.); among pressmen, a sheet that is twice pulled, and blurred.,
D as in Double (n.) That which is doubled over or together; a doubling; a plait; a fold.,
D as in Double (n.) A turn or circuit in running to escape pursues; hence, a trick; a shift; an artifice.,
D as in Double (n.) Something precisely equal or counterpart to another; a counterpart. Hence, a wraith.,
D as in Double (n.) A player or singer who prepares to take the part of another player in his absence; a substitute.,
D as in Double (n.) Double beer; strong beer.,
D as in Double (n.) A feast in which the antiphon is doubled, hat is, said twice, before and after the Psalms, instead of only half being said, as in simple feasts.,
D as in Double (n.) A game between two pairs of players; as, a first prize for doubles.,
D as in Double (n.) An old term for a variation, as in Bach's Suites.,
D as in Double-acting (a.) Acting or operating in two directions or with both motions; producing a twofold result; as, a double-acting engine or pump.,
D as in Double-bank (v. t.) To row by rowers sitting side by side in twos on a bank or thwart.,
D as in Double-banked (a.) Applied to a kind of rowing in which the rowers sit side by side in twos, a pair of oars being worked from each bank or thwart.,
D as in Double-barreled (a.) Alt. of -barrelled,
D as in -barrelled (a.) Having two barrels; -- applied to a gun.,
D as in Double-beat valve () See under Valve.,
D as in Double-breasted (a.) Folding or lapping over on the breast, with a row of buttons and buttonholes on each side; as, a double-breasted coat.,
D as in Double-charge (v. t.) To load with a double charge, as of gunpowder.,
D as in Double-charge (v. t.) To overcharge.,
D as in Double dealer () One who practices double dealing; a deceitful, trickish person.,
D as in Double dealing () False or deceitful dealing. See Double dealing, under Dealing.,
D as in Double-decker (n.) A man-of-war having two gun decks.,
D as in Double-decker (n.) A public conveyance, as a street car, with seats on the roof.,
D as in Double-dye (v. t.) To dye again or twice over.,
D as in Double-dyed (a.) Dyed twice; thoroughly or intensely colored; hence; firmly fixed in opinions or habits; as, a double-dyed villain.,
D as in Double-ender (n.) A vessel capable of moving in either direction, having bow and rudder at each end.,
D as in Double-ender (n.) A locomotive with pilot at each end.,
D as in Double-entendre (n.) A word or expression admitting of a double interpretation, one of which is often obscure or indelicate.,
D as in Double-eyed (a.) Having a deceitful look.,
D as in Double-faced (a.) Having two faces designed for use; as, a double-faced hammer.,
D as in Double-faced (a.) Deceitful; hypocritical; treacherous.,
D as in Double first () A degree of the first class both in classics and mathematics.,
D as in Double first () One who gains at examinations the highest honor both in the classics and the mathematics.,
D as in Double-handed (a.) Having two hands.,
D as in Double-handed (a.) Deceitful; deceptive.,
D as in Double-headed (a.) Having two heads; bicipital.,
D as in Doublehearted (a.) Having a false heart; deceitful; treacherous.,
D as in Double-hung (a.) Having both sashes hung with weights and cords; -- said of a window.,
D as in Double-lock (v. t.) To lock with two bolts; to fasten with double security.,
D as in Double-milled (a.) Twice milled or fulled, to render more compact or fine; -- said of cloth; as, double-milled kerseymere.,
D as in Doubleminded (a.) Having different minds at different times; unsettled; undetermined.,
D as in Doubleness (n.) The state of being double or doubled.,
D as in Doubleness (n.) Duplicity; insincerity.,
D as in Double-quick (a.) Of, or performed in, the fastest time or step in marching, next to the run; as, a double-quick step or march.,
D as in Double-quick (n.) Double-quick time, step, or march.,
D as in Double-quick (v. i. & t.) To move, or cause to move, in double-quick time.,
D as in Doubler (n.) One who, or that which, doubles.,
D as in Doubler (n.) An instrument for augmenting a very small quantity of electricity, so as to render it manifest by sparks or the electroscope.,
D as in Double-ripper (n.) A kind of coasting sled, made of two sleds fastened together with a board, one before the other.,
D as in Double-shade (v. t.) To double the natural darkness of (a place).,
D as in Doublet (a.) Two of the same kind; a pair; a couple.,
D as in Doublet (a.) A word or words unintentionally doubled or set up a second time.,
D as in Doublet (a.) A close-fitting garment for men, covering the body from the neck to the waist or a little below. It was worn in Western Europe from the 15th to the 17th century.,
D as in Doublet (a.) A counterfeit gem, composed of two pieces of crystal, with a color them, and thus giving the appearance of a naturally colored gem. Also, a piece of paste or glass covered by a veneer of real stone.,
D as in Doublet (a.) An arrangement of two lenses for a microscope, designed to correct spherical aberration and chromatic dispersion, thus rendering the image of an object more clear and distinct.,
D as in Doublet (a.) Two dice, each of which, when thrown, has the same number of spots on the face lying uppermost; as, to throw doublets.,
D as in Doublet (a.) A game somewhat like backgammon.,
D as in Doublet (a.) One of two or more words in the same language derived by different courses from the same original from; as, crypt and grot are doublets; also, guard and ward; yard and garden; abridge and abbreviate, etc.,
D as in Doublethreaded (a.) Consisting of two threads twisted together; using two threads.,
D as in Doublethreaded (a.) Having two screw threads instead of one; -- said of a screw in which the pitch is equal to twice the distance between the centers of adjacent threads.,
D as in Double-tongue (n.) Deceit; duplicity.,
D as in Double-tongued (a.) Making contrary declarations on the same subject; deceitful.,
D as in Double-tonguing (n.) A peculiar action of the tongue by flute players in articulating staccato notes; also, the rapid repetition of notes in cornet playing.,
D as in Doubletree (n.) The bar, or crosspiece, of a carriage, to which the singletrees are attached.,
D as in Doublets (n. pl.) See Doublet, 6 and 7.,
D as in Doubling (n.) The act of one that doubles; a making double; reduplication; also, that which is doubled.,
D as in Doubling (n.) A turning and winding; as, the doubling of a hunted hare; shift; trick; artifice.,
D as in Doubling (n.) The lining of the mantle borne about the shield or escutcheon.,
D as in Doubling (n.) The process of redistilling spirits, to improve the strength and flavor.,
D as in Doubloon (a.) A Spanish gold coin, no longer issued, varying in value at different times from over fifteen dollars to about five. See Doblon in Sup.,
D as in Doubly (adv.) In twice the quantity; to twice the degree; as, doubly wise or good; to be doubly sensible of an obligation.,
D as in Doubly (adv.) Deceitfully.,
D as in Dou/ted (imp. & p. p.) of Doubt,
D as in Doubting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Doubt,
D as in Doubt (v. i.) To waver in opinion or judgment; to be in uncertainty as to belief respecting anything; to hesitate in belief; to be undecided as to the truth of the negative or the affirmative proposition; to b e undetermined.,
D as in Doubt (v. i.) To suspect; to fear; to be apprehensive.,
D as in Doubt (v. t.) To question or hold questionable; to withhold assent to; to hesitate to believe, or to be inclined not to believe; to withhold confidence from; to distrust; as, I have heard the story, but I doubt the truth of it.,
D as in Doubt (v. t.) To suspect; to fear; to be apprehensive of.,
D as in Doubt (v. t.) To fill with fear; to affright.,
D as in Doubt (v. i.) A fluctuation of mind arising from defect of knowledge or evidence; uncertainty of judgment or mind; unsettled state of opinion concerning the reality of an event, or the truth of an assertion, etc.; hesitation.,
D as in Doubt (v. i.) Uncertainty of condition.,
D as in Doubt (v. i.) Suspicion; fear; apprehension; dread.,
D as in Doubt (v. i.) Difficulty expressed or urged for solution; point unsettled; objection.,
D as in Doubtable (a.) Capable of being doubted; questionable.,
D as in Doubtable (a.) Worthy of being feared; redoubtable.,
D as in Doubtance (n.) State of being in doubt; uncertainty; doubt.,
D as in Doubter (n.) One who doubts; one whose opinion is unsettled; one who scruples.,
D as in Doubtful (a.) Not settled in opinion; undetermined; wavering; hesitating in belief; also used, metaphorically, of the body when its action is affected by such a state of mind; as, we are doubtful of a fact, or of the propriety of a measure.,
D as in Doubtful (a.) Admitting of doubt; not obvious, clear, or certain; questionable; not decided; not easy to be defined, classed, or named; as, a doubtful case, hue, claim, title, species, and the like.,
D as in Doubtful (a.) Characterized by ambiguity; dubious; as, a doubtful expression; a doubtful phrase.,
D as in Doubtful (a.) Of uncertain issue or event.,
D as in Doubtful (a.) Fearful; apprehensive; suspicious.,
D as in Doubtfully (adv.) In a doubtful manner.,
D as in Doubtfulness (n.) State of being doubtful.,
D as in Doubtfulness (n.) Uncertainty of meaning; ambiguity; indefiniteness.,
D as in Doubtfulness (n.) Uncertainty of event or issue.,
D as in Doubting (a.) That is uncertain; that distrusts or hesitates; having doubts.,
D as in Doubtless (a.) Free from fear or suspicion.,
D as in Doubtless (adv.) Undoubtedly; without doubt.,
D as in Doubtlessly (adv.) Unquestionably.,
D as in Doubtous (a.) Doubtful.,
D as in Douc (n.) A monkey (Semnopithecus nemaeus), remarkable for its varied and brilliant colors. It is a native of Cochin China.,
D as in Douce (a.) Sweet; pleasant.,
D as in Douce (a.) Sober; prudent; sedate; modest.,
D as in Doucepere (n.) One of the twelve peers of France, companions of Charlemagne in war.,
D as in Doucet (n.) Alt. of Dowset,
D as in Dowset (n.) A custard.,
D as in Dowset (n.) A dowcet, or deep's testicle.,
D as in Douceur (n.) Gentleness and sweetness of manner; agreeableness.,
D as in Douceur (n.) A gift for service done or to be done; an honorarium; a present; sometimes, a bribe.,
D as in Douche (n.) A jet or current of water or vapor directed upon some part of the body to benefit it medicinally; a douche bath.,
D as in Douche (n.) A syringe.,
D as in Doucine (n.) Same as Cyma/recta, under Cyma.,
D as in Doucker (v. t.) A grebe or diver; -- applied also to the golden-eye, pochard, scoter, and other ducks.,
D as in Dough (n.) Paste of bread; a soft mass of moistened flour or meal, kneaded or unkneaded, but not yet baked; as, to knead dough.,
D as in Dough (n.) Anything of the consistency of such paste.,
D as in Dough-baked (a.) Imperfectly baked; hence, not brought to perfection; unfinished; also, of weak or dull understanding.,
D as in Doughbird (n.) The Eskimo curlew (Numenius borealis). See Curlew.,
D as in Doughface (n.) A contemptuous nickname for a timid, yielding politician, or one who is easily molded.,
D as in Dough-faced (a.) Easily molded; pliable.,
D as in Doughfaceism (n.) The character of a doughface; truckling pliability.,
D as in Doughiness (n.) The quality or state of being doughy.,
D as in Dough-kneaded (a.) Like dough; soft.,
D as in Doughnut (n.) A small cake (usually sweetened) fried in a kettle of boiling lard.,
D as in Doughtily (adv.) In a doughty manner.,
D as in Doughtiness (n.) The quality of being doughty; valor; bravery.,
D as in Doughtren (n. pl.) Daughters.,
D as in Doughty (superl.) Able; strong; valiant; redoubtable; as, a doughty hero.,
D as in Doughy (a.) Like dough; soft and heavy; pasty; crude; flabby and pale; as, a doughy complexion.,
D as in Doulocracy (n.) A government by slaves.,
D as in Doum palm () See Doom palm.,
D as in Doupe (n.) The carrion crow.,
D as in Dour (a.) Hard; inflexible; obstinate; sour in aspect; hardy; bold.,
D as in Doura (n.) A kind of millet. See Durra.,
D as in Douroucouli (n.) See Durukuli.,
D as in Doused (imp. & p. p.) of Douse,
D as in Dousing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Douse,
D as in Douse (v. t.) To plunge suddenly into water; to duck; to immerse; to dowse.,
D as in Douse (v. t.) To strike or lower in haste; to slacken suddenly; as, douse the topsail.,
D as in Douse (v. i.) To fall suddenly into water.,
D as in Douse (v. t.) To put out; to extinguish.,
D as in Dousing-chock (n.) One of several pieces fayed across the apron and lapped in the knightheads, or inside planking above the upper deck.,
D as in Dout (v. t.) To put out.,
D as in Douter (n.) An extinguisher for candles.,
D as in Dove (n.) A pigeon of the genus Columba and various related genera. The species are numerous.,
D as in Dove (n.) A word of endearment for one regarded as pure and gentle.,
D as in Dovecot (n.) Alt. of Dovecote,
D as in Dovecote (n.) A small house or box, raised to a considerable height above the ground, and having compartments, in which domestic pigeons breed; a dove house.,
D as in Dove-eyed (a.) Having eyes like a dove; meekeyed; as, dove-eyed Peace.,
D as in Dovekie (n.) A guillemot (Uria grylle), of the arctic regions. Also applied to the little auk or sea dove. See under Dove.,
D as in Dovelet (n.) A young or small dove.,
D as in Dovelike (a.) Mild as a dove; gentle; pure and lovable.,
D as in Dove plant () A Central American orchid (Peristeria elata), having a flower stem five or six feet high, with numerous globose white fragrant flowers. The column in the center of the flower resembles a dove; -- called also Holy Spirit plant.,
D as in Dover's Powder () A powder of ipecac and opium, compounded, in the United States, with sugar of milk, but in England (as formerly in the United States) with sulphate of potash, and in France (as in Dr. Dover's original prescription) with nitrate and sulphate of potash and licorice. It is an anodyne diaphoretic.,
D as in Dove's-foot (n.) A small annual species of Geranium, native in England; -- so called from the shape of the leaf.,
D as in Dove's-foot (n.) The columbine.,
D as in Doveship (n.) The possession of dovelike qualities, harmlessness and innocence.,
D as in Dovetail (n.) A flaring tenon, or tongue (shaped like a bird's tail spread), and a mortise, or socket, into which it fits tightly, making an interlocking joint between two pieces which resists pulling a part in all directions except one.,
D as in Dovetailed (imp. & p. p.) of Dovetail,
D as in Dovetailing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dovetail,
D as in Dovetail (v. t.) To cut to a dovetail.,
D as in Dovetail (v. t.) To join by means of dovetails.,
D as in Dovetail (v. t.) To fit in or connect strongly, skillfully, or nicely; to fit ingeniously or complexly.,
D as in Dovish (a.) Like a dove; harmless; innocent.,
D as in Dow (n.) A kind of vessel. See Dhow.,
D as in Dow (v. t.) To furnish with a dower; to endow.,
D as in Dowable (v. t.) Capable of being endowed; entitled to dower.,
D as in Dowager (n.) A widow endowed, or having a jointure; a widow who either enjoys a dower from her deceased husband, or has property of her own brought by her to her husband on marriage, and settled on her after his decease.,
D as in Dowager (n.) A title given in England to a widow, to distinguish her from the wife of her husband's heir bearing the same name; -- chiefly applied to widows of personages of rank.,
D as in Dowagerism (n.) The rank or condition of a dowager; formality, as that of a dowager. Also used figuratively.,
D as in Dowcet (n.) One of the testicles of a hart or stag.,
D as in Dowdy (superl.) Showing a vulgar taste in dress; awkward and slovenly in dress; vulgar-looking.,
D as in Dowdies (pl. ) of Dowdy,
D as in Dowdy (n.) An awkward, vulgarly dressed, inelegant woman.,
D as in Dowdyish (a.) Like a dowdy.,
D as in Dowel (n.) A pin, or block, of wood or metal, fitting into holes in the abutting portions of two pieces, and being partly in one piece and partly in the other, to keep them in their proper relative position.,
D as in Dowel (n.) A piece of wood driven into a wall, so that other pieces may be nailed to it.,
D as in Doweled (imp. & p. p.) of Dowel,
D as in Dowelled () of Dowel,
D as in Doweling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dowel,
D as in Dowelling () of Dowel,
D as in Dowel (v. t.) To fasten together by dowels; to furnish with dowels; as, a cooper dowels pieces for the head of a cask.,
D as in Dower (n.) That with which one is gifted or endowed; endowment; gift.,
D as in Dower (n.) The property with which a woman is endowed,
D as in Dower (n.) That which a woman brings to a husband in marriage; dowry.,
D as in Dower (n.) That portion of the real estate of a man which his widow enjoys during her life, or to which a woman is entitled after the death of her husband.,
D as in Dowered (p. a.) Furnished with, or as with, dower or a marriage portion.,
D as in Dowerless (a.) Destitute of dower; having no marriage portion.,
D as in Dowery (n.) See Dower.,
D as in Dowitcher (n.) The red-breasted or gray snipe (Macrorhamphus griseus); -- called also brownback, and grayback.,
D as in Dowl (n.) Same as Dowle.,
D as in Dowlas (n.) A coarse linen cloth made in the north of England and in Scotland, now nearly replaced by calico.,
D as in Dowle (n.) Feathery or wool-like down; filament of a feather.,
D as in Down (n.) Fine, soft, hairy outgrowth from the skin or surface of animals or plants, not matted and fleecy like wool,
D as in Down (n.) The soft under feathers of birds. They have short stems with soft rachis and bards and long threadlike barbules, without hooklets.,
D as in Down (n.) The pubescence of plants; the hairy crown or envelope of the seeds of certain plants, as of the thistle.,
D as in Down (n.) The soft hair of the face when beginning to appear.,
D as in Down (n.) That which is made of down, as a bed or pillow; that which affords ease and repose, like a bed of down,
D as in Down (v. t.) To cover, ornament, line, or stuff with down.,
D as in Down (prep.) A bank or rounded hillock of sand thrown up by the wind along or near the shore; a flattish-topped hill; -- usually in the plural.,
D as in Down (prep.) A tract of poor, sandy, undulating or hilly land near the sea, covered with fine turf which serves chiefly for the grazing of sheep; -- usually in the plural.,
D as in Down (prep.) A road for shipping in the English Channel or Straits of Dover, near Deal, employed as a naval rendezvous in time of war.,
D as in Down (prep.) A state of depression; low state; abasement.,
D as in Down (adv.) In the direction of gravity or toward the center of the earth; toward or in a lower place or position; below; -- the opposite of up.,
D as in Down (adv.) From a higher to a lower position, literally or figuratively; in a descending direction; from the top of an ascent; from an upright position; to the ground or floor; to or into a lower or an inferior condition; as, into a state of humility, disgrace, misery, and the like; into a state of rest; -- used with verbs indicating motion.,
D as in Down (adv.) In a low or the lowest position, literally or figuratively; at the bottom of a decent; below the horizon; of the ground; in a condition of humility, dejection, misery, and the like; in a state of quiet.,
D as in Down (adv.) From a remoter or higher antiquity.,
D as in Down (adv.) From a greater to a less bulk, or from a thinner to a thicker consistence; as, to boil down in cookery, or in making decoctions.,
D as in Down (adv.) In a descending direction along; from a higher to a lower place upon or within; at a lower place in or on; as, down a hill; down a well.,
D as in Down (adv.) Hence: Towards the mouth of a river; towards the sea; as, to sail or swim down a stream; to sail down the sound.,
D as in Downed (imp. & p. p.) of Down,
D as in Downing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Down,
D as in Down (v. t.) To cause to go down; to make descend; to put down; to overthrow, as in wrestling; hence, to subdue; to bring down.,
D as in Down (v. i.) To go down; to descend.,
D as in Down (a.) Downcast; as, a down look.,
D as in Down (a.) Downright; absolute; positive; as, a down denial.,
D as in Down (a.) Downward; going down; sloping; as, a down stroke; a down grade; a down train on a railway.,
D as in Downbear (v. t.) To bear down; to depress.,
D as in Downcast (a.) Cast downward; directed to the ground, from bashfulness, modesty, dejection, or guilt.,
D as in Downcast (n.) Downcast or melancholy look.,
D as in Downcast (n.) A ventilating shaft down which the air passes in circulating through a mine.,
D as in Downcome (n.) Sudden fall; downfall; overthrow.,
D as in Downcome (n.) A pipe for leading combustible gases downward from the top of the blast furnace to the hot-blast stoves, boilers, etc., where they are burned.,
D as in Downfall (n.) A sudden fall; a body of things falling.,
D as in Downfall (n.) A sudden descent from rank or state, reputation or happiness; destruction; ruin.,
D as in Downfallen (a.) Fallen; ruined.,
D as in Downfalling (a.) Falling down.,
D as in Downgyved (a.) Hanging down like gyves or fetters.,
D as in Downhaul (n.) A rope to haul down, or to assist in hauling down, a sail; as, a staysail downhaul; a trysail downhaul.,
D as in Downhearted (a.) Dejected; low-spirited.,
D as in Downhill (adv.) Towards the bottom of a hill; as, water runs downhill.,
D as in Downhill (a.) Declivous; descending; sloping.,
D as in Downhill (n.) Declivity; descent; slope.,
D as in Downiness (n.) The quality or state of being downy.,
D as in Downlooked (a.) Having a downcast countenance; dejected; gloomy; sullen.,
D as in Downlying (n.) The time of retiring to rest; time of repose.,
D as in Downpour (n.) A pouring or streaming downwards; esp., a heavy or continuous shower.,
D as in Downright (adv.) Straight down; perpendicularly.,
D as in Downright (adv.) In plain terms; without ceremony.,
D as in Downright (adv.) Without delay; at once; completely.,
D as in Downright (a.) Plain; direct; unceremonious; blunt; positive; as, he spoke in his downright way.,
D as in Downright (a.) Open; artless; undisguised; absolute; unmixed; as, downright atheism.,
D as in Down-share (n.) A breastplow used in paring off turf on downs.,
D as in Downsitting (n.) The act of sitting down; repose; a resting.,
D as in Downstairs (adv.) Down the stairs; to a lower floor.,
D as in Downstairs (a.) Below stairs; as, a downstairs room.,
D as in Downsteepy (a.) Very steep.,
D as in Downstream (adv.) Down the stream; as, floating downstream.,
D as in Downstroke (n.) A stroke made with a downward motion of the pen or pencil.,
D as in Downthrow (n.) The sudden drop or depression of the strata of rocks on one side of a fault. See Throw, n.,
D as in Downtrod (a.) Alt. of Downtrodden,
D as in Downtrodden (a.) Trodden down; trampled down; abused by superior power.,
D as in Downward (adv.) Alt. of Downwards,
D as in Downwards (adv.) From a higher place to a lower; in a descending course; as, to tend, move, roll, look, or take root, downward or downwards.,
D as in Downwards (adv.) From a higher to a lower condition; toward misery, humility, disgrace, or ruin.,
D as in Downwards (adv.) From a remote time; from an ancestor or predecessor; from one to another in a descending line.,
D as in Downward (a.) Moving or extending from a higher to a lower place; tending toward the earth or its center, or toward a lower level; declivous.,
D as in Downward (a.) Descending from a head, origin, or source; as, a downward line of descent.,
D as in Downward (a.) Tending to a lower condition or state; depressed; dejected; as, downward thoughts.,
D as in Downweed (n.) Cudweed, a species of Gnaphalium.,
D as in Downweigh (v. t.) To weigh or press down.,
D as in Downy (a.) Covered with down, or with pubescence or soft hairs.,
D as in Downy (a.) Made of, or resembling, down. Hence, figuratively: Soft; placid; soothing; quiet.,
D as in Downy (a.) Cunning; wary.,
D as in Dowral (a.) Of or relating to a dower.,
D as in Dowress (n.) A woman entitled to dower.,
D as in Dowries (pl. ) of Dowry,
D as in Dowry (n.) A gift; endowment.,
D as in Dowry (n.) The money, goods, or estate, which a woman brings to her husband in marriage; a bride's portion on her marriage. See Note under Dower.,
D as in Dowry (n.) A gift or presents for the bride, on espousal. See Dower.,
D as in Dowse (v. t.) To plunge, or duck into water; to immerse; to douse.,
D as in Dowse (v. t.) To beat or thrash.,
D as in Dowse (v. i.) To use the dipping or divining rod, as in search of water, ore, etc.,
D as in Dowse (n.) A blow on the face.,
D as in Dowser (n.) A divining rod used in searching for water, ore, etc., a dowsing rod.,
D as in Dowser (n.) One who uses the dowser or divining rod.,
D as in Dowst (n.) A dowse.,
D as in Dowve (n.) A dove.,
D as in Doxological (a.) Pertaining to doxology; giving praise to God.,
D as in Doxologized (imp. & p. p.) of Doxologize,
D as in Doxologizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Doxologize,
D as in Doxologize (v. i.) To give glory to God, as in a doxology; to praise God with doxologies.,
D as in Doxologies (pl. ) of Doxology,
D as in Doxology (n.) In Christian worship: A hymn expressing praise and honor to God; a form of praise to God designed to be sung or chanted by the choir or the congregation.,
D as in Doxies (pl. ) of Doxy,
D as in Doxy (n.) A loose wench; a disreputable sweetheart.,
D as in Doyly (n.) See Doily.,
D as in Dozed (imp. & p. p.) of Doze,
D as in Dozing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Doze,
D as in Doze (v. i.) To slumber; to sleep lightly; to be in a dull or stupefied condition, as if half asleep; to be drowsy.,
D as in Doze (v. t.) To pass or spend in drowsiness; as, to doze away one's time.,
D as in Doze (v. t.) To make dull; to stupefy.,
D as in Doze (n.) A light sleep; a drowse.,
D as in Dozen (pl. ) of Dozen,
D as in Dozens (pl. ) of Dozen,
D as in Dozen (n.) A collection of twelve objects; a tale or set of twelve; with or without of before the substantive which follows.,
D as in Dozen (n.) An indefinite small number.,
D as in Dozenth (a.) Twelfth.,
D as in Dozer (n.) One who dozes or drowses.,
D as in Doziness (n.) The state of being dozy; drowsiness; inclination to sleep.,
D as in Dozy (a.) Drowsy; inclined to doze; sleepy; sluggish; as, a dozy head.,
D as in Dozzled (a.) Stupid; heavy.,
D as in Drab (n.) A low, sluttish woman.,
D as in Drab (n.) A lewd wench; a strumpet.,
D as in Drab (n.) A wooden box, used in salt works for holding the salt when taken out of the boiling pans.,
D as in Drabbed (imp. & p. p.) of Drab,
D as in Drabbing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Drab,
D as in Drab (v. i.) To associate with strumpets; to wench.,
D as in Drab (n.) A kind of thick woolen cloth of a dun, or dull brownish yellow, or dull gray, color; -- called also drabcloth.,
D as in Drab (n.) A dull brownish yellow or dull gray color.,
D as in Drab (a.) Of a color between gray and brown.,
D as in Drab (n.) A drab color.,
D as in Drabber (n.) One who associates with drabs; a wencher.,
D as in Drabbet (n.) A coarse linen fabric, or duck.,
D as in Drabbish (a.) Somewhat drab in color.,
D as in Drabbish (a.) Having the character of a drab or low wench.,
D as in Drabbled (imp. & p. p.) of Drabble,
D as in Drabbling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Drabble,
D as in Drabble (v. t.) To draggle; to wet and befoul by draggling; as, to drabble a gown or cloak.,
D as in Drabble (v. i.) To fish with a long line and rod; as, to drabble for barbels.,
D as in Drabbler (n.) A piece of canvas fastened by lacing to the bonnet of a sail, to give it a greater depth, or more drop.,
D as in Drabble-tail (n.) A draggle-tail; a slattern.,
D as in Dracaena (n.) A genus of liliaceous plants with woody stems and funnel-shaped flowers.,
D as in Dracanth (n.) A kind of gum; -- called also gum tragacanth, or tragacanth. See Tragacanth.,
D as in Drachm (n.) A drachma.,
D as in Drachm (n.) Same as Dram.,
D as in Drachmas (pl. ) of Drachma,
D as in Drachmae (pl. ) of Drachma,
D as in Drachma (n.) A silver coin among the ancient Greeks, having a different value in different States and at different periods. The average value of the Attic drachma is computed to have been about 19 cents.,
D as in Drachma (n.) A gold and silver coin of modern Greece worth 19.3 cents.,
D as in Drachma (n.) Among the ancient Greeks, a weight of about 66.5 grains; among the modern Greeks, a weight equal to a gram.,
D as in Drachme (n.) See Drachma.,
D as in Dracin (n.) See Draconin.,
D as in Draco (n.) The Dragon, a northern constellation within which is the north pole of the ecliptic.,
D as in Draco (n.) A luminous exhalation from marshy grounds.,
D as in Draco (n.) A genus of lizards. See Dragon, 6.,
D as in Draconian (a.) Pertaining to Draco, a famous lawgiver of Athens, 621 b. c.,
D as in Draconic (a.) Relating to Draco, the Athenian lawgiver; or to the constellation Draco; or to dragon's blood.,
D as in Draconin (n.) A red resin forming the essential basis of dragon's blood; -- called also dracin.,
D as in Dracontic (a.) Belonging to that space of time in which the moon performs one revolution, from ascending node to ascending node. See Dragon's head, under Dragon.,
D as in Dracontine (a.) Belonging to a dragon.,
D as in Dracunculi (pl. ) of Dracunculus,
D as in Dracunculus (n.) A fish; the dragonet.,
D as in Dracunculus (n.) The Guinea worm (Filaria medinensis).,
D as in Drad (p. p. & a.) Dreaded.,
D as in Dradde (imp.) of Dread.,
D as in Dradge (n.) Inferior ore, separated from the better by cobbing.,
D as in Draff (n.) Refuse; lees; dregs; the wash given to swine or cows; hogwash; waste matter.,
D as in Draffish (a.) Worthless; draffy.,
D as in Draffy (a.) Dreggy; waste; worthless.,
D as in Draff (n.) The act of drawing; also, the thing drawn. Same as Draught.,
D as in Draff (n.) A selecting or detaching of soldiers from an army, or from any part of it, or from a military post; also from any district, or any company or collection of persons, or from the people at large; also, the body of men thus drafted.,
D as in Draff (n.) An order from one person or party to another, directing the payment of money; a bill of exchange.,
D as in Draff (n.) An allowance or deduction made from the gross veight of goods.,
D as in Draff (n.) A drawing of lines for a plan; a plan delineated, or drawn in outline; a delineation. See Draught.,
D as in Draff (n.) The form of any writing as first drawn up; the first rough sketch of written composition, to be filled in, or completed. See Draught.,
D as in Draff (n.) A narrow border left on a finished stone, worked differently from the rest of its face.,
D as in Draff (n.) A narrow border worked to a plane surface along the edge of a stone, or across its face, as a guide to the stone-cutter.,
D as in Draff (n.) The slant given to the furrows in the dress of a millstone.,
D as in Draff (n.) Depth of water necessary to float a ship. See Draught.,
D as in Draff (n.) A current of air. Same as Draught.,
D as in Draft (a.) Pertaining to, or used for, drawing or pulling (as vehicles, loads, etc.). Same as Draught.,
D as in Draft (a.) Relating to, or characterized by, a draft, or current of air. Same as Draught.,
D as in Drafted (imp. & p. p.) of Draft,
D as in Drafting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Draft,
D as in Draft (v. t.) To draw the outline of; to delineate.,
D as in Draft (v. t.) To compose and write; as, to draft a memorial.,
D as in Draft (v. t.) To draw from a military band or post, or from any district, company, or society; to detach; to select.,
D as in Draft (v. t.) To transfer by draft.,
D as in Draftsman (n.) See Draughtsman.,
D as in Drag (n.) A confection; a comfit; a drug.,
D as in Dragged (imp. & p. p.) of Drag,
D as in Dragging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Drag,
D as in Drag (v. t.) To draw slowly or heavily onward; to pull along the ground by main force; to haul; to trail; -- applied to drawing heavy or resisting bodies or those inapt for drawing, with labor, along the ground or other surface; as, to drag stone or timber; to drag a net in fishing.,
D as in Drag (v. t.) To break, as land, by drawing a drag or harrow over it; to harrow; to draw a drag along the bottom of, as a stream or other water; hence, to search, as by means of a drag.,
D as in Drag (v. t.) To draw along, as something burdensome; hence, to pass in pain or with difficulty.,
D as in Drag (v. i.) To be drawn along, as a rope or dress, on the ground; to trail; to be moved onward along the ground, or along the bottom of the sea, as an anchor that does not hold.,
D as in Drag (v. i.) To move onward heavily, laboriously, or slowly; to advance with weary effort; to go on lingeringly.,
D as in Drag (v. i.) To serve as a clog or hindrance; to hold back.,
D as in Drag (v. i.) To fish with a dragnet.,
D as in Drag (v. t.) The act of dragging; anything which is dragged.,
D as in Drag (v. t.) A net, or an apparatus, to be drawn along the bottom under water, as in fishing, searching for drowned persons, etc.,
D as in Drag (v. t.) A kind of sledge for conveying heavy bodies; also, a kind of low car or handcart; as, a stone drag.,
D as in Drag (v. t.) A heavy coach with seats on top; also, a heavy carriage.,
D as in Drag (v. t.) A heavy harrow, for breaking up ground.,
D as in Drag (v. t.) Anything towed in the water to retard a ship's progress, or to keep her head up to the wind; esp., a canvas bag with a hooped mouth, so used. See Drag sail (below).,
D as in Drag (v. t.) Also, a skid or shoe, for retarding the motion of a carriage wheel.,
D as in Drag (v. t.) Hence, anything that retards; a clog; an obstacle to progress or enjoyment.,
D as in Drag (v. t.) Motion affected with slowness and difficulty, as if clogged.,
D as in Drag (v. t.) The bottom part of a flask or mold, the upper part being the cope.,
D as in Drag (v. t.) A steel instrument for completing the dressing of soft stone.,
D as in Drag (v. t.) The difference between the speed of a screw steamer under sail and that of the screw when the ship outruns the screw; or between the propulsive effects of the different floats of a paddle wheel. See Citation under Drag, v. i., 3.,
D as in Dragantine (n.) A mucilage obtained from, or containing, gum tragacanth.,
D as in Dragbar (n.) Same as Drawbar (b). Called also draglink, and drawlink.,
D as in Dragbolt (n.) A coupling pin. See under Coupling.,
D as in Dragees (n. pl.) Sugar-coated medicines.,
D as in Draggled (imp. & p. p.) of Draggle,
D as in Draggling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Draggle,
D as in Draggle (v. t.) To wet and soil by dragging on the ground, mud, or wet grass; to drabble; to trail.,
D as in Draggle (v. i.) To be dragged on the ground; to become wet or dirty by being dragged or trailed in the mud or wet grass.,
D as in Draggle-tail (n.) A slattern who suffers her gown to trail in the mire; a drabble-tail.,
D as in Draggle-tailed (a.) Untidy; sluttish; slatternly.,
D as in Draglink (n.) A link connecting the cranks of two shafts.,
D as in Draglink (n.) A drawbar.,
D as in Dragmen (pl. ) of Dragman,
D as in Dragman (n.) A fisherman who uses a dragnet.,
D as in Dragnet (n.) A net to be drawn along the bottom of a body of water, as in fishing.,
D as in Dragomans (pl. ) of Dragoman,
D as in Dragoman (n.) An interpreter; -- so called in the Levant and other parts of the East.,
D as in Dragon (n.) A fabulous animal, generally represented as a monstrous winged serpent or lizard, with a crested head and enormous claws, and regarded as very powerful and ferocious.,
D as in Dragon (n.) A fierce, violent person, esp. a woman.,
D as in Dragon (n.) A constellation of the northern hemisphere figured as a dragon; Draco.,
D as in Dragon (n.) A luminous exhalation from marshy grounds, seeming to move through the air as a winged serpent.,
D as in Dragon (n.) A short musket hooked to a swivel attached to a soldier's belt; -- so called from a representation of a dragon's head at the muzzle.,
D as in Dragon (n.) A small arboreal lizard of the genus Draco, of several species, found in the East Indies and Southern Asia. Five or six of the hind ribs, on each side, are prolonged and covered with weblike skin, forming a sort of wing. These prolongations aid them in making long leaps from tree to tree. Called also flying lizard.,
D as in Dragon (n.) A variety of carrier pigeon.,
D as in Dragon (n.) A fabulous winged creature, sometimes borne as a charge in a coat of arms.,
D as in Dragonet (n.) A little dragon.,
D as in Dragonet (n.) A small British marine fish (Callionymuslyra); -- called also yellow sculpin, fox, and gowdie.,
D as in Dragonish (a.) resembling a dragon.,
D as in Dragonlike (a.) Like a dragon.,
D as in Dragonnade (n.) The severe persecution of French Protestants under Louis XIV., by an armed force, usually of dragoons; hence, a rapid and devastating incursion; dragoonade.,
D as in Dragon's blood () Alt. of Dragon's tail,
D as in Dragon's head () Alt. of Dragon's tail,
D as in Dragon's tail () See Dragon's blood, Dragon's head, etc., under Dragon.,
D as in Dragoon (n.) Formerly, a soldier who was taught and armed to serve either on horseback or on foot; now, a mounted soldier; a cavalry man.,
D as in Dragoon (n.) A variety of pigeon.,
D as in Dragooned (imp. & p. p.) of Dragoon,
D as in Dragooning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dragoon,
D as in Dragoon (v. t.) To harass or reduce to subjection by dragoons; to persecute by abandoning a place to the rage of soldiers.,
D as in Dragoon (v. t.) To compel submission by violent measures; to harass; to persecute.,
D as in Dragoonade (n.) See Dragonnade.,
D as in Dragooner (n.) A dragoon.,
D as in Drail (v. t. & i.) To trail; to draggle.,
D as in Drained (imp. & p. p.) of Drain,
D as in Draining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Drain,
D as in Drain (v. t.) To draw off by degrees; to cause to flow gradually out or off; hence, to cause the exhaustion of.,
D as in Drain (v. t.) To exhaust of liquid contents by drawing them off; to make gradually dry or empty; to remove surface water, as from streets, by gutters, etc.; to deprive of moisture; hence, to exhaust; to empty of wealth, resources, or the like; as, to drain a country of its specie.,
D as in Drain (v. t.) To filter.,
D as in Drain (v. i.) To flow gradually; as, the water of low ground drains off.,
D as in Drain (v. i.) To become emptied of liquor by flowing or dropping; as, let the vessel stand and drain.,
D as in Drain (n.) The act of draining, or of drawing off; gradual and continuous outflow or withdrawal; as, the drain of specie from a country.,
D as in Drain (n.) That means of which anything is drained; a channel; a trench; a water course; a sewer; a sink.,
D as in Drain (n.) The grain from the mashing tub; as, brewers' drains.,
D as in Drainable (a.) Capable of being drained.,
D as in Drainage (n.) A draining; a gradual flowing off of any liquid; also, that which flows out of a drain.,
D as in Drainage (n.) The mode in which the waters of a country pass off by its streams and rivers.,
D as in Drainage (n.) The system of drains and their operation, by which superfluous water is removed from towns, railway beds, mines, and other works.,
D as in Drainage (n.) Area or district drained; as, the drainage of the Po, the Thames, etc.,
D as in Drainage (n.) The act, process, or means of drawing off the pus or fluids from a wound, abscess, etc.,
D as in Draine (n.) The missel thrush.,
D as in Drainer (n.) One who, or that which, drains.,
D as in Draining (v. t.) The art of carrying off surplus water, as from land.,
D as in Drainpipe (n.) A pipe used for carrying off surplus water.,
D as in Draintile (n.) A hollow tile used in making drains; -- called also draining tile.,
D as in Draintrap (n.) See 4th Trap, 5.,
D as in Drake (n.) The male of the duck kind.,
D as in Drake (n.) The drake fly.,
D as in Drake (n.) A dragon.,
D as in Drake (n.) A small piece of artillery.,
D as in Drake (n.) Wild oats, brome grass, or darnel grass; -- called also drawk, dravick, and drank.,
D as in Drakestone (n.) A flat stone so thrown along the surface of water as to skip from point to point before it sinks; also, the sport of so throwing stones; -- sometimes called ducks and drakes.,
D as in Dram (n.) A weight; in Apothecaries' weight, one eighth part of an ounce, or sixty grains; in Avoirdupois weight, one sixteenth part of an ounce, or 27.34375 grains.,
D as in Dram (n.) A minute quantity; a mite.,
D as in Dram (n.) As much spirituous liquor as is usually drunk at once; as, a dram of brandy; hence, a potation or potion; as, a dram of poison.,
D as in Dram (n.) A Persian daric.,
D as in Dram (v. i. & t.) To drink drams; to ply with drams.,
D as in Drama (n.) A composition, in prose or poetry, accommodated to action, and intended to exhibit a picture of human life, or to depict a series of grave or humorous actions of more than ordinary interest, tending toward some striking result. It is commonly designed to be spoken and represented by actors on the stage.,
D as in Drama (n.) A series of real events invested with a dramatic unity and interest.,
D as in Drama (n.) Dramatic composition and the literature pertaining to or illustrating it; dramatic literature.,
D as in Dramatic (a.) Alt. of Dramatical,
D as in Dramatical (a.) Of or pertaining to the drama; appropriate to, or having the qualities of, a drama; theatrical; vivid.,
D as in Dramatically (adv.) In a dramatic manner; theatrically; vividly.,
D as in Dramatis personae () The actors in a drama or play.,
D as in Dramatist (n.) The author of a dramatic composition; a writer of plays.,
D as in Dramatizable (a.) Capable of being dramatized.,
D as in Dramatization (n.) Act of dramatizing.,
D as in Dramatized (imp. & p. p.) of Dramatize,
D as in Dramatizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dramatize,
D as in Dramatize (v. t.) To compose in the form of the drama; to represent in a drama; to adapt to dramatic representation; as, to dramatize a novel, or an historical episode.,
D as in Dramaturgic (a.) Relating to dramaturgy.,
D as in Dramaturgist (n.) One versed in dramaturgy.,
D as in Dramaturgy (n.) The art of dramatic composition and representation.,
D as in Dramming (n.) The practice of drinking drams.,
D as in Dramseller (n.) One who sells distilled liquors by the dram or glass.,
D as in Dramshop (n.) A shop or barroom where spirits are sold by the dram.,
D as in Drank (imp.) of Drink.,
D as in Drank (n.) Wild oats, or darnel grass. See Drake a plant.,
D as in Drap d'ete () A thin woolen fabric, twilled like merino.,
D as in Draped (imp. & p. p.) of Drape,
D as in Draping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Drape,
D as in Drape (v. t.) To cover or adorn with drapery or folds of cloth, or as with drapery; as, to drape a bust, a building, etc.,
D as in Drape (v. t.) To rail at; to banter.,
D as in Drape (v. i.) To make cloth.,
D as in Drape (v. i.) To design drapery, arrange its folds, etc., as for hangings, costumes, statues, etc.,
D as in Draper (n.) One who sells cloths; a dealer in cloths; as, a draper and tailor.,
D as in Draperied (a.) Covered or supplied with drapery.,
D as in Draperies (pl. ) of Drapery,
D as in Drapery (n.) The occupation of a draper; cloth-making, or dealing in cloth.,
D as in Drapery (n.) Cloth, or woolen stuffs in general.,
D as in Drapery (n.) A textile fabric used for decorative purposes, especially when hung loosely and in folds carefully disturbed; as: (a) Garments or vestments of this character worn upon the body, or shown in the representations of the human figure in art. (b) Hangings of a room or hall, or about a bed.,
D as in Drapet (n.) Cloth.,
D as in Drastic (a.) Acting rapidly and violently; efficacious; powerful; -- opposed to bland; as, drastic purgatives.,
D as in Drastic (n.) A violent purgative. See Cathartic.,
D as in Drasty (a.) Filthy; worthless.,
D as in Draugh (n.) See Draft.,
D as in Draught (n.) The act of drawing or pulling,
D as in Draught (n.) The act of moving loads by drawing, as by beasts of burden, and the like.,
D as in Draught (n.) The drawing of a bowstring.,
D as in Draught (n.) Act of drawing a net; a sweeping the water for fish.,
D as in Draught (n.) The act of drawing liquor into the mouth and throat; the act of drinking.,
D as in Draught (n.) A sudden attack or drawing upon an enemy.,
D as in Draught (n.) The act of selecting or detaching soldiers; a draft (see Draft, n., 2),
D as in Draught (n.) The act of drawing up, marking out, or delineating; representation.,
D as in Draught (n.) That which is drawn,
D as in Draught (n.) That which is taken by sweeping with a net.,
D as in Draught (n.) The force drawn; a detachment; -- in this sense usually written draft.,
D as in Draught (n.) The quantity drawn in at once in drinking; a potion or potation.,
D as in Draught (n.) A sketch, outline, or representation, whether written, designed, or drawn; a delineation.,
D as in Draught (n.) An order for the payment of money; -- in this sense almost always written draft.,
D as in Draught (n.) A current of air moving through an inclosed place, as through a room or up a chimney.,
D as in Draught (n.) That which draws,
D as in Draught (n.) A team of oxen or horses.,
D as in Draught (n.) A sink or drain; a privy.,
D as in Draught (n.) A mild vesicatory; a sinapism; as, to apply draughts to the feet.,
D as in Draught (n.) Capacity of being drawn; force necessary to draw; traction.,
D as in Draught (n.) The depth of water necessary to float a ship, or the depth a ship sinks in water, especially when laden; as, a ship of twelve feet draught.,
D as in Draught (n.) An allowance on weighable goods. [Eng.] See Draft, 4.,
D as in Draught (n.) A move, as at chess or checkers.,
D as in Draught (n.) The bevel given to the pattern for a casting, in order that it may be drawn from the sand without injury to the mold.,
D as in Draught (n.) See Draft, n., 7.,
D as in Draught (a.) Used for drawing vehicles, loads, etc.; as, a draught beast; draught hooks.,
D as in Draught (a.) Relating to, or characterized by, a draft, or current of air.,
D as in Draught (a.) Used in making drawings; as, draught compasses.,
D as in Draught (a.) Drawn directly from the barrel, or other receptacle, in distinction from bottled; on draught; -- said of ale, cider, and the like.,
D as in Draughted (imp. & p. p.) of Draught,
D as in Draughting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Draught,
D as in Draught (v. t.) To draw out; to call forth. See Draft.,
D as in Draught (v. t.) To diminish or exhaust by drawing.,
D as in Draught (v. t.) To draw in outline; to make a draught, sketch, or plan of, as in architectural and mechanical drawing.,
D as in Draughtboard (n.) A checkered board on which draughts are played. See Checkerboard.,
D as in Draughthouse (n.) A house for the reception of waste matter; a privy.,
D as in Draughts (n. pl.) A mild vesicatory. See Draught, n., 3 (c).,
D as in Draughts (n. pl.) A game, now more commonly called checkers. See Checkers.,
D as in Draughtsmen (pl. ) of Draughtsman,
D as in Draughtsman (n.) One who draws pleadings or other writings.,
D as in Draughtsman (n.) One who draws plans and sketches of machinery, structures, and places; also, more generally, one who makes drawings of any kind.,
D as in Draughtsman (n.) A "man" or piece used in the game of draughts.,
D as in Draughtsman (n.) One who drinks drams; a tippler.,
D as in Draughtsmanship (n.) The office, art, or work of a draughtsman.,
D as in Draughty (a.) Pertaining to a draught, or current of air; as, a draughtly, comfortless room.,
D as in Drave () old imp. of Drive.,
D as in Dravida (n. pl.) A race of Hindostan, believed to be the original people who occupied the land before the Hindoo or Aryan invasion.,
D as in Dravidian (a.) Of or pertaining to the Dravida.,
D as in Drew (imp.) of Draw,
D as in Drawn (p. p.) of Draw,
D as in Drawing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Draw,
D as in Draw (v. t.) To cause to move continuously by force applied in advance of the thing moved; to pull along; to haul; to drag; to cause to follow.,
D as in Draw (v. t.) To influence to move or tend toward one's self; to exercise an attracting force upon; to call towards itself; to attract; hence, to entice; to allure; to induce.,
D as in Draw (v. t.) To cause to come out for one's use or benefit; to extract; to educe; to bring forth; as: (a) To bring or take out, or to let out, from some receptacle, as a stick or post from a hole, water from a cask or well, etc.,
D as in Draw (v. t.) To pull from a sheath, as a sword.,
D as in Draw (v. t.) To extract; to force out; to elicit; to derive.,
D as in Draw (v. t.) To obtain from some cause or origin; to infer from evidence or reasons; to deduce from premises; to derive.,
D as in Draw (v. t.) To take or procure from a place of deposit; to call for and receive from a fund, or the like; as, to draw money from a bank.,
D as in Draw (v. t.) To take from a box or wheel, as a lottery ticket; to receive from a lottery by the drawing out of the numbers for prizes or blanks; hence, to obtain by good fortune; to win; to gain; as, he drew a prize.,
D as in Draw (v. t.) To select by the drawing of lots.,
D as in Draw (v. t.) To remove the contents of,
D as in Draw (v. t.) To drain by emptying; to suck dry.,
D as in Draw (v. t.) To extract the bowels of; to eviscerate; as, to draw a fowl; to hang, draw, and quarter a criminal.,
D as in Draw (v. t.) To take into the lungs; to inhale; to inspire; hence, also, to utter or produce by an inhalation; to heave.,
D as in Draw (v. t.) To extend in length; to lengthen; to protract; to stretch; to extend, as a mass of metal into wire.,
D as in Draw (v. t.) To run, extend, or produce, as a line on any surface; hence, also, to form by marking; to make by an instrument of delineation; to produce, as a sketch, figure, or picture.,
D as in Draw (v. t.) To represent by lines drawn; to form a sketch or a picture of; to represent by a picture; to delineate; hence, to represent by words; to depict; to describe.,
D as in Draw (v. t.) To write in due form; to prepare a draught of; as, to draw a memorial, a deed, or bill of exchange.,
D as in Draw (v. t.) To require (so great a depth, as of water) for floating; -- said of a vessel; to sink so deep in (water); as, a ship draws ten feet of water.,
D as in Draw (v. t.) To withdraw.,
D as in Draw (v. t.) To trace by scent; to track; -- a hunting term.,
D as in Draw (v. i.) To pull; to exert strength in drawing anything; to have force to move anything by pulling; as, a horse draws well; the sails of a ship draw well.,
D as in Draw (v. i.) To draw a liquid from some receptacle, as water from a well.,
D as in Draw (v. i.) To exert an attractive force; to act as an inducement or enticement.,
D as in Draw (v. i.) To have efficiency as an epispastic; to act as a sinapism; -- said of a blister, poultice, etc.,
D as in Draw (v. i.) To have draught, as a chimney, flue, or the like; to furnish transmission to smoke, gases, etc.,
D as in Draw (v. i.) To unsheathe a weapon, especially a sword.,
D as in Draw (v. i.) To perform the act, or practice the art, of delineation; to sketch; to form figures or pictures.,
D as in Draw (v. i.) To become contracted; to shrink.,
D as in Draw (v. i.) To move; to come or go; literally, to draw one's self; -- with prepositions and adverbs; as, to draw away, to move off, esp. in racing, to get in front; to obtain the lead or increase it; to draw back, to retreat; to draw level, to move up even (with another); to come up to or overtake another; to draw off, to retire or retreat; to draw on, to advance; to draw up, to form in array; to draw near, nigh, or towards, to approach; to draw together, to come together, to collect.,
D as in Draw (v. i.) To make a draft or written demand for payment of money deposited or due; -- usually with on or upon.,
D as in Draw (v. i.) To admit the action of pulling or dragging; to undergo draught; as, a carriage draws easily.,
D as in Draw (v. i.) To sink in water; to require a depth for floating.,
D as in Draw (n.) The act of drawing; draught.,
D as in Draw (n.) A lot or chance to be drawn.,
D as in Draw (n.) A drawn game or battle, etc.,
D as in Draw (n.) That part of a bridge which may be raised, swung round, or drawn aside; the movable part of a drawbridge. See the Note under Drawbridge.,
D as in Drawable (a.) Capable of being drawn.,
D as in Drawback (n.) A loss of advantage, or deduction from profit, value, success, etc.; a discouragement or hindrance; objectionable feature.,
D as in Drawback (n.) Money paid back or remitted; especially, a certain amount of duties or customs, sometimes the whole, and sometimes only a part, remitted or paid back by the government, on the exportation of the commodities on which they were levied.,
D as in Drawbar (n.) An openmouthed bar at the end of a car, which receives a coupling link and pin by which the car is drawn. It is usually provided with a spring to give elasticity to the connection between the cars of a train.,
D as in Drawbar (n.) A bar of iron with an eye at each end, or a heavy link, for coupling a locomotive to a tender or car.,
D as in Drawbench (n.) A machine in which strips of metal are drawn through a drawplate; especially, one in which wire is thus made; -- also called drawing bench.,
D as in Drawbolt (n.) A coupling pin. See under Coupling.,
D as in Drawbore (n.) A hole bored through a tenon nearer to the shoulder than the holes through the cheeks are to the edge or abutment against which the shoulder is to rest, so that a pin or bolt, when driven into it, will draw these parts together.,
D as in Drawbore (v. t.) To make a drawbore in; as, to drawbore a tenon.,
D as in Drawbore (v. t.) To enlarge the bore of a gun barrel by drawing, instead of thrusting, a revolving tool through it.,
D as in Drawboy (n.) A boy who operates the harness cords of a hand loom; also, a part of power loom that performs the same office.,
D as in Drawbridge (n.) A bridge of which either the whole or a part is made to be raised up, let down, or drawn or turned aside, to admit or hinder communication at pleasure, as before the gate of a town or castle, or over a navigable river or canal.,
D as in Drawcansir (n.) A blustering, bullying fellow; a pot-valiant braggart; a bully.,
D as in Draw-cut (n.) A single cut with a knife.,
D as in Drawee (n.) The person on whom an order or bill of exchange is drawn; -- the correlative of drawer.,
D as in Drawer (n.) One who, or that which, draws,
D as in Drawer (n.) One who draws liquor for guests; a waiter in a taproom.,
D as in Drawer (n.) One who delineates or depicts; a draughtsman; as, a good drawer.,
D as in Drawer (n.) One who draws a bill of exchange or order for payment; -- the correlative of drawee.,
D as in Drawer (n.) That which is drawn,
D as in Drawer (n.) A sliding box or receptacle in a case, which is opened by pulling or drawing out, and closed by pushing in.,
D as in Drawer (n.) An under-garment worn on the lower limbs.,
D as in Drawfiling (n.) The process of smooth filing by working the file sidewise instead of lengthwise.,
D as in Drawgear (n.) A harness for draught horses.,
D as in Drawgear (n.) The means or parts by which cars are connected to be drawn.,
D as in Drawgloves (n. pl.) An old game, played by holding up the fingers.,
D as in Drawhead (n.) The flanged outer end of a drawbar; also, a name applied to the drawgear.,
D as in Drawing (n.) The act of pulling, or attracting.,
D as in Drawing (n.) The act or the art of representing any object by means of lines and shades; especially, such a representation when in one color, or in tints used not to represent the colors of natural objects, but for effect only, and produced with hard material such as pencil, chalk, etc.; delineation; also, the figure or representation drawn.,
D as in Drawing (n.) The process of stretching or spreading metals as by hammering, or, as in forming wire from rods or tubes and cups from sheet metal, by pulling them through dies.,
D as in Drawing (n.) The process of pulling out and elongating the sliver from the carding machine, by revolving rollers, to prepare it for spinning.,
D as in Drawing (n.) The distribution of prizes and blanks in a lottery.,
D as in Drawing knife (n.) Alt. of Drawknife,
D as in Drawknife (n.) A joiner's tool having a blade with a handle at each end, used to shave off surfaces, by drawing it toward one; a shave; -- called also drawshave, and drawing shave.,
D as in Drawknife (n.) A tool used for the purpose of making an incision along the path a saw is to follow, to prevent it from tearing the surface of the wood.,
D as in Drawing-room (n.) A room appropriated for the reception of company; a room to which company withdraws from the dining room.,
D as in Drawing-room (n.) The company assembled in such a room; also, a reception of company in it; as, to hold a drawing-room.,
D as in Drawled (imp. & p. p.) of Drawl,
D as in Drawling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Drawl,
D as in Drawl (v. t.) To utter in a slow, lengthened tone.,
D as in Drawl (v. i.) To speak with slow and lingering utterance, from laziness, lack of spirit, affectation, etc.,
D as in Drawl (n.) A lengthened, slow monotonous utterance.,
D as in Drawlatch (n.) A housebreaker or thief.,
D as in Drawling (n.) The act of speaking with a drawl; a drawl.,
D as in Drawlink (n.) Same as Drawbar (b).,
D as in Drawloom (n.) A kind of loom used in weaving figured patterns; -- called also drawboy.,
D as in Drawloom (n.) A species of damask made on the drawloom.,
D as in Drawn (p. p. & a.) See Draw, v. t. & i.,
D as in Drawnet (n.) A net for catching the larger sorts of birds; also, a dragnet.,
D as in Drawplate (n.) A hardened steel plate having a hole, or a gradation of conical holes, through which wires are drawn to be reduced and elongated.,
D as in Drawrod (n.) A rod which unites the drawgear at opposite ends of the car, and bears the pull required to draw the train.,
D as in Drawshave (n.) See Drawing knife.,
D as in Drawspring (n.) The spring to which a drawbar is attached.,
D as in Dray (n.) A squirrel's nest.,
D as in Dray (n.) A strong low cart or carriage used for heavy burdens.,
D as in Dray (n.) A kind of sledge or sled.,
D as in Drayage (n.) Use of a dray.,
D as in Drayage (n.) The charge, or sum paid, for the use of a dray.,
D as in Draymen (pl. ) of Drayman,
D as in Drayman (n.) A man who attends a dray.,
D as in Drazel (n.) A slut; a vagabond wench. Same as Drossel.,
D as in Dreaded (imp. & p. p.) of Dread,
D as in Dreading (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dread,
D as in Dread (v. t.) To fear in a great degree; to regard, or look forward to, with terrific apprehension.,
D as in Dread (v. i.) To be in dread, or great fear.,
D as in Dread (n.) Great fear in view of impending evil; fearful apprehension of danger; anticipatory terror.,
D as in Dread (n.) Reverential or respectful fear; awe.,
D as in Dread (n.) An object of terrified apprehension.,
D as in Dread (n.) A person highly revered.,
D as in Dread (n.) Fury; dreadfulness.,
D as in Dread (n.) Doubt; as, out of dread.,
D as in Dread (a.) Exciting great fear or apprehension; causing terror; frightful; dreadful.,
D as in Dread (a.) Inspiring with reverential fear; awful' venerable; as, dread sovereign; dread majesty; dread tribunal.,
D as in Dreadable (a.) Worthy of being dreaded.,
D as in Dread-bolted (a.) Armed with dreaded bolts.,
D as in Dreader (n.) One who fears, or lives in fear.,
D as in Dreadful (a.) Full of dread or terror; fearful.,
D as in Dreadful (a.) Inspiring dread; impressing great fear; fearful; terrible; as, a dreadful storm.,
D as in Dreadful (a.) Inspiring awe or reverence; awful.,
D as in Dreadfully (adv.) In a dreadful manner; terribly.,
D as in Dreadfulness (n.) The quality of being dreadful.,
D as in Dreadingly (adv.) With dread.,
D as in Dreadless (a.) Free from dread; fearless; intrepid; dauntless; as, dreadless heart.,
D as in Dreadless (a.) Exempt from danger which causes dread; secure.,
D as in Dreadless (adv.) Without doubt.,
D as in Dreadlessness (n.) Freedom from dread.,
D as in Dreadly (a.) Dreadful.,
D as in Dreadly (adv.) With dread.,
D as in Dreadnaught (n.) A fearless person.,
D as in Dreadnaught (n.) Hence: A garment made of very thick cloth, that can defend against storm and cold; also, the cloth itself; fearnaught.,
D as in Dream (n.) The thoughts, or series of thoughts, or imaginary transactions, which occupy the mind during sleep; a sleeping vision.,
D as in Dream (n.) A visionary scheme; a wild conceit; an idle fancy; a vagary; a revery; -- in this sense, applied to an imaginary or anticipated state of happiness; as, a dream of bliss; the dream of his youth.,
D as in Dreamed (imp. & p. p.) of Dream,
D as in Dreamt () of Dream,
D as in Dreaming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dream,
D as in Dream (n.) To have ideas or images in the mind while in the state of sleep; to experience sleeping visions; -- often with of; as, to dream of a battle, or of an absent friend.,
D as in Dream (n.) To let the mind run on in idle revery or vagary; to anticipate vaguely as a coming and happy reality; to have a visionary notion or idea; to imagine.,
D as in Dream (v. t.) To have a dream of; to see, or have a vision of, in sleep, or in idle fancy; -- often followed by an objective clause.,
D as in Dreamer (n.) One who dreams.,
D as in Dreamer (n.) A visionary; one lost in wild imaginations or vain schemes of some anticipated good; as, a political dreamer.,
D as in Dreamful (a.) Full of dreams.,
D as in Dreamily (adv.) As if in a dream; softly; slowly; languidly.,
D as in Dreaminess (n.) The state of being dreamy.,
D as in Dreamingly (adv.) In a dreamy manner.,
D as in Dreamland (n.) An unreal, delightful country such as in sometimes pictured in dreams; region of fancies; fairyland.,
D as in Dreamless (a.) Free from, or without, dreams.,
D as in Dreamy (superl.) Abounding in dreams or given to dreaming; appropriate to, or like, dreams; visionary.,
D as in Drear (a.) Dismal; gloomy with solitude.,
D as in Drear (n.) Sadness; dismalness.,
D as in Drearihead (n.) Alt. of Drearihood,
D as in Drearihood (n.) Affliction; dreariness.,
D as in Drearily (adv.) Gloomily; dismally.,
D as in Dreariment (n.) Dreariness.,
D as in Dreariness (n.) Sorrow; wretchedness.,
D as in Dreariness (n.) Dismalness; gloomy solitude.,
D as in Drearing (n.) Sorrow.,
D as in Drearisome (a.) Very dreary.,
D as in Dreary (superl.) Sorrowful; distressful.,
D as in Dreary (superl.) Exciting cheerless sensations, feelings, or associations; comfortless; dismal; gloomy.,
D as in Drecche (v. t.) To vex; to torment; to trouble.,
D as in Drecche (v. i.) To delay.,
D as in Dredge (n.) Any instrument used to gather or take by dragging; as: (a) A dragnet for taking up oysters, etc., from their beds. (b) A dredging machine. (c) An iron frame, with a fine net attached, used in collecting animals living at the bottom of the sea.,
D as in Dredge (n.) Very fine mineral matter held in suspension in water.,
D as in Dredged (imp. & p. p.) of Dredge,
D as in Dredging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dredge,
D as in Dredge (v. t.) To catch or gather with a dredge; to deepen with a dredging machine.,
D as in Dredge (n.) A mixture of oats and barley.,
D as in Dredge (v. t.) To sift or sprinkle flour, etc., on, as on roasting meat.,
D as in Dredger (n.) One who fishes with a dredge.,
D as in Dredger (n.) A dredging machine.,
D as in Dredger (n.) A box with holes in its lid; -- used for sprinkling flour, as on meat or a breadboard; -- called also dredging box, drudger, and drudging box.,
D as in Dree (v. t.) To endure; to suffer.,
D as in Dree (v. i.) To be able to do or endure.,
D as in Dree (a.) Wearisome; tedious.,
D as in Dreg (n.) Corrupt or defiling matter contained in a liquid, or precipitated from it; refuse; feculence; lees; grounds; sediment; hence, the vilest and most worthless part of anything; as, the dregs of society.,
D as in Dregginess (n.) Fullness of dregs or lees; foulness; feculence.,
D as in Dreggish (a.) Foul with lees; feculent.,
D as in Dreggy (a.) Containing dregs or lees; muddy; foul; feculent.,
D as in Drein (v. i.) To drain.,
D as in Dreint () p. p. of Drench to drown.,
D as in Dreissena (n.) A genus of bivalve shells of which one species (D. polymorpha) is often so abundant as to be very troublesome in the fresh waters of Europe.,
D as in Drenched (imp. & p. p.) of Drench,
D as in Drenching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Drench,
D as in Drench (v. t.) To cause to drink; especially, to dose by force; to put a potion down the throat of, as of a horse; hence. to purge violently by physic.,
D as in Drench (v. t.) To steep in moisture; to wet thoroughly; to soak; to saturate with water or other liquid; to immerse.,
D as in Drench (v. t.) A drink; a draught; specifically, a potion of medicine poured or forced down the throat; also, a potion that causes purging.,
D as in Drench (n.) A military vassal mentioned in Domesday Book.,
D as in Drenche (v. t. & i.) To drown.,
D as in Drencher (n.) One who, or that which, west or steeps.,
D as in Drencher (n.) One who administers a drench.,
D as in Drengage (n.) The tenure by which a drench held land.,
D as in Drent (p. p.) Drenched; drowned.,
D as in Dresden ware () A superior kind of decorated porcelain made near Dresden in Saxony.,
D as in Dressed (imp. & p. p.) of Dress,
D as in Drest () of Dress,
D as in Dressing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dress,
D as in Dress (v. t.) To direct; to put right or straight; to regulate; to order.,
D as in Dress (v. t.) To arrange in exact continuity of line, as soldiers; commonly to adjust to a straight line and at proper distance; to align; as, to dress the ranks.,
D as in Dress (v. t.) To treat methodically with remedies, bandages, or curative appliances, as a sore, an ulcer, a wound, or a wounded or diseased part.,
D as in Dress (v. t.) To adjust; to put in good order; to arrange; specifically: (a) To prepare for use; to fit for any use; to render suitable for an intended purpose; to get ready; as, to dress a slain animal; to dress meat; to dress leather or cloth; to dress or trim a lamp; to dress a garden; to dress a horse, by currying and rubbing; to dress grain, by cleansing it; in mining and metallurgy, to dress ores, by sorting and separating them.,
D as in Dress (v. t.) To cut to proper dimensions, or give proper shape to, as to a tool by hammering; also, to smooth or finish.,
D as in Dress (v. t.) To put in proper condition by appareling, as the body; to put clothes upon; to apparel; to invest with garments or rich decorations; to clothe; to deck.,
D as in Dress (v. t.) To break and train for use, as a horse or other animal.,
D as in Dress (v. i.) To arrange one's self in due position in a line of soldiers; -- the word of command to form alignment in ranks; as, Right, dress!,
D as in Dress (v. i.) To clothe or apparel one's self; to put on one's garments; to pay particular regard to dress; as, to dress quickly.,
D as in Dress (n.) That which is used as the covering or ornament of the body; clothes; garments; habit; apparel.,
D as in Dress (n.) A lady's gown; as, silk or a velvet dress.,
D as in Dress (n.) Attention to apparel, or skill in adjusting it.,
D as in Dress (n.) The system of furrows on the face of a millstone.,
D as in Dress coat () A coat with skirts behind only, as distinct from the frock coat, of which the skirts surround the body. It is worn on occasions of ceremony. The dress coat of officers of the United States army is a full-skirted frock coat.,
D as in Dresser (n.) One who dresses; one who put in order or makes ready for use; one who on clothes or ornaments.,
D as in Dresser (n.) A kind of pick for shaping large coal.,
D as in Dresser (n.) An assistant in a hospital, whose office it is to dress wounds, sores, etc.,
D as in Dresser (v. t.) A table or bench on which meat and other things are dressed, or prepared for use.,
D as in Dresser (v. t.) A cupboard or set of shelves to receive dishes and cooking utensils.,
D as in Dress goods () A term applied to fabrics for the gowns of women and girls; -- most commonly to fabrics of mixed materials, but also applicable to silks, printed linens, and calicoes.,
D as in Dressiness (n.) The state of being dressy.,
D as in Dressing (n.) Dress; raiment; especially, ornamental habiliment or attire.,
D as in Dressing (n.) An application (a remedy, bandage, etc.) to a sore or wound.,
D as in Dressing (n.) Manure or compost over land. When it remains on the surface, it is called a top-dressing.,
D as in Dressing (n.) A preparation to fit food for use; a condiment; as, a dressing for salad.,
D as in Dressing (n.) The stuffing of fowls, pigs, etc.; forcemeat.,
D as in Dressing (n.) Gum, starch, and the like, used in stiffening or finishing silk, linen, and other fabrics.,
D as in Dressing (n.) An ornamental finish, as a molding around doors, windows, or on a ceiling, etc.,
D as in Dressing (n.) Castigation; scolding; -- often with down.,
D as in Dressmaker (n.) A maker of gowns, or similar garments; a mantuamaker.,
D as in Dressmaking (n.) The art, process, or occupation, of making dresses.,
D as in Dressy (a.) Showy in dress; attentive to dress.,
D as in Drest (p. p.) of Dress.,
D as in Dretch (v. t. & i.) See Drecche.,
D as in Dreul (v. i.) To drool.,
D as in Drevil (n.) A fool; a drudge. See Drivel.,
D as in Drew (imp.) of Draw.,
D as in Drey (n.) A squirrel's nest. See Dray.,
D as in Dreye (a.) Dry.,
D as in Dreynt () p. p., of Drench to drown.,
D as in Dribbed (imp. & p. p.) of Drib,
D as in Dribbing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Drib,
D as in Drib (v. t.) To do by little and little,
D as in Drib (v. t.) To cut off by a little at a time; to crop.,
D as in Drib (v. t.) To appropriate unlawfully; to filch; to defalcate.,
D as in Drib (v. t.) To lead along step by step; to entice.,
D as in Drib (v. t. & i.) To shoot (a shaft) so as to pierce on the descent.,
D as in Drib (n.) A drop.,
D as in Dribber (n.) One who dribs; one who shoots weakly or badly.,
D as in Dribbled (imp. & p. p.) of Dribble,
D as in Dribbing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dribble,
D as in Dribble (v. i.) To fall in drops or small drops, or in a quick succession of drops; as, water dribbles from the eaves.,
D as in Dribble (v. i.) To slaver, as a child or an idiot; to drivel.,
D as in Dribble (v. i.) To fall weakly and slowly.,
D as in Dribble (v. t.) To let fall in drops.,
D as in Dribble (n.) A drizzling shower; a falling or leaking in drops.,
D as in Dribbler (n.) One who dribbles.,
D as in Dribblet (n.) Alt. of Driblet,
D as in Driblet (n.) A small piece or part; a small sum; a small quantity of money in making up a sum; as, the money was paid in dribblets.,
D as in Drie (v. t.) To endure.,
D as in Dried (imp. & p. p.) of Day. Also adj.; as, dried apples.,
D as in Drier (n.) One who, or that which, dries; that which may expel or absorb moisture; a desiccative; as, the sun and a northwesterly wind are great driers of the earth.,
D as in Drier (n.) Drying oil; a substance mingled with the oil used in oil painting to make it dry quickly.,
D as in Drier (superl.) Alt. of Driest,
D as in Driest (superl.) of Dry, a.,
D as in Drift (n.) A driving; a violent movement.,
D as in Drift (n.) The act or motion of drifting; the force which impels or drives; an overpowering influence or impulse.,
D as in Drift (n.) Course or direction along which anything is driven; setting.,
D as in Drift (n.) The tendency of an act, argument, course of conduct, or the like; object aimed at or intended; intention; hence, also, import or meaning of a sentence or discourse; aim.,
D as in Drift (n.) That which is driven, forced, or urged along,
D as in Drift (n.) Anything driven at random.,
D as in Drift (n.) A mass of matter which has been driven or forced onward together in a body, or thrown together in a heap, etc., esp. by wind or water; as, a drift of snow, of ice, of sand, and the like.,
D as in Drift (n.) A drove or flock, as of cattle, sheep, birds.,
D as in Drift (n.) The horizontal thrust or pressure of an arch or vault upon the abutments.,
D as in Drift (n.) A collection of loose earth and rocks, or boulders, which have been distributed over large portions of the earth's surface, especially in latitudes north of forty degrees, by the agency of ice.,
D as in Drift (n.) In South Africa, a ford in a river.,
D as in Drift (n.) A slightly tapered tool of steel for enlarging or shaping a hole in metal, by being forced or driven into or through it; a broach.,
D as in Drift (n.) A tool used in driving down compactly the composition contained in a rocket, or like firework.,
D as in Drift (n.) A deviation from the line of fire, peculiar to oblong projectiles.,
D as in Drift (n.) A passage driven or cut between shaft and shaft; a driftway; a small subterranean gallery; an adit or tunnel.,
D as in Drift (n.) The distance through which a current flows in a given time.,
D as in Drift (n.) The angle which the line of a ship's motion makes with the meridian, in drifting.,
D as in Drift (n.) The distance to which a vessel is carried off from her desired course by the wind, currents, or other causes.,
D as in Drift (n.) The place in a deep-waisted vessel where the sheer is raised and the rail is cut off, and usually terminated with a scroll, or driftpiece.,
D as in Drift (n.) The distance between the two blocks of a tackle.,
D as in Drift (n.) The difference between the size of a bolt and the hole into which it is driven, or between the circumference of a hoop and that of the mast on which it is to be driven.,
D as in Drifted (imp. & p. p.) of Drift,
D as in Drifting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Drift,
D as in Drift (v. i.) To float or be driven along by, or as by, a current of water or air; as, the ship drifted astern; a raft drifted ashore; the balloon drifts slowly east.,
D as in Drift (v. i.) To accumulate in heaps by the force of wind; to be driven into heaps; as, snow or sand drifts.,
D as in Drift (v. i.) to make a drift; to examine a vein or ledge for the purpose of ascertaining the presence of metals or ores; to follow a vein; to prospect.,
D as in Drift (v. t.) To drive or carry, as currents do a floating body.,
D as in Drift (v. t.) To drive into heaps; as, a current of wind drifts snow or sand.,
D as in Drift (v. t.) To enlarge or shape, as a hole, with a drift.,
D as in Drift (a.) That causes drifting or that is drifted; movable by wind or currents; as, drift currents; drift ice; drift mud.,
D as in Driftage (n.) Deviation from a ship's course due to leeway.,
D as in Driftage (n.) Anything that drifts.,
D as in Driftbolt (n.) A bolt for driving out other bolts.,
D as in Driftless (a.) Having no drift or direction; without aim; purposeless.,
D as in Driftpiece (n.) An upright or curved piece of timber connecting the plank sheer with the gunwale; also, a scroll terminating a rail.,
D as in Driftpin (n.) A smooth drift. See Drift, n., 9.,
D as in Driftway (n.) A common way, road, or path, for driving cattle.,
D as in Driftway (n.) Same as Drift, 11.,
D as in Driftweed (n.) Seaweed drifted to the shore by the wind.,
D as in Driftwind (n.) A driving wind; a wind that drives snow, sand, etc., into heaps.,
D as in Driftwood (n.) Wood drifted or floated by water.,
D as in Driftwood (n.) Fig.: Whatever is drifting or floating as on water.,
D as in Drifty (a.) Full of drifts; tending to form drifts, as snow, and the like.,
D as in Drilled (imp. & p. p.) of Drill,
D as in Drilling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Drill,
D as in Drill (v. t.) To pierce or bore with a drill, or a with a drill; to perforate; as, to drill a hole into a rock; to drill a piece of metal.,
D as in Drill (v. t.) To train in the military art; to exercise diligently, as soldiers, in military evolutions and exercises; hence, to instruct thoroughly in the rudiments of any art or branch of knowledge; to discipline.,
D as in Drill (v. i.) To practice an exercise or exercises; to train one's self.,
D as in Drill (n.) An instrument with an edged or pointed end used for making holes in hard substances; strictly, a tool that cuts with its end, by revolving, as in drilling metals, or by a succession of blows, as in drilling stone; also, a drill press.,
D as in Drill (n.) The act or exercise of training soldiers in the military art, as in the manual of arms, in the execution of evolutions, and the like; hence, diligent and strict instruction and exercise in the rudiments and methods of any business; a kind or method of military exercises; as, infantry drill; battalion drill; artillery drill.,
D as in Drill (n.) Any exercise, physical or mental, enforced with regularity and by constant repetition; as, a severe drill in Latin grammar.,
D as in Drill (n.) A marine gastropod, of several species, which kills oysters and other bivalves by drilling holes through the shell. The most destructive kind is Urosalpinx cinerea.,
D as in Drill (v. t.) To cause to flow in drills or rills or by trickling; to drain by trickling; as, waters drilled through a sandy stratum.,
D as in Drill (v. t.) To sow, as seeds, by dribbling them along a furrow or in a row, like a trickling rill of water.,
D as in Drill (v. t.) To entice; to allure from step; to decoy; -- with on.,
D as in Drill (v. t.) To cause to slip or waste away by degrees.,
D as in Drill (v. i.) To trickle.,
D as in Drill (v. i.) To sow in drills.,
D as in Drill (n.) A small trickling stream; a rill.,
D as in Drill (n.) An implement for making holes for sowing seed, and sometimes so formed as to contain seeds and drop them into the hole made.,
D as in Drill (n.) A light furrow or channel made to put seed into sowing.,
D as in Drill (n.) A row of seed sown in a furrow.,
D as in Drill (n.) A large African baboon (Cynocephalus leucophaeus).,
D as in Drill (n.) Same as Drilling.,
D as in Driller (n.) One who, or that which, drills.,
D as in Drilling (n.) The act of piercing with a drill.,
D as in Drilling (n.) A training by repeated exercises.,
D as in Drilling (n.) The act of using a drill in sowing seeds.,
D as in Drilling (n.) A heavy, twilled fabric of linen or cotton.,
D as in Drillmaster (n.) One who teaches drill, especially in the way of gymnastics.,
D as in Drill press () A machine for drilling holes in metal, the drill being pressed to the metal by the action of a screw.,
D as in Drillstock (n.) A contrivance for holding and turning a drill.,
D as in Drily (adv.) See Dryly.,
D as in Drimys (n.) A genus of magnoliaceous trees. Drimys aromatica furnishes Winter's bark.,
D as in Drank (imp.) of Drink,
D as in Drunk () of Drink,
D as in Drunk (p. p.) of Drink,
D as in Drunken () of Drink,
D as in Drinking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Drink,
D as in Drink (v. i.) To swallow anything liquid, for quenching thirst or other purpose; to imbibe; to receive or partake of, as if in satisfaction of thirst; as, to drink from a spring.,
D as in Drink (v. i.) To quaff exhilarating or intoxicating liquors, in merriment or feasting; to carouse; to revel; hence, to lake alcoholic liquors to excess; to be intemperate in the /se of intoxicating or spirituous liquors; to tipple.,
D as in Drink (v. t.) To swallow (a liquid); to receive, as a fluid, into the stomach; to imbibe; as, to drink milk or water.,
D as in Drink (v. t.) To take in (a liquid), in any manner; to suck up; to absorb; to imbibe.,
D as in Drink (v. t.) To take in; to receive within one, through the senses; to inhale; to hear; to see.,
D as in Drink (v. t.) To smoke, as tobacco.,
D as in Drink (n.) Liquid to be swallowed; any fluid to be taken into the stomach for quenching thirst or for other purposes, as water, coffee, or decoctions.,
D as in Drink (n.) Specifically, intoxicating liquor; as, when drink is on, wit is out.,
D as in Drinkable (a.) Capable of being drunk; suitable for drink; potable. Macaulay. Also used substantively, esp. in the plural.,
D as in Drinkableness (n.) State of being drinkable.,
D as in Drinker (n.) One who drinks; as, the effects of tea on the drinker; also, one who drinks spirituous liquors to excess; a drunkard.,
D as in Drinking (n.) The act of one who drinks; the act of imbibing.,
D as in Drinking (n.) The practice of partaking to excess of intoxicating liquors.,
D as in Drinking (n.) An entertainment with liquors; a carousal.,
D as in Drinkless (a.) Destitute of drink.,
D as in Dripped (imp. & p. p.) of Drip,
D as in Dript () of Drip,
D as in Dripping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Drip,
D as in Drip (v. i.) To fall in drops; as, water drips from the eaves.,
D as in Drip (v. i.) To let fall drops of moisture or liquid; as, a wet garment drips.,
D as in Drip (v. t.) To let fall in drops.,
D as in Drip (n.) A falling or letting fall in drops; a dripping; that which drips, or falls in drops.,
D as in Drip (n.) That part of a cornice, sill course, or other horizontal member, which projects beyond the rest, and is of such section as to throw off the rain water.,
D as in Dripping (n.) A falling in drops, or the sound so made.,
D as in Dripping (n.) That which falls in drops, as fat from meat in roasting.,
D as in Dripple (a.) Weak or rare.,
D as in Dripstone (n.) A drip, when made of stone. See Drip, 2.,
D as in Drove (imp.) of Drive,
D as in Drave () of Drive,
D as in Driven (p. p.) of Drive,
D as in Driving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Drive,
D as in Drive (v. t.) To impel or urge onward by force in a direction away from one, or along before one; to push forward; to compel to move on; to communicate motion to; as, to drive cattle; to drive a nail; smoke drives persons from a room.,
D as in Drive (v. t.) To urge on and direct the motions of, as the beasts which draw a vehicle, or the vehicle borne by them; hence, also, to take in a carriage; to convey in a vehicle drawn by beasts; as, to drive a pair of horses or a stage; to drive a person to his own door.,
D as in Drive (v. t.) To urge, impel, or hurry forward; to force; to constrain; to urge, press, or bring to a point or state; as, to drive a person by necessity, by persuasion, by force of circumstances, by argument, and the like.,
D as in Drive (v. t.) To carry or; to keep in motion; to conduct; to prosecute.,
D as in Drive (v. t.) To clear, by forcing away what is contained.,
D as in Drive (v. t.) To dig Horizontally; to cut a horizontal gallery or tunnel.,
D as in Drive (v. t.) To pass away; -- said of time.,
D as in Drive (v. i.) To rush and press with violence; to move furiously.,
D as in Drive (v. i.) To be forced along; to be impelled; to be moved by any physical force or agent; to be driven.,
D as in Drive (v. i.) To go by carriage; to pass in a carriage; to proceed by directing or urging on a vehicle or the animals that draw it; as, the coachman drove to my door.,
D as in Drive (v. i.) To press forward; to aim, or tend, to a point; to make an effort; to strive; -- usually with at.,
D as in Drive (v. i.) To distrain for rent.,
D as in Drive (p. p.) Driven.,
D as in Drive (n.) The act of driving; a trip or an excursion in a carriage, as for exercise or pleasure; -- distinguished from a ride taken on horseback.,
D as in Drive (n.) A place suitable or agreeable for driving; a road prepared for driving.,
D as in Drive (n.) Violent or rapid motion; a rushing onward or away; esp., a forced or hurried dispatch of business.,
D as in Drive (n.) In type founding and forging, an impression or matrix, formed by a punch drift.,
D as in Drive (n.) A collection of objects that are driven; a mass of logs to be floated down a river.,
D as in Drivebolt (n.) A drift; a tool for setting bolts home.,
D as in Driveled (imp. & p. p.) of Drivel,
D as in Drivelled () of Drivel,
D as in Driveling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Drivel,
D as in Drivelling () of Drivel,
D as in Drivel (v. i.) To slaver; to let spittle drop or flow from the mouth, like a child, idiot, or dotard.,
D as in Drivel (v. i.) To be weak or foolish; to dote; as, a driveling hero; driveling love.,
D as in Drivel (n.) Slaver; saliva flowing from the mouth.,
D as in Drivel (n.) Inarticulate or unmeaning utterance; foolish talk; babble.,
D as in Drivel (n.) A driveler; a fool; an idiot.,
D as in Drivel (n.) A servant; a drudge.,
D as in Driveler (n.) A slaverer; a slabberer; an idiot; a fool.,
D as in Driven (p. p.) of Drive. Also adj.,
D as in Drivepipe (n.) A pipe for forcing into the earth.,
D as in Driver (n.) One who, or that which, drives; the person or thing that urges or compels anything else to move onward.,
D as in Driver (n.) The person who drives beasts or a carriage; a coachman; a charioteer, etc.; hence, also, one who controls the movements of a locomotive.,
D as in Driver (n.) An overseer of a gang of slaves or gang of convicts at their work.,
D as in Driver (n.) A part that transmits motion to another part by contact with it, or through an intermediate relatively movable part, as a gear which drives another, or a lever which moves another through a link, etc. Specifically:,
D as in Driver (n.) The driving wheel of a locomotive.,
D as in Driver (n.) An attachment to a lathe, spindle, or face plate to turn a carrier.,
D as in Driver (n.) A crossbar on a grinding mill spindle to drive the upper stone.,
D as in Driver (n.) The after sail in a ship or bark, being a fore-and-aft sail attached to a gaff; a spanker.,
D as in Driveway (n.) A passage or way along or through which a carriage may be driven.,
D as in Driving (a.) Having great force of impulse; as, a driving wind or storm.,
D as in Driving (a.) Communicating force; impelling; as, a driving shaft.,
D as in Driving (n.) The act of forcing or urging something along; the act of pressing or moving on furiously.,
D as in Driving (n.) Tendency; drift.,
D as in Drizzled (imp. & p. p.) of Drizzle,
D as in Drizzling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Drizzle,
D as in Drizzle (v. i.) To rain slightly in very small drops; to fall, as water from the clouds, slowly and in fine particles; as, it drizzles; drizzling drops or rain.,
D as in Drizzle (v. t.) To shed slowly in minute drops or particles.,
D as in Drizzle (n.) Fine rain or mist.,
D as in Drizzly (a.) Characterized by small rain, or snow; moist and disagreeable.,
D as in Drock (n.) A water course.,
D as in Drofland (n.) Alt. of Dryfland,
D as in Dryfland (n.) An ancient yearly payment made by some tenants to the king, or to their landlords, for the privilege of driving their cattle through a manor to fairs or markets.,
D as in Drogher (n.) A small craft used in the West India Islands to take off sugars, rum, etc., to the merchantmen; also, a vessel for transporting lumber, cotton, etc., coastwise; as, a lumber drogher.,
D as in Drogman (n.) Alt. of Drogoman,
D as in Drogoman (n.) See Dragoman.,
D as in Drogue (n.) See Drag, n., 6, and Drag sail, under Drag, n.,
D as in Droh (imp.) of Draw.,
D as in Droil (v. i.) To work sluggishly or slowly; to plod.,
D as in Droil (n.) A drudge.,
D as in Droil (n.) Mean labor; toil.,
D as in Droit (n.) A right; law in its aspect of the foundation of rights; also, in old law, the writ of right.,
D as in Droitural (a.) relating to the mere right of property, as distinguished from the right of possession; as, droitural actions.,
D as in Droitzschka (n.) See Drosky.,
D as in Droll (superl.) Queer, and fitted to provoke laughter; ludicrous from oddity; amusing and strange.,
D as in Droll (n.) One whose practice it is to raise mirth by odd tricks; a jester; a buffoon; a merry-andrew.,
D as in Droll (n.) Something exhibited to raise mirth or sport, as a puppet, a farce, and the like.,
D as in Drolled (imp. & p. p.) of Droll,
D as in Drolling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Droll,
D as in Droll (v. i.) To jest; to play the buffoon.,
D as in Droll (v. t.) To lead or influence by jest or trick; to banter or jest; to cajole.,
D as in Droll (v. t.) To make a jest of; to set in a comical light.,
D as in Droller (n.) A jester; a droll.,
D as in Drolleries (pl. ) of Drollery,
D as in Drollery (n.) The quality of being droll; sportive tricks; buffoonery; droll stories; comical gestures or manners.,
D as in Drollery (n.) Something which serves to raise mirth,
D as in Drollery (n.) A puppet show; also, a puppet.,
D as in Drollery (n.) A lively or comic picture.,
D as in Drollingly (adv.) In a jesting manner.,
D as in Drollish (a.) Somewhat droll.,
D as in Drollist (n.) A droll.,
D as in Dromaeognathous (a.) Having the structure of the palate like that of the ostrich and emu.,
D as in Dromatherium (n.) A small extinct triassic mammal from North Carolina, the earliest yet found in America.,
D as in Drome (n.) The crab plover (Dromas ardeola), a peculiar North African bird, allied to the oyster catcher.,
D as in Dromedaries (pl. ) of Dromedary,
D as in Dromedary (n.) The Arabian camel (Camelus dromedarius), having one hump or protuberance on the back, in distinction from the Bactrian camel, which has two humps.,
D as in Dromond () Alt. of Dromon,
D as in Dromon () In the Middle Ages, a large, fast-sailing galley, or cutter; a large, swift war vessel.,
D as in Drone (v. i.) The male of bees, esp. of the honeybee. It gathers no honey. See Honeybee.,
D as in Drone (v. i.) One who lives on the labors of others; a lazy, idle fellow; a sluggard.,
D as in Drone (v. i.) That which gives out a grave or monotonous tone or dull sound; as: (a) A drum. [Obs.] Halliwell. (b) The part of the bagpipe containing the two lowest tubes, which always sound the key note and the fifth.,
D as in Drone (v. i.) A humming or deep murmuring sound.,
D as in Drone (v. i.) A monotonous bass, as in a pastoral composition.,
D as in Droned (imp. & p. p.) of Drone,
D as in Droning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Drone,
D as in Drone (n.) To utter or make a low, dull, monotonous, humming or murmuring sound.,
D as in Drone (n.) To love in idleness; to do nothing.,
D as in Drone bee () The male of the honeybee; a drone.,
D as in Drone fly () A dipterous insect (Eristalis tenax), resembling the drone bee. See Eristalis.,
D as in Dronepipe (n.) One of the low-toned tubes of a bagpipe.,
D as in Drongos (pl. ) of Drongo,
D as in Drongo (n.) A passerine bird of the family Dicruridae. They are usually black with a deeply forked tail. They are natives of Asia, Africa, and Australia; -- called also drongo shrikes.,
D as in Dronish (a.) Like a drone; indolent; slow.,
D as in Dronkelewe (a.) Given to drink; drunken.,
D as in Dronte (n.) The dodo.,
D as in Drony (a.) Like a drone; sluggish; lazy.,
D as in Drooled (imp. & p. p.) of Drool,
D as in Drooling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Drool,
D as in Drool (v. i.) To drivel, or drop saliva; as, the child drools.,
D as in Drooped (imp. & p. p.) of Droop,
D as in Drooping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Droop,
D as in Droop (v. i.) To hang bending downward; to sink or hang down, as an animal, plant, etc., from physical inability or exhaustion, want of nourishment, or the like.,
D as in Droop (v. i.) To grow weak or faint with disappointment, grief, or like causes; to be dispirited or depressed; to languish; as, her spirits drooped.,
D as in Droop (v. i.) To proceed downward, or toward a close; to decline.,
D as in Droop (v. t.) To let droop or sink.,
D as in Droop (n.) A drooping; as, a droop of the eye.,
D as in Drooper (n.) One who, or that which, droops.,
D as in Droopingly (adv.) In a drooping manner.,
D as in Drop (n.) The quantity of fluid which falls in one small spherical mass; a liquid globule; a minim; hence, also, the smallest easily measured portion of a fluid; a small quantity; as, a drop of water.,
D as in Drop (n.) That which resembles, or that which hangs like, a liquid drop; as a hanging diamond ornament, an earring, a glass pendant on a chandelier, a sugarplum (sometimes medicated), or a kind of shot or slug.,
D as in Drop (n.) Same as Gutta.,
D as in Drop (n.) Any small pendent ornament.,
D as in Drop (n.) Whatever is arranged to drop, hang, or fall from an elevated position; also, a contrivance for lowering something,
D as in Drop (n.) A door or platform opening downward; a trap door; that part of the gallows on which a culprit stands when he is to be hanged; hence, the gallows itself.,
D as in Drop (n.) A machine for lowering heavy weights, as packages, coal wagons, etc., to a ship's deck.,
D as in Drop (n.) A contrivance for temporarily lowering a gas jet.,
D as in Drop (n.) A curtain which drops or falls in front of the stage of a theater, etc.,
D as in Drop (n.) A drop press or drop hammer.,
D as in Drop (n.) The distance of the axis of a shaft below the base of a hanger.,
D as in Drop (n.) Any medicine the dose of which is measured by drops; as, lavender drops.,
D as in Drop (n.) The depth of a square sail; -- generally applied to the courses only.,
D as in Drop (n.) Act of dropping; sudden fall or descent.,
D as in Dropped (imp. & p. p.) of Drop,
D as in Dropt () of Drop,
D as in Dropping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Drop,
D as in Drop (n.) To pour or let fall in drops; to pour in small globules; to distill.,
D as in Drop (n.) To cause to fall in one portion, or by one motion, like a drop; to let fall; as, to drop a line in fishing; to drop a courtesy.,
D as in Drop (n.) To let go; to dismiss; to set aside; to have done with; to discontinue; to forsake; to give up; to omit.,
D as in Drop (n.) To bestow or communicate by a suggestion; to let fall in an indirect, cautious, or gentle manner; as, to drop hint, a word of counsel, etc.,
D as in Drop (n.) To lower, as a curtain, or the muzzle of a gun, etc.,
D as in Drop (n.) To send, as a letter; as, please drop me a line, a letter, word.,
D as in Drop (n.) To give birth to; as, to drop a lamb.,
D as in Drop (n.) To cover with drops; to variegate; to bedrop.,
D as in Drop (v. i.) To fall in drops.,
D as in Drop (v. i.) To fall, in general, literally or figuratively; as, ripe fruit drops from a tree; wise words drop from the lips.,
D as in Drop (v. i.) To let drops fall; to discharge itself in drops.,
D as in Drop (v. i.) To fall dead, or to fall in death.,
D as in Drop (v. i.) To come to an end; to cease; to pass out of mind; as, the affair dropped.,
D as in Drop (v. i.) To come unexpectedly; -- with in or into; as, my old friend dropped in a moment.,
D as in Drop (v. i.) To fall or be depressed; to lower; as, the point of the spear dropped a little.,
D as in Drop (v. i.) To fall short of a mark.,
D as in Drop (v. i.) To be deep in extent; to descend perpendicularly; as, her main topsail drops seventeen yards.,
D as in Droplet (n.) A little drop; a tear.,
D as in Droplight (n.) An apparatus for bringing artificial light down from a chandelier nearer to a table or desk; a pendant.,
D as in Dropmeal (adv.) Alt. of Dropmele,
D as in Dropmele (adv.) By drops or small portions.,
D as in Dropper (n.) One who, or that which, drops. Specif.: (Fishing) A fly that drops from the leaden above the bob or end fly.,
D as in Dropper (n.) A dropping tube.,
D as in Dropper (n.) A branch vein which drops off from, or leaves, the main lode.,
D as in Dropper (n.) A dog which suddenly drops upon the ground when it sights game, -- formerly a common, and still an occasional, habit of the setter.,
D as in Dropping (n.) The action of causing to drop or of letting drop; falling.,
D as in Dropping (n.) That which falls in drops; the excrement or dung of animals.,
D as in Droppinly (adv.) In drops.,
D as in Dropsical (a.) Diseased with dropsy; hydropical; tending to dropsy; as, a dropsical patient.,
D as in Dropsical (a.) Of or pertaining to dropsy.,
D as in Dropsicalness (n.) State of being dropsical.,
D as in Dropsied (a.) Diseased with drops.,
D as in Dropsies (pl. ) of Dropsy,
D as in Dropsy (n.) An unnatural collection of serous fluid in any serous cavity of the body, or in the subcutaneous cellular tissue.,
D as in Dropt () imp. & p. p. of Drop, v.,
D as in Dropwise (adv.) After the manner of a drop; in the form of drops.,
D as in Dropworm (n.) The larva of any geometrid moth, which drops from trees by means of a thread of silk, as the cankerworm.,
D as in Dropwort (n.) An Old World species of Spiraea (S. filipendula), with finely cut leaves.,
D as in Drosera (n.) A genus of low perennial or biennial plants, the leaves of which are beset with gland-tipped bristles. See Sundew.,
D as in Droskies (pl. ) of Drosky,
D as in Drosky (n.) A low, four-wheeled, open carriage, used in Russia, consisting of a kind of long, narrow bench, on which the passengers ride as on a saddle, with their feet reaching nearly to the ground. Other kinds of vehicles are now so called, esp. a kind of victoria drawn by one or two horses, and used as a public carriage in German cities.,
D as in Drosometer (n.) An instrument for measuring the quantity of dew on the surface of a body in the open air. It consists of a balance, having a plate at one end to receive the dew, and at the other a weight protected from the deposit of dew.,
D as in Dross (n.) The scum or refuse matter which is thrown off, or falls from, metals in smelting the ore, or in the process of melting; recrement.,
D as in Dross (n.) Rust of metals.,
D as in Dross (n.) Waste matter; any worthless matter separated from the better part; leavings; dregs; refuse.,
D as in Drossel (n.) A slut; a hussy; a drazel.,
D as in Drossless (a.) Free from dross.,
D as in Drossy (superl.) Of, pertaining to, resembling, dross; full of dross; impure; worthless.,
D as in Drotchel (n.) See Drossel.,
D as in Drough (imp.) of Draw.,
D as in Drought (n.) Dryness; want of rain or of water; especially, such dryness of the weather as affects the earth, and prevents the growth of plants; aridity.,
D as in Drought (n.) Thirst; want of drink.,
D as in Drought (n.) Scarcity; lack.,
D as in Droughtiness (n.) A state of dryness of the weather; want of rain.,
D as in Droughty (a.) Characterized by drought; wanting rain; arid; adust.,
D as in Droughty (a.) Dry; thirsty; wanting drink.,
D as in Droumy (a.) Troubled; muddy.,
D as in Drouth (n.) Same as Drought.,
D as in Drouthy (a.) Droughty.,
D as in Drove (imp.) of Drive.,
D as in Drove (n.) A collection of cattle driven, or cattle collected for driving; a number of animals, as oxen, sheep, or swine, driven in a body.,
D as in Drove (n.) Any collection of irrational animals, moving or driving forward; as, a finny drove.,
D as in Drove (n.) A crowd of people in motion.,
D as in Drove (n.) A road for driving cattle; a driftway.,
D as in Drove (n.) A narrow drain or channel used in the irrigation of land.,
D as in Drove (n.) A broad chisel used to bring stone to a nearly smooth surface; -- called also drove chisel.,
D as in Drove (n.) The grooved surface of stone finished by the drove chisel; -- called also drove work.,
D as in Droven (p. p.) of Drive.,
D as in Drover (n.) One who drives cattle or sheep to market; one who makes it his business to purchase cattle, and drive them to market.,
D as in Drover (n.) A boat driven by the tide.,
D as in Drovy (a.) Turbid; muddy; filthy.,
D as in Drow (imp.) of Draw.,
D as in Drowned (imp. & p. p.) of Drown,
D as in Drowning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Drown,
D as in Drown (v. i.) To be suffocated in water or other fluid; to perish in water.,
D as in Drown (v. t.) To overwhelm in water; to submerge; to inundate.,
D as in Drown (v. t.) To deprive of life by immersion in water or other liquid.,
D as in Drown (v. t.) To overpower; to overcome; to extinguish; -- said especially of sound.,
D as in Drownage (n.) The act of drowning.,
D as in Drowner (n.) One who, or that which, drowns.,
D as in Drowsed (imp. & p. p.) of Drowse,
D as in Drowsing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Drowse,
D as in Drowse (v. i.) To sleep imperfectly or unsoundly; to slumber; to be heavy with sleepiness; to doze.,
D as in Drowse (v. t.) To make heavy with sleepiness or imperfect sleep; to make dull or stupid.,
D as in Drowse (n.) A slight or imperfect sleep; a doze.,
D as in Drowsihead (n.) Drowsiness.,
D as in Drowsihed (n.) Drowsihead.,
D as in Drowsily (adv.) In a drowsy manner.,
D as in Drowsiness (n.) State of being drowsy.,
D as in Drowsy (superl.) Inclined to drowse; heavy with sleepiness; lethargic; dozy.,
D as in Drowsy (superl.) Disposing to sleep; lulling; soporific.,
D as in Drowsy (superl.) Dull; stupid.,
D as in Drowth (n.) See Drought.,
D as in Droyle (v. i.) See Droil.,
D as in Drubbed (imp. & p. p.) of Drub,
D as in Drubbing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Drub,
D as in Drub (v. t.) To beat with a stick; to thrash; to cudgel.,
D as in Drub (n.) A blow with a cudgel; a thump.,
D as in Drubber (n.) One who drubs.,
D as in Drudged (imp. & p. p.) of Drudge,
D as in Drudging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Drudge,
D as in Drudge (v. i.) To perform menial work; to labor in mean or unpleasant offices with toil and fatigue.,
D as in Drudge (v. t.) To consume laboriously; -- with away.,
D as in Drudge (n.) One who drudges; one who works hard in servile employment; a mental servant.,
D as in Drudger (n.) One who drudges; a drudge.,
D as in Drudger (n.) A dredging box.,
D as in Drudgery (n.) The act of drudging; disagreeable and wearisome labor; ignoble or slavish toil.,
D as in Drudging box () See Dredging box.,
D as in Drudgingly (adv.) In a drudging manner; laboriously.,
D as in Druery (n.) Courtship; gallantry; love; an object of love.,
D as in Drug (v. i.) To drudge; to toil laboriously.,
D as in Drug (n.) A drudge (?).,
D as in Drug (n.) Any animal, vegetable, or mineral substance used in the composition of medicines; any stuff used in dyeing or in chemical operations.,
D as in Drug (n.) Any commodity that lies on hand, or is not salable; an article of slow sale, or in no demand.,
D as in Drugged (imp. & p. p.) of Drug,
D as in Drugging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Drug,
D as in Drug (v. i.) To prescribe or administer drugs or medicines.,
D as in Drug (v. t.) To affect or season with drugs or ingredients; esp., to stupefy by a narcotic drug. Also Fig.,
D as in Drug (v. t.) To tincture with something offensive or injurious.,
D as in Drug (v. t.) To dose to excess with, or as with, drugs.,
D as in Drugger (n.) A druggist.,
D as in Drugget (n.) A coarse woolen cloth dyed of one color or printed on one side; generally used as a covering for carpets.,
D as in Drugget (n.) By extension, any material used for the same purpose.,
D as in Druggist (n.) One who deals in drugs; especially, one who buys and sells drugs without compounding them; also, a pharmaceutist or apothecary.,
D as in Drugster (n.) A druggist.,
D as in Druid (n.) One of an order of priests which in ancient times existed among certain branches of the Celtic race, especially among the Gauls and Britons.,
D as in Druid (n.) A member of a social and benevolent order, founded in London in 1781, and professedly based on the traditions of the ancient Druids. Lodges or groves of the society are established in other countries.,
D as in Druidess (n.) A female Druid; a prophetess.,
D as in Druidic (a.) Alt. of Druidical,
D as in Druidical (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, the Druids.,
D as in Druidish (a.) Druidic.,
D as in Druidism (n.) The system of religion, philosophy, and instruction, received and taught by the Druids; the rites and ceremonies of the Druids.,
D as in Drum (n.) An instrument of percussion, consisting either of a hollow cylinder, over each end of which is stretched a piece of skin or vellum, to be beaten with a stick; or of a metallic hemisphere (kettledrum) with a single piece of skin to be so beaten; the common instrument for marking time in martial music; one of the pair of tympani in an orchestra, or cavalry band.,
D as in Drum (n.) Anything resembling a drum in form,
D as in Drum (n.) A sheet iron radiator, often in the shape of a drum, for warming an apartment by means of heat received from a stovepipe, or a cylindrical receiver for steam, etc.,
D as in Drum (n.) A small cylindrical box in which figs, etc., are packed.,
D as in Drum (n.) The tympanum of the ear; -- often, but incorrectly, applied to the tympanic membrane.,
D as in Drum (n.) One of the cylindrical, or nearly cylindrical, blocks, of which the shaft of a column is composed; also, a vertical wall, whether circular or polygonal in plan, carrying a cupola or dome.,
D as in Drum (n.) A cylinder on a revolving shaft, generally for the purpose of driving several pulleys, by means of belts or straps passing around its periphery; also, the barrel of a hoisting machine, on which the rope or chain is wound.,
D as in Drum (n.) See Drumfish.,
D as in Drum (n.) A noisy, tumultuous assembly of fashionable people at a private house; a rout.,
D as in Drum (n.) A tea party; a kettledrum.,
D as in Drummed (imp. & p. p.) of Drum,
D as in Drumming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Drum,
D as in Drum (v. i.) To beat a drum with sticks; to beat or play a tune on a drum.,
D as in Drum (v. i.) To beat with the fingers, as with drumsticks; to beat with a rapid succession of strokes; to make a noise like that of a beaten drum; as, the ruffed grouse drums with his wings.,
D as in Drum (v. i.) To throb, as the heart.,
D as in Drum (v. i.) To go about, as a drummer does, to gather recruits, to draw or secure partisans, customers, etc,; -- with for.,
D as in Drum (v. t.) To execute on a drum, as a tune.,
D as in Drum (v. t.) (With out) To expel ignominiously, with beat of drum; as, to drum out a deserter or rogue from a camp, etc.,
D as in Drum (v. t.) (With up) To assemble by, or as by, beat of drum; to collect; to gather or draw by solicitation; as, to drum up recruits; to drum up customers.,
D as in Drumbeat (n.) The sound of a beaten drum; drum music.,
D as in Drumble (v. i.) To be sluggish or lazy; to be confused.,
D as in Drumble (v. i.) To mumble in speaking.,
D as in Drumfish (n.) Any fish of the family Sciaenidae, which makes a loud noise by means of its air bladder; -- called also drum.,
D as in Drumhead (n.) The parchment or skin stretched over one end of a drum.,
D as in Drumhead (n.) The top of a capstan which is pierced with sockets for levers used in turning it. See Illust. of Capstan.,
D as in Drumlin (n.) A hill of compact, unstratified, glacial drift or till, usually elongate or oval, with the larger axis parallel to the former local glacial motion.,
D as in Drumly (a.) Turbid; muddy.,
D as in Drum major () .,
D as in Drum major () The chief or first drummer of a regiment; an instructor of drummers.,
D as in Drum major () The marching leader of a military band.,
D as in Drum major () A noisy gathering. [R.] See under Drum, n., 4.,
D as in Drummer (n.) One whose office is to best the drum, as in military exercises and marching.,
D as in Drummer (n.) One who solicits custom; a commercial traveler.,
D as in Drummer (n.) A fish that makes a sound when caught,
D as in Drummer (n.) The squeteague.,
D as in Drummer (n.) A California sculpin.,
D as in Drummer (n.) A large West Indian cockroach (Blatta gigantea) which drums on woodwork, as a sexual call.,
D as in Drumming (n.) The act of beating upon, or as if upon, a drum; also, the noise which the male of the ruffed grouse makes in spring, by beating his wings upon his sides.,
D as in Drummond light () A very intense light, produced by turning two streams of gas, one oxygen and the other hydrogen, or coal gas, in a state of ignition, upon a ball of lime; or a stream of oxygen gas through a flame of alcohol upon a ball or disk of lime; -- called also oxycalcium light, or lime light.,
D as in Drumstick (n.) A stick with which a drum is beaten.,
D as in Drumstick (n.) Anything resembling a drumstick in form, as the tibiotarsus, or second joint, of the leg of a fowl.,
D as in Drunk (a.) Intoxicated with, or as with, strong drink; inebriated; drunken; -- never used attributively, but always predicatively; as, the man is drunk (not, a drunk man).,
D as in Drunk (a.) Drenched or saturated with moisture or liquid.,
D as in Drunk (n.) A drunken condition; a spree.,
D as in Drunkard (n.) One who habitually drinks strong liquors immoderately; one whose habit it is to get drunk; a toper; a sot.,
D as in Drunken (v. i.) Overcome by strong drink; intoxicated by, or as by, spirituous liquor; inebriated.,
D as in Drunken (v. i.) Saturated with liquid or moisture; drenched.,
D as in Drunken (v. i.) Pertaining to, or proceeding from, intoxication.,
D as in Drunkenhead (n.) Drunkenness.,
D as in Drunkenly (adv.) In a drunken manner.,
D as in Drunkenness (n.) The state of being drunken with, or as with, alcoholic liquor; intoxication; inebriety; -- used of the casual state or the habit.,
D as in Drunkenness (n.) Disorder of the faculties, resembling intoxication by liquors; inflammation; frenzy; rage.,
D as in Drunkenship (n.) Alt. of Drunkship,
D as in Drunkship (n.) The state of being drunk; drunkenness.,
D as in Drupaceous (a.) Producing, or pertaining to, drupes; having the form of drupes; as, drupaceous trees or fruits.,
D as in Drupal (a.) Drupaceous.,
D as in Drupe (n.) A fruit consisting of pulpy, coriaceous, or fibrous exocarp, without valves, containing a nut or stone with a kernel. The exocarp is succulent in the plum, cherry, apricot, peach, etc.; dry and subcoriaceous in the almond; and fibrous in the cocoanut.,
D as in Drupel (n.) Alt. of Drupelet,
D as in Drupelet (n.) A small drupe, as one of the pulpy grains of the blackberry.,
D as in Druse (n.) A cavity in a rock, having its interior surface studded with crystals and sometimes filled with water; a geode.,
D as in Druse (n.) One of a people and religious sect dwelling chiefly in the Lebanon mountains of Syria.,
D as in Drusy (a.) Alt. of Drused,
D as in Drused (a.) Covered with a large number of minute crystals.,
D as in Druxey (a.) Alt. of Druxy,
D as in Druxy (a.) Having decayed spots or streaks of a whitish color; -- said of timber.,
D as in Dry (superl.) Free from moisture; having little humidity or none; arid; not wet or moist; deficient in the natural or normal supply of moisture, as rain or fluid of any kind; -- said especially: (a) Of the weather: Free from rain or mist.,
D as in Dry (superl.) Of vegetable matter: Free from juices or sap; not succulent; not green; as, dry wood or hay.,
D as in Dry (superl.) Of animals: Not giving milk; as, the cow is dry.,
D as in Dry (superl.) Of persons: Thirsty; needing drink.,
D as in Dry (superl.) Of the eyes: Not shedding tears.,
D as in Dry (superl.) Of certain morbid conditions, in which there is entire or comparative absence of moisture; as, dry gangrene; dry catarrh.,
D as in Dry (superl.) Destitute of that which interests or amuses; barren; unembellished; jejune; plain.,
D as in Dry (superl.) Characterized by a quality somewhat severe, grave, or hard; hence, sharp; keen; shrewd; quaint; as, a dry tone or manner; dry wit.,
D as in Dry (superl.) Exhibiting a sharp, frigid preciseness of execution, or the want of a delicate contour in form, and of easy transition in coloring.,
D as in Dried (imp. & p. p.) of Dry,
D as in Drying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dry,
D as in Dry (a.) To make dry; to free from water, or from moisture of any kind, and by any means; to exsiccate; as, to dry the eyes; to dry one's tears; the wind dries the earth; to dry a wet cloth; to dry hay.,
D as in Dry (v. i.) To grow dry; to become free from wetness, moisture, or juice; as, the road dries rapidly.,
D as in Dry (v. i.) To evaporate wholly; to be exhaled; -- said of moisture, or a liquid; -- sometimes with up; as, the stream dries, or dries up.,
D as in Dry (v. i.) To shrivel or wither; to lose vitality.,
D as in Dryad (n.) A wood nymph; a nymph whose life was bound up with that of her tree.,
D as in Dryandra (n.) A genus of shrubs growing in Australia, having beautiful, hard, dry, evergreen leaves.,
D as in Dryades (pl. ) of Dryas,
D as in Dryas (n.) A dryad.,
D as in Dry-beat (v. t.) To beat severely.,
D as in Dry-boned (a.) Having dry bones, or bones without flesh.,
D as in Dry dock () See under Dock.,
D as in Dryer (n.) See Drier.,
D as in Dry-eyed (a.) Not having tears in the eyes.,
D as in Dry-fisted (a.) Niggardly.,
D as in Dryfoot (n.) The scent of the game, as far as it can be traced.,
D as in Dry goods () A commercial name for textile fabrics, cottons, woolens, linen, silks, laces, etc., -- in distinction from groceries.,
D as in Drying (a.) Adapted or tending to exhaust moisture; as, a drying wind or day; a drying room.,
D as in Drying (a.) Having the quality of rapidly becoming dry.,
D as in Dryly (adv.) In a dry manner; not succulently; without interest; without sympathy; coldly.,
D as in Dryness (n.) The state of being dry. See Dry.,
D as in Dry nurse () A nurse who attends and feeds a child by hand; -- in distinction from a wet nurse, who suckles it.,
D as in Drynurse (v. t.) To feed, attend, and bring up without the breast.,
D as in Dryobalanops (n.) The genus to which belongs the single species D. Camphora, a lofty resinous tree of Borneo and Sumatra, yielding Borneo camphor and camphor oil.,
D as in Dry-rubbed (imp. & p. p.) of Dry-rub,
D as in Dry-rubbing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dry-rub,
D as in Dry-rub (v. t.) To rub and cleanse without wetting.,
D as in Drysalter (n.) A dealer in salted or dried meats, pickles, sauces, etc., and in the materials used in pickling, salting, and preserving various kinds of food Hence drysalters usually sell a number of saline substances and miscellaneous drugs.,
D as in Drysaltery (n.) The articles kept by a drysalter; also, the business of a drysalter.,
D as in Dry-shod (a.) Without wetting the feet.,
D as in Dry-stone (a.) Constructed of uncemented stone.,
D as in Dryth (n.) Alt. of Drith,
D as in Drith (n.) Drought.,
D as in Duad (n.) A union of two; duality.,
D as in Dual (a.) Expressing, or consisting of, the number two; belonging to two; as, the dual number of nouns, etc. , in Greek.,
D as in Dualin (n.) An explosive substance consisting essentially of sawdust or wood pulp, saturated with nitroglycerin and other similar nitro compounds. It is inferior to dynamite, and is more liable to explosion.,
D as in Dualism (n.) State of being dual or twofold; a twofold division; any system which is founded on a double principle, or a twofold distinction,
D as in Dualism (n.) A view of man as constituted of two original and independent elements, as matter and spirit.,
D as in Dualism (n.) A system which accepts two gods, or two original principles, one good and the other evil.,
D as in Dualism (n.) The doctrine that all mankind are divided by the arbitrary decree of God, and in his eternal foreknowledge, into two classes, the elect and the reprobate.,
D as in Dualism (n.) The theory that each cerebral hemisphere acts independently of the other.,
D as in Dualist (n.) One who believes in dualism; a ditheist.,
D as in Dualist (n.) One who administers two offices.,
D as in Dualistic (a.) Consisting of two; pertaining to dualism or duality.,
D as in Duality (n.) The quality or condition of being two or twofold; dual character or usage.,
D as in Duan (n.) A division of a poem corresponding to a canto; a poem or song.,
D as in Duarchy (n.) Government by two persons.,
D as in Dubbed (imp. & p. p.) of Dub,
D as in Dubbing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dub,
D as in Dub (v. t.) To confer knighthood upon; as, the king dubbed his son Henry a knight.,
D as in Dub (v. t.) To invest with any dignity or new character; to entitle; to call.,
D as in Dub (v. t.) To clothe or invest; to ornament; to adorn.,
D as in Dub (v. t.) To strike, rub, or dress smooth; to dab;,
D as in Dub (v. t.) To dress with an adz; as, to dub a stick of timber smooth.,
D as in Dub (v. t.) To strike cloth with teasels to raise a nap.,
D as in Dub (v. t.) To rub or dress with grease, as leather in the process of cyrrying it.,
D as in Dub (v. t.) To prepare for fighting, as a gamecock, by trimming the hackles and cutting off the comb and wattles.,
D as in Dub (v. i.) To make a noise by brisk drumbeats.,
D as in Dub (n.) A blow.,
D as in Dub (n.) A pool or puddle.,
D as in Dubb (n.) The Syrian bear. See under Bear.,
D as in Dubber (n.) One who, or that which, dubs.,
D as in Dubber (n.) A globular vessel or bottle of leather, used in India to hold ghee, oil, etc.,
D as in Dubbing (n.) The act of dubbing, as a knight, etc.,
D as in Dubbing (n.) The act of rubbing, smoothing, or dressing; a dressing off smooth with an adz.,
D as in Dubbing (n.) A dressing of flour and water used by weavers; a mixture of oil and tallow for dressing leather; daubing.,
D as in Dubbing (n.) The body substance of an angler's fly.,
D as in Dubieties (pl. ) of Dubiety,
D as in Dubiety (n.) Doubtfulness; uncertainty; doubt.,
D as in Dubiosities (pl. ) of Dubiosity,
D as in Dubiosity (n.) The state of being doubtful; a doubtful statement or thing.,
D as in Dubious (a.) Doubtful or not settled in opinion; being in doubt; wavering or fluctuating; undetermined.,
D as in Dubious (a.) Occasioning doubt; not clear, or obvious; equivocal; questionable; doubtful; as, a dubious answer.,
D as in Dubious (a.) Of uncertain event or issue; as, in dubious battle.,
D as in Dubiously (adv.) In a dubious manner.,
D as in Dubiousness (n.) State of being dubious.,
D as in Dubitable (a.) Liable to be doubted; uncertain.,
D as in Dubitancy (n.) Doubt; uncertainty.,
D as in Dubitate (v. i.) To doubt.,
D as in Dubitation (n.) Act of doubting; doubt.,
D as in Dubitative (a.) Tending to doubt; doubtful.,
D as in Duboisia (n.) Same as Duboisine.,
D as in Duboisine (n.) An alkaloid obtained from the leaves of an Australian tree (Duboisia myoporoides), and regarded as identical with hyoscyamine. It produces dilation of the pupil of the eye.,
D as in Ducal (a.) Of or pertaining to a duke.,
D as in Ducally (adv.) In the manner of a duke, or in a manner becoming the rank of a duke.,
D as in Ducat (n.) A coin, either of gold or silver, of several countries in Europe; originally, one struck in the dominions of a duke.,
D as in Ducatoon (n.) A silver coin of several countries of Europe, and of different values.,
D as in Duces tecum () A judicial process commanding a person to appear in court and bring with him some piece of evidence or other thing to be produced to the court.,
D as in Duchess (n.) The wife or widow of a duke; also, a lady who has the sovereignty of a duchy in her own right.,
D as in Duchesse d'Angouleme () A variety of pear of large size and excellent flavor.,
D as in Duchies (pl. ) of Duchy,
D as in Duchy (n.) The territory or dominions of a duke; a dukedom.,
D as in Duck (n.) A pet; a darling.,
D as in Duck (n.) A linen (or sometimes cotton) fabric, finer and lighter than canvas, -- used for the lighter sails of vessels, the sacking of beds, and sometimes for men's clothing.,
D as in Duck (n.) The light clothes worn by sailors in hot climates.,
D as in Ducked (imp. & p. p.) of Duck,
D as in Ducking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Duck,
D as in Duck (v. t.) To thrust or plunge under water or other liquid and suddenly withdraw.,
D as in Duck (v. t.) To plunge the head of under water, immediately withdrawing it; as, duck the boy.,
D as in Duck (v. t.) To bow; to bob down; to move quickly with a downward motion.,
D as in Duck (v. i.) To go under the surface of water and immediately reappear; to dive; to plunge the head in water or other liquid; to dip.,
D as in Duck (v. i.) To drop the head or person suddenly; to bow.,
D as in Duck (v. t.) Any bird of the subfamily Anatinae, family Anatidae.,
D as in Duck (v. t.) A sudden inclination of the bead or dropping of the person, resembling the motion of a duck in water.,
D as in Duckbill (n.) See Duck mole, under Duck, n.,
D as in Duck-billed (a.) Having a bill like that of a duck.,
D as in Ducker (n.) One who, or that which, ducks; a plunger; a diver.,
D as in Ducker (n.) A cringing, servile person; a fawner.,
D as in Ducking () n. & a., from Duck, v. t. & i.,
D as in Duck-legged (a.) Having short legs, like a waddling duck; short-legged.,
D as in Duckling (n.) A young or little duck.,
D as in Duckmeat (n.) Alt. of Duck's-meat,
D as in Duck's-meat (n.) Duckweed.,
D as in Duck's-bill (a.) Having the form of a duck's bill.,
D as in Duck's-foot (n.) The May apple (Podophyllum peltatum).,
D as in Duckweed (n.) A genus (Lemna) of small plants, seen floating in great quantity on the surface of stagnant pools fresh water, and supposed to furnish food for ducks; -- called also duckmeat.,
D as in Duct (n.) Any tube or canal by which a fluid or other substance is conducted or conveyed.,
D as in Duct (n.) One of the vessels of an animal body by which the products of glandular secretion are conveyed to their destination.,
D as in Duct (n.) A large, elongated cell, either round or prismatic, usually found associated with woody fiber.,
D as in Duct (n.) Guidance; direction.,
D as in Ductible (a.) Capable of being drawn out,
D as in Ductile (a.) Easily led; tractable; complying; yielding to motives, persuasion, or instruction; as, a ductile people.,
D as in Ductile (a.) Capable of being elongated or drawn out, as into wire or threads.,
D as in Ductilimeter (n.) An instrument for accurately determining the ductility of metals.,
D as in Ductility (n.) The property of a metal which allows it to be drawn into wires or filaments.,
D as in Ductility (n.) Tractableness; pliableness.,
D as in Duction (n.) Guidance.,
D as in Ductless (a.) Having to duct or outlet; as, a ductless gland.,
D as in Ductor (n.) One who leads.,
D as in Ductor (n.) A contrivance for removing superfluous ink or coloring matter from a roller. See Doctor, 4.,
D as in Ducture (n.) Guidance.,
D as in Dudder (v. t.) To confuse or confound with noise.,
D as in Dudder (v. i.) To shiver or tremble; to dodder.,
D as in Dudder (n.) A peddler or hawker, especially of cheap and flashy goods pretended to be smuggled; a duffer.,
D as in Duddery (n.) A place where rags are bought and kept for sale.,
D as in Dude (n.) A kind of dandy; especially, one characterized by an ultrafashionable style of dress and other affectations.,
D as in Dudeen (n.) A short tobacco pipe.,
D as in Dudgeon (n.) The root of the box tree, of which hafts for daggers were made.,
D as in Dudgeon (n.) The haft of a dagger.,
D as in Dudgeon (n.) A dudgeon-hafted dagger; a dagger.,
D as in Dudgeon (n.) Resentment; ill will; anger; displeasure.,
D as in Dudgeon (a.) Homely; rude; coarse.,
D as in Dudish (a.) Like, or characterized of, a dude.,
D as in Duds (n. pl.) Old or inferior clothes; tattered garments.,
D as in Duds (n. pl.) Effects, in general.,
D as in Due (a.) Owed, as a debt; that ought to be paid or done to or for another; payable; owing and demandable.,
D as in Due (a.) Justly claimed as a right or property; proper; suitable; becoming; appropriate; fit.,
D as in Due (a.) Such as (a thing) ought to be; fulfilling obligation; proper; lawful; regular; appointed; sufficient; exact; as, due process of law; due service; in due time.,
D as in Due (a.) Appointed or required to arrive at a given time; as, the steamer was due yesterday.,
D as in Due (a.) Owing; ascribable, as to a cause.,
D as in Due (adv.) Directly; exactly; as, a due east course.,
D as in Due (n.) That which is owed; debt; that which one contracts to pay, or do, to or for another; that which belongs or may be claimed as a right; whatever custom, law, or morality requires to be done; a fee; a toll.,
D as in Due (n.) Right; just title or claim.,
D as in Due (v. t.) To endue.,
D as in Duebill (n.) A brief written acknowledgment of a debt, not made payable to order, like a promissory note.,
D as in Dueful (a.) Fit; becoming.,
D as in Duel (n.) A combat between two persons, fought with deadly weapons, by agreement. It usually arises from an injury done or an affront given by one to the other.,
D as in Duel (v. i. & t.) To fight in single combat.,
D as in Dueler (n.) One who engages in a duel.,
D as in Dueling (n.) The act or practice of fighting in single combat. Also adj.,
D as in Duelist (n.) One who fights in single combat.,
D as in Duelo (n.) A duel; also, the rules of dueling.,
D as in Due�a (n.) See Do�a.,
D as in Dueness (n.) Quality of being due; debt; what is due or becoming.,
D as in Duennas (pl. ) of Duenna,
D as in Duenna (n.) The chief lady in waiting on the queen of Spain.,
D as in Duenna (n.) An elderly lady holding a station between a governess and companion, and appointed to have charge over the younger ladies in a Spanish or a Portuguese family.,
D as in Duenna (n.) Any old woman who is employed to guard a younger one; a governess.,
D as in Duet (n.) A composition for two performers, whether vocal or instrumental.,
D as in Duettino (n.) A duet of short extent and concise form.,
D as in Duetto (n.) See Duet.,
D as in Duff (n.) Dough or paste.,
D as in Duff (n.) A stiff flour pudding, boiled in a bag; -- a term used especially by seamen; as, plum duff.,
D as in Duffel (n.) A kind of coarse woolen cloth, having a thick nap or frieze.,
D as in Duffer (n.) A peddler or hawker, especially of cheap, flashy articles, as sham jewelry; hence, a sham or cheat.,
D as in Duffer (n.) A stupid, awkward, inefficient person.,
D as in Duffle (n.) See Duffel.,
D as in Dufrenite (n.) A mineral of a blackish green color, commonly massive or in nodules. It is a hydrous phosphate of iron.,
D as in Dug (n.) A teat, pap, or nipple; -- formerly that of a human mother, now that of a cow or other beast.,
D as in Dug (imp. & p. p.) of Dig.,
D as in Dugong (n.) An aquatic herbivorous mammal (Halicore dugong), of the order Sirenia, allied to the manatee, but with a bilobed tail. It inhabits the Red Sea, Indian Ocean, East Indies, and Australia.,
D as in Dugout (n.) A canoe or boat dug out from a large log.,
D as in Dugout (n.) A place dug out.,
D as in Dugout (n.) A house made partly in a hillside or slighter elevation.,
D as in Dugway (n.) A way or road dug through a hill, or sunk below the surface of the land.,
D as in Duke (n.) A leader; a chief; a prince.,
D as in Duke (n.) In England, one of the highest order of nobility after princes and princesses of the royal blood and the four archbishops of England and Ireland.,
D as in Duke (n.) In some European countries, a sovereign prince, without the title of king.,
D as in Duke (v. i.) To play the duke.,
D as in Dukedom (n.) The territory of a duke.,
D as in Dukedom (n.) The title or dignity of a duke.,
D as in Dukeling (n.) A little or insignificant duke.,
D as in Dukeship (n.) The quality or condition of being a duke; also, the personality of a duke.,
D as in Dulcamara (n.) A plant (Solanum Dulcamara). See Bittersweet, n., 3 (a).,
D as in Dulcamarin (n.) A glucoside extracted from the bittersweet (Solanum Dulcamara), as a yellow amorphous substance. It probably occasions the compound taste. See Bittersweet, 3(a).,
D as in Dulce (v. t.) To make sweet; to soothe.,
D as in Dulceness (n.) Sweetness.,
D as in Dulcet (a.) Sweet to the taste; luscious.,
D as in Dulcet (a.) Sweet to the ear; melodious; harmonious.,
D as in Dulciana (n.) A sweet-toned stop of an organ.,
D as in Dulcification (n.) The act of dulcifying or sweetening.,
D as in Dulcified (a.) Sweetened; mollified.,
D as in Dulcifluous (a.) Flowing sweetly.,
D as in Dulcified (imp. & p. p.) of Dulcify,
D as in Dulcifying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dulcify,
D as in Dulcify (v. t.) To sweeten; to free from acidity, saltness, or acrimony.,
D as in Dulcify (v. t.) Fig. : To mollify; to sweeten; to please.,
D as in Dulciloquy (n.) A soft manner of speaking.,
D as in Dulcimer (n.) An instrument, having stretched metallic wires which are beaten with two light hammers held in the hands of the performer.,
D as in Dulcimer (n.) An ancient musical instrument in use among the Jews. Dan. iii. 5. It is supposed to be the same with the psaltery.,
D as in Dulcinea (n.) A mistress; a sweetheart.,
D as in Dulciness (n.) See Dulceness.,
D as in Dulcite (n.) A white, sugarlike substance, C6H8.(OH)2, occurring naturally in a manna from Madagascar, and in certain plants, and produced artificially by the reduction of galactose and lactose or milk sugar.,
D as in Dulcino (n.) See Dolcino.,
D as in Dulcitude (n.) Sweetness.,
D as in Dulcorate (v. t.) To sweeten; to make less acrimonious.,
D as in Dulcoration (n.) The act of sweetening.,
D as in Duledge (n.) One of the dowels joining the ends of the fellies which form the circle of the wheel of a gun carriage.,
D as in Dulia (n.) An inferior kind of veneration or worship, given to the angels and saints as the servants of God.,
D as in Dull (superl.) Slow of understanding; wanting readiness of apprehension; stupid; doltish; blockish.,
D as in Dull (superl.) Slow in action; sluggish; unready; awkward.,
D as in Dull (superl.) Insensible; unfeeling.,
D as in Dull (superl.) Not keen in edge or point; lacking sharpness; blunt.,
D as in Dull (superl.) Not bright or clear to the eye; wanting in liveliness of color or luster; not vivid; obscure; dim; as, a dull fire or lamp; a dull red or yellow; a dull mirror.,
D as in Dull (superl.) Heavy; gross; cloggy; insensible; spiritless; lifeless; inert.,
D as in Dull (superl.) Furnishing little delight, spirit, or variety; uninteresting; tedious; cheerless; gloomy; melancholy; depressing; as, a dull story or sermon; a dull occupation or period; hence, cloudy; overcast; as, a dull day.,
D as in Duller (imp. & p. p.) of Dull,
D as in Dulling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dull,
D as in Dull (v. t.) To deprive of sharpness of edge or point.,
D as in Dull (v. t.) To make dull, stupid, or sluggish; to stupefy, as the senses, the feelings, the perceptions, and the like.,
D as in Dull (v. t.) To render dim or obscure; to sully; to tarnish.,
D as in Dull (v. t.) To deprive of liveliness or activity; to render heavy; to make inert; to depress; to weary; to sadden.,
D as in Dull (v. i.) To become dull or stupid.,
D as in Dullard (n.) A stupid person; a dunce.,
D as in Dullard (a.) Stupid.,
D as in Dull-brained (a.) Stupid; doltish.,
D as in Dull-browed (a.) Having a gloomy look.,
D as in Duller (n.) One who, or that which, dulls.,
D as in Dull-eyed (a.) Having eyes wanting brightness, liveliness, or vivacity.,
D as in Dullhead (n.) A blockhead; a dolt.,
D as in Dullish (a.) Somewhat dull; uninteresting; tiresome.,
D as in Dullness (n.) The state of being dull; slowness; stupidity; heaviness; drowsiness; bluntness; obtuseness; dimness; want of luster; want of vividness, or of brightness.,
D as in Dull-sighted (a.) Having poor eyesight.,
D as in Dullsome (a.) Dull.,
D as in Dull-witted (a.) Stupid.,
D as in Dully (adv.) In a dull manner; stupidly; slowly; sluggishly; without life or spirit.,
D as in Dulocracy (n.) See Doulocracy.,
D as in Dulse (n.) A seaweed of a reddish brown color, which is sometimes eaten, as in Scotland. The true dulse is Sarcophyllis edulis; the common is Rhodymenia. [Written also dillisk.],
D as in Dulwilly (n.) The ring plover.,
D as in Duly (adv.) In a due, fit, or becoming manner; as it (anything) ought to be; properly; regularly.,
D as in Dumal (a.) Pertaining to, or set with, briers or bushes; brambly.,
D as in Dumb (a.) Destitute of the power of speech; unable; to utter articulate sounds; as, the dumb brutes.,
D as in Dumb (a.) Not willing to speak; mute; silent; not speaking; not accompanied by words; as, dumb show.,
D as in Dumb (a.) Lacking brightness or clearness, as a color.,
D as in Dumb (v. t.) To put to silence.,
D as in Dumb-bell (n.) A weight, consisting of two spheres or spheroids, connected by a short bar for a handle; used (often in pairs) for gymnastic exercise.,
D as in Dumbledor (n.) A bumblebee; also, a cockchafer.,
D as in Dumbly (adv.) In silence; mutely.,
D as in Dumbness (n.) The quality or state of being dumb; muteness; silence; inability to speak.,
D as in Dumb-waiter (n.) A framework on which dishes, food, etc., are passed from one room or story of a house to another; a lift for dishes, etc.; also, a piece of furniture with movable or revolving shelves.,
D as in Dumetose (a.) Dumose.,
D as in Dumfounded (imp. & p. p.) of Dumfound,
D as in Dumfounding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dumfound,
D as in Dumfound (v. t.) To strike dumb; to confuse with astonishment.,
D as in Dumfounder (v. t.) To dumfound; to confound.,
D as in Dummador (n.) A dumbledor.,
D as in Dummerer (n.) One who feigns dumbness.,
D as in Dummy (a.) Silent; mute; noiseless; as a dummy engine.,
D as in Dummy (a.) Fictitious or sham; feigned; as, a dummy watch.,
D as in Dummies (pl. ) of Dummy,
D as in Dummy (n.) One who is dumb.,
D as in Dummy (n.) A sham package in a shop, or one which does not contain what its exterior indicates.,
D as in Dummy (n.) An imitation or copy of something, to be used as a substitute; a model; a lay figure; as, a figure on which clothing is exhibited in shop windows; a blank paper copy used to show the size of the future book, etc.,
D as in Dummy (n.) One who plays a merely nominal part in any action; a sham character.,
D as in Dummy (n.) A thick-witted person; a dolt.,
D as in Dummy (n.) A locomotive with condensing engines, and, hence, without the noise of escaping steam; also, a dummy car.,
D as in Dummy (n.) The fourth or exposed hand when three persons play at a four-handed game of cards.,
D as in Dummy (n.) A floating barge connected with a pier.,
D as in Dumose (a.) Alt. of Dumous,
D as in Dumous (a.) Abounding with bushes and briers.,
D as in Dumous (a.) Having a compact, bushy form.,
D as in Dump (n.) A thick, ill-shapen piece; a clumsy leaden counter used by boys in playing chuck farthing.,
D as in Dump (v. t.) A dull, gloomy state of the mind; sadness; melancholy; low spirits; despondency; ill humor; -- now used only in the plural.,
D as in Dump (v. t.) Absence of mind; revery.,
D as in Dump (v. t.) A melancholy strain or tune in music; any tune.,
D as in Dump (v. t.) An old kind of dance.,
D as in Dumped (imp. & p. p.) of Dump,
D as in Dumping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dump,
D as in Dump (v. t.) To knock heavily; to stump.,
D as in Dump (v. t.) To put or throw down with more or less of violence; hence, to unload from a cart by tilting it; as, to dump sand, coal, etc.,
D as in Dump (n.) A car or boat for dumping refuse, etc.,
D as in Dump (n.) A ground or place for dumping ashes, refuse, etc.,
D as in Dump (n.) That which is dumped.,
D as in Dump (n.) A pile of ore or rock.,
D as in Dumpage (n.) The act of dumping loads from carts, especially loads of refuse matter; also, a heap of dumped matter.,
D as in Dumpage (n.) A fee paid for the privilege of dumping loads.,
D as in Dumpiness (n.) The state of being dumpy.,
D as in Dumpish (a.) Dull; stupid; sad; moping; melancholy.,
D as in Dumple (v. t.) To make dumpy; to fold, or bend, as one part over another.,
D as in Dumpling (n.) A roundish mass of dough boiled in soup, or as a sort of pudding; often, a cover of paste inclosing an apple or other fruit, and boiled or baked; as, an apple dumpling.,
D as in Dumpy (superl.) Short and thick; of low stature and disproportionately stout.,
D as in Dumpy (superl.) Sullen or discontented.,
D as in Dun (n.) A mound or small hill.,
D as in Dun (v. t.) To cure, as codfish, in a particular manner, by laying them, after salting, in a pile in a dark place, covered with salt grass or some like substance.,
D as in Dunned (imp. & p. p.) of Dun,
D as in Dunning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dun,
D as in Dun (v. t. & i.) To ask or beset, as a debtor, for payment; to urge importunately.,
D as in Dun (n.) One who duns; a dunner.,
D as in Dun (n.) An urgent request or demand of payment; as, he sent his debtor a dun.,
D as in Dun (a.) Of a dark color; of a color partaking of a brown and black; of a dull brown color; swarthy.,
D as in Dunbird (n.) The pochard; -- called also dunair, and dunker, or dun-curre.,
D as in Dunbird (n.) An American duck; the ruddy duck.,
D as in Dunce (n.) One backward in book learning; a child or other person dull or weak in intellect; a dullard; a dolt.,
D as in Duncedom (n.) The realm or domain of dunces.,
D as in Duncery (n.) Dullness; stupidity.,
D as in Duncical (a.) Like a dunce; duncish.,
D as in Duncify (v. t.) To make stupid in intellect.,
D as in Duncish (a.) Somewhat like a dunce.,
D as in Dunder (n.) The lees or dregs of cane juice, used in the distillation of rum.,
D as in Dunderhead (n.) A dunce; a numskull; a blockhead.,
D as in Dunder-headed (a.) Thick-headed; stupid.,
D as in Dunderpate (n.) See Dunderhead.,
D as in Dune (n.) A low hill of drifting sand usually formed on the coats, but often carried far inland by the prevailing winds.,
D as in Dunfish (n.) Codfish cured in a particular manner, so as to be of a superior quality.,
D as in Dung (n.) The excrement of an animal.,
D as in Dunged (imp. & p. p.) of Dung,
D as in Dunging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dung,
D as in Dung (v. t.) To manure with dung.,
D as in Dung (v. t.) To immerse or steep, as calico, in a bath of hot water containing cow dung; -- done to remove the superfluous mordant.,
D as in Dung (v. i.) To void excrement.,
D as in Dungaree (n.) A coarse kind of unbleached cotton stuff.,
D as in Dungeon (n.) A close, dark prison, common/, under ground, as if the lower apartments of the donjon or keep of a castle, these being used as prisons.,
D as in Dungeon (v. t.) To shut up in a dungeon.,
D as in Dungfork (n.) A fork for tossing dung.,
D as in Dunghill (n.) A heap of dung.,
D as in Dunghill (n.) Any mean situation or condition; a vile abode.,
D as in Dungmeer (n.) A pit where dung and weeds rot for manure.,
D as in Dungy (a.) Full of dung; filthy; vile; low.,
D as in Dungyard (n.) A yard where dung is collected.,
D as in Dunker (n.) One of a religious denomination whose tenets and practices are mainly those of the Baptists, but partly those of the Quakers; -- called also Tunkers, Dunkards, Dippers, and, by themselves, Brethren, and German Baptists.,
D as in Dunlin (n.) A species of sandpiper (Tringa alpina); -- called also churr, dorbie, grass bird, and red-backed sandpiper. It is found both in Europe and America.,
D as in Dunnage (n.) Fagots, boughs, or loose materials of any kind, laid on the bottom of the hold for the cargo to rest upon to prevent injury by water, or stowed among casks and other cargo to prevent their motion.,
D as in Dunner (n.) One employed in soliciting the payment of debts.,
D as in Dunnish (a.) Inclined to a dun color.,
D as in Dunnock (a.) The hedge sparrow or hedge accentor.,
D as in Dunny (a.) Deaf; stupid.,
D as in Dunt (n.) A blow.,
D as in Dunted (a.) Beaten; hence, blunted.,
D as in Dunter (n.) A porpoise.,
D as in Duo (n.) A composition for two performers; a duet.,
D as in Duodecahedral (n.) Alt. of Duodecahedron,
D as in Duodecahedron (n.) See Dodecahedral, and Dodecahedron.,
D as in Duodecennial (a.) Consisting of twelve years.,
D as in Duodecimal (a.) Proceeding in computation by twelves; expressed in the scale of twelves.,
D as in Duodecimal (n.) A twelfth part; as, the duodecimals of an inch.,
D as in Duodecimal (n.) A system of numbers, whose denominations rise in a scale of twelves, as of feet and inches. The system is used chiefly by artificers in computing the superficial and solid contents of their work.,
D as in Duodecimfid (a.) Divided into twelve parts.,
D as in Duodecimo (a.) Having twelve leaves to a sheet; as, a duodecimo from, book, leaf, size, etc.,
D as in Duodecimos (pl. ) of Duodecimo,
D as in Duodecimo (n.) A book consisting of sheets each of which is folded into twelve leaves; hence, indicating, more or less definitely, a size of a book; -- usually written 12mo or 12�.,
D as in Duodecuple (a.) Consisting of twelves.,
D as in Duodenal (a.) Of or pertaining to the duodenum; as, duodenal digestion.,
D as in Duodenary (a.) Containing twelve; twelvefold; increasing by twelves; duodecimal.,
D as in Duodenum (n.) The part of the small intestines between the stomach and the jejunum. See Illust. of Digestive apparatus, under Digestive.,
D as in Duoliteral (a.) Consisting of two letters only; biliteral.,
D as in Duomo (n.) A cathedral. See Dome, 2.,
D as in Dup (v. t.) To open; as, to dup the door.,
D as in Dupable (a.) Capable of being duped.,
D as in Dupe (n.) One who has been deceived or who is easily deceived; a gull; as, the dupe of a schemer.,
D as in Duped (imp. & p. p.) of Dupe,
D as in Duping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dupe,
D as in Dupe (n.) To deceive; to trick; to mislead by imposing on one's credulity; to gull; as, dupe one by flattery.,
D as in Duper (n.) One who dupes another.,
D as in Dupery (n.) The act or practice of duping.,
D as in Dupion (n.) A double cocoon, made by two silkworms.,
D as in Duple (a.) Double.,
D as in Duplex (a.) Double; twofold.,
D as in Duplicate (a.) Double; twofold.,
D as in Duplicate (n.) That which exactly resembles or corresponds to something else; another, correspondent to the first; hence, a copy; a transcript; a counterpart.,
D as in Duplicate (n.) An original instrument repeated; a document which is the same as another in all essential particulars, and differing from a mere copy in having all the validity of an original.,
D as in Duplicated (imp. & p. p.) of Duplicate,
D as in Duplicating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Duplicate,
D as in Duplicate (v. t.) To double; to fold; to render double.,
D as in Duplicate (v. t.) To make a duplicate of (something); to make a copy or transcript of.,
D as in Duplicate (v. t.) To divide into two by natural growth or spontaneous action; as, infusoria duplicate themselves.,
D as in Duplication (n.) The act of duplicating, or the state of being duplicated; a doubling; a folding over; a fold.,
D as in Duplication (n.) The act or process of dividing by natural growth or spontaneous action; as, the duplication of cartilage cells.,
D as in Duplicative (a.) Having the quality of duplicating or doubling.,
D as in Duplicative (a.) Having the quality of subdividing into two by natural growth.,
D as in Duplicature (n.) A doubling; a fold, as of a membrane.,
D as in Duplicities (pl. ) of Duplicity,
D as in Duplicity (n.) Doubleness; a twofold state.,
D as in Duplicity (n.) Doubleness of heart or speech; insincerity; a sustained form of deception which consists in entertaining or pretending to entertain one of feelings, and acting as if influenced by another; bad faith.,
D as in Duplicity (n.) The use of two or more distinct allegations or answers, where one is sufficient.,
D as in Duplicity (n.) In indictments, the union of two incompatible offenses.,
D as in Dupper (n.) See 2d Dubber.,
D as in Dur (a.) Major; in the major mode; as, C dur, that is, C major.,
D as in Dura (n.) Short form for Dura mater.,
D as in Durability (n.) The state or quality of being durable; the power of uninterrupted or long continuance in any condition; the power of resisting agents or influences which tend to cause changes, decay, or dissolution; lastingness.,
D as in Durable (a.) Able to endure or continue in a particular condition; lasting; not perishable or changeable; not wearing out or decaying soon; enduring; as, durable cloth; durable happiness.,
D as in Durableness (n.) Power of lasting, enduring, or resisting; durability.,
D as in Durably (adv.) In a lasting manner; with long continuance.,
D as in Dural (a.) Pertaining to the dura, or dura mater.,
D as in Dura mater () The tough, fibrous membrane, which lines the cavity of the skull and spinal column, and surrounds the brain and spinal cord; -- frequently abbreviated to dura.,
D as in Duramen (n.) The heartwood of an exogenous tree.,
D as in Durance (n.) Continuance; duration. See Endurance.,
D as in Durance (n.) Imprisonment; restraint of the person; custody by a jailer; duress. Shak.,
D as in Durance (n.) A stout cloth stuff, formerly made in imitation of buff leather and used for garments; a sort of tammy or everlasting.,
D as in Durance (n.) In modern manufacture, a worsted of one color used for window blinds and similar purposes.,
D as in Durancy (n.) Duration.,
D as in Durant (n.) See Durance, 3.,
D as in Durante (prep.) During; as, durante vita, during life; durante bene placito, during pleasure.,
D as in Duration (n.) The state or quality of lasting; continuance in time; the portion of time during which anything exists.,
D as in Durative (a.) Continuing; not completed; implying duration.,
D as in Durbar (n.) An audience hall; the court of a native prince; a state levee; a formal reception of native princes, given by the governor general of India.,
D as in Dure (a.) Hard; harsh; severe; rough; toilsome.,
D as in Dure (a.) To last; to continue; to endure.,
D as in Dureful (a.) Lasting.,
D as in Dureless (a.) Not lasting.,
D as in Durene (n.) A colorless, crystalline, aromatic hydrocarbon, C6H2(CH3)4, off artificial production, with an odor like camphor.,
D as in Duress (n.) Hardship; constraint; pressure; imprisonment; restraint of liberty.,
D as in Duress (n.) The state of compulsion or necessity in which a person is influenced, whether by the unlawful restrain of his liberty or by actual or threatened physical violence, to incur a civil liability or to commit an offense.,
D as in Duress (v. t.) To subject to duress.,
D as in Duressor (n.) One who subjects another to duress,
D as in Durga (n.) Same as Doorga.,
D as in Durham (n.) One or a breed of short-horned cattle, originating in the county of Durham, England. The Durham cattle are noted for their beef-producing quality.,
D as in Durian (n.) Alt. of Durion,
D as in Durion (n.) The fruit of the durio. It is oval or globular, and eight or ten inches long. It has a hard prickly rind, containing a soft, cream-colored pulp, of a most delicious flavor and a very offensive odor. The seeds are roasted and eaten like chestnuts.,
D as in During (prep.) In the time of; as long as the action or existence of; as, during life; during the space of a year.,
D as in Durio (n.) A fruit tree (D. zibethinus, the only species known) of the Indian Archipelago. It bears the durian.,
D as in Durity (n.) Hardness; firmness.,
D as in Durity (n.) Harshness; cruelty.,
D as in Durometer (n.) An instrument for measuring the degree of hardness; especially, an instrument for testing the relative hardness of steel rails and the like.,
D as in Durous (a.) Hard.,
D as in Durra (n.) A kind of millet, cultivated throughout Asia, and introduced into the south of Europe; a variety of Sorghum vulgare; -- called also Indian millet, and Guinea corn.,
D as in Durst (imp.) of Dare. See Dare, v. i.,
D as in Durukuli (n.) A small, nocturnal, South American monkey (Nyctipthecus trivirgatus).,
D as in Durylic (a.) Pertaining to, allied to, or derived from, durene; as, durylic acid.,
D as in Duse (n.) A demon or spirit. See Deuce.,
D as in Dusk (a.) Tending to darkness or blackness; moderately dark or black; dusky.,
D as in Dusk (n.) Imperfect obscurity; a middle degree between light and darkness; twilight; as, the dusk of the evening.,
D as in Dusk (n.) A darkish color.,
D as in Dusk (v. t.) To make dusk.,
D as in Dusk (v. i.) To grow dusk.,
D as in Dusken (v. t.) To make dusk or obscure.,
D as in Duskily (adv.) In a dusky manner.,
D as in Duskiness (n.) The state of being dusky.,
D as in Duskish (a.) Somewhat dusky.,
D as in Duskness (n.) Duskiness.,
D as in Dusky (a.) Partially dark or obscure; not luminous; dusk; as, a dusky valley.,
D as in Dusky (a.) Tending to blackness in color; partially black; dark-colored; not bright; as, a dusky brown.,
D as in Dusky (a.) Gloomy; sad; melancholy.,
D as in Dusky (a.) Intellectually clouded.,
D as in Dust (n.) Fine, dry particles of earth or other matter, so comminuted that they may be raised and wafted by the wind; that which is crumbled too minute portions; fine powder; as, clouds of dust; bone dust.,
D as in Dust (n.) A single particle of earth or other matter.,
D as in Dust (n.) The earth, as the resting place of the dead.,
D as in Dust (n.) The earthy remains of bodies once alive; the remains of the human body.,
D as in Dust (n.) Figuratively, a worthless thing.,
D as in Dust (n.) Figuratively, a low or mean condition.,
D as in Dust (n.) Gold dust,
D as in Dust (n.) Coined money; cash.,
D as in Dusted (imp. & p. p.) of Dust,
D as in Dusting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dust,
D as in Dust (v. t.) To free from dust; to brush, wipe, or sweep away dust from; as, to dust a table or a floor.,
D as in Dust (v. t.) To sprinkle with dust.,
D as in Dust (v. t.) To reduce to a fine powder; to levigate.,
D as in Dustbrush (n.) A brush of feathers, bristles, or hair, for removing dust from furniture.,
D as in Duster (n.) One who, or that which, dusts; a utensil that frees from dust.,
D as in Duster (n.) A revolving wire-cloth cylinder which removes the dust from rags, etc.,
D as in Duster (n.) A blowing machine for separating the flour from the bran.,
D as in Duster (n.) A light over-garment, worn in traveling to protect the clothing from dust.,
D as in Dustiness (n.) The state of being dusty.,
D as in Dustless (a.) Without dust; as a dustless path.,
D as in Dustmen (pl. ) of Dustman,
D as in Dustman (p.) One whose employment is to remove dirt and defuse.,
D as in Dustpan (n.) A shovel-like utensil for conveying away dust brushed from the floor.,
D as in Dust-point (n.) An old rural game.,
D as in Dusty (superl.) Filled, covered, or sprinkled with dust; clouded with dust; as, a dusty table; also, reducing to dust.,
D as in Dusty (superl.) Like dust; of the color of dust; as a dusty white.,
D as in Dutch (a.) Pertaining to Holland, or to its inhabitants.,
D as in Dutch (n.) The people of Holland; Dutchmen.,
D as in Dutch (n.) The language spoken in Holland.,
D as in Dutchmen (pl. ) of Dutchman,
D as in Dutchman (n.) A native, or one of the people, of Holland.,
D as in Duteous (a.) Fulfilling duty; dutiful; having the sentiments due to a superior, or to one to whom respect or service is owed; obedient; as, a duteous son or daughter.,
D as in Duteous (a.) Subservient; obsequious.,
D as in Dutiable (a.) Subject to the payment of a duty; as dutiable goods.,
D as in Dutied (a.) Subjected to a duty.,
D as in Dutiful (a.) Performing, or ready to perform, the duties required by one who has the right to claim submission, obedience, or deference; submissive to natural or legal superiors; obedient, as to parents or superiors; as, a dutiful son or daughter; a dutiful ward or servant; a dutiful subject.,
D as in Dutiful (a.) Controlled by, proceeding from, a sense of duty; respectful; deferential; as, dutiful affection.,
D as in Duties (pl. ) of Duty,
D as in Duty (n.) That which is due; payment.,
D as in Duty (n.) That which a person is bound by moral obligation to do, or refrain from doing; that which one ought to do; service morally obligatory.,
D as in Duty (n.) Hence, any assigned service or business; as, the duties of a policeman, or a soldier; to be on duty.,
D as in Duty (n.) Specifically, obedience or submission due to parents and superiors.,
D as in Duty (n.) Respect; reverence; regard; act of respect; homage.,
D as in Duty (n.) The efficiency of an engine, especially a steam pumping engine, as measured by work done by a certain quantity of fuel; usually, the number of pounds of water lifted one foot by one bushel of coal (94 lbs. old standard), or by 1 cwt. (112 lbs., England, or 100 lbs., United States).,
D as in Duty (n.) Tax, toll, impost, or customs; excise; any sum of money required by government to be paid on the importation, exportation, or consumption of goods.,
D as in Duumvirs (pl. ) of Duumvir,
D as in Duumviri (pl. ) of Duumvir,
D as in Duumvir (n.) One of two Roman officers or magistrates united in the same public functions.,
D as in Duumviral (a.) Of or belonging to the duumviri or the duumvirate.,
D as in Duumvirate (n.) The union of two men in the same office; or the office, dignity, or government of two men thus associated, as in ancient Rome.,
D as in Dux (n.) The scholastic name for the theme or subject of a fugue, the answer being called the comes, or companion.,
D as in Duykerbok (n.) A small South African antelope (Cephalous mergens); -- called also impoon, and deloo.,
D as in Duyoung (n.) See Dugong.,
D as in D valve () A kind of slide valve. See Slide valve, under Slide.,
D as in Dvergar (pl. ) of Dvergr,
D as in Dvergr (n.) A dwarf supposed to dwell in rocks and hills and to be skillful in working metals.,
D as in Dwale (a.) The deadly nightshade (Atropa Belladonna), having stupefying qualities.,
D as in Dwale (a.) The tincture sable or black when blazoned according to the fantastic system in which plants are substituted for the tinctures.,
D as in Dwale (a.) A sleeping potion; an opiate.,
D as in Dwang (n.) A piece of wood set between two studs, posts, etc., to stiffen and support them.,
D as in Dwang (n.) A kind of crowbar.,
D as in Dwang (n.) A large wrench.,
D as in Dwarfs (pl. ) of Dwarf,
D as in Dwarf (n.) An animal or plant which is much below the ordinary size of its species or kind; especially, a diminutive human being.,
D as in Dwarfed (imp. & p. p.) of Dwarf,
D as in Dwarfing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dwarf,
D as in Dwarf (v. t.) To hinder from growing to the natural size; to make or keep small; to stunt.,
D as in Dwarf (v. i.) To become small; to diminish in size.,
D as in Dwarfish (a.) Like a dwarf; below the common stature or size; very small; petty; as, a dwarfish animal, shrub.,
D as in Dwarfling (n.) A diminutive dwarf.,
D as in Dwarfy (a.) Much undersized.,
D as in Dwaul (v. i.) Alt. of Dwaule,
D as in Dwaule (v. i.) To be delirious.,
D as in Dwelled (imp. & p. p.) of Dwell,
D as in Dwelt () of Dwell,
D as in Dwelling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dwell,
D as in Dwell (v. i.) To delay; to linger.,
D as in Dwell (v. i.) To abide; to remain; to continue.,
D as in Dwell (v. i.) To abide as a permanent resident, or for a time; to live in a place; to reside.,
D as in Dwell (v. t.) To inhabit.,
D as in Dweller (n.) An inhabitant; a resident; as, a cave dweller.,
D as in Dwelling (n.) Habitation; place or house in which a person lives; abode; domicile.,
D as in Dwelt (imp. & p. p.) of Dwell.,
D as in Dwindled (imp. & p. p.) of Dwindle,
D as in Dwindling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dwindle,
D as in Dwindle (v. i.) To diminish; to become less; to shrink; to waste or consume away; to become degenerate; to fall away.,
D as in Dwindle (v. t.) To make less; to bring low.,
D as in Dwindle (v. t.) To break; to disperse.,
D as in Dwindle (n.) The process of dwindling; dwindlement; decline; degeneracy.,
D as in Dwindlement (n.) The act or process of dwindling; a dwindling.,
D as in Dwine (v. i.) To waste away; to pine; to languish.,
D as in Dyad (n.) Two units treated as one; a couple; a pair.,
D as in Dyad (n.) An element, atom, or radical having a valence or combining power of two.,
D as in Dyad (a.) Having a valence or combining power of two; capable of being substituted for, combined with, or replaced by, two atoms of hydrogen; as, oxygen and calcium are dyad elements. See Valence.,
D as in Dyadic (a.) Pertaining to the number two; of two parts or elements.,
D as in Dyaks (n. pl.) The aboriginal and most numerous inhabitants of Borneo. They are partially civilized, but retain many barbarous practices.,
D as in Dyas (n.) A name applied in Germany to the Permian formation, there consisting of two principal groups.,
D as in Dyed (imp. & p. p.) of Dye,
D as in Dyeing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dye,
D as in Dye (v. t.) To stain; to color; to give a new and permanent color to, as by the application of dyestuffs.,
D as in Dye (n.) Color produced by dyeing.,
D as in Dye (n.) Material used for dyeing; a dyestuff.,
D as in Dye (n.) Same as Die, a lot.,
D as in Dyehouse (n.) A building in which dyeing is carried on.,
D as in Dyeing (n.) The process or art of fixing coloring matters permanently and uniformly in the fibers of wool, cotton, etc.,
D as in Dyer (n.) One whose occupation is to dye cloth and the like.,
D as in Dyestuff (n.) A material used for dyeing.,
D as in Dyewood (n.) Any wood from which coloring matter is extracted for dyeing.,
D as in Dying (a.) In the act of dying; destined to death; mortal; perishable; as, dying bodies.,
D as in Dying (a.) Of or pertaining to dying or death; as, dying bed; dying day; dying words; also, simulating a dying state.,
D as in Dying (n.) The act of expiring; passage from life to death; loss of life.,
D as in Dyingly (adv.) In a dying manner; as if at the point of death.,
D as in Dyingness (n.) The state of dying or the stimulation of such a state; extreme languor; languishment.,
D as in Dyke (n.) See Dike. The spelling dyke is restricted by some to the geological meaning.,
D as in Dynactinometer (n.) An instrument for measuring the intensity of the photogenic (light-producing) rays, and computing the power of object glasses.,
D as in Dynam (n.) A unit of measure for dynamical effect or work; a foot pound. See Foot pound.,
D as in Dynameter (n.) A dynamometer.,
D as in Dynameter (n.) An instrument for determining the magnifying power of telescopes, consisting usually of a doubleimage micrometer applied to the eye end of a telescope for measuring accurately the diameter of the image of the object glass there formed; which measurement, compared with the actual diameter of the glass, gives the magnifying power.,
D as in Dynametrical (a.) Pertaining to a dynameter.,
D as in Dynamic (a.) Alt. of Dynamical,
D as in Dynamical (a.) Of or pertaining to dynamics; belonging to energy or power; characterized by energy or production of force.,
D as in Dynamical (a.) Relating to physical forces, effects, or laws; as, dynamical geology.,
D as in Dynamically (adv.) In accordance with the principles of dynamics or moving forces.,
D as in Dynamics (n.) That branch of mechanics which treats of the motion of bodies (kinematics) and the action of forces in producing or changing their motion (kinetics). Dynamics is held by some recent writers to include statics and not kinematics.,
D as in Dynamics (n.) The moving moral, as well as physical, forces of any kind, or the laws which relate to them.,
D as in Dynamics (n.) That department of musical science which relates to, or treats of, the power of tones.,
D as in Dynamism (n.) The doctrine of Leibnitz, that all substance involves force.,
D as in Dynamist (n.) One who accounts for material phenomena by a theory of dynamics.,
D as in Dynamitard (n.) A political dynamiter. [A form found in some newspapers.],
D as in Dynamite (n.) An explosive substance consisting of nitroglycerin absorbed by some inert, porous solid, as infusorial earth, sawdust, etc. It is safer than nitroglycerin, being less liable to explosion from moderate shocks, or from spontaneous decomposition.,
D as in Dynamiter (n.) One who uses dynamite; esp., one who uses it for the destruction of life and property.,
D as in Dynamiting (n.) Destroying by dynamite, for political ends.,
D as in Dynamitism (n.) The work of dynamiters.,
D as in Dynamization () The act of setting free the dynamic powers of a medicine, as by shaking the bottle containing it.,
D as in Dynamo (n.) A dynamo-electric machine.,
D as in Dynamo-electric (a.) Pertaining to the development of electricity, especially electrical currents, by power; producing electricity or electrical currents by mechanical power.,
D as in Dynamograph (n.) A dynamometer to which is attached a device for automatically registering muscular power.,
D as in Dynamometer (n.) An apparatus for measuring force or power; especially, muscular effort of men or animals, or the power developed by a motor, or that required to operate machinery.,
D as in Dynamometric (a.) Alt. of Dynamometrical,
D as in Dynamometrical (a.) Relating to a dynamometer, or to the measurement of force doing work; as, dynamometrical instruments.,
D as in Dynamometry (n.) The art or process of measuring forces doing work.,
D as in Dynast (n.) A ruler; a governor; a prince.,
D as in Dynast (n.) A dynasty; a government.,
D as in Dynasta (n.) A tyrant.,
D as in Dynastic (a.) Of or relating to a dynasty or line of kings.,
D as in Dynastical (a.) Dynastic.,
D as in Dynastidan (n.) One of a group of gigantic, horned beetles, including Dynastus Neptunus, and the Hercules beetle (D. Hercules) of tropical America, which grow to be six inches in length.,
D as in Dynasties (pl. ) of Dynasty,
D as in Dynasty (n.) Sovereignty; lordship; dominion.,
D as in Dynasty (n.) A race or succession of kings, of the same line or family; the continued lordship of a race of rulers.,
D as in Dyne (n.) The unit of force, in the C. G. S. (Centimeter Gram Second) system of physical units; that is, the force which, acting on a gram for a second, generates a velocity of a centimeter per second.,
D as in Dys- () An inseparable prefix, fr. the Greek / hard, ill, and signifying ill, bad, hard, difficult, and the like; cf. the prefixes, Skr. dus-, Goth. tuz-, OHG. zur-, G. zer-, AS. to-, Icel. tor-, Ir. do-.,
D as in Dysaesthesia (n.) Impairment of any of the senses, esp. of touch.,
D as in Dyscrasia (n.) An ill habit or state of the constitution; -- formerly regarded as dependent on a morbid condition of the blood and humors.,
D as in Dyscrasite (n.) A mineral consisting of antimony and silver.,
D as in Discrasies (pl. ) of Dyscrasy,
D as in Dyscrasy (n.) Dycrasia.,
D as in Dysenteric (a.) Alt. of Dysenterical,
D as in Dysenterical (a.) Of or pertaining to dysentery; having dysentery; as, a dysenteric patient.,
D as in Dysentery (n.) A disease attended with inflammation and ulceration of the colon and rectum, and characterized by griping pains, constant desire to evacuate the bowels, and the discharge of mucus and blood.,
D as in Dysgenesic (a.) Not procreating or breeding freely; as, one race may be dysgenesic with respect to another.,
D as in Dysgenesis (n.) A condition of not generating or breeding freely; infertility; a form homogenesis in which the hybrids are sterile among themselves, but are fertile with members of either parent race.,
D as in Dyslogistic (a.) Unfavorable; not commendatory; -- opposed to eulogistic.,
D as in Dysluite (n.) A variety of the zinc spinel or gahnite.,
D as in Dyslysin (n.) A resinous substance formed in the decomposition of cholic acid of bile; -- so called because it is difficult to solve.,
D as in Dysmenorrhea (n.) Difficult and painful menstruation.,
D as in Dysnomy (n.) Bad legislation; the enactment of bad laws.,
D as in Dysodile (n.) An impure earthy or coaly bitumen, which emits a highly fetid odor when burning.,
D as in Dyspepsia () Alt. of Dyspepsy,
D as in Dyspepsy () A kind of indigestion; a state of the stomach in which its functions are disturbed, without the presence of other diseases, or, if others are present, they are of minor importance. Its symptoms are loss of appetite, nausea, heartburn, acrid or fetid eructations, a sense of weight or fullness in the stomach, etc.,
D as in Dyspeptic (a.) Alt. of Dyspeptical,
D as in Dyspeptical (a.) Pertaining to dyspepsia; having dyspepsia; as, a dyspeptic or dyspeptical symptom.,
D as in Dyspeptic (n.) A person afflicted with dyspepsia.,
D as in Dyspeptone (n.) An insoluble albuminous body formed from casein and other proteid substances by the action of gastric juice.,
D as in Dysphagia (n.) Alt. of Dysphagy,
D as in Dysphagy (n.) Difficulty in swallowing.,
D as in Dysphonia (n.) Alt. of Dysphony,
D as in Dysphony (n.) A difficulty in producing vocal sounds; enfeebled or depraved voice.,
D as in Dysphoria (n.) Impatience under affliction; morbid restlessness; dissatisfaction; the fidgets.,
D as in Dyspnoea (n.) Difficulty of breathing.,
D as in Dyspnoic (a.) Affected with shortness of breath; relating to dyspnoea.,
D as in Dysteleology (n.) The doctrine of purposelessness; a term applied by Haeckel to that branch of physiology which treats of rudimentary organs, in view of their being useless to the life of the organism.,
D as in Dystocia (n.) Difficult delivery pr parturition.,
D as in Dystome (a.) Cleaving with difficulty.,
D as in Dysuria (n.) Alt. of Dysury,
D as in Dysury (n.) Difficult or painful discharge of urine.,
D as in Dysuric (a.) Pertaining to, or afflicted with, dysury.,
D as in Dzeren (n.) Alt. of Dzeron,
D as in Dzeron (n.) The Chinese yellow antelope (Procapra gutturosa), a remarkably swift-footed animal, inhabiting the deserts of Central Asia, Thibet, and China.,
D as in Dziggetai (n.) The kiang, a wild horse or wild ass of Thibet (Asinus hemionus).,
