E as in E () The fifth letter of the English alphabet.,
E as in E () E is the third tone of the model diatonic scale. E/ (E flat) is a tone which is intermediate between D and E.,
E as in E- () A Latin prefix meaning out, out of, from; also, without. See Ex-.,
E as in Each (a. / a. pron.) Every one of the two or more individuals composing a number of objects, considered separately from the rest. It is used either with or without a following noun; as, each of you or each one of you.,
E as in Each (a. / a. pron.) Every; -- sometimes used interchangeably with every.,
E as in Eachwhere (adv.) Everywhere.,
E as in Eadish (n.) See Eddish.,
E as in Eager (a.) Sharp; sour; acid.,
E as in Eager (a.) Sharp; keen; bitter; severe.,
E as in Eager (a.) Excited by desire in the pursuit of any object; ardent to pursue, perform, or obtain; keenly desirous; hotly longing; earnest; zealous; impetuous; vehement; as, the hounds were eager in the chase.,
E as in Eager (a.) Brittle; inflexible; not ductile.,
E as in Eager (n.) Same as Eagre.,
E as in Eagerly (adv.) In an eager manner.,
E as in Eagerness (n.) The state or quality of being eager; ardent desire.,
E as in Eagerness (n.) Tartness; sourness.,
E as in Eagle (n.) Any large, rapacious bird of the Falcon family, esp. of the genera Aquila and Haliaeetus. The eagle is remarkable for strength, size, graceful figure, keenness of vision, and extraordinary flight. The most noted species are the golden eagle (Aquila chrysaetus); the imperial eagle of Europe (A. mogilnik / imperialis); the American bald eagle (Haliaeetus leucocephalus); the European sea eagle (H. albicilla); and the great harpy eagle (Thrasaetus harpyia). The figure of the eagle, as the king of birds, is commonly used as an heraldic emblem, and also for standards and emblematic devices. See Bald eagle, Harpy, and Golden eagle.,
E as in Eagle (n.) A gold coin of the United States, of the value of ten dollars.,
E as in Eagle (n.) A northern constellation, containing Altair, a star of the first magnitude. See Aquila.,
E as in Eagle (n.) The figure of an eagle borne as an emblem on the standard of the ancient Romans, or so used upon the seal or standard of any people.,
E as in Eagle-eyed (a.) Sharp-sighted as an eagle.,
E as in Eagle-sighted (a.) Farsighted and strong-sighted; sharp-sighted.,
E as in Eagless (n.) A female or hen eagle.,
E as in Eaglestone (n.) A concretionary nodule of clay ironstone, of the size of a walnut or larger, so called by the ancients, who believed that the eagle transported these stones to her nest to facilitate the laying of her eggs; aetites.,
E as in Eaglet (n.) A young eagle, or a diminutive eagle.,
E as in Eagle-winged (a.) Having the wings of an eagle; swift, or soaring high, like an eagle.,
E as in Eaglewood (n.) A kind of fragrant wood. See Agallochum.,
E as in Eagrass (n.) See Eddish.,
E as in Eagre (n.) A wave, or two or three successive waves, of great height and violence, at flood tide moving up an estuary or river; -- commonly called the bore. See Bore.,
E as in Ealderman (n.) Alt. of Ealdorman,
E as in Ealdorman (n.) An alderman.,
E as in Eale (n.) Ale.,
E as in Eame (n.) Uncle.,
E as in Ean (v. t. & i.) To bring forth, as young; to yean.,
E as in Eanling (n.) A lamb just brought forth; a yeanling.,
E as in Ear (n.) The organ of hearing; the external ear.,
E as in Ear (n.) The sense of hearing; the perception of sounds; the power of discriminating between different tones; as, a nice ear for music; -- in the singular only.,
E as in Ear (n.) That which resembles in shape or position the ear of an animal; any prominence or projection on an object, -- usually one for support or attachment; a lug; a handle; as, the ears of a tub, a skillet, or dish. The ears of a boat are outside kneepieces near the bow. See Illust. of Bell.,
E as in Ear (n.) Same as Acroterium.,
E as in Ear (n.) Same as Crossette.,
E as in Ear (n.) Privilege of being kindly heard; favor; attention.,
E as in Eared (imp. & p. p.) of Ear,
E as in Earing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ear,
E as in Ear (v. t.) To take in with the ears; to hear.,
E as in Ear (n.) The spike or head of any cereal (as, wheat, rye, barley, Indian corn, etc.), containing the kernels.,
E as in Ear (v. i.) To put forth ears in growing; to form ears, as grain; as, this corn ears well.,
E as in Ear (v. t.) To plow or till; to cultivate.,
E as in Earable (a.) Arable; tillable.,
E as in Earache (n.) Ache or pain in the ear.,
E as in Earal (a.) Receiving by the ear.,
E as in Ear-bored (a.) Having the ear perforated.,
E as in Earcap (n.) A cap or cover to protect the ear from cold.,
E as in Earcockle (n.) A disease in wheat, in which the blackened and contracted grain, or ear, is filled with minute worms.,
E as in Eardrop (n.) A pendant for the ear; an earring; as, a pair of eardrops.,
E as in Eardrop (n.) A species of primrose. See Auricula.,
E as in Eardrum (n.) The tympanum. See Illust. of Ear.,
E as in Eared (a.) Having (such or so many) ears; -- used in composition; as, long-eared-eared; sharp-eared; full-eared; ten-eared.,
E as in Eared (a.) Having external ears; having tufts of feathers resembling ears.,
E as in Eariness (n.) Fear or timidity, especially of something supernatural.,
E as in Earing (n.) A line used to fasten the upper corners of a sail to the yard or gaff; -- also called head earing.,
E as in Earing (n.) A line for hauling the reef cringle to the yard; -- also called reef earing.,
E as in Earing (n.) A line fastening the corners of an awning to the rigging or stanchions.,
E as in Earing (n.) Coming into ear, as corn.,
E as in Earing (n.) A plowing of land.,
E as in Earl (n.) A nobleman of England ranking below a marquis, and above a viscount. The rank of an earl corresponds to that of a count (comte) in France, and graf in Germany. Hence the wife of an earl is still called countess. See Count.,
E as in Earl (n.) The needlefish.,
E as in Earlap (n.) The lobe of the ear.,
E as in Earldom (n.) The jurisdiction of an earl; the territorial possessions of an earl.,
E as in Earldom (n.) The status, title, or dignity of an earl.,
E as in Earldorman (n.) Alderman.,
E as in Earlduck (n.) The red-breasted merganser (Merganser serrator).,
E as in Earles penny () Earnest money. Same as Arles penny.,
E as in Earless (a.) Without ears; hence, deaf or unwilling to hear.,
E as in Earlet (n.) An earring.,
E as in Earliness (n.) The state of being early or forward; promptness.,
E as in Earl marshal () An officer of state in England who marshals and orders all great ceremonials, takes cognizance of matters relating to honor, arms, and pedigree, and directs the proclamation of peace and war. The court of chivalry was formerly under his jurisdiction, and he is still the head of the herald's office or college of arms.,
E as in Earlock (n.) A lock or curl of hair near the ear; a lovelock. See Lovelock.,
E as in Early (adv.) Soon; in good season; seasonably; betimes; as, come early.,
E as in Early (adv.) In advance of the usual or appointed time; in good season; prior in time; among or near the first; -- opposed to late; as, the early bird; an early spring; early fruit.,
E as in Early (adv.) Coming in the first part of a period of time, or among the first of successive acts, events, etc.,
E as in Earmark (n.) A mark on the ear of sheep, oxen, dogs, etc., as by cropping or slitting.,
E as in Earmark (n.) A mark for identification; a distinguishing mark.,
E as in Earmarked (imp. & p. p.) of Earmark,
E as in Earmarking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Earmark,
E as in Earmark (v. t.) To mark, as sheep, by cropping or slitting the ear.,
E as in Earn (n.) See Ern, n.,
E as in Earned (imp. & p. p.) of Earn,
E as in Earning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Earn,
E as in Earn (v. t.) To merit or deserve, as by labor or service; to do that which entitles one to (a reward, whether the reward is received or not).,
E as in Earn (v. t.) To acquire by labor, service, or performance; to deserve and receive as compensation or wages; as, to earn a good living; to earn honors or laurels.,
E as in Earn (v. t. & i.) To grieve.,
E as in Earn (v. i.) To long; to yearn.,
E as in Earn (v. i.) To curdle, as milk.,
E as in Earnest (n.) Seriousness; reality; fixed determination; eagerness; intentness.,
E as in Earnest (a.) Ardent in the pursuit of an object; eager to obtain or do; zealous with sincerity; with hearty endeavor; heartfelt; fervent; hearty; -- used in a good sense; as, earnest prayers.,
E as in Earnest (a.) Intent; fixed closely; as, earnest attention.,
E as in Earnest (a.) Serious; important.,
E as in Earnest (v. t.) To use in earnest.,
E as in Earnest (n.) Something given, or a part paid beforehand, as a pledge; pledge; handsel; a token of what is to come.,
E as in Earnest (n.) Something of value given by the buyer to the seller, by way of token or pledge, to bind the bargain and prove the sale.,
E as in Earnestful (a.) Serious.,
E as in Earnestly (adv.) In an earnest manner.,
E as in Earnestness (n.) The state or quality of being earnest; intentness; anxiety.,
E as in Earnful (a.) Full of anxiety or yearning.,
E as in Earnings (pl. ) of Earning,
E as in Earning (n.) That which is earned; wages gained by work or services; money earned; -- used commonly in the plural.,
E as in Earpick (n.) An instrument for removing wax from the ear.,
E as in Ear-piercer (n.) The earwig.,
E as in Earreach (n.) Earshot.,
E as in Earring (n.) An ornament consisting of a ring passed through the lobe of the ear, with or without a pendant.,
E as in Earsh (n.) See Arrish.,
E as in Ear-shell (n.) A flattened marine univalve shell of the genus Haliotis; -- called also sea-ear. See Abalone.,
E as in Earshot (n.) Reach of the ear; distance at which words may be heard.,
E as in Earshrift (n.) A nickname for auricular confession; shrift.,
E as in Earsore (n.) An annoyance to the ear.,
E as in Ear-splitting (a.) Deafening; disagreeably loud or shrill; as, ear-splitting strains.,
E as in Earst (adv.) See Erst.,
E as in Earth (n.) The globe or planet which we inhabit; the world, in distinction from the sun, moon, or stars. Also, this world as the dwelling place of mortals, in distinction from the dwelling place of spirits.,
E as in Earth (n.) The solid materials which make up the globe, in distinction from the air or water; the dry land.,
E as in Earth (n.) The softer inorganic matter composing part of the surface of the globe, in distinction from the firm rock; soil of all kinds, including gravel, clay, loam, and the like; sometimes, soil favorable to the growth of plants; the visible surface of the globe; the ground; as, loose earth; rich earth.,
E as in Earth (n.) A part of this globe; a region; a country; land.,
E as in Earth (n.) Worldly things, as opposed to spiritual things; the pursuits, interests, and allurements of this life.,
E as in Earth (n.) The people on the globe.,
E as in Earth (n.) Any earthy-looking metallic oxide, as alumina, glucina, zirconia, yttria, and thoria.,
E as in Earth (n.) A similar oxide, having a slight alkaline reaction, as lime, magnesia, strontia, baryta.,
E as in Earth (n.) A hole in the ground, where an animal hides himself; as, the earth of a fox.,
E as in Earthed (imp. & p. p.) of Earth,
E as in Earthing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Earth,
E as in Earth (v. t.) To hide, or cause to hide, in the earth; to chase into a burrow or den.,
E as in Earth (v. t.) To cover with earth or mold; to inter; to bury; -- sometimes with up.,
E as in Earth (v. i.) To burrow.,
E as in Earth (n.) A plowing.,
E as in Earthbag (n.) A bag filled with earth, used commonly to raise or repair a parapet.,
E as in Earthbank (n.) A bank or mound of earth.,
E as in Earthboard (n.) The part of a plow, or other implement, that turns over the earth; the moldboard.,
E as in Earthborn (a.) Born of the earth; terrigenous; springing originally from the earth; human.,
E as in Earthborn (a.) Relating to, or occasioned by, earthly objects.,
E as in Earthbred (a.) Low; grovelling; vulgar.,
E as in Earthdin (n.) An earthquake.,
E as in Earthdrake (n.) A mythical monster of the early Anglo-Saxon literature; a dragon.,
E as in Earthen (a.) Made of earth; made of burnt or baked clay, or other like substances; as, an earthen vessel or pipe.,
E as in Earthen-hearted (a.) Hard-hearted; sordid; gross.,
E as in Earthenware (n.) Vessels and other utensils, ornaments, or the like, made of baked clay. See Crockery, Pottery, Stoneware, and Porcelain.,
E as in Earth flax () A variety of asbestus. See Amianthus.,
E as in Earthfork (n.) A pronged fork for turning up the earth.,
E as in Earthiness (n.) The quality or state of being earthy, or of containing earth; hence, grossness.,
E as in Earthliness (n.) The quality or state of being earthly; worldliness; grossness; perishableness.,
E as in Earthling (n.) An inhabitant of the earth; a mortal.,
E as in Earthly (a.) Pertaining to the earth; belonging to this world, or to man's existence on the earth; not heavenly or spiritual; carnal; worldly; as, earthly joys; earthly flowers; earthly praise.,
E as in Earthly (a.) Of all things on earth; possible; conceivable.,
E as in Earthly (a.) Made of earth; earthy.,
E as in Earthly (adv.) In the manner of the earth or its people; worldly.,
E as in Earthly-minded (a.) Having a mind devoted to earthly things; worldly-minded; -- opposed to spiritual-minded.,
E as in Earthmad (n.) The earthworm.,
E as in Earthnut (n.) A name given to various roots, tubers, or pods grown under or on the ground,
E as in Earthnut (n.) The esculent tubers of the umbelliferous plants Bunium flexuosum and Carum Bulbocastanum.,
E as in Earthnut (n.) The peanut. See Peanut.,
E as in Earthpea (n.) A species of pea (Amphicarpaea monoica). It is a climbing leguminous plant, with hairy underground pods.,
E as in Earthquake (n.) A shaking, trembling, or concussion of the earth, due to subterranean causes, often accompanied by a rumbling noise. The wave of shock sometimes traverses half a hemisphere, destroying cities and many thousand lives; -- called also earthdin, earthquave, and earthshock.,
E as in Earthquake (a.) Like, or characteristic of, an earthquake; loud; starling.,
E as in Earthquave (n.) An earthquake.,
E as in Earth shine () See Earth light, under Earth.,
E as in Earthshock (n.) An earthquake.,
E as in Earthstar (n.) A curious fungus of the genus Geaster, in which the outer coating splits into the shape of a star, and the inner one forms a ball containing the dustlike spores.,
E as in Earth-tongue (n.) A fungus of the genus Geoglossum.,
E as in Earthward (adv.) Alt. of Earthwards,
E as in Earthwards (adv.) Toward the earth; -- opposed to heavenward or skyward.,
E as in Earthwork (n.) Any construction, whether a temporary breastwork or permanent fortification, for attack or defense, the material of which is chiefly earth.,
E as in Earthwork (n.) The operation connected with excavations and embankments of earth in preparing foundations of buildings, in constructing canals, railroads, etc.,
E as in Earthwork (n.) An embankment or construction made of earth.,
E as in Earthworm (n.) Any worm of the genus Lumbricus and allied genera, found in damp soil. One of the largest and most abundant species in Europe and America is L. terrestris; many others are known; -- called also angleworm and dewworm.,
E as in Earthworm (n.) A mean, sordid person; a niggard.,
E as in Earthy (a.) Consisting of, or resembling, earth; terrene; earthlike; as, earthy matter.,
E as in Earthy (a.) Of or pertaining to the earth or to, this world; earthly; terrestrial; carnal.,
E as in Earthy (a.) Gross; low; unrefined.,
E as in Earthy (a.) Without luster, or dull and roughish to the touch; as, an earthy fracture.,
E as in Earwax (n.) See Cerumen.,
E as in Earwig (n.) Any insect of the genus Forticula and related genera, belonging to the order Euplexoptera.,
E as in Earwig (n.) In America, any small chilopodous myriapod, esp. of the genus Geophilus.,
E as in Earwig (n.) A whisperer of insinuations; a secret counselor.,
E as in Earwigged (imp. & p. p.) of Earwig,
E as in Earwigging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Earwig,
E as in Earwig (v. t.) To influence, or attempt to influence, by whispered insinuations or private talk.,
E as in Earwitness (n.) A witness by means of his ears; one who is within hearing and does hear; a hearer.,
E as in Ease (n.) Satisfaction; pleasure; hence, accommodation; entertainment.,
E as in Ease (n.) Freedom from anything that pains or troubles; as: (a) Relief from labor or effort; rest; quiet; relaxation; as, ease of body.,
E as in Ease (n.) Freedom from care, solicitude, or anything that annoys or disquiets; tranquillity; peace; comfort; security; as, ease of mind.,
E as in Ease (n.) Freedom from constraint, formality, difficulty, embarrassment, etc.; facility; liberty; naturalness; -- said of manner, style, etc.; as, ease of style, of behavior, of address.,
E as in Eased (imp. & p. p.) of Ease,
E as in Easing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ease,
E as in Ease (n.) To free from anything that pains, disquiets, or oppresses; to relieve from toil or care; to give rest, repose, or tranquility to; -- often with of; as, to ease of pain; ease the body or mind.,
E as in Ease (n.) To render less painful or oppressive; to mitigate; to alleviate.,
E as in Ease (n.) To release from pressure or restraint; to move gently; to lift slightly; to shift a little; as, to ease a bar or nut in machinery.,
E as in Ease (n.) To entertain; to furnish with accommodations.,
E as in Easeful (a.) Full of ease; suitable for affording ease or rest; quiet; comfortable; restful.,
E as in Easel (n.) A frame (commonly) of wood serving to hold a canvas upright, or nearly upright, for the painter's convenience or for exhibition.,
E as in Easeless (a.) Without ease.,
E as in Easement (n.) That which gives ease, relief, or assistance; convenience; accommodation.,
E as in Easement (n.) A liberty, privilege, or advantage, which one proprietor has in the estate of another proprietor, distinct from the ownership of the soil, as a way, water course, etc. It is a species of what the civil law calls servitude.,
E as in Easement (n.) A curved member instead of an abrupt change of direction, as in a baseboard, hand rail, etc.,
E as in Easily (adv.) With ease; without difficulty or much effort; as, this task may be easily performed; that event might have been easily foreseen.,
E as in Easily (adv.) Without pain, anxiety, or disturbance; as, to pass life well and easily.,
E as in Easily (adv.) Readily; without reluctance; willingly.,
E as in Easily (adv.) Smoothly; quietly; gently; gracefully; without /umult or discord.,
E as in Easily (adv.) Without shaking or jolting; commodiously; as, a carriage moves easily.,
E as in Easiness (n.) The state or condition of being easy; freedom from distress; rest.,
E as in Easiness (n.) Freedom from difficulty; ease; as the easiness of a task.,
E as in Easiness (n.) Freedom from emotion; compliance; disposition to yield without opposition; unconcernedness.,
E as in Easiness (n.) Freedom from effort, constraint, or formality; -- said of style, manner, etc.,
E as in Easiness (n.) Freedom from jolting, jerking, or straining.,
E as in East (n.) The point in the heavens where the sun is seen to rise at the equinox, or the corresponding point on the earth; that one of the four cardinal points of the compass which is in a direction at right angles to that of north and south, and which is toward the right hand of one who faces the north; the point directly opposite to the west.,
E as in East (n.) The eastern parts of the earth; the regions or countries which lie east of Europe; the orient. In this indefinite sense, the word is applied to Asia Minor, Syria, Chaldea, Persia, India, China, etc.; as, the riches of the East; the diamonds and pearls of the East; the kings of the East.,
E as in East (n.) Formerly, the part of the United States east of the Alleghany Mountains, esp. the Eastern, or New England, States; now, commonly, the whole region east of the Mississippi River, esp. that which is north of Maryland and the Ohio River; -- usually with the definite article; as, the commerce of the East is not independent of the agriculture of the West.,
E as in East (a.) Toward the rising sun; or toward the point where the sun rises when in the equinoctial; as, the east gate; the east border; the east side; the east wind is a wind that blows from the east.,
E as in East (adv.) Eastward.,
E as in East (v. i.) To move toward the east; to veer from the north or south toward the east; to orientate.,
E as in Easter (n.) An annual church festival commemorating Christ's resurrection, and occurring on Sunday, the second day after Good Friday. It corresponds to the pasha or passover of the Jews, and most nations still give it this name under the various forms of pascha, pasque, paque, or pask.,
E as in Easter (n.) The day on which the festival is observed; Easter day.,
E as in Easter (v. i.) To veer to the east; -- said of the wind.,
E as in Easterling (n.) A native of a country eastward of another; -- used, by the English, of traders or others from the coasts of the Baltic.,
E as in Easterling (n.) A piece of money coined in the east by Richard II. of England.,
E as in Easterling (n.) The smew.,
E as in Easterling (a.) Relating to the money of the Easterlings, or Baltic traders. See Sterling.,
E as in Easterly (a.) Coming from the east; as, it was easterly wind.,
E as in Easterly (a.) Situated, directed, or moving toward the east; as, the easterly side of a lake; an easterly course or voyage.,
E as in Easterly (adv.) Toward, or in the direction of, the east.,
E as in Eastern (a.) Situated or dwelling in the east; oriental; as, an eastern gate; Eastern countries.,
E as in Eastern (a.) Going toward the east, or in the direction of east; as, an eastern voyage.,
E as in Easternmost (a.) Most eastern.,
E as in East Indian () Belonging to, or relating to, the East Indies.,
E as in East Indian (n.) A native of, or a dweller in, the East Indies.,
E as in Easting (n.) The distance measured toward the east between two meridians drawn through the extremities of a course; distance of departure eastward made by a vessel.,
E as in East-insular (a.) Relating to the Eastern Islands; East Indian.,
E as in Eastward (adv.) Alt. of Eastwards,
E as in Eastwards (adv.) Toward the east; in the direction of east from some point or place; as, New Haven lies eastward from New York.,
E as in Easy (v. t.) At ease; free from pain, trouble, or constraint,
E as in Easy (v. t.) Free from pain, distress, toil, exertion, and the like; quiet; as, the patient is easy.,
E as in Easy (v. t.) Free from care, responsibility, discontent, and the like; not anxious; tranquil; as, an easy mind.,
E as in Easy (v. t.) Free from constraint, harshness, or formality; unconstrained; smooth; as, easy manners; an easy style.,
E as in Easy (v. t.) Not causing, or attended with, pain or disquiet, or much exertion; affording ease or rest; as, an easy carriage; a ship having an easy motion; easy movements, as in dancing.,
E as in Easy (v. t.) Not difficult; requiring little labor or effort; slight; inconsiderable; as, an easy task; an easy victory.,
E as in Easy (v. t.) Causing ease; giving freedom from care or labor; furnishing comfort; commodious; as, easy circumstances; an easy chair or cushion.,
E as in Easy (v. t.) Not making resistance or showing unwillingness; tractable; yielding; complying; ready.,
E as in Easy (v. t.) Moderate; sparing; frugal.,
E as in Easy (v. t.) Not straitened as to money matters; as, the market is easy; -- opposed to tight.,
E as in Easy-chair (n.) An armchair for ease or repose.,
E as in Easy-going (a.) Moving easily; hence, mild-tempered; ease-loving; inactive.,
E as in Ate (imp.) of Eat,
E as in Eat () of Eat,
E as in Eaten (p. p.) of Eat,
E as in Eat () of Eat,
E as in Eating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Eat,
E as in Eat (v. t.) To chew and swallow as food; to devour; -- said especially of food not liquid; as, to eat bread.,
E as in Eat (v. t.) To corrode, as metal, by rust; to consume the flesh, as a cancer; to waste or wear away; to destroy gradually; to cause to disappear.,
E as in Eat (v. i.) To take food; to feed; especially, to take solid, in distinction from liquid, food; to board.,
E as in Eat (v. i.) To taste or relish; as, it eats like tender beef.,
E as in Eat (v. i.) To make one's way slowly.,
E as in Eatable (a.) Capable of being eaten; fit to be eaten; proper for food; esculent; edible.,
E as in Eatable (n.) Something fit to be eaten.,
E as in Eatage (n.) Eatable growth of grass for horses and cattle, esp. that of aftermath.,
E as in Eater (n.) One who, or that which, eats.,
E as in Eath (a. & adv.) Easy or easily.,
E as in Eating (n.) The act of tasking food; the act of consuming or corroding.,
E as in Eating (n.) Something fit to be eaten; food; as, a peach is good eating.,
E as in Eau de Cologne () Same as Cologne.,
E as in Eau de vie () French name for brandy. Cf. Aqua vitae, under Aqua.,
E as in Eavedrop (n.) A drop from the eaves; eavesdrop.,
E as in Eaves (n. pl.) The edges or lower borders of the roof of a building, which overhang the walls, and cast off the water that falls on the roof.,
E as in Eaves (n. pl.) Brow; ridge.,
E as in Eaves (n. pl.) Eyelids or eyelashes.,
E as in Eavesdrop (v. i.) To stand under the eaves, near a window or at the door, of a house, to listen and learn what is said within doors; hence, to listen secretly to what is said in private.,
E as in Eavesdrop (n.) The water which falls in drops from the eaves of a house.,
E as in Eavesdropper (n.) One who stands under the eaves, or near the window or door of a house, to listen; hence, a secret listener.,
E as in Eavesdropping (n.) The habit of lurking about dwelling houses, and other places where persons meet fro private intercourse, secretly listening to what is said, and then tattling it abroad. The offense is indictable at common law.,
E as in Ebb (n.) The European bunting.,
E as in Ebb (n.) The reflux or flowing back of the tide; the return of the tidal wave toward the sea; -- opposed to flood; as, the boats will go out on the ebb.,
E as in Ebb (n.) The state or time of passing away; a falling from a better to a worse state; low state or condition; decline; decay.,
E as in Ebbed (imp. & p. p.) of Ebb,
E as in Ebbing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ebb,
E as in Ebb (v. i.) To flow back; to return, as the water of a tide toward the ocean; -- opposed to flow.,
E as in Ebb (v. i.) To return or fall back from a better to a worse state; to decline; to decay; to recede.,
E as in Ebb (v. t.) To cause to flow back.,
E as in Ebb (a.) Receding; going out; falling; shallow; low.,
E as in Ebb tide () The reflux of tide water; the retiring tide; -- opposed to flood tide.,
E as in Ebionite (n.) One of a sect of heretics, in the first centuries of the church, whose doctrine was a mixture of Judaism and Christianity. They denied the divinity of Christ, regarding him as an inspired messenger, and rejected much of the New Testament.,
E as in Ebionitism (n.) The system or doctrine of the Ebionites.,
E as in Eblanin (n.) See Pyroxanthin.,
E as in Eblis (n.) The prince of the evil spirits; Satan.,
E as in Ebon (a.) Consisting of ebony.,
E as in Ebon (a.) Like ebony, especially in color; black; dark.,
E as in Ebon (n.) Ebony.,
E as in Ebonist (n.) One who works in ebony.,
E as in Ebonite (n.) A hard, black variety of vulcanite. It may be cut and polished, and is used for many small articles, as combs and buttons, and for insulating material in electric apparatus.,
E as in Ebonized (imp. & p. p.) of Ebonize,
E as in Ebonizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ebonize,
E as in Ebonize (v. t.) To make black, or stain black, in imitation of ebony; as, to ebonize wood.,
E as in Ebonies (pl. ) of Ebony,
E as in Ebony (n.) A hard, heavy, and durable wood, which admits of a fine polish or gloss. The usual color is black, but it also occurs red or green.,
E as in Ebony (a.) Made of ebony, or resembling ebony; black; as, an ebony countenance.,
E as in Ebracteate (a.) Without bracts.,
E as in Ebracteolate (a.) Without bracteoles, or little bracts; -- said of a pedicel or flower stalk.,
E as in Ebrauke (a.) Hebrew.,
E as in Ebrieties (pl. ) of Ebriety,
E as in Ebriety (n.) Drunkenness; intoxication by spirituous liquors; inebriety.,
E as in Ebrillade (n.) A bridle check; a jerk of one rein, given to a horse when he refuses to turn.,
E as in Ebriosity (n.) Addiction to drink; habitual drunkenness.,
E as in Ebrious (a.) Inclined to drink to excess; intoxicated; tipsy.,
E as in Ebulliate (v. i.) To boil or bubble up.,
E as in Ebullience (n.) Alt. of Ebulliency,
E as in Ebulliency (n.) A boiling up or over; effervescence.,
E as in Ebullient (a.) Boiling up or over; hence, manifesting exhilaration or excitement, as of feeling; effervescing.,
E as in Ebullioscope (n.) An instrument for observing the boiling point of liquids, especially for determining the alcoholic strength of a mixture by the temperature at which it boils.,
E as in Ebullition (n.) A boiling or bubbling up of a liquid; the motion produced in a liquid by its rapid conversion into vapor.,
E as in Ebullition (n.) Effervescence occasioned by fermentation or by any other process which causes the liberation of a gas or an aeriform fluid, as in the mixture of an acid with a carbonated alkali.,
E as in Ebullition (n.) A sudden burst or violent display; an outburst; as, an ebullition of anger or ill temper.,
E as in Eburin (n.) A composition of dust of ivory or of bone with a cement; -- used for imitations of valuable stones and in making moldings, seals, etc.,
E as in Eburnation (n.) A condition of bone cartilage occurring in certain diseases of these tissues, in which they acquire an unnatural density, and come to resemble ivory.,
E as in Eburnean (a.) Made of or relating to ivory.,
E as in Eburnification (n.) The conversion of certain substances into others which have the appearance or characteristics of ivory.,
E as in Eburnine (a.) Of or pertaining to ivory.,
E as in Ecardines (n. pl.) An order of Brachiopoda; the Lyopomata. See Brachiopoda.,
E as in Ecarte (n.) A game at cards, played usually by two persons, in which the players may discard any or all of the cards dealt and receive others from the pack.,
E as in Ecaudate (a.) Without a tail or spur.,
E as in Ecaudate (a.) Tailless.,
E as in Ecballium (n.) A genus of cucurbitaceous plants consisting of the single species Ecballium agreste (or Elaterium), the squirting cucumber. Its fruit, when ripe, bursts and violently ejects its seeds, together with a mucilaginous juice, from which elaterium, a powerful cathartic medicine, is prepared.,
E as in Ecbasis (n.) A figure in which the orator treats of things according to their events consequences.,
E as in Ecbatic (a.) Denoting a mere result or consequence, as distinguished from telic, which denotes intention or purpose; thus the phrase / /, if rendered "so that it was fulfilled," is ecbatic; if rendered "in order that it might be." etc., is telic.,
E as in Ecbole (n.) A digression in which a person is introduced speaking his own words.,
E as in Ecbolic (n.) A drug, as ergot, which by exciting uterine contractions promotes the expulsion of the contents of the uterus.,
E as in Ecboline (n.) An alkaloid constituting the active principle of ergot; -- so named from its power of producing abortion.,
E as in Eccaleobion (n.) A contrivance for hatching eggs by artificial heat.,
E as in Ecce homo () A picture which represents the Savior as given up to the people by Pilate, and wearing a crown of thorns.,
E as in Eccentric (a.) Deviating or departing from the center, or from the line of a circle; as, an eccentric or elliptical orbit; pertaining to deviation from the center or from true circular motion.,
E as in Eccentric (a.) Not having the same center; -- said of circles, ellipses, spheres, etc., which, though coinciding, either in whole or in part, as to area or volume, have not the same center; -- opposed to concentric.,
E as in Eccentric (a.) Pertaining to an eccentric; as, the eccentric rod in a steam engine.,
E as in Eccentric (a.) Not coincident as to motive or end.,
E as in Eccentric (a.) Deviating from stated methods, usual practice, or established forms or laws; deviating from an appointed sphere or way; departing from the usual course; irregular; anomalous; odd; as, eccentric conduct.,
E as in Eccentric (n.) A circle not having the same center as another contained in some measure within the first.,
E as in Eccentric (n.) One who, or that which, deviates from regularity; an anomalous or irregular person or thing.,
E as in Eccentric (n.) In the Ptolemaic system, the supposed circular orbit of a planet about the earth, but with the earth not in its center.,
E as in Eccentric (n.) A circle described about the center of an elliptical orbit, with half the major axis for radius.,
E as in Eccentric (n.) A disk or wheel so arranged upon a shaft that the center of the wheel and that of the shaft do not coincide. It is used for operating valves in steam engines, and for other purposes. The motion derived is precisely that of a crank having the same throw.,
E as in Eccentrical (a.) See Eccentric.,
E as in Eccentrically (adv.) In an eccentric manner.,
E as in Eccentricities (pl. ) of Eccentricity,
E as in Eccentricity (n.) The state of being eccentric; deviation from the customary line of conduct; oddity.,
E as in Eccentricity (n.) The ratio of the distance between the center and the focus of an ellipse or hyperbola to its semi-transverse axis.,
E as in Eccentricity (n.) The ratio of the distance of the center of the orbit of a heavenly body from the center of the body round which it revolves to the semi-transverse axis of the orbit.,
E as in Eccentricity (n.) The distance of the center of figure of a body, as of an eccentric, from an axis about which it turns; the throw.,
E as in Ecchymose (v. t.) To discolor by the production of an ecchymosis, or effusion of blood, beneath the skin; -- chiefly used in the passive form; as, the parts were much ecchymosed.,
E as in Ecchymoses (pl. ) of Ecchymosis,
E as in Ecchymosis (n.) A livid or black and blue spot, produced by the extravasation or effusion of blood into the areolar tissue from a contusion.,
E as in Ecchymotic (a.) Pertaining to ecchymosis.,
E as in Eccle (n.) The European green woodpecker; -- also called ecall, eaquall, yaffle.,
E as in Ecclesiae (pl. ) of Ecclesia,
E as in Ecclesia (n.) The public legislative assembly of the Athenians.,
E as in Ecclesia (n.) A church, either as a body or as a building.,
E as in Ecclesial (a.) Ecclesiastical.,
E as in Ecclesiarch (n.) An official of the Eastern Church, resembling a sacrist in the Western Church.,
E as in Ecclesiast (n.) An ecclesiastic.,
E as in Ecclesiast (n.) The Apocryphal book of Ecclesiasticus.,
E as in Ecclesiastes (a.) One of the canonical books of the Old Testament.,
E as in Ecclesiastic (v. t.) Of or pertaining to the church. See Ecclesiastical.,
E as in Ecclesiastic (n.) A person in holy orders, or consecrated to the service of the church and the ministry of religion; a clergyman; a priest.,
E as in Ecclesiastical (a.) Of or pertaining to the church; relating to the organization or government of the church; not secular; as, ecclesiastical affairs or history; ecclesiastical courts.,
E as in Ecclesiastically (adv.) In an ecclesiastical manner; according ecclesiastical rules.,
E as in Ecclesiasticism (n.) Strong attachment to ecclesiastical usages, forms, etc.,
E as in Ecclesiasticus (n.) A book of the Apocrypha.,
E as in Ecclesiological (a.) Belonging to ecclesiology.,
E as in Ecclesiologist (n.) One versed in ecclesiology.,
E as in Ecclesiology (n.) The science or theory of church building and decoration.,
E as in Eccritic (n.) A remedy which promotes discharges, as an emetic, or a cathartic.,
E as in Ecderon (n.) See Ecteron.,
E as in Ecdyses (pl. ) of Ecdysis,
E as in Ecdysis (n.) The act of shedding, or casting off, an outer cuticular layer, as in the case of serpents, lobsters, etc.; a coming out; as, the ecdysis of the pupa from its shell; exuviation.,
E as in Ecgonine (n.) A colorless, crystalline, nitrogenous base, obtained by the decomposition of cocaine.,
E as in Echauguette (n.) A small chamber or place of protection for a sentinel, usually in the form of a projecting turret, or the like. See Castle.,
E as in Eche (a. / a. pron.) Each.,
E as in Echelon (n.) An arrangement of a body of troops when its divisions are drawn up in parallel lines each to the right or the left of the one in advance of it, like the steps of a ladder in position for climbing. Also used adjectively; as, echelon distance.,
E as in Echelon (n.) An arrangement of a fleet in a wedge or V formation.,
E as in Echelon (v. t.) To place in echelon; to station divisions of troops in echelon.,
E as in Echelon (v. i.) To take position in echelon.,
E as in Echidna (n.) A monster, half maid and half serpent.,
E as in Echidna (n.) A genus of Monotremata found in Australia, Tasmania, and New Guinea. They are toothless and covered with spines; -- called also porcupine ant-eater, and Australian ant-eater.,
E as in Echidnine (n.) The clear, viscid fluid secreted by the poison glands of certain serpents; also, a nitrogenous base contained in this, and supposed to be the active poisonous principle of the virus.,
E as in Echinate (a.) Alt. of Echinated,
E as in Echinated (a.) Set with prickles; prickly, like a hedgehog; bristled; as, an echinated pericarp.,
E as in Echinid (a. & n.) Same as Echinoid.,
E as in Echinidan (n.) One the Echinoidea.,
E as in Echinital (a.) Of, or like, an echinite.,
E as in Echinite (n.) A fossil echinoid.,
E as in Echinococcus (n.) A parasite of man and of many domestic and wild animals, forming compound cysts or tumors (called hydatid cysts) in various organs, but especially in the liver and lungs, which often cause death. It is the larval stage of the Taenia echinococcus, a small tapeworm peculiar to the dog.,
E as in Echinoderm (n.) One of the Echinodermata.,
E as in Echinodermal (a.) Relating or belonging to the echinoderms.,
E as in Echinodermata (n. pl.) One of the grand divisions of the animal kingdom. By many writers it was formerly included in the Radiata.,
E as in Echinodermatous (a.) Relating to Echinodermata; echinodermal.,
E as in Echinoid (a.) Of or pertaining to the Echinoidea.,
E as in Echinoid (n.) One of the Echinoidea.,
E as in Echinoidea (n. pl.) The class Echinodermata which includes the sea urchins. They have a calcareous, usually more or less spheroidal or disk-shaped, composed of many united plates, and covered with movable spines. See Spatangoid, Clypeastroid.,
E as in Echinozoa (n. pl.) The Echinodermata.,
E as in Echinulate (a.) Set with small spines or prickles.,
E as in Echini (pl. ) of Echinus,
E as in Echinus (n.) A hedgehog.,
E as in Echinus (n.) A genus of echinoderms, including the common edible sea urchin of Europe.,
E as in Echinus (n.) The rounded molding forming the bell of the capital of the Grecian Doric style, which is of a peculiar elastic curve. See Entablature.,
E as in Echinus (n.) The quarter-round molding (ovolo) of the Roman Doric style. See Illust. of Column,
E as in Echinus (n.) A name sometimes given to the egg and anchor or egg and dart molding, because that ornament is often identified with Roman Doric capital. The name probably alludes to the shape of the shell of the sea urchin.,
E as in Echiuroidea (n. pl.) A division of Annelida which includes the genus Echiurus and allies. They are often classed among the Gephyrea, and called the armed Gephyreans.,
E as in Echoes (pl. ) of Echo,
E as in Echo (n.) A sound reflected from an opposing surface and repeated to the ear of a listener; repercussion of sound; repetition of a sound.,
E as in Echo (n.) Fig.: Sympathetic recognition; response; answer.,
E as in Echo (n.) A wood or mountain nymph, regarded as repeating, and causing the reverberation of them.,
E as in Echo (n.) A nymph, the daughter of Air and Earth, who, for love of Narcissus, pined away until nothing was left of her but her voice.,
E as in Echoed (imp. & p. p.) of Echo,
E as in Echoing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Echo,
E as in Echoes (3d pers. sing. pres.) of Echo,
E as in Echo (v. t.) To send back (a sound); to repeat in sound; to reverberate.,
E as in Echo (v. t.) To repeat with assent; to respond; to adopt.,
E as in Echo (v. i.) To give an echo; to resound; to be sounded back; as, the hall echoed with acclamations.,
E as in Echoer (n.) One who, or that which, echoes.,
E as in Echoless (a.) Without echo or response.,
E as in Echometer (n.) A graduated scale for measuring the duration of sounds, and determining their different, and the relation of their intervals.,
E as in Echometry (n.) The art of measuring the duration of sounds or echoes.,
E as in Echometry (n.) The art of constructing vaults to produce echoes.,
E as in Echon (pron.) Alt. of Echoon,
E as in Echoon (pron.) Each one.,
E as in Echoscope (n.) An instrument for intensifying sounds produced by percussion of the thorax.,
E as in Eclair (n.) A kind of frosted cake, containing flavored cream.,
E as in Eclaircise (v. t.) To make clear; to clear up what is obscure or not understood; to explain.,
E as in Eclaircissement (v. t.) The clearing up of anything which is obscure or not easily understood; an explanation.,
E as in Eclampsia (n.) A fancied perception of flashes of light, a symptom of epilepsy; hence, epilepsy itself; convulsions.,
E as in Eclampsy (n.) Same as Eclampsia.,
E as in Eclat (n.) Brilliancy of success or effort; splendor; brilliant show; striking effect; glory; renown.,
E as in Eclat (n.) Demonstration of admiration and approbation; applause.,
E as in Eclectic (a.) Selecting; choosing (what is true or excellent in doctrines, opinions, etc.) from various sources or systems; as, an eclectic philosopher.,
E as in Eclectic (a.) Consisting, or made up, of what is chosen or selected; as, an eclectic method; an eclectic magazine.,
E as in Eclectic (n.) One who follows an eclectic method.,
E as in Eclectically (adv.) In an eclectic manner; by an eclectic method.,
E as in Eclecticism (n.) Theory or practice of an eclectic.,
E as in Eclegm (n.) A medicine made by mixing oils with sirups.,
E as in Eclipse (n.) An interception or obscuration of the light of the sun, moon, or other luminous body, by the intervention of some other body, either between it and the eye, or between the luminous body and that illuminated by it. A lunar eclipse is caused by the moon passing through the earth's shadow; a solar eclipse, by the moon coming between the sun and the observer. A satellite is eclipsed by entering the shadow of its primary. The obscuration of a planet or star by the moon or a planet, though of the nature of an eclipse, is called an occultation. The eclipse of a small portion of the sun by Mercury or Venus is called a transit of the planet.,
E as in Eclipse (n.) The loss, usually temporary or partial, of light, brilliancy, luster, honor, consciousness, etc.; obscuration; gloom; darkness.,
E as in Eclipsed (imp. & p. p.) of Eclipse,
E as in Eclipsing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Eclipse,
E as in Eclipse (v. t.) To cause the obscuration of; to darken or hide; -- said of a heavenly body; as, the moon eclipses the sun.,
E as in Eclipse (v. t.) To obscure, darken, or extinguish the beauty, luster, honor, etc., of; to sully; to cloud; to throw into the shade by surpassing.,
E as in Eclipse (v. i.) To suffer an eclipse.,
E as in Ecliptic (a.) A great circle of the celestial sphere, making an angle with the equinoctial of about 23� 28'. It is the apparent path of the sun, or the real path of the earth as seen from the sun.,
E as in Ecliptic (a.) A great circle drawn on a terrestrial globe, making an angle of 23� 28' with the equator; -- used for illustrating and solving astronomical problems.,
E as in Ecliptic (a.) Pertaining to the ecliptic; as, the ecliptic way.,
E as in Ecliptic (a.) Pertaining to an eclipse or to eclipses.,
E as in Eclogite (n.) A rock consisting of granular red garnet, light green smaragdite, and common hornblende; -- so called in reference to its beauty.,
E as in Eclogue (n.) A pastoral poem, in which shepherds are introduced conversing with each other; a bucolic; an idyl; as, the Ecloques of Virgil, from which the modern usage of the word has been established.,
E as in Economic (a.) Alt. of Economical,
E as in Economical (a.) Pertaining to the household; domestic.,
E as in Economical (a.) Relating to domestic economy, or to the management of household affairs.,
E as in Economical (a.) Managing with frugality; guarding against waste or unnecessary expense; careful and frugal in management and in expenditure; -- said of character or habits.,
E as in Economical (a.) Managed with frugality; not marked with waste or extravagance; frugal; -- said of acts; saving; as, an economical use of money or of time.,
E as in Economical (a.) Relating to the means of living, or the resources and wealth of a country; relating to political economy; as, economic purposes; economical truths.,
E as in Economical (a.) Regulative; relating to the adaptation of means to an end.,
E as in Economically (adv.) With economy; with careful management; with prudence in expenditure.,
E as in Economics (n.) The science of household affairs, or of domestic management.,
E as in Economics (n.) Political economy; the science of the utilities or the useful application of wealth or material resources. See Political economy, under Political.,
E as in Economist (n.) One who economizes, or manages domestic or other concerns with frugality; one who expends money, time, or labor, judiciously, and without waste.,
E as in Economist (n.) One who is conversant with political economy; a student of economics.,
E as in Economization (n.) The act or practice of using to the best effect.,
E as in Economized (imp. & p. p.) of Economize,
E as in Economizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Economize,
E as in Economize (v. t.) To manage with economy; to use with prudence; to expend with frugality; as, to economize one's income.,
E as in Economize (v. i.) To be prudently sparing in expenditure; to be frugal and saving; as, to economize in order to grow rich.,
E as in Economizer (n.) One who, or that which, economizes.,
E as in Economizer (n.) Specifically: (Steam Boilers) An arrangement of pipes for heating feed water by waste heat in the gases passing to the chimney.,
E as in Economies (pl. ) of Economy,
E as in Economy (n.) The management of domestic affairs; the regulation and government of household matters; especially as they concern expense or disbursement; as, a careful economy.,
E as in Economy (n.) Orderly arrangement and management of the internal affairs of a state or of any establishment kept up by production and consumption; esp., such management as directly concerns wealth; as, political economy.,
E as in Economy (n.) The system of rules and regulations by which anything is managed; orderly system of regulating the distribution and uses of parts, conceived as the result of wise and economical adaptation in the author, whether human or divine; as, the animal or vegetable economy; the economy of a poem; the Jewish economy.,
E as in Economy (n.) Thrifty and frugal housekeeping; management without loss or waste; frugality in expenditure; prudence and disposition to save; as, a housekeeper accustomed to economy but not to parsimony.,
E as in Ecorche (n.) A manikin, or image, representing an animal, especially man, with the skin removed so that the muscles are exposed for purposes of study.,
E as in Ecossaise (n.) A dancing tune in the Scotch style.,
E as in Ecostate (a.) Having no ribs or nerves; -- said of a leaf.,
E as in Ecoute (n.) One of the small galleries run out in front of the glacis. They serve to annoy the enemy's miners.,
E as in Ecphasis (n.) An explicit declaration.,
E as in Ecphonema (n.) A breaking out with some interjectional particle.,
E as in Ecphoneme (n.) A mark (!) used to indicate an exclamation.,
E as in Ecphonesis (n.) An animated or passionate exclamation.,
E as in Ecphractic (a.) Serving to dissolve or attenuate viscid matter, and so to remove obstructions; deobstruent.,
E as in Ecphractic (n.) An ecphractic medicine.,
E as in Ecrasement (n.) The operation performed with an ecraseur.,
E as in Ecraseur (n.) An instrument intended to replace the knife in many operations, the parts operated on being severed by the crushing effect produced by the gradual tightening of a steel chain, so that hemorrhage rarely follows.,
E as in Ecru (a.) Having the color or appearance of unbleached stuff, as silk, linen, or the like.,
E as in Ecstasies (pl. ) of Ecstasy,
E as in Ecstasy (n.) The state of being beside one's self or rapt out of one's self; a state in which the mind is elevated above the reach of ordinary impressions, as when under the influence of overpowering emotion; an extraordinary elevation of the spirit, as when the soul, unconscious of sensible objects, is supposed to contemplate heavenly mysteries.,
E as in Ecstasy (n.) Excessive and overmastering joy or enthusiasm; rapture; enthusiastic delight.,
E as in Ecstasy (n.) Violent distraction of mind; violent emotion; excessive grief of anxiety; insanity; madness.,
E as in Ecstasy (n.) A state which consists in total suspension of sensibility, of voluntary motion, and largely of mental power. The body is erect and inflexible; the pulsation and breathing are not affected.,
E as in Ecstasy (v. t.) To fill ecstasy, or with rapture or enthusiasm.,
E as in Ecstatic (n.) Pertaining to, or caused by, ecstasy or excessive emotion; of the nature, or in a state, of ecstasy; as, ecstatic gaze; ecstatic trance.,
E as in Ecstatic (n.) Delightful beyond measure; rapturous; ravishing; as, ecstatic bliss or joy.,
E as in Ecstatic (n.) An enthusiast.,
E as in Ecstatical (a.) Ecstatic.,
E as in Ecstatical (a.) Tending to external objects.,
E as in Ecstatically (adv.) Rapturously; ravishingly.,
E as in Ect- () Alt. of Ecto-,
E as in Ecto- () A combining form signifying without, outside, external.,
E as in Ectad (adv.) Toward the outside or surface; -- opposed to entad.,
E as in Ectal (a.) Pertaining to, or situated near, the surface; outer; -- opposed to ental.,
E as in Ectasia (n.) A dilatation of a hollow organ or of a canal.,
E as in Ectasis (n.) The lengthening of a syllable from short to long.,
E as in Ectental (a.) Relating to, or connected with, the two primitive germ layers, the ectoderm and ectoderm; as, the "ectental line" or line of juncture of the two layers in the segmentation of the ovum.,
E as in Ecteron (n.) The external layer of the skin and mucous membranes; epithelium; ecderon.,
E as in Ectethmoid (a.) External to the ethmoid; prefrontal.,
E as in Ecthlipsis (n.) The dropping out or suppression from a word of a consonant, with or without a vowel.,
E as in Ecthlipsis (n.) The elision of a final m, with the preceding vowel, before a word beginning with a vowel.,
E as in Ecthorea (pl. ) of Ecthoreum,
E as in Ecthoreum (n.) The slender, hollow thread of a nettling cell or cnida. See Nettling cell.,
E as in Ecthymata (pl. ) of Ecthyma,
E as in Ecthyma (n.) A cutaneous eruption, consisting of large, round pustules, upon an indurated and inflamed base.,
E as in Ecto- () See Ect-.,
E as in Ectoblast (n.) The outer layer of the blastoderm; the epiblast; the ectoderm.,
E as in Ectoblast (n.) The outer envelope of a cell; the cell wall.,
E as in Ectobronchia (pl. ) of Ectobronchium,
E as in Ectobronchium (n.) One of the dorsal branches of the main bronchi in the lungs of birds.,
E as in Ectocuneriform (n.) Alt. of Ectocuniform,
E as in Ectocuniform (n.) One of the bones of the tarsus. See Cuneiform.,
E as in Ectocyst (n.) The outside covering of the Bryozoa.,
E as in Ectoderm (n.) The outer layer of the blastoderm; epiblast.,
E as in Ectoderm (n.) The external skin or outer layer of an animal or plant, this being formed in an animal from the epiblast. See Illust. of Blastoderm.,
E as in Ectodermal (a.) Alt. of Ectodermic,
E as in Ectodermic (a.) Of or relating to the ectoderm.,
E as in Ectolecithal (a.) Having the food yolk, at the commencement of segmentation, in a peripheral position, and the cleavage process confined to the center of the egg; as, ectolecithal ova.,
E as in Ectomere (n.) The more transparent cells, which finally become external, in many segmenting ova, as those of mammals.,
E as in Ectoparasite (n.) Any parasite which lives on the exterior of animals; -- opposed to endoparasite.,
E as in Ectopia (n.) A morbid displacement of parts, especially such as is congenial; as, ectopia of the heart, or of the bladder.,
E as in Ectopic (a.) Out of place; congenitally displaced; as, an ectopic organ.,
E as in Ectoplasm (n.) The outer transparent layer of protoplasm in a developing ovum.,
E as in Ectoplasm (n.) The outer hyaline layer of protoplasm in a vegetable cell.,
E as in Ectoplasm (n.) The ectosarc of protozoan.,
E as in Ectoplastic (a.) Pertaining to, or composed of, ectoplasm.,
E as in Ectoprocta (n. pl.) An order of Bryozoa in which the anus lies outside the circle of tentacles.,
E as in Ectopy (n.) Same as Ectopia.,
E as in Ectorganism (n.) An external parasitic organism.,
E as in Ectosarc (n.) The semisolid external layer of protoplasm in some unicellular organisms, as the amoeba; ectoplasm; exoplasm.,
E as in Ectosteal (a.) Of or pertaining to ectostosis; as, ectosteal ossification.,
E as in Ectostosis (n.) A process of bone formation in which ossification takes place in the perichondrium and either surrounds or gradually replaces the cartilage.,
E as in Ectozoic (a.) See Epizoic.,
E as in Ectozoa (pl. ) of Ectozoon,
E as in Ectozoon (n.) See Epizoon.,
E as in Ectropion (n.) An unnatural eversion of the eyelids.,
E as in Ectropium (n.) Same as Ectropion.,
E as in Ectrotic (a.) Having a tendency to prevent the development of anything, especially of a disease.,
E as in Ectypal (a.) Copied, reproduced as a molding or cast, in contradistinction from the original model.,
E as in Ectype (n.) A copy, as in pottery, of an artist's original work. Hence:,
E as in Ectype (n.) A work sculptured in relief, as a cameo, or in bas-relief (in this sense used loosely).,
E as in Ectype (n.) A copy from an original; a type of something that has previously existed.,
E as in Ectypography (n.) A method of etching in which the design upon the plate is produced in relief.,
E as in Ecumenic (a.) Alt. of Ecumenical,
E as in Ecumenical (a.) General; universal; in ecclesiastical usage, that which concerns the whole church; as, an ecumenical council.,
E as in Ecurie (n.) A stable.,
E as in Eczema (n.) An inflammatory disease of the skin, characterized by the presence of redness and itching, an eruption of small vesicles, and the discharge of a watery exudation, which often dries up, leaving the skin covered with crusts; -- called also tetter, milk crust, and salt rheum.,
E as in Eczematous (a.) Pertaining to eczema; having the characteristic of eczema.,
E as in -ed () The termination of the past participle of regular, or weak, verbs; also, of analogous participial adjectives from nouns; as, pigmented; talented.,
E as in Edacious (a.) Given to eating; voracious; devouring.,
E as in Edacity (n.) Greediness; voracity; ravenousness; rapacity.,
E as in Eddas (pl. ) of Edda,
E as in Edda (n.) The religious or mythological book of the old Scandinavian tribes of German origin, containing two collections of Sagas (legends, myths) of the old northern gods and heroes.,
E as in Eddaic (a.) Alt. of Eddic,
E as in Eddic (a.) Relating to the Eddas; resembling the Eddas.,
E as in Edder (n.) An adder or serpent.,
E as in Edder (n.) Flexible wood worked into the top of hedge stakes, to bind them together.,
E as in Edder (v. t.) To bind the top interweaving edder; as, to edder a hedge.,
E as in Eddish (n.) Aftermath; also, stubble and stubble field. See Arrish.,
E as in Eddoes (n. pl.) The tubers of Colocasia antiquorum. See Taro.,
E as in Eddies (pl. ) of Eddy,
E as in Eddy (n.) A current of air or water running back, or in a direction contrary to the main current.,
E as in Eddy (n.) A current of water or air moving in a circular direction; a whirlpool.,
E as in Eddied (imp. & p. p.) of Eddy,
E as in Eddying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Eddy,
E as in Eddy (v. i.) To move as an eddy, or as in an eddy; to move in a circle.,
E as in Eddy (v. t.) To collect as into an eddy.,
E as in Edelweiss (n.) A little, perennial, white, woolly plant (Leontopodium alpinum), growing at high elevations in the Alps.,
E as in Edema (n.) Same as oedema.,
E as in Edematous (a.) Alt. of Edematose,
E as in Edematose (a.) Same as oedematous.,
E as in Eden (n.) The garden where Adam and Eve first dwelt; hence, a delightful region or residence.,
E as in Edenic (a.) Of or pertaining to Eden; paradisaic.,
E as in Edenite (n.) A variety of amphibole. See Amphibole.,
E as in Edenized (a.) Admitted to a state of paradisaic happiness.,
E as in Edental (a.) See Edentate, a.,
E as in Edental (n.) One of the Edentata.,
E as in Edentalous (a.) See Edentate, a.,
E as in Edentata (n. pl.) An order of mammals including the armadillos, sloths, and anteaters; -- called also Bruta. The incisor teeth are rarely developed, and in some groups all the teeth are lacking.,
E as in Edentate (a.) Destitute of teeth; as, an edentate quadruped; an edentate leaf.,
E as in Edentate (a.) Belonging to the Edentata.,
E as in Edentate (n.) One of the Edentata.,
E as in Edentated (a.) Same as Edentate, a.,
E as in Edentation (n.) A depriving of teeth.,
E as in Edentulous (a.) Toothless.,
E as in Edge (v. t.) The thin cutting side of the blade of an instrument; as, the edge of an ax, knife, sword, or scythe. Hence, figuratively, that which cuts as an edge does, or wounds deeply, etc.,
E as in Edge (v. t.) Any sharp terminating border; a margin; a brink; extreme verge; as, the edge of a table, a precipice.,
E as in Edge (v. t.) Sharpness; readiness of fitness to cut; keenness; intenseness of desire.,
E as in Edge (v. t.) The border or part adjacent to the line of division; the beginning or early part; as, in the edge of evening.,
E as in Edged (imp. & p. p.) of Edge,
E as in Edging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Edge,
E as in Edge (v. t.) To furnish with an edge as a tool or weapon; to sharpen.,
E as in Edge (v. t.) To shape or dress the edge of, as with a tool.,
E as in Edge (v. t.) To furnish with a fringe or border; as, to edge a dress; to edge a garden with box.,
E as in Edge (v. t.) To make sharp or keen, figuratively; to incite; to exasperate; to goad; to urge or egg on.,
E as in Edge (v. t.) To move by little and little or cautiously, as by pressing forward edgewise; as, edging their chairs forwards.,
E as in Edge (v. i.) To move sideways; to move gradually; as, edge along this way.,
E as in Edge (v. i.) To sail close to the wind.,
E as in Edgebone (n.) Same as Aitchbone.,
E as in Edgeless (a.) Without an edge; not sharp; blunt; obtuse; as, an edgeless sword or weapon.,
E as in Edgelong (adv.) In the direction of the edge.,
E as in Edgeshot (a.) Having an edge planed, -- said of a board.,
E as in Edgeways (adv.) Alt. of Edgewise,
E as in Edgewise (adv.) With the edge towards anything; in the direction of the edge.,
E as in Edging (n.) That which forms an edge or border, as the fringe, trimming, etc., of a garment, or a border in a garden.,
E as in Edging (n.) The operation of shaping or dressing the edge of anything, as of a piece of metal.,
E as in Edgingly (adv.) Gradually; gingerly.,
E as in Edgy (a.) Easily irritated; sharp; as, an edgy temper.,
E as in Edgy (a.) Having some of the forms, such as drapery or the like, too sharply defined.,
E as in Edh (n.) The name of the Anglo-Saxon letter /, capital form /. It is sounded as "English th in a similar word: //er, other, d//, doth.",
E as in Edibility (n.) Suitableness for being eaten; edibleness.,
E as in Edible (a.) Fit to be eaten as food; eatable; esculent; as, edible fishes.,
E as in Edible (n.) Anything edible.,
E as in Edibleness (n.) Suitableness for being eaten.,
E as in Edict (n.) A public command or ordinance by the sovereign power; the proclamation of a law made by an absolute authority, as if by the very act of announcement; a decree; as, the edicts of the Roman emperors; the edicts of the French monarch.,
E as in Edictal (a.) Relating to, or consisting of, edicts; as, the Roman edictal law.,
E as in Edificant (a.) Building; constructing.,
E as in Edification (n.) The act of edifying, or the state of being edified; a building up, especially in a moral or spiritual sense; moral, intellectual, or spiritual improvement; instruction.,
E as in Edification (n.) A building or edifice.,
E as in Edificatory (a.) Tending to edification.,
E as in Edifice (n.) A building; a structure; an architectural fabric; -- chiefly applied to elegant houses, and other large buildings; as, a palace, a church, a statehouse.,
E as in Edificial (a.) Pertaining to an edifice; structural.,
E as in Edifier (n.) One who builds.,
E as in Edifier (n.) One who edifies, builds up, or strengthens another by moral or religious instruction.,
E as in Edified (imp. & p. p.) of Edify,
E as in Edifying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Edify,
E as in Edify (v. i.) To build; to construct.,
E as in Edify (v. i.) To instruct and improve, especially in moral and religious knowledge; to teach.,
E as in Edify (v. i.) To teach or persuade.,
E as in Edify (v. i.) To improve.,
E as in Edifying (a.) Instructing; improving; as, an edifying conversation.,
E as in Edile (n.) See Aedile.,
E as in Edileship (n.) The office of aedile.,
E as in Edingtonite (n.) A grayish white zeolitic mineral, in tetragonal crystals. It is a hydrous silicate of alumina and baryta.,
E as in Edited (imp. & p. p.) of Edit,
E as in Editing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Edit,
E as in Edit (v. t.) To superintend the publication of; to revise and prepare for publication; to select, correct, arrange, etc., the matter of, for publication; as, to edit a newspaper.,
E as in Edition (n.) A literary work edited and published, as by a certain editor or in a certain manner; as, a good edition of Chaucer; Chalmers' edition of Shakespeare.,
E as in Edition (n.) The whole number of copies of a work printed and published at one time; as, the first edition was soon sold.,
E as in Edition de luxe () See Luxe.,
E as in Editioner (n.) An editor.,
E as in Editor (n.) One who edits; esp., a person who prepares, superintends, revises, and corrects a book, magazine, or newspaper, etc., for publication.,
E as in Editorial (a.) Of or pertaining to an editor; written or sanctioned by an editor; as, editorial labors; editorial remarks.,
E as in Editorial (n.) A leading article in a newspaper or magazine; an editorial article; an article published as an expression of the views of the editor.,
E as in Editorially (adv.) In the manner or character of an editor or of an editorial article.,
E as in Editorship (n.) The office or charge of an editor; care and superintendence of a publication.,
E as in Editress (n.) A female editor.,
E as in Edituate (v. t.) To guard as a churchwarden does.,
E as in Edomite (n.) One of the descendants of Esau or Edom, the brother of Jacob; an Idumean.,
E as in Edriophthalma (n. pl.) A group of Crustacea in which the eyes are without stalks; the Arthrostraca.,
E as in Edriophthalmous (a.) Pertaining to the Edriophthalma.,
E as in Educability (n.) Capability of being educated.,
E as in Educable (a.) Capable of being educated.,
E as in Educated (imp. & p. p.) of Educate,
E as in Educating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Educate,
E as in Educate (v. t.) To bring /// or guide the powers of, as a child; to develop and cultivate, whether physically, mentally, or morally, but more commonly limited to the mental activities or senses; to expand, strengthen, and discipline, as the mind, a faculty, etc.,; to form and regulate the principles and character of; to prepare and fit for any calling or business by systematic instruction; to cultivate; to train; to instruct; as, to educate a child; to educate the eye or the taste.,
E as in Educated (a.) Formed or developed by education; as, an educated man.,
E as in Education (n.) The act or process of educating; the result of educating, as determined by the knowledge skill, or discipline of character, acquired; also, the act or process of training by a prescribed or customary course of study or discipline; as, an education for the bar or the pulpit; he has finished his education.,
E as in Educational (a.) Of or pertaining to education.,
E as in Educationist (n.) One who is versed in the theories of, or who advocates and promotes, education.,
E as in Educative (a.) Tending to educate; that gives education; as, an educative process; an educative experience.,
E as in Educator (n.) One who educates; a teacher.,
E as in Educed (imp. & p. p.) of Educe,
E as in Educing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Educe,
E as in Educe (v. t.) To bring or draw out; to cause to appear; to produce against counter agency or influence; to extract; to evolve; as, to educe a form from matter.,
E as in Educible (a.) Capable of being educed.,
E as in Educt (n.) That which is educed, as by analysis.,
E as in Eduction (n.) The act of drawing out or bringing into view.,
E as in Eductive (a.) Tending to draw out; extractive.,
E as in Eductor (n.) One who, or that which, brings forth, elicits, or extracts.,
E as in Edulcorant (a.) Having a tendency to purify or to sweeten by removing or correcting acidity and acrimony.,
E as in Edulcorant (n.) An edulcorant remedy.,
E as in Edulcorated (imp. & p. p.) of Edulcorate,
E as in Edulcorating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Edulcorate,
E as in Edulcorate (v. t.) To render sweet; to sweeten; to free from acidity.,
E as in Edulcorate (v. t.) To free from acids, salts, or other soluble substances, by washing; to purify.,
E as in Edulcoration (n.) The act of sweetening or edulcorating.,
E as in Edulcoration (n.) The act of freeing from acids or any soluble substances, by affusions of water.,
E as in Edulcorative (a.) Tending to /weeten or purify by affusions of water.,
E as in Edulcorator (n.) A contrivance used to supply small quantities of sweetened liquid, water, etc., to any mixture, or to test tubes, etc.; a dropping bottle.,
E as in Edulious (a.) Edible.,
E as in -ee () A suffix used, chiefly in law terms, in a passive signification, to indicate the direct or indirect object of an action, or the one to whom an act is done or on whom a right is conferred; as in assignee, donee, alienee, grantee, etc. It is correlative to -or, the agent or doer.,
E as in Eek (v. t.) Alt. of Eeke,
E as in Eeke (v. t.) See Eke.,
E as in Eel (n.) An elongated fish of many genera and species. The common eels of Europe and America belong to the genus Anguilla. The electrical eel is a species of Gymnotus. The so called vinegar eel is a minute nematode worm. See Conger eel, Electric eel, and Gymnotus.,
E as in Eelbuck (n.) An eelpot or eel basket.,
E as in Eelfare (n.) A brood of eels.,
E as in Eelgrass (n.) A plant (Zostera marina), with very long and narrow leaves, growing abundantly in shallow bays along the North Atlantic coast.,
E as in Eel-mother (n.) The eelpout.,
E as in Eelpot (n.) A boxlike structure with funnel-shaped traps for catching eels; an eelbuck.,
E as in Eelpout (n.) A European fish (Zoarces viviparus), remarkable for producing living young; -- called also greenbone, guffer, bard, and Maroona eel. Also, an American species (Z. anguillaris), -- called also mutton fish, and, erroneously, congo eel, ling, and lamper eel. Both are edible, but of little value.,
E as in Eelpout (n.) A fresh-water fish, the burbot.,
E as in Eelspear (n.) A spear with barbed forks for spearing eels.,
E as in E'en (adv.) A contraction for even. See Even.,
E as in Een (n.) The old plural of Eye.,
E as in E'er (adv.) A contraction for ever. See Ever.,
E as in Eerie (a.) Alt. of Eery,
E as in Eery (a.) Serving to inspire fear, esp. a dread of seeing ghosts; wild; weird; as, eerie stories.,
E as in Eery (a.) Affected with fear; affrighted.,
E as in Eerily (adv.) In a strange, unearthly way.,
E as in Eerisome (a.) Causing fear; eerie.,
E as in Eet (obs. imp.) of Eat.,
E as in Effable (a.) Capable of being uttered or explained; utterable.,
E as in Effaced (imp. & p. p.) of Efface,
E as in Effacing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Efface,
E as in Efface (v. t.) To cause to disappear (as anything impresses or inscribed upon a surface) by rubbing out, striking out, etc.; to erase; to render illegible or indiscernible; as, to efface the letters on a monument, or the inscription on a coin.,
E as in Efface (v. t.) To destroy, as a mental impression; to wear away.,
E as in Effaceable (a.) Capable of being effaced.,
E as in Effacement (n.) The act if effacing; also, the result of the act.,
E as in Effascinate (v. t.) To charm; to bewitch.,
E as in Effascination (n.) A charming; state of being bewitched or deluded.,
E as in Effect (n.) Execution; performance; realization; operation; as, the law goes into effect in May.,
E as in Effect (n.) Manifestation; expression; sign.,
E as in Effect (n.) In general: That which is produced by an agent or cause; the event which follows immediately from an antecedent, called the cause; result; consequence; outcome; fruit; as, the effect of luxury.,
E as in Effect (n.) Impression left on the mind; sensation produced.,
E as in Effect (n.) Power to produce results; efficiency; force; importance; account; as, to speak with effect.,
E as in Effect (n.) Consequence intended; purpose; meaning; general intent; -- with to.,
E as in Effect (n.) The purport; the sum and substance.,
E as in Effect (n.) Reality; actual meaning; fact, as distinguished from mere appearance.,
E as in Effect (n.) Goods; movables; personal estate; -- sometimes used to embrace real as well as personal property; as, the people escaped from the town with their effects.,
E as in Effected (imp. & p. p.) of Effect,
E as in Effecting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Effect,
E as in Effect (v. t.) To produce, as a cause or agent; to cause to be.,
E as in Effect (v. t.) To bring to pass; to execute; to enforce; to achieve; to accomplish.,
E as in Effecter (n.) One who effects.,
E as in Effectible (a.) Capable of being done or achieved; practicable; feasible.,
E as in Effection (n.) Creation; a doing.,
E as in Effective (a.) Having the power to produce an effect or effects; producing a decided or decisive effect; efficient; serviceable; operative; as, an effective force, remedy, speech; the effective men in a regiment.,
E as in Effective (n.) That which produces a given effect; a cause.,
E as in Effective (n.) One who is capable of active service.,
E as in Effective (n.) Specie or coin, as distinguished from paper currency; -- a term used in many parts of Europe.,
E as in Effectively (adv.) With effect; powerfully; completely; thoroughly.,
E as in Effectiveness (n.) The quality of being effective.,
E as in Effectless (a.) Without effect or advantage; useless; bootless.,
E as in Effector (n.) An effecter.,
E as in Effectual (n.) Producing, or having adequate power or force to produce, an intended effect; adequate; efficient; operative; decisive.,
E as in Effectually (adv.) With effect; efficaciously.,
E as in Effectually (adv.) Actually; in effect.,
E as in Effectualness (n.) The quality of being effectual.,
E as in Effectuated (imp. & p. p.) of Effectuate,
E as in Effectuating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Effectuate,
E as in Effectuate (v. t.) To bring to pass; to effect; to achieve; to accomplish; to fulfill.,
E as in Effectuation (n.) Act of effectuating.,
E as in Effectuose (a.) Alt. of Effectuous,
E as in Effectuous (a.) Effective.,
E as in Effectuously (adv.) Effectively.,
E as in Effeminacies (pl. ) of Effeminacy,
E as in Effeminacy (n.) Characteristic quality of a woman, such as softness, luxuriousness, delicacy, or weakness, which is unbecoming a man; womanish delicacy or softness; -- used reproachfully of men.,
E as in Effeminate (a.) Having some characteristic of a woman, as delicacy, luxuriousness, etc.; soft or delicate to an unmanly degree; womanish; weak.,
E as in Effeminate (a.) Womanlike; womanly; tender; -- in a good sense.,
E as in Effeminated (imp. & p. p.) of Effeminate,
E as in Effeminating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Effeminate,
E as in Effeminate (v. t.) To make womanish; to make soft and delicate; to weaken.,
E as in Effeminate (v. i.) To grow womanish or weak.,
E as in Effeminately (adv.) In an effeminate or womanish manner; weakly; softly; delicately.,
E as in Effeminately (adv.) By means of a woman; by the power or art of a woman.,
E as in Effeminateness (n.) The state of being effeminate; unmanly softness.,
E as in Effemination (n.) Effeminacy; womanishness.,
E as in Effeminize (v. t.) To make effeminate.,
E as in Effendi (n.) Master; sir; -- a title of a Turkish state official and man of learning, especially one learned in the law.,
E as in Efferent (a.) Conveying outward, or discharging; -- applied to certain blood vessels, lymphatics, nerves, etc.,
E as in Efferent (a.) Conveyed outward; as, efferent impulses, i. e., such as are conveyed by the motor or efferent nerves from the central nervous organ outwards; -- opposed to afferent.,
E as in Efferent (n.) An efferent duct or stream.,
E as in Efferous (a.) Like a wild beast; fierce.,
E as in Effervesced (imp. & p. p.) of Effervesce,
E as in Effervescing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Effervesce,
E as in Effervesce (v. i.) To be in a state of natural ebullition; to bubble and hiss, as fermenting liquors, or any fluid, when some part escapes in a gaseous form.,
E as in Effervesce (v. i.) To exhibit, in lively natural expression, feelings that can not be repressed or concealed; as, to effervesce with joy or merriment.,
E as in Effervescence (n.) Alt. of Effervescency,
E as in Effervescency (n.) A kind of natural ebullition; that commotion of a fluid which takes place when some part of the mass flies off in a gaseous form, producing innumerable small bubbles; as, the effervescence of a carbonate with citric acid.,
E as in Effervescent (a.) Gently boiling or bubbling, by means of the disengagement of gas,
E as in Effervescible (a.) Capable of effervescing.,
E as in Effervescive (a.) Tending to produce effervescence.,
E as in Effet (n.) The common newt; -- called also asker, eft, evat, and ewt.,
E as in Effete (a.) No longer capable of producing young, as an animal, or fruit, as the earth; hence, worn out with age; exhausted of energy; incapable of efficient action; no longer productive; barren; sterile.,
E as in Efficacious (n.) Possessing the quality of being effective; productive of, or powerful to produce, the effect intended; as, an efficacious law.,
E as in Efficacity (n.) Efficacy.,
E as in Efficacy (n.) Power to produce effects; operation or energy of an agent or force; production of the effect intended; as, the efficacy of medicine in counteracting disease; the efficacy of prayer.,
E as in Efficience (n.) Alt. of Efficiency,
E as in Efficiency (n.) The quality of being efficient or producing an effect or effects; efficient power; effectual agency.,
E as in Efficiency (n.) The ratio of useful work to energy expended.,
E as in Efficient (n.) Causing effects; producing results; that makes the effect to be what it is; actively operative; not inactive, slack, or incapable; characterized by energetic and useful activity; as, an efficient officer, power.,
E as in Efficient (n.) An efficient cause; a prime mover.,
E as in Efficiently (adv.) With effect; effectively.,
E as in Effierce (v. t.) To make fierce.,
E as in Effigial (a.) Relating to an effigy.,
E as in Effigiate (v. t.) To form as an effigy; hence, to fashion; to adapt.,
E as in Effigiation (n.) The act of forming in resemblance; an effigy.,
E as in Effigies (n.) See Effigy.,
E as in Effigies (pl. ) of Effigy,
E as in Effigy (n.) The image, likeness, or representation of a person, whether a full figure, or a part; an imitative figure; -- commonly applied to sculptured likenesses, as those on monuments, or to those of the heads of princes on coins and medals, sometimes applied to portraits.,
E as in Efflagitate (v. t.) To ask urgently.,
E as in Efflate (v. t.) To fill with breath; to puff up.,
E as in Efflation (n.) The act of filling with wind; a breathing or puffing out; a puff, as of wind.,
E as in Effloresced (imp. & p. p.) of Effloresce,
E as in Efflorescing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Effloresce,
E as in Effloresce (v. i.) To blossom forth.,
E as in Effloresce (v. i.) To change on the surface, or throughout, to a whitish, mealy, or crystalline powder, from a gradual decomposition, esp. from the loss of water, on simple exposure to the air; as, Glauber's salts, and many others, effloresce.,
E as in Effloresce (v. i.) To become covered with a whitish crust or light crystallization, from a slow chemical change between some of the ingredients of the matter covered and an acid proceeding commonly from an external source; as, the walls of limestone caverns sometimes effloresce with nitrate of calcium in consequence of the action in consequence of nitric acid formed in the atmosphere.,
E as in Efflorescence (n.) Flowering, or state of flowering; the blooming of flowers; blowth.,
E as in Efflorescence (n.) A redness of the skin; eruption, as in rash, measles, smallpox, scarlatina, etc.,
E as in Efflorescence (n.) The formation of the whitish powder or crust on the surface of efflorescing bodies, as salts, etc.,
E as in Efflorescence (n.) The powder or crust thus formed.,
E as in Efflorescency (n.) The state or quality of being efflorescent; efflorescence.,
E as in Efflorescent (v. i.) That effloresces, or is liable to effloresce on exposure; as, an efflorescent salt.,
E as in Efflorescent (v. i.) Covered with an efflorescence.,
E as in Efflower (v. t.) To remove the epidermis of (a skin) with a concave knife, blunt in its middle part, -- as in making chamois leather.,
E as in Effluence (n.) A flowing out, or emanation.,
E as in Effluence (n.) That which flows or issues from any body or substance; issue; efflux.,
E as in Effluency (n.) Effluence.,
E as in Effluent (a.) Flowing out; as, effluent beams.,
E as in Effluent (n.) A stream that flows out of another stream or lake.,
E as in Effluviable (a.) Capable of being given off as an effluvium.,
E as in Effluvial (a.) Belonging to effluvia.,
E as in Effluviate (v. i.) To give forth effluvium.,
E as in Effluvia (pl. ) of Effluvium,
E as in Effluvium (a.) Subtile or invisible emanation; exhalation perceived by the sense of smell; especially, noisome or noxious exhalation; as, the effluvium from diseased or putrefying bodies, or from ill drainage.,
E as in Efflux (n.) The act or process of flowing out, or issuing forth; effusion; outflow; as, the efflux of matter from an ulcer; the efflux of men's piety.,
E as in Efflux (n.) That which flows out; emanation; effluence.,
E as in Efflux (v. i.) To run out; to flow forth; to pass away.,
E as in Effluxion (n.) The act of flowing out; effusion.,
E as in Effluxion (n.) That which flows out; effluvium; emanation.,
E as in Effodient (a.) Digging up.,
E as in Efforced (imp. & p. p.) of Efforce,
E as in Efforcing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Efforce,
E as in Efforce (v. t.) To force; to constrain; to compel to yield.,
E as in Efform (v. t.) To form; to shape.,
E as in Efformation (n.) The act of giving shape or form.,
E as in Effort (n.) An exertion of strength or power, whether physical or mental, in performing an act or aiming at an object; more or less strenuous endeavor; struggle directed to the accomplishment of an object; as, an effort to scale a wall.,
E as in Effort (n.) A force acting on a body in the direction of its motion.,
E as in Effort (v. t.) To stimulate.,
E as in Effortless (a.) Making no effort.,
E as in Effossion (n.) A digging out or up.,
E as in Effranchise (v. t.) To enfranchise.,
E as in Effray (v. t.) To frighten; to scare.,
E as in Effrayable (a.) Frightful.,
E as in Effrenation (n.) Unbridled license; unruliness.,
E as in Effront (v. t.) To give assurance to.,
E as in Effronteries (pl. ) of Effrontery,
E as in Effrontery (n.) Impudence or boldness in confronting or in transgressing the bounds of duty or decorum; insulting presumptuousness; shameless boldness; barefaced assurance.,
E as in Effrontit (a.) Marked by impudence.,
E as in Effrontuously (adv.) Impudently.,
E as in Effulged (imp. & p. p.) of Effulge,
E as in Effulging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Effulge,
E as in Effulge (v. t.) To cause to shine with abundance of light; to radiate; to beam.,
E as in Effulge (v. i.) To shine forth; to beam.,
E as in Effulgence (n.) The state of being effulgent; extreme brilliancy; a flood of light; great luster or brightness; splendor.,
E as in Effulgent (a.) Diffusing a flood of light; shining; luminous; beaming; bright; splendid.,
E as in Effulgently (adv.) In an effulgent manner.,
E as in Effumability (n.) The capability of flying off in fumes or vapor.,
E as in Effume (v. t.) To breathe or puff out.,
E as in Effund (v. t.) To pour out.,
E as in Effuse (a.) Poured out freely; profuse.,
E as in Effuse (a.) Disposed to pour out freely; prodigal.,
E as in Effuse (a.) Spreading loosely, especially on one side; as, an effuse inflorescence.,
E as in Effuse (a.) Having the lips, or edges, of the aperture abruptly spreading; -- said of certain shells.,
E as in Effuse (n.) Effusion; loss.,
E as in Effused (imp. & p. p.) of Effuse,
E as in Effusing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Effuse,
E as in Effuse (v. t.) To pour out like a stream or freely; to cause to exude; to shed.,
E as in Effuse (v. i.) To emanate; to issue.,
E as in Effusion (n.) The act of pouring out; as, effusion of water, of blood, of grace, of words, and the like.,
E as in Effusion (n.) That which is poured out, literally or figuratively.,
E as in Effusion (n.) The escape of a fluid out of its natural vessel, either by rupture of the vessel, or by exudation through its walls. It may pass into the substance of an organ, or issue upon a free surface.,
E as in Effusion (n.) The liquid escaping or exuded.,
E as in Effusive (a.) Pouring out; pouring forth freely.,
E as in Efreet (n.) See Afrit.,
E as in Eft (n.) A European lizard of the genus Seps.,
E as in Eft (n.) A salamander, esp. the European smooth newt (Triton punctatus).,
E as in Eft (adv.) Again; afterwards; soon; quickly.,
E as in Eftsoon (adv.) Alt. of Eftsoons,
E as in Eftsoons (adv.) Again; anew; a second time; at once; speedily.,
E as in Egad (interj.) An exclamation expressing exultation or surprise, etc.,
E as in Egal (a.) Equal; impartial.,
E as in Egality (n.) Equality.,
E as in Egean (a.) See Aegean.,
E as in Egence (n.) The state of needing, or of suffering a natural want.,
E as in Eger (a.) Alt. of Egre,
E as in Egre (a.) Sharp; bitter; acid; sour.,
E as in Eger (n.) An impetuous flood; a bore. See Eagre.,
E as in Egerminate (v. i.) To germinate.,
E as in Egest (v. t.) To cast or throw out; to void, as excrement; to excrete, as the indigestible matter of the food; in an extended sense, to excrete by the lungs, skin, or kidneys.,
E as in Egesta (n. pl.) That which is egested or thrown off from the body by the various excretory channels; excrements; -- opposed to ingesta.,
E as in Egestion (n.) Act or process of egesting; a voiding.,
E as in Egg (n.) The oval or roundish body laid by domestic poultry and other birds, tortoises, etc. It consists of a yolk, usually surrounded by the "white" or albumen, and inclosed in a shell or strong membrane.,
E as in Egg (n.) A simple cell, from the development of which the young of animals are formed; ovum; germ cell.,
E as in Egg (n.) Anything resembling an egg in form.,
E as in Egged (imp. & p. p.) of Egg,
E as in Egging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Egg,
E as in Egg (v. t.) To urge on; to instigate; to incite/,
E as in Eggar (n.) Any bombycid moth of the genera Eriogaster and Lasiocampa; as, the oak eggar (L. roboris) of Europe.,
E as in Egg-bird (n.) A species of tern, esp. the sooty tern (Sterna fuliginosa) of the West Indies. In the Bahama Islands the name is applied to the tropic bird, Phaethon flavirostris.,
E as in Egg-cup (n.) A cup used for holding an egg, at table.,
E as in Eggement (n.) Instigation; incitement.,
E as in Egger (n.) One who gathers eggs; an eggler.,
E as in Egger (v. t.) One who eggs or incites.,
E as in Eggery (n.) A place where eggs are deposited (as by sea birds) or kept; a nest of eggs.,
E as in Egg-glass (n.) A small sandglass, running about three minutes, for marking time in boiling eggs; also, a small glass for holding an egg, at table.,
E as in Egghot (n.) A kind of posset made of eggs, brandy, sugar, and ale.,
E as in Eggler (n.) One who gathers, or deals in, eggs.,
E as in Eggnog (n.) A drink consisting of eggs beaten up with sugar, milk, and (usually) wine or spirits.,
E as in Eggplant (n.) A plant (Solanum Melongena), of East Indian origin, allied to the tomato, and bearing a large, smooth, edible fruit, shaped somewhat like an egg; mad-apple.,
E as in Egg-shaped (a.) Resembling an egg in form; ovoid.,
E as in Eggshell (n.) The shell or exterior covering of an egg. Also used figuratively for anything resembling an eggshell.,
E as in Eggshell (n.) A smooth, white, marine, gastropod shell of the genus Ovulum, resembling an egg in form.,
E as in Egg squash () A variety of squash with small egg-shaped fruit.,
E as in Eghen (n. pl.) Eyes.,
E as in Egilopical (a.) Pertaining to, of the nature of, or affected with, an aegilops, or tumor in the corner of the eye.,
E as in Egilops (n.) See Aegilops.,
E as in Eglandulose (a.) Alt. of Eglandulous,
E as in Eglandulous (a.) Destitute of glands.,
E as in Eglantine (n.) A species of rose (Rosa Eglanteria), with fragrant foliage and flowers of various colors.,
E as in Eglantine (n.) The sweetbrier (R. rubiginosa).,
E as in Eglatere (n.) Eglantine.,
E as in Egling (n.) The European perch when two years old.,
E as in Eglomerate (v. t.) To unwind, as a thread from a ball.,
E as in Ego (n.) The conscious and permanent subject of all psychical experiences, whether held to be directly known or the product of reflective thought; -- opposed to non-ego.,
E as in Egoical (a.) Pertaining to egoism.,
E as in Egoism (n.) The doctrine of certain extreme adherents or disciples of Descartes and Johann Gottlieb Fichte, which finds all the elements of knowledge in the ego and the relations which it implies or provides for.,
E as in Egoism (n.) Excessive love and thought of self; the habit of regarding one's self as the center of every interest; selfishness; -- opposed to altruism.,
E as in Egoist (n.) One given overmuch to egoism or thoughts of self.,
E as in Egoist (n.) A believer in egoism.,
E as in Egoistic (a.) Alt. of Egoistical,
E as in Egoistical (a.) Pertaining to egoism; imbued with egoism or excessive thoughts of self; self-loving.,
E as in Egoistically (adv.) In an egoistic manner.,
E as in Egoity (n.) Personality.,
E as in Egomism (n.) Egoism.,
E as in Egophonic (a.) Belonging to, or resembling, egophony.,
E as in Egophony (n.) The sound of a patient's voice so modified as to resemble the bleating of a goat, heard on applying the ear to the chest in certain diseases within its cavity, as in pleurisy with effusion.,
E as in Egotheism (n.) The deification of self.,
E as in Egotism (n.) The practice of too frequently using the word I; hence, a speaking or writing overmuch of one's self; self-exaltation; self-praise; the act or practice of magnifying one's self or parading one's own doings. The word is also used in the sense of egoism.,
E as in Egotist (n.) One addicted to egotism; one who speaks much of himself or magnifies his own achievements or affairs.,
E as in Egotistic (a.) Alt. of Egotistical,
E as in Egotistical (a.) Addicted to, or manifesting, egotism.,
E as in Egotistically (adv.) With egotism.,
E as in Egotized (imp. & p. p.) of Egotize,
E as in Egotizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Egotize,
E as in Egotize (v. i.) To talk or write as an egotist.,
E as in Egranulose (a.) Having no granules, as chlorophyll in certain conditions.,
E as in Egre (a. & n.) See Eager, and Eagre.,
E as in Egregious (a.) Surpassing; extraordinary; distinguished (in a bad sense); -- formerly used with words importing a good quality, but now joined with words having a bad sense; as, an egregious rascal; an egregious ass; an egregious mistake.,
E as in Egregiously (adv.) Greatly; enormously; shamefully; as, egregiously cheated.,
E as in Egregiousness (n.) The state of being egregious.,
E as in Egremoin (n.) Agrimony (Agrimonia Eupatoria).,
E as in Egress (n.) The act of going out or leaving, or the power to leave; departure.,
E as in Egress (n.) The passing off from the sun's disk of an inferior planet, in a transit.,
E as in Egress (v. i.) To go out; to depart; to leave.,
E as in Egression (n.) The act of going; egress.,
E as in Egressor (n.) One who goes out.,
E as in Egret (n.) The name of several species of herons which bear plumes on the back. They are generally white. Among the best known species are the American egret (Ardea, / Herodias, egretta); the great egret (A. alba); the little egret (A. garzetta), of Europe; and the American snowy egret (A. candidissima).,
E as in Egret (n.) A plume or tuft of feathers worn as a part of a headdress, or anything imitating such an ornament; an aigrette.,
E as in Egret (n.) The flying feathery or hairy crown of seeds or achenes, as the down of the thistle.,
E as in Egret (n.) A kind of ape.,
E as in Egrette (n.) Same as Egret, n., 2.,
E as in Egrimony () The herb agrimony.,
E as in Egrimony (n.) Sorrow.,
E as in Egriot (n.) A kind of sour cherry.,
E as in Egritude (n.) Sickness; ailment; sorrow.,
E as in Egyptian (a.) Pertaining to Egypt, in Africa.,
E as in Egyptian (n.) A native, or one of the people, of Egypt; also, the Egyptian language.,
E as in Egyptian (n.) A gypsy.,
E as in Egyptized (imp. & p. p.) of Egyptize,
E as in Egyptizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Egyptize,
E as in Egyptize (v. t.) To give an Egyptian character or appearance to.,
E as in Egyptologer (n.) Alt. of Egyptologist,
E as in Egyptologist (n.) One skilled in the antiquities of Egypt; a student of Egyptology.,
E as in Egyptological (a.) Of, pertaining to, or devoted to, Egyptology.,
E as in Egyptology (n.) The science or study of Egyptian antiquities, esp. the hieroglyphics.,
E as in Eh (interj.) An expression of inquiry or slight surprise.,
E as in Ehlite (n.) A mineral of a green color and pearly luster; a hydrous phosphate of copper.,
E as in Eider (n.) Any species of sea duck of the genus Somateria, esp. Somateria mollissima, which breeds in the northern parts of Europe and America, and lines its nest with fine down (taken from its own body) which is an article of commerce; -- called also eider duck. The American eider (S. Dresseri), the king eider (S. spectabilis), and the spectacled eider (Arctonetta Fischeri) are related species.,
E as in Eidograph (n.) An instrument for copying drawings on the same or a different scale; a form of the pantograph.,
E as in Eidolon (n.) An image or representation; a form; a phantom; an apparition.,
E as in Eigh (interj.) An exclamation expressing delight.,
E as in Eight (n.) An island in a river; an ait.,
E as in Eight (a.) Seven and one; as, eight years.,
E as in Eight (n.) The number greater by a unit than seven; eight units or objects.,
E as in Eight (n.) A symbol representing eight units, as 8 or viii.,
E as in Eighteen (a.) Eight and ten; as, eighteen pounds.,
E as in Eighteen (n.) The number greater by a unit than seventeen; eighteen units or objects.,
E as in Eighteen (n.) A symbol denoting eighteen units, as 18 or xviii.,
E as in Eighteenmo (a. & n.) See Octodecimo.,
E as in Eighteenth (a.) Next in order after the seventeenth.,
E as in Eighteenth (a.) Consisting of one of eighteen equal parts or divisions of a thing.,
E as in Eighteenth (n.) The quotient of a unit divided by eighteen; one of eighteen equal parts or divisions.,
E as in Eighteenth (n.) The eighth after the tenth.,
E as in Eightetethe (a.) Eighteenth.,
E as in Eightfold (a.) Eight times a quantity.,
E as in Eighth (a.) Next in order after the seventh.,
E as in Eighth (a.) Consisting of one of eight equal divisions of a thing.,
E as in Eighth (n.) The quotient of a unit divided by eight; one of eight equal parts; an eighth part.,
E as in Eighth (n.) The interval of an octave.,
E as in Eighthly (adv.) As the eighth in order.,
E as in Eightieth (a.) The next in order after seventy-ninth.,
E as in Eightieth (a.) Consisting of one of eighty equal parts or divisions.,
E as in Eightieth (n.) The quotient of a unit divided by eighty; one of eighty equal parts.,
E as in Eightling (n.) A compound or twin crystal made up of eight individuals.,
E as in Eightscore (a. & n.) Eight times twenty; a hundred and sixty.,
E as in Eighty (a.) Eight times ten; fourscore.,
E as in Eighty (n.) The sum of eight times ten; eighty units or objects.,
E as in Eighty (n.) A symbol representing eighty units, or ten eight times repeated, as 80 or lxxx.,
E as in Eigne (a.) Eldest; firstborn.,
E as in Eigne (a.) Entailed; belonging to the eldest son.,
E as in Eiking (n.) See Eking.,
E as in Eikon (n.) An image or effigy; -- used rather in an abstract sense, and rarely for a work of art.,
E as in Eikosane (n.) A solid hydrocarbon, C20H42, of the paraffine series, of artificial production, and also probably occurring in petroleum.,
E as in Eikosylene (n.) A liquid hydrocarbon, C20H38, of the acetylene series, obtained from brown coal.,
E as in Eild (n.) Age.,
E as in Eire (n.) Air.,
E as in Eirenarch (n.) A justice of the peace; irenarch.,
E as in Eirenic (a.) Pacific. See Irenic.,
E as in Eirie (n.) See Aerie, and Eyrie.,
E as in Eisel (n.) Vinegar; verjuice.,
E as in Eisteddfod (n.) Am assembly or session of the Welsh bards; an annual congress of bards, minstrels and literati of Wales, -- being a patriotic revival of the old custom.,
E as in Either (a. & pron.) One of two; the one or the other; -- properly used of two things, but sometimes of a larger number, for any one.,
E as in Either (a. & pron.) Each of two; the one and the other; both; -- formerly, also, each of any number.,
E as in Either (conj. Either) precedes two, or more, coordinate words or phrases, and is introductory to an alternative. It is correlative to or.,
E as in Ejaculated (imp. & p. p.) of Ejaculate,
E as in Ejaculating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ejaculate,
E as in Ejaculate (v. t.) To throw out suddenly and swiftly, as if a dart; to dart; to eject.,
E as in Ejaculate (v. t.) To throw out, as an exclamation; to utter by a brief and sudden impulse; as, to ejaculate a prayer.,
E as in Ejaculate (v. i.) To utter ejaculations; to make short and hasty exclamations.,
E as in Ejaculation (n.) The act of throwing or darting out with a sudden force and rapid flight.,
E as in Ejaculation (n.) The uttering of a short, sudden exclamation or prayer, or the exclamation or prayer uttered.,
E as in Ejaculation (n.) The act of ejecting or suddenly throwing, as a fluid from a duct.,
E as in Ejaculator (n.) A muscle which helps ejaculation.,
E as in Ejaculatory (a.) Casting or throwing out; fitted to eject; as, ejaculatory vessels.,
E as in Ejaculatory (a.) Suddenly darted out; uttered in short sentences; as, an ejaculatory prayer or petition.,
E as in Ejaculatory (a.) Sudden; hasty.,
E as in Ejected (imp. & p. p.) of Eject,
E as in Ejecting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Eject,
E as in Eject (v. t.) To expel; to dismiss; to cast forth; to thrust or drive out; to discharge; as, to eject a person from a room; to eject a traitor from the country; to eject words from the language.,
E as in Eject (v. t.) To cast out; to evict; to dispossess; as, to eject tenants from an estate.,
E as in Ejection (n.) The act of ejecting or casting out; discharge; expulsion; evacuation.,
E as in Ejection (n.) The act or process of discharging anything from the body, particularly the excretions.,
E as in Ejection (n.) The state of being ejected or cast out; dispossession; banishment.,
E as in Ejectment (n.) A casting out; a dispossession; an expulsion; ejection; as, the ejectment of tenants from their homes.,
E as in Ejectment (n.) A species of mixed action, which lies for the recovery of possession of real property, and damages and costs for the wrongful withholding of it.,
E as in Ejector (n.) One who, or that which, ejects or dispossesses.,
E as in Ejector (n.) A jet jump for lifting water or withdrawing air from a space.,
E as in Ejoo (n.) Gomuti fiber. See Gomuti.,
E as in Ejulation (n.) A wailing; lamentation.,
E as in Ekabor (n.) Alt. of Ekaboron,
E as in Ekaboron (n.) The name given by Mendelejeff in accordance with the periodic law, and by prediction, to a hypothetical element then unknown, but since discovered and named scandium; -- so called because it was a missing analogue of the boron group. See Scandium.,
E as in Ekaluminium (n.) The name given to a hypothetical element, -- later discovered and called gallium. See Gallium, and cf. Ekabor.,
E as in Ekasilicon (n.) The name of a hypothetical element predicted and afterwards discovered and named germanium; -- so called because it was a missing analogue of the silicon group. See Germanium, and cf. Ekabor.,
E as in Eked (imp. & p. p.) of Eke,
E as in Eking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Eke,
E as in Eke (v. t.) To increase; to add to; to augment; -- now commonly used with out, the notion conveyed being to add to, or piece out by a laborious, inferior, or scanty addition; as, to eke out a scanty supply of one kind with some other.,
E as in Eke (adv.) In addition; also; likewise.,
E as in Eke (n.) An addition.,
E as in Ekebergite (n.) A variety of scapolite.,
E as in Ekename (n.) An additional or epithet name; a nickname.,
E as in Eking (v. t.) A lengthening or filling piece to make good a deficiency in length.,
E as in Eking (v. t.) The carved work under the quarter piece at the aft part of the quarter gallery.,
E as in E-la (n.) Originally, the highest note in the scale of Guido; hence, proverbially, any extravagant saying.,
E as in Elaborate (a.) Wrought with labor; finished with great care; studied; executed with exactness or painstaking; as, an elaborate discourse; an elaborate performance; elaborate research.,
E as in Elaborated (imp. & p. p.) of Elaborate,
E as in Elaborating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Elaborate,
E as in Elaborate (v. t.) To produce with labor,
E as in Elaborate (v. t.) To perfect with painstaking; to improve or refine with labor and study, or by successive operations; as, to elaborate a painting or a literary work.,
E as in Elaboration (n.) The act or process of producing or refining with labor; improvement by successive operations; refinement.,
E as in Elaboration (n.) The natural process of formation or assimilation, performed by the living organs in animals and vegetables, by which a crude substance is changed into something of a higher order; as, the elaboration of food into chyme; the elaboration of chyle, or sap, or tissues.,
E as in Elaborative (a.) Serving or tending to elaborate; constructing with labor and minute attention to details.,
E as in Elaborator (n.) One who, or that which, elaborates.,
E as in Elaboratory (a.) Tending to elaborate.,
E as in Elaboratory (n.) A laboratory.,
E as in Elaeagnus (n.) A genus of shrubs or small trees, having the foliage covered with small silvery scales; oleaster.,
E as in Elaeis (n.) A genus of palms.,
E as in Elaeolite (n.) A variety of hephelite, usually massive, of greasy luster, and gray to reddish color.,
E as in Elaeoptene (n.) The more liquid or volatile portion of certain oily substance, as distinguished from stearoptene, the more solid parts.,
E as in Elaidate (n.) A salt of elaidic acid.,
E as in Elaidic (a.) Relating to oleic acid, or elaine.,
E as in Elaidin (n.) A solid isomeric modification of olein.,
E as in Elaine (n.) Alt. of Elain,
E as in Elain (n.) Same as Olein.,
E as in Elaiodic (a.) Derived from castor oil; ricinoleic; as, elaiodic acid.,
E as in Elaiometer (n.) An apparatus for determining the amount of oil contained in any substance, or for ascertaining the degree of purity of oil.,
E as in Elamite (n.) A dweller in Flam (or Susiana), an ancient kingdom of Southwestern Asia, afterwards a province of Persia.,
E as in Elamping (a.) Shining.,
E as in Elan (b.) Ardor inspired by passion or enthusiasm.,
E as in Elanced (imp. & p. p.) of Elance,
E as in Elancing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Elance,
E as in Elance (v. t.) To throw as a lance; to hurl; to dart.,
E as in Eland (n.) A species of large South African antelope (Oreas canna). It is valued both for its hide and flesh, and is rapidly disappearing in the settled districts; -- called also Cape elk.,
E as in Eland (n.) The elk or moose.,
E as in Elanet (n.) A kite of the genus Elanus.,
E as in Elaolite (n.) See Elaeolite.,
E as in Elaoptene (n.) See Elaeoptene.,
E as in Elaphine (a.) Pertaining to, resembling, or characteristic of, the stag, or Cervus elaphus.,
E as in Elaphure (n.) A species of deer (Elaphurus Davidianus) found in china. It is about four feet high at the shoulder and has peculiar antlers.,
E as in Elapidation (n.) A clearing away of stones.,
E as in Elapine (a.) Like or pertaining to the Elapidae, a family of poisonous serpents, including the cobras. See Ophidia.,
E as in Elaps (n.) A genus of venomous snakes found both in America and the Old World. Many species are known. See Coral snake, under Coral.,
E as in Elapsed (imp. & p. p.) of Elapse,
E as in Elapsing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Elapse,
E as in Elapse (v. i.) To slip or glide away; to pass away silently, as time; -- used chiefly in reference to time.,
E as in Elapsion (n.) The act of elapsing.,
E as in Elaqueate (v. t.) To disentangle.,
E as in Elasipoda (n. pl.) An order of holothurians mostly found in the deep sea. They are remarkable for their bilateral symmetry and curious forms.,
E as in Elasmobranch (a.) Of or pertaining to the Elasmobranchii.,
E as in Elasmobranch (n.) One of the Elasmobranchii.,
E as in Elasmobranchiate (a.) Of or pertaining to Elasmobranchii.,
E as in Elasmobranchiate (n.) One of the Elasmobranchii.,
E as in Elasmobranchii (n. pl.) A subclass of fishes, comprising the sharks, the rays, and the Chimaera. The skeleton is mainly cartilaginous.,
E as in Elasmosaurus (n.) An extinct, long-necked, marine, cretaceous reptile from Kansas, allied to Plesiosaurus.,
E as in Elastic (a.) Springing back; having a power or inherent property of returning to the form from which a substance is bent, drawn, pressed, or twisted; springy; having the power of rebounding; as, a bow is elastic; the air is elastic; India rubber is elastic.,
E as in Elastic (a.) Able to return quickly to a former state or condition, after being depressed or overtaxed; having power to recover easily from shocks and trials; as, elastic spirits; an elastic constitution.,
E as in Elastic (n.) An elastic woven fabric, as a belt, braces or suspenders, etc., made in part of India rubber.,
E as in Elastical (a.) Elastic.,
E as in Elastically (adv.) In an elastic manner; by an elastic power; with a spring.,
E as in Elasticity (n.) The quality of being elastic; the inherent property in bodies by which they recover their former figure or dimensions, after the removal of external pressure or altering force; springiness; tendency to rebound; as, the elasticity of caoutchouc; the elasticity of the air.,
E as in Elasticity (n.) Power of resistance to, or recovery from, depression or overwork.,
E as in Elasticness (n.) The quality of being elastic; elasticity.,
E as in Elastin (n.) A nitrogenous substance, somewhat resembling albumin, which forms the chemical basis of elastic tissue. It is very insoluble in most fluids, but is gradually dissolved when digested with either pepsin or trypsin.,
E as in Elate (a.) Lifted up; raised; elevated.,
E as in Elate (a.) Having the spirits raised by success, or by hope; flushed or exalted with confidence; elated; exultant.,
E as in Elated (imp. & p. p.) of Elate,
E as in Elating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Elate,
E as in Elate (v. t.) To raise; to exalt.,
E as in Elate (v. t.) To exalt the spirit of; to fill with confidence or exultation; to elevate or flush with success; to puff up; to make proud.,
E as in Elatedly (adv.) With elation.,
E as in Elatedness (n.) The state of being elated.,
E as in Elater (n.) One who, or that which, elates.,
E as in Elater (n.) An elastic spiral filament for dispersing the spores, as in some liverworts.,
E as in Elater (n.) Any beetle of the family Elateridae, having the habit, when laid on the back, of giving a sudden upward spring, by a quick movement of the articulation between the abdomen and thorax; -- called also click beetle, spring beetle, and snapping beetle.,
E as in Elater (n.) The caudal spring used by Podura and related insects for leaping. See Collembola.,
E as in Elater (n.) The active principle of elaterium, being found in the juice of the wild or squirting cucumber (Ecballium agreste, formerly Motordica Elaterium) and other related species. It is extracted as a bitter, white, crystalline substance, which is a violent purgative.,
E as in Elaterite (n.) A mineral resin, of a blackish brown color, occurring in soft, flexible masses; -- called also mineral caoutchouc, and elastic bitumen.,
E as in Elaterium (n.) A cathartic substance obtained, in the form of yellowish or greenish cakes, as the dried residue of the juice of the wild or squirting cucumber (Ecballium agreste, formerly called Momordica Elaterium).,
E as in Elaterometer (n.) Same as Elatrometer.,
E as in Elatery (n.) Acting force; elasticity.,
E as in Elation (n.) A lifting up by success; exaltation; inriation with pride of prosperity.,
E as in Elative (a.) Raised; lifted up; -- a term applied to what is also called the absolute superlative, denoting a high or intense degree of a quality, but not excluding the idea that an equal degree may exist in other cases.,
E as in Elatrometer (n.) An instrument for measuring the degree of rarefaction of air contained in the receiver of an air pump.,
E as in Elayl (n.) Olefiant gas or ethylene; -- so called by Berzelius from its forming an oil combining with chlorine. [Written also elayle.] See Ethylene.,
E as in Elbow (n.) The joint or bend of the arm; the outer curve in the middle of the arm when bent.,
E as in Elbow (n.) Any turn or bend like that of the elbow, in a wall, building, and the like; a sudden turn in a line of coast or course of a river; also, an angular or jointed part of any structure, as the raised arm of a chair or sofa, or a short pipe fitting, turning at an angle or bent.,
E as in Elbow (n.) A sharp angle in any surface of wainscoting or other woodwork; the upright sides which flank any paneled work, as the sides of windows, where the jamb makes an elbow with the window back.,
E as in Elbowed (imp. & p. p.) of Elbow,
E as in Elbowing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Elbow,
E as in Elbow (v. t.) To push or hit with the elbow, as when one pushes by another.,
E as in Elbow (v. i.) To jut into an angle; to project or to bend after the manner of an elbow.,
E as in Elbow (v. i.) To push rudely along; to elbow one's way.,
E as in Elbowboard (n.) The base of a window casing, on which the elbows may rest.,
E as in Elbowchair (n.) A chair with arms to support the elbows; an armchair.,
E as in Elbowroom (n.) Room to extend the elbows on each side; ample room for motion or action; free scope.,
E as in Elcaja (n.) An Arabian tree (Trichilia emetica). The fruit, which is emetic, is sometimes employed in the composition of an ointment for the cure of the itch.,
E as in Elcesaite (n.) One of a sect of Asiatic Gnostics of the time of the Emperor Trajan.,
E as in Eld (a.) Old.,
E as in Eld (n.) Age; esp., old age.,
E as in Eld (n.) Old times; former days; antiquity.,
E as in Eld (v. i.) To age; to grow old.,
E as in Eld (v. t.) To make old or ancient.,
E as in Elder (a.) Older; more aged, or existing longer.,
E as in Elder (a.) Born before another; prior in years; senior; earlier; older; as, his elder brother died in infancy; -- opposed to younger, and now commonly applied to a son, daughter, child, brother, etc.,
E as in Elder (a.) One who is older; a superior in age; a senior.,
E as in Elder (a.) An aged person; one who lived at an earlier period; a predecessor.,
E as in Elder (a.) A person who, on account of his age, occupies the office of ruler or judge; hence, a person occupying any office appropriate to such as have the experience and dignity which age confers; as, the elders of Israel; the elders of the synagogue; the elders in the apostolic church.,
E as in Elder (a.) A clergyman authorized to administer all the sacraments; as, a traveling elder.,
E as in Elder (n.) A genus of shrubs (Sambucus) having broad umbels of white flowers, and small black or red berries.,
E as in Elderish (a.) Somewhat old; elderly.,
E as in Elderly (a.) Somewhat old; advanced beyond middle age; bordering on old age; as, elderly people.,
E as in Eldern (a.) Made of elder.,
E as in Eldership (n.) The state of being older; seniority.,
E as in Eldership (n.) Office of an elder; collectively, a body of elders.,
E as in Elderwort (n.) Danewort.,
E as in Eldest (a.) Oldest; longest in duration.,
E as in Eldest (a.) Born or living first, or before the others, as a son, daughter, brother, etc.; first in origin. See Elder.,
E as in Elding (n.) Fuel.,
E as in El Doradoes (pl. ) of El Dorado,
E as in El Dorado () A name given by the Spaniards in the 16th century to an imaginary country in the interior of South America, reputed to abound in gold and precious stones.,
E as in El Dorado () Any region of fabulous wealth; exceeding richness.,
E as in Eldritch (a.) Hideous; ghastly; as, an eldritch shriek or laugh.,
E as in Eleatic (a.) Of or pertaining to a certain school of Greek philosophers who taught that the only certain science is that which owes nothing to the senses, and all to the reason.,
E as in Eleatic (n.) A philosopher of the Eleatic school.,
E as in Eleaticism (n.) The Eleatic doctrine.,
E as in Elecampane (n.) A large, coarse herb (Inula Helenium), with composite yellow flowers. The root, which has a pungent taste, is used as a tonic, and was formerly of much repute as a stomachic.,
E as in Elecampane (n.) A sweetmeat made from the root of the plant.,
E as in Elect (a.) Chosen; taken by preference from among two or more.,
E as in Elect (a.) Chosen as the object of mercy or divine favor; set apart to eternal life.,
E as in Elect (a.) Chosen to an office, but not yet actually inducted into it; as, bishop elect; governor or mayor elect.,
E as in Elect (n.) One chosen or set apart.,
E as in Elect (n.) Those who are chosen for salvation.,
E as in Elected (imp. & p. p.) of Elect,
E as in Electing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Elect,
E as in Elect (v. t.) To pick out; to select; to choose.,
E as in Elect (v. t.) To select or take for an office; to select by vote; as, to elect a representative, a president, or a governor.,
E as in Elect (v. t.) To designate, choose, or select, as an object of mercy or favor.,
E as in Electant (n.) One who has the power of choosing; an elector.,
E as in Electary (n.) See Electuary.,
E as in Electic (a.) See Eclectic.,
E as in Electicism (n.) See Eclecticism.,
E as in Election (a.) The act of choosing; choice; selection.,
E as in Election (a.) The act of choosing a person to fill an office, or to membership in a society, as by ballot, uplifted hands, or viva voce; as, the election of a president or a mayor.,
E as in Election (a.) Power of choosing; free will; liberty to choose or act.,
E as in Election (a.) Discriminating choice; discernment.,
E as in Election (a.) Divine choice; predestination of individuals as objects of mercy and salvation; -- one of the "five points" of Calvinism.,
E as in Election (a.) The choice, made by a party, of two alternatives, by taking one of which, the chooser is excluded from the other.,
E as in Election (a.) Those who are elected.,
E as in Electionered (imp. & p. p.) of Electioneer,
E as in Electioneering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Electioneer,
E as in Electioneer (v. i.) To make interest for a candidate at an election; to use arts for securing the election of a candidate.,
E as in Electioneerer (n.) One who electioneers.,
E as in Elective (a.) Exerting the power of choice; selecting; as, an elective act.,
E as in Elective (a.) Pertaining to, or consisting in, choice, or right of choosing; electoral.,
E as in Elective (a.) Dependent on choice; bestowed or passing by election; as, an elective study; an elective office.,
E as in Elective (n.) In an American college, an optional study or course of study.,
E as in Electively (adv.) In an elective manner; by choice.,
E as in Elector (n.) One who elects, or has the right of choice; a person who is entitled to take part in an election, or to give his vote in favor of a candidate for office.,
E as in Elector (n.) Hence, specifically, in any country, a person legally qualified to vote.,
E as in Elector (n.) In the old German empire, one of the princes entitled to choose the emperor.,
E as in Elector (n.) One of the persons chosen, by vote of the people in the United States, to elect the President and Vice President.,
E as in Elector (a.) Pertaining to an election or to electors.,
E as in Electorality (n.) The territory or dignity of an elector; electorate.,
E as in Electorate (n.) The territory, jurisdiction, or dignity of an elector, as in the old German empire.,
E as in Electorate (n.) The whole body of persons in a nation or state who are entitled to vote in an election, or any distinct class or division of them.,
E as in Electoress (n.) An electress.,
E as in Electorial (a.) Electoral.,
E as in Electorship (n.) The office or status of an elector.,
E as in Electre (n.) Alt. of Electer,
E as in Electer (n.) Amber. See Electrum.,
E as in Electer (n.) A metallic substance compounded of gold and silver; an alloy.,
E as in Electrepeter (n.) An instrument used to change the direction of electric currents; a commutator.,
E as in Electress (n.) The wife or widow of an elector in the old German empire.,
E as in Electric (a.) Alt. of Electrical,
E as in Electrical (a.) Pertaining to electricity; consisting of, containing, derived from, or produced by, electricity; as, electric power or virtue; an electric jar; electric effects; an electric spark.,
E as in Electrical (a.) Capable of occasioning the phenomena of electricity; as, an electric or electrical machine or substance.,
E as in Electrical (a.) Electrifying; thrilling; magnetic.,
E as in Electric (n.) A nonconductor of electricity, as amber, glass, resin, etc., employed to excite or accumulate electricity.,
E as in Electrically (adv.) In the manner of electricity, or by means of it; thrillingly.,
E as in Electricalness (a.) The state or quality of being electrical.,
E as in Electrician (n.) An investigator of electricity; one versed in the science of electricity.,
E as in Electricities (pl. ) of Electricity,
E as in Electricity (n.) A power in nature, a manifestation of energy, exhibiting itself when in disturbed equilibrium or in activity by a circuit movement, the fact of direction in which involves polarity, or opposition of properties in opposite directions; also, by attraction for many substances, by a law involving attraction between surfaces of unlike polarity, and repulsion between those of like; by exhibiting accumulated polar tension when the circuit is broken; and by producing heat, light, concussion, and often chemical changes when the circuit passes between the poles or through any imperfectly conducting substance or space. It is generally brought into action by any disturbance of molecular equilibrium, whether from a chemical, physical, or mechanical, cause.,
E as in Electricity (n.) The science which unfolds the phenomena and laws of electricity; electrical science.,
E as in Electricity (n.) Fig.: Electrifying energy or characteristic.,
E as in Electrifiable (a.) Capable of receiving electricity, or of being charged with it.,
E as in Electrification (n.) The act of electrifying, or the state of being charged with electricity.,
E as in Electrified (imp. & p. p.) of Electrify,
E as in Electrifying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Electrify,
E as in Electrify (v. t.) To communicate electricity to; to charge with electricity; as, to electrify a jar.,
E as in Electrify (v. t.) To cause electricity to pass through; to affect by electricity; to give an electric shock to; as, to electrify a limb, or the body.,
E as in Electrify (v. t.) To excite suddenly and violently, esp. by something highly delightful or inspiriting; to thrill; as, this patriotic sentiment electrified the audience.,
E as in Electrify (v. i.) To become electric.,
E as in Electrine (a.) Belonging to, or made of, amber.,
E as in Electrine (a.) Made of electrum, an alloy used by the ancients.,
E as in Electrition (n.) The recognition by an animal body of the electrical condition of external objects.,
E as in Electrization (n.) The act of electrizing; electrification.,
E as in Electrized (imp. & p. p.) of Electrize,
E as in Electrizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Electrize,
E as in Electrize (v. t.) To electricity.,
E as in Electrizer (n.) One who, or that which, electrizes.,
E as in Electro- () A prefix or combining form signifying pertaining to electricity, produced by electricity, producing or employing electricity, etc.; as, electro-negative; electro-dynamic; electro-magnet.,
E as in Electro (n.) An electrotype.,
E as in Electro-ballistic (a.) Pertaining to electro-ballistics.,
E as in Electro-ballistics (n.) The art or science of measuring the force or velocity of projectiles by means of electricity.,
E as in Electro-biologist (n.) One versed in electro-biology.,
E as in Electro-biology (n.) That branch of biology which treats of the electrical phenomena of living organisms.,
E as in Electro-biology (n.) That phase of mesmerism or animal magnetism, the phenomena of which are supposed to be produced by a form of electricity.,
E as in Electro-bioscopy (n.) A method of determining the presence or absence of life in an animal organism with a current of electricity, by noting the presence or absence of muscular contraction.,
E as in Electro-capillarity (n.) The occurrence or production of certain capillary effects by the action of an electrical current or charge.,
E as in Electro-capillary (a.) Pert. to, or caused by, electro-capillarity.,
E as in Electro-chemical (a.) Of or pertaining to electro-chemistry.,
E as in Electro-chemistry (n.) That branch of science which treats of the relation of electricity to chemical changes.,
E as in Electro-chronograph (n.) An instrument for obtaining an accurate record of the time at which any observed phenomenon occurs, or of its duration. It has an electro-magnetic register connected with a clock. See Chronograph.,
E as in Electro-chronographic (a.) Belonging to the electro-chronograph, or recorded by the aid of it.,
E as in Electrocute (v. t.) To execute or put to death by electricity. -- E*lec`tro*cu"tion, n. [Recent; Newspaper words],
E as in Electrode (n.) The path by which electricity is conveyed into or from a solution or other conducting medium; esp., the ends of the wires or conductors, leading from source of electricity, and terminating in the medium traversed by the current.,
E as in Electro-dynamic (a.) Alt. of Electro-dynamical,
E as in Electro-dynamical (a.) Pertaining to the movements or force of electric or galvanic currents; dependent on electric force.,
E as in Electro-dynamics (n.) The phenomena of electricity in motion.,
E as in Electro-dynamics (n.) The branch of science which treats of the properties of electric currents; dynamical electricity.,
E as in Electro-dynamometer (n.) An instrument for measuring the strength of electro-dynamic currents.,
E as in Electro-engraving (n.) The art or process of engraving by means of electricity.,
E as in Electro-etching (n.) A mode of etching upon metals by electrolytic action.,
E as in Electrogenesis (n.) Same as Electrogeny.,
E as in Electrogenic (a.) Of or pertaining to electrogenesis; as, an electrogenic condition.,
E as in Electrogeny (n.) A term sometimes applied to the effects (tetanus) produced in the muscles of the limbs, when a current of electricity is passed along the spinal cord or nerves.,
E as in Electro-gilding (n.) The art or process of gilding copper, iron, etc., by means of voltaic electricity.,
E as in Electro-gilt (a.) Gilded by means of voltaic electricity.,
E as in Electrograph (n.) A mark, record, or tracing, made by the action of electricity.,
E as in Electro-kinetic (a.) Of or pertaining to electro-kinetics.,
E as in Electro-kinetics (n.) That branch of electrical science which treats of electricity in motion.,
E as in Electrolier (n.) A branching frame, often of ornamental design, to support electric illuminating lamps.,
E as in Electrology (n.) That branch of physical science which treats of the phenomena of electricity and its properties.,
E as in Electrolysis (n.) The act or process of chemical decomposition, by the action of electricity; as, the electrolysis of silver or nickel for plating; the electrolysis of water.,
E as in Electrolyte (n.) A compound decomposable, or subjected to decomposition, by an electric current.,
E as in Electrolytic (a.) Alt. of Electrolytical,
E as in Electrolytical (a.) Pertaining to electrolysis; as, electrolytic action.,
E as in Electrolyzable (a.) Capable of being electrolyzed, or decomposed by electricity.,
E as in Electrolyzation (n.) The act or the process of electrolyzing.,
E as in Electrolyzed (imp. & p. p.) of Electrolyze,
E as in Electrolyzing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Electrolyze,
E as in Electrolyze (v. t.) To decompose by the direct action of electricity.,
E as in Electro-magnet (n.) A mass, usually of soft iron, but sometimes of some other magnetic metal, as nickel or cobalt, rendered temporarily magnetic by being placed within a coil of wire through which a current of electricity is passing. The metal is generally in the form of a bar, either straight, or bent into the shape of a horseshoe.,
E as in Electro-magnetic (a.) Of, Pertaining to, or produced by, magnetism which is developed by the passage of an electric current.,
E as in Electro-magnetism (n.) The magnetism developed by a current of electricity; the science which treats of the development of magnetism by means of voltaic electricity, and of the properties or actions of the currents evolved.,
E as in Electro-metallurgy (n.) The act or art precipitating a metal electro-chemical action, by which a coating is deposited, on a prepared surface, as in electroplating and electrotyping; galvanoplasty.,
E as in Electrometer (n.) An instrument for measuring the quantity or intensity of electricity; also, sometimes, and less properly, applied to an instrument which indicates the presence of electricity (usually called an electroscope).,
E as in Electro-metric (a.) Alt. of Electro-metrical,
E as in Electro-metrical (a.) Pertaining to electrometry; made by means of electrometer; as, an electrometrical experiment.,
E as in Elextrometry (n.) The art or process of making electrical measurements.,
E as in Electro-motion (n.) The motion of electricity or its passage from one metal to another in a voltaic circuit; mechanical action produced by means of electricity.,
E as in Electro-motive (a.) Producing electro-motion; producing, or tending to produce, electricity or an electric current; causing electrical action or effects.,
E as in Electromotor (n.) A mover or exciter of electricity; as apparatus for generating a current of electricity.,
E as in Electromotor (n.) An apparatus or machine for producing motion and mechanical effects by the action of electricity; an electro-magnetic engine.,
E as in Electro-muscular (a.) Pertaining the reaction (contraction) of the muscles under electricity, or their sensibility to it.,
E as in Electron (n.) Amber; also, the alloy of gold and silver, called electrum.,
E as in Electro-negative (a.) Having the property of being attracted by an electro-positive body, or a tendency to pass to the positive pole in electrolysis, by the law that opposite electricities attract each other.,
E as in Electro-negative (a.) Negative; nonmetallic; acid; -- opposed to positive, metallic, or basic.,
E as in Electro-negative (n.) A body which passes to the positive pole in electrolysis.,
E as in Electropathy (n.) The treatment of disease by electricity.,
E as in Electrophone (n.) An instrument for producing sound by means of electric currents.,
E as in Electrophori (pl. ) of Electrophorus,
E as in Electrophorus (n.) An instrument for exciting electricity, and repeating the charge indefinitely by induction, consisting of a flat cake of resin, shelllac, or ebonite, upon which is placed a plate of metal.,
E as in Electro-physiological (a.) Pertaining to electrical results produced through physiological agencies, or by change of action in a living organism.,
E as in Electro-physiology (n.) That branch of physiology which treats of electric phenomena produced through physiological agencies.,
E as in Electroplating (imp. & p. p.) of Electroplate,
E as in Electroplate (v. t.) To plate or cover with a coating of metal, usually silver, nickel, or gold, by means of electrolysis.,
E as in Electroplater (n.) One who electroplates.,
E as in Electroplating (n.) The art or process of depositing a coating (commonly) of silver, gold, or nickel on an inferior metal, by means of electricity.,
E as in Electro-polar (a.) Possessing electrical polarity; positively electrified at one end, or on one surface, and negatively at the other; -- said of a conductor.,
E as in Electro-positive (a.) Of such a nature relatively to some other associated body or bodies, as to tend to the negative pole of a voltaic battery, in electrolysis, while the associated body tends to the positive pole; -- the converse or correlative of electro-negative.,
E as in Electro-positive (a.) Hence: Positive; metallic; basic; -- distinguished from negative, nonmetallic, or acid.,
E as in Electro-positive (n.) A body which passes to the negative pole in electrolysis.,
E as in Electro-puncturation (n.) Alt. of Electro-puncturing,
E as in Electro-puncturing (n.) See Electropuncture.,
E as in Electro-puncture (n.) An operation that consists in inserting needless in the part affected, and connecting them with the poles of a galvanic apparatus.,
E as in Electroscope (n.) An instrument for detecting the presence of electricity, or changes in the electric state of bodies, or the species of electricity present, as by means of pith balls, and the like.,
E as in Electroscopic (a.) Relating to, or made by means of, the electroscope.,
E as in Electrostatic (a.) Pertaining to electrostatics.,
E as in Electrostatics (n.) That branch of science which treats of statical electricity or electric force in a state of rest.,
E as in Electro-stereotype (n.) Same as Electrotype.,
E as in Electro-telegraphic (a.) Pertaining to the electric telegraph, or by means of it.,
E as in Electro-telegraphy (n.) The art or science of constructing or using the electric telegraph; the transmission of messages by means of the electric telegraph.,
E as in Electro-therapeutics (n.) The branch of medical science which treats of the applications agent.,
E as in Electro-thermancy (n.) That branch of electrical science which treats of the effect of an electric current upon the temperature of a conductor, or a part of a circuit composed of two different metals.,
E as in Electro-tint (n.) A style of engraving in relief by means of voltaic electricity. A picture is drawn on a metallic plate with some material which resists the fluids of a battery; so that, in electro-typing, the parts not covered by the varnish, etc., receive a deposition of metal, and produce the required copy in intaglio. A cast of this is then the plate for printing.,
E as in Electrotonic (a.) Of or pertaining to electrical tension; -- said of a supposed peculiar condition of a conducting circuit during its exposure to the action of another conducting circuit traversed by a uniform electric current when both circuits remain stationary.,
E as in Electrotonic (a.) Relating to electrotonus; as, the electrotonic condition of a nerve.,
E as in Electrotonize (v. t.) To cause or produce electrotonus.,
E as in Electrotonous (a.) Electrotonic.,
E as in Electrotonus (n.) The modified condition of a nerve, when a constant current of electricity passes through any part of it. See Anelectrotonus, and Catelectrotonus.,
E as in Electrotype (n.) A facsimile plate made by electrotypy for use in printing; also, an impression or print from such plate. Also used adjectively.,
E as in Electrotyped (imp. & p. p.) of Electrotype,
E as in Electrotyping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Electrotype,
E as in Electrotype (v. t.) To make facsimile plates of by the electrotype process; as, to electrotype a page of type, a book, etc. See Electrotype, n.,
E as in Electrotyper (n.) One who electrotypes.,
E as in Electrotypic (a.) Pertaining to, or effected by means of, electrotypy.,
E as in Electrotyping (n.) The act or the process of making electrotypes.,
E as in Electrotypy (n.) The process of producing electrotype plates. See Note under Electrotype, n.,
E as in Electro-vital (a.) Derived from, or dependent upon, vital processes; -- said of certain electric currents supposed by some physiologists to circulate in the nerves of animals.,
E as in Electro-vitalism (n.) The theory that the functions of living organisms are dependent upon electricity or a kindred force.,
E as in Electrum (n.) Amber.,
E as in Electrum (n.) An alloy of gold and silver, of an amber color, used by the ancients.,
E as in Electrum (n.) German-silver plate. See German silver, under German.,
E as in Electuaries (pl. ) of Electuary,
E as in Electuary (n.) A medicine composed of powders, or other ingredients, incorporated with some convserve, honey, or sirup; a confection. See the note under Confection.,
E as in Eleemosynarily (adv.) In an eleemosynary manner; by charity; charitably.,
E as in Eleemosynary (a.) Relating to charity, alms, or almsgiving; intended for the distribution of charity; as, an eleemosynary corporation.,
E as in Eleemosynary (a.) Given in charity or alms; having the nature of alms; as, eleemosynary assistance.,
E as in Eleemosynary (a.) Supported by charity; as, eleemosynary poor.,
E as in Eleemosynaries (pl. ) of Eleemosynary,
E as in Eleemosynary (n.) One who subsists on charity; a dependent.,
E as in Elegance (n.) Alt. of Elegancy,
E as in Elegancy (n.) The state or quality of being elegant; beauty as resulting from choice qualities and the complete absence of what deforms or impresses unpleasantly; grace given by art or practice; fine polish; refinement; -- said of manners, language, style, form, architecture, etc.,
E as in Elegancy (n.) That which is elegant; that which is tasteful and highly attractive.,
E as in Elegant (a.) Very choice, and hence, pleasing to good taste; characterized by grace, propriety, and refinement, and the absence of every thing offensive; exciting admiration and approbation by symmetry, completeness, freedom from blemish, and the like; graceful; tasteful and highly attractive; as, elegant manners; elegant style of composition; an elegant speaker; an elegant structure.,
E as in Elegant (a.) Exercising a nice choice; discriminating beauty or sensitive to beauty; as, elegant taste.,
E as in Elegantly (adv.) In a manner to please nice taste; with elegance; with due symmetry; richly.,
E as in Elegiac (a.) Belonging to elegy, or written in elegiacs; plaintive; expressing sorrow or lamentation; as, an elegiac lay; elegiac strains.,
E as in Elegiac (a.) Used in elegies; as, elegiac verse; the elegiac distich or couplet, consisting of a dactylic hexameter and pentameter.,
E as in Elegiac (n.) Elegiac verse.,
E as in Elegiacal (a.) Elegiac.,
E as in Elegiast (n.) One who composes elegies.,
E as in Elegiographer (n.) An elegist.,
E as in Elegist (n.) A write of elegies.,
E as in Elegit (n.) A judicial writ of execution, by which a defendant's goods are appraised and delivered to the plaintiff, and, if not sufficient to satisfy the debt, all of his lands are delivered, to be held till the debt is paid by the rents and profits, or until the defendant's interest has expired.,
E as in Elegize (v. t.) To lament in an elegy; to celebrate in elegiac verse; to bewail.,
E as in Elegies (pl. ) of Elegy,
E as in Elegy (n.) A mournful or plaintive poem; a funereal song; a poem of lamentation.,
E as in Eleidin (n.) Lifeless matter deposited in the form of minute granules within the protoplasm of living cells.,
E as in Element (n.) One of the simplest or essential parts or principles of which anything consists, or upon which the constitution or fundamental powers of anything are based.,
E as in Element (n.) One of the ultimate, undecomposable constituents of any kind of matter. Specifically: (Chem.) A substance which cannot be decomposed into different kinds of matter by any means at present employed; as, the elements of water are oxygen and hydrogen.,
E as in Element (n.) One of the ultimate parts which are variously combined in anything; as, letters are the elements of written language; hence, also, a simple portion of that which is complex, as a shaft, lever, wheel, or any simple part in a machine; one of the essential ingredients of any mixture; a constituent part; as, quartz, feldspar, and mica are the elements of granite.,
E as in Element (n.) One out of several parts combined in a system of aggregation, when each is of the nature of the whole; as, a single cell is an element of the honeycomb.,
E as in Element (n.) One of the smallest natural divisions of the organism, as a blood corpuscle, a muscular fiber.,
E as in Element (n.) One of the simplest essential parts, more commonly called cells, of which animal and vegetable organisms, or their tissues and organs, are composed.,
E as in Element (n.) An infinitesimal part of anything of the same nature as the entire magnitude considered; as, in a solid an element may be the infinitesimal portion between any two planes that are separated an indefinitely small distance. In the calculus, element is sometimes used as synonymous with differential.,
E as in Element (n.) Sometimes a curve, or surface, or volume is considered as described by a moving point, or curve, or surface, the latter being at any instant called an element of the former.,
E as in Element (n.) One of the terms in an algebraic expression.,
E as in Element (n.) One of the necessary data or values upon which a system of calculations depends, or general conclusions are based; as, the elements of a planet's orbit.,
E as in Element (n.) The simplest or fundamental principles of any system in philosophy, science, or art; rudiments; as, the elements of geometry, or of music.,
E as in Element (n.) Any outline or sketch, regarded as containing the fundamental ideas or features of the thing in question; as, the elements of a plan.,
E as in Element (n.) One of the simple substances, as supposed by the ancient philosophers; one of the imaginary principles of matter.,
E as in Element (n.) The four elements were, air, earth, water, and fire,
E as in Element (n.) the conditions and movements of the air.,
E as in Element (n.) The elements of the alchemists were salt, sulphur, and mercury.,
E as in Element (n.) The whole material composing the world.,
E as in Element (n.) The bread and wine used in the eucharist or Lord's supper.,
E as in Element (v. t.) To compound of elements or first principles.,
E as in Element (v. t.) To constitute; to make up with elements.,
E as in Elemental (a.) Pertaining to the elements, first principles, and primary ingredients, or to the four supposed elements of the material world; as, elemental air.,
E as in Elemental (a.) Pertaining to rudiments or first principles; rudimentary; elementary.,
E as in Elementalism (a.) The theory that the heathen divinities originated in the personification of elemental powers.,
E as in Elementality (n.) The condition of being composed of elements, or a thing so composed.,
E as in Elementally (adv.) According to elements; literally; as, the words, "Take, eat; this is my body," elementally understood.,
E as in Elementar (a.) Elementary.,
E as in Elementariness (n.) The state of being elementary; original simplicity; uncompounded state.,
E as in Elementarity (n.) Elementariness.,
E as in Elementary (a.) Having only one principle or constituent part; consisting of a single element; simple; uncompounded; as, an elementary substance.,
E as in Elementary (a.) Pertaining to, or treating of, the elements, rudiments, or first principles of anything; initial; rudimental; introductory; as, an elementary treatise.,
E as in Elementary (a.) Pertaining to one of the four elements, air, water, earth, fire.,
E as in Elementation (n.) Instruction in the elements or first principles.,
E as in Elementoid (a.) Resembling an element.,
E as in Elemi (n.) A fragrant gum resin obtained chiefly from tropical trees of the genera Amyris and Canarium. A. elemifera yields Mexican elemi; C. commune, the Manila elemi. It is used in the manufacture of varnishes, also in ointments and plasters.,
E as in Elemin (n.) A transparent, colorless oil obtained from elemi resin by distillation with water; also, a crystallizable extract from the resin.,
E as in Elenchs (pl. ) of Elench,
E as in Elench (n.) That part of an argument on which its conclusiveness depends; that which convinces of refutes an antagonist; a refutation.,
E as in Elench (n.) A specious but fallacious argument; a sophism.,
E as in Elenchical (a.) Pertaining to an elench.,
E as in Elenchically (adv.) By means of an elench.,
E as in Elenchize (v. i.) To dispute.,
E as in Elenchtic (a.) Alt. of Elenchtical,
E as in Elenchtical (a.) Same as Elenctic.,
E as in Elenchus (n.) Same as Elench.,
E as in Elenctic (a.) Alt. of Elenctical,
E as in Elenctical (a.) Serving to refute; refutative; -- applied to indirect modes of proof, and opposed to deictic.,
E as in Elenge (a.) Sorrowful; wretched; full of trouble.,
E as in Elengeness (n.) Loneliness; misery.,
E as in Elephansy (n.) Elephantiasis.,
E as in Elephant (n.) A mammal of the order Proboscidia, of which two living species, Elephas Indicus and E. Africanus, and several fossil species, are known. They have a proboscis or trunk, and two large ivory tusks proceeding from the extremity of the upper jaw, and curving upwards. The molar teeth are large and have transverse folds. Elephants are the largest land animals now existing.,
E as in Elephant (n.) Ivory; the tusk of the elephant.,
E as in Elephantiac (a.) Affected with elephantiasis; characteristic of elephantiasis.,
E as in Elephantiasis (n.) A disease of the skin, in which it become enormously thickened, and is rough, hard, and fissured, like an elephant's hide.,
E as in Elephantine (a.) Pertaining to the elephant, or resembling an elephant (commonly, in size); hence, huge; immense; heavy; as, of elephantine proportions; an elephantine step or tread.,
E as in Elephantoid (a.) Alt. of Elephantoidal,
E as in Elephantoidal (a.) Resembling an elephant in form or appearance.,
E as in Eleusinian (a.) Pertaining to Eleusis, in Greece, or to secret rites in honor of Ceres, there celebrated; as, Eleusinian mysteries or festivals.,
E as in Eleutheromania (n.) A mania or frantic zeal for freedom.,
E as in Eleutheromaniac (a.) Mad for freedom.,
E as in Eleuthero-petalous (a.) Having the petals free, that is, entirely separate from each other; -- said of both plant and flower.,
E as in Elevate (a.) Elevated; raised aloft.,
E as in Elevated (imp. & p. p.) of Elevate,
E as in Elevating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Elevate,
E as in Elevate (v. t.) To bring from a lower place to a higher; to lift up; to raise; as, to elevate a weight, a flagstaff, etc.,
E as in Elevate (v. t.) To raise to a higher station; to promote; as, to elevate to an office, or to a high social position.,
E as in Elevate (v. t.) To raise from a depressed state; to animate; to cheer; as, to elevate the spirits.,
E as in Elevate (v. t.) To exalt; to ennoble; to dignify; as, to elevate the mind or character.,
E as in Elevate (v. t.) To raise to a higher pitch, or to a greater degree of loudness; -- said of sounds; as, to elevate the voice.,
E as in Elevate (v. t.) To intoxicate in a slight degree; to render tipsy.,
E as in Elevate (v. t.) To lessen; to detract from; to disparage.,
E as in Elevated (a.) Uplifted; high; lofty; also, animated; noble; as, elevated thoughts.,
E as in Elevatedness (n.) The quality of being elevated.,
E as in Elevation (n.) The act of raising from a lower place, condition, or quality to a higher; -- said of material things, persons, the mind, the voice, etc.; as, the elevation of grain; elevation to a throne; elevation of mind, thoughts, or character.,
E as in Elevation (n.) Condition of being elevated; height; exaltation.,
E as in Elevation (n.) That which is raised up or elevated; an elevated place or station; as, an elevation of the ground; a hill.,
E as in Elevation (n.) The distance of a celestial object above the horizon, or the arc of a vertical circle intercepted between it and the horizon; altitude; as, the elevation of the pole, or of a star.,
E as in Elevation (n.) The angle which the style makes with the substylar line.,
E as in Elevation (n.) The movement of the axis of a piece in a vertical plane; also, the angle of elevation, that is, the angle between the axis of the piece and the line o/ sight; -- distinguished from direction.,
E as in Elevation (n.) A geometrical projection of a building, or other object, on a plane perpendicular to the horizon; orthographic projection on a vertical plane; -- called by the ancients the orthography.,
E as in Elevator (n.) One who, or that which, raises or lifts up anything,
E as in Elevator (n.) A mechanical contrivance, usually an endless belt or chain with a series of scoops or buckets, for transferring grain to an upper loft for storage.,
E as in Elevator (n.) A cage or platform and the hoisting machinery in a hotel, warehouse, mine, etc., for conveying persons, goods, etc., to or from different floors or levels; -- called in England a lift; the cage or platform itself.,
E as in Elevator (n.) A building for elevating, storing, and discharging, grain.,
E as in Elevator (n.) A muscle which serves to raise a part of the body, as the leg or the eye.,
E as in Elevator (n.) An instrument for raising a depressed portion of a bone.,
E as in Elevatory (a.) Tending to raise, or having power to elevate; as, elevatory forces.,
E as in Elevatory (n.) See Elevator, n. (e).,
E as in Eleve (n.) A pupil; a student.,
E as in Eleven (a.) Ten and one added; as, eleven men.,
E as in Eleven (n.) The sum of ten and one; eleven units or objects.,
E as in Eleven (n.) A symbol representing eleven units, as 11 or xi.,
E as in Eleven (n.) The eleven men selected to play on one side in a match, as the representatives of a club or a locality; as, the all-England eleven.,
E as in Eleventh (a.) Next after the tenth; as, the eleventh chapter.,
E as in Eleventh (a.) Constituting one of eleven parts into which a thing is divided; as, the eleventh part of a thing.,
E as in Eleventh (a.) Of or pertaining to the interval of the octave and the fourth.,
E as in Eleventh (n.) The quotient of a unit divided by eleven; one of eleven equal parts.,
E as in Eleventh (n.) The interval consisting of ten conjunct degrees; the interval made up of an octave and a fourth.,
E as in Elves (pl. ) of Elf,
E as in Elf (n.) An imaginary supernatural being, commonly a little sprite, much like a fairy; a mythological diminutive spirit, supposed to haunt hills and wild places, and generally represented as delighting in mischievous tricks.,
E as in Elf (n.) A very diminutive person; a dwarf.,
E as in Elf (v. t.) To entangle mischievously, as an elf might do.,
E as in Elfin (a.) Relating to elves.,
E as in Elfin (n.) A little elf or urchin.,
E as in Elfish (a.) Of or relating to the elves; elflike; implike; weird; scarcely human; mischievous, as though caused by elves.,
E as in Elfishly (adv.) In an elfish manner.,
E as in Elfishness (n.) The quality of being elfish.,
E as in Elfkin (n.) A little elf.,
E as in Elfland (n.) Fairyland.,
E as in Elflock (n.) Hair matted, or twisted into a knot, as if by elves.,
E as in Elgin marbles () Greek sculptures in the British Museum. They were obtained at Athens, about 1811, by Lord Elgin.,
E as in Elicit (a.) Elicited; drawn out; made real; open; evident.,
E as in Elicited (imp. & p. p.) of Elicit,
E as in Eliciting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Elicit,
E as in Elicit (v. t.) To draw out or entice forth; to bring to light; to bring out against the will; to deduce by reason or argument; as, to elicit truth by discussion.,
E as in Elicitate (v. t.) To elicit.,
E as in Elicitation (n.) The act of eliciting.,
E as in Elided (imp. & p. p.) of Elide,
E as in Eliding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Elide,
E as in Elide (v. t.) To break or dash in pieces; to demolish; as, to elide the force of an argument.,
E as in Elide (v. t.) To cut off, as a vowel or a syllable, usually the final one; to subject to elision.,
E as in Eligibility (n.) The quality of being eligible; eligibleness; as, the eligibility of a candidate; the eligibility of an offer of marriage.,
E as in Eligible (a.) That may be selected; proper or qualified to be chosen; legally qualified to be elected and to hold office.,
E as in Eligible (a.) Worthy to be chosen or selected; suitable; desirable; as, an eligible situation for a house.,
E as in Eligibleness (n.) The quality worthy or qualified to be chosen; suitableness; desirableness.,
E as in Eligibly (adv.) In an eligible manner.,
E as in Elimate (v. t.) To render smooth; to polish.,
E as in Eliminant (n.) The result of eliminating n variables between n homogeneous equations of any degree; -- called also resultant.,
E as in Eliminated (imp. & p. p.) of Eliminate,
E as in Eliminating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Eliminate,
E as in Eliminate (v. t.) To put out of doors; to expel; to discharge; to release; to set at liberty.,
E as in Eliminate (v. t.) To cause to disappear from an equation; as, to eliminate an unknown quantity.,
E as in Eliminate (v. t.) To set aside as unimportant in a process of inductive inquiry; to leave out of consideration.,
E as in Eliminate (v. t.) To obtain by separating, as from foreign matters; to deduce; as, to eliminate an idea or a conclusion.,
E as in Eliminate (v. t.) To separate; to expel from the system; to excrete; as, the kidneys eliminate urea, the lungs carbonic acid; to eliminate poison from the system.,
E as in Elimination (n.) The act of expelling or throwing off,
E as in Elimination (n.) the act of discharging or excreting waste products or foreign substances through the various emunctories.,
E as in Elimination (n.) Act of causing a quantity to disappear from an equation; especially, in the operation of deducing from several equations containing several unknown quantities a less number of equations containing a less number of unknown quantities.,
E as in Elimination (n.) The act of obtaining by separation, or as the result of eliminating; deduction. [See Eliminate, 4.],
E as in Eliminative (a.) Relating to, or carrying on, elimination.,
E as in Elinguate (v. t.) To deprive of the tongue.,
E as in Elinguation (n.) Punishment by cutting out the tongue.,
E as in Elinguid (a.) Tongue-tied; dumb.,
E as in Eliquament (n.) A liquid obtained from fat, or fat fish, by pressure.,
E as in Eliquation (n.) The process of separating a fusible substance from one less fusible, by means of a degree of heat sufficient to melt the one and not the other, as an alloy of copper and lead; liquation.,
E as in Elison (n.) Division; separation.,
E as in Elison (n.) The cutting off or suppression of a vowel or syllable, for the sake of meter or euphony; esp., in poetry, the dropping of a final vowel standing before an initial vowel in the following word, when the two words are drawn together.,
E as in Elisor (n.) An elector or chooser; one of two persons appointed by a court to return a jury or serve a writ when the sheriff and the coroners are disqualified.,
E as in Elite (n.) A choice or select body; the flower; as, the elite of society.,
E as in Elix (v. t.) To extract.,
E as in Elixate (v. t.) To boil; to seethe; hence, to extract by boiling or seething.,
E as in Elixation (n.) A seething; digestion.,
E as in Elixir (n.) A tincture with more than one base; a compound tincture or medicine, composed of various substances, held in solution by alcohol in some form.,
E as in Elixir (n.) An imaginary liquor capable of transmuting metals into gold; also, one for producing life indefinitely; as, elixir vitae, or the elixir of life.,
E as in Elixir (n.) The refined spirit; the quintessence.,
E as in Elixir (n.) Any cordial or substance which invigorates.,
E as in Elizabethan (a.) Pertaining to Queen Elizabeth or her times, esp. to the architecture or literature of her reign; as, the Elizabethan writers, drama, literature.,
E as in Elizabethan (n.) One who lived in England in the time of Queen Elizabeth.,
E as in Elk (n.) A large deer, of several species. The European elk (Alces machlis or Cervus alces) is closely allied to the American moose. The American elk, or wapiti (Cervus Canadensis), is closely related to the European stag. See Moose, and Wapiti.,
E as in Elk (n.) Alt. of Elke,
E as in Elke (n.) The European wild or whistling swan (Cygnus ferus).,
E as in Elknut (n.) The buffalo nut. See under Buffalo.,
E as in Elkwood (n.) The soft, spongy wood of a species of Magnolia (M. Umbrella).,
E as in Ell (n.) A measure for cloth; -- now rarely used. It is of different lengths in different countries; the English ell being 45 inches, the Dutch or Flemish ell 27, the Scotch about 37.,
E as in Ell (n.) See L.,
E as in Ellachick (n.) A fresh-water tortoise (Chelopus marmoratus) of California; -- used as food.,
E as in Ellagic (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, gallnuts or gallic acid; as, ellagic acid.,
E as in Ellebore (n.) Hellebore.,
E as in Elleborin (n.) See Helleborin.,
E as in Elleck (n.) The red gurnard or cuckoo fish.,
E as in Ellenge (n) Alt. of Ellingeness,
E as in Ellinge (n) Alt. of Ellingeness,
E as in Ellengeness (n) Alt. of Ellingeness,
E as in Ellingeness (n) See Elenge, Elengeness.,
E as in Elles (adv. & conj.) See Else.,
E as in Ellipse (n.) An oval or oblong figure, bounded by a regular curve, which corresponds to an oblique projection of a circle, or an oblique section of a cone through its opposite sides. The greatest diameter of the ellipse is the major axis, and the least diameter is the minor axis. See Conic section, under Conic, and cf. Focus.,
E as in Ellipse (n.) Omission. See Ellipsis.,
E as in Ellipse (n.) The elliptical orbit of a planet.,
E as in Ellipses (pl. ) of Ellipsis,
E as in Ellipsis (n.) Omission; a figure of syntax, by which one or more words, which are obviously understood, are omitted; as, the virtues I admire, for, the virtues which I admire.,
E as in Ellipsis (n.) An ellipse.,
E as in Ellipsograph (n.) An instrument for describing ellipses; -- called also trammel.,
E as in Ellipsoid (n.) A solid, all plane sections of which are ellipses or circles. See Conoid, n., 2 (a).,
E as in Ellipsoid (a.) Alt. of Ellipsoidal,
E as in Ellipsoidal (a.) Pertaining to, or shaped like, an ellipsoid; as, ellipsoid or ellipsoidal form.,
E as in Elliptic (a.) Alt. of Elliptical,
E as in Elliptical (a.) Of or pertaining to an ellipse; having the form of an ellipse; oblong, with rounded ends.,
E as in Elliptical (a.) Having a part omitted; as, an elliptical phrase.,
E as in Elliptically (adv.) In the form of an ellipse.,
E as in Elliptically (adv.) With a part omitted; as, elliptically expressed.,
E as in Ellipticity (n.) Deviation of an ellipse or a spheroid from the form of a circle or a sphere; especially, in reference to the figure of the earth, the difference between the equatorial and polar semidiameters, divided by the equatorial; thus, the ellipticity of the earth is /.,
E as in Elliptic-lanceolate (a.) Having a form intermediate between elliptic and lanceolate.,
E as in Elliptograph (n.) Same as Ellipsograph.,
E as in Ellwand (n.) Formerly, a measuring rod an ell long.,
E as in Elm (n.) A tree of the genus Ulmus, of several species, much used as a shade tree, particularly in America. The English elm is Ulmus campestris; the common American or white elm is U. Americana; the slippery or red elm, U. fulva.,
E as in Elmen (a.) Belonging to elms.,
E as in Elmo's fire () See Corposant; also Saint Elmo's Fire, under Saint.,
E as in Elmy (a.) Abounding with elms.,
E as in Elocation (n.) A removal from the usual place of residence.,
E as in Elocation (n.) Departure from the usual state; an ecstasy.,
E as in Elocular (a.) Having but one cell, or cavity; not divided by a septum or partition.,
E as in Elocution (n.) Utterance by speech.,
E as in Elocution (n.) Oratorical or expressive delivery, including the graces of intonation, gesture, etc.; style or manner of speaking or reading in public; as, clear, impressive elocution.,
E as in Elocution (n.) Suitable and impressive writing or style; eloquent diction.,
E as in Elocutionary (a.) Pertaining to elocution.,
E as in Elocutionist (n.) One who is versed in elocution; a teacher of elocution.,
E as in Elocutive (a.) Pertaining to oratorical expression.,
E as in Elodian (n.) One of a tribe of tortoises, including the terrapins, etc., in which the head and neck can be withdrawn.,
E as in Eloge (n.) A panegyrical funeral oration.,
E as in Elogist (n.) One who pronounces an eloge.,
E as in Elogium (n.) Alt. of Elogy,
E as in Elogy (n.) The praise bestowed on a person or thing; panegyric; eulogy.,
E as in Elohim (n.) One of the principal names by which God is designated in the Hebrew Scriptures.,
E as in Elohist (n.) The writer, or one of the writers, of the passages of the Old Testament, notably those of Elohim instead of Jehovah, as the name of the Supreme Being; -- distinguished from Jehovist.,
E as in Elohistic (a.) Relating to Elohim as a name of God; -- said of passages in the Old Testament.,
E as in Eloigned (imp. & p. p.) of Eloign,
E as in Eloigning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Eloign,
E as in Eloign (v. t.) To remove afar off; to withdraw.,
E as in Eloign (v. t.) To convey to a distance, or beyond the jurisdiction, or to conceal, as goods liable to distress.,
E as in Eloignate (v. t.) To remove.,
E as in Eloignment (n.) Removal to a distance; withdrawal.,
E as in Eloin (v. t.) See Eloign.,
E as in Eloinate (v. t.) See Eloignate.,
E as in Eloinment (n.) See Eloignment.,
E as in Elong (v. t.) To lengthen out; to prolong.,
E as in Elong (v. t.) To put away; to separate; to keep off.,
E as in Elongated (imp. & p. p.) of Elongate,
E as in Elongating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Elongate,
E as in Elongate (a.) To lengthen; to extend; to stretch; as, to elongate a line.,
E as in Elongate (a.) To remove further off.,
E as in Elongate (v. i.) To depart to, or be at, a distance; esp., to recede apparently from the sun, as a planet in its orbit.,
E as in Elongate (a.) Drawn out at length; elongated; as, an elongate leaf.,
E as in Elongation (n.) The act of lengthening, or the state of being lengthened; protraction; extension.,
E as in Elongation (n.) That which lengthens out; continuation.,
E as in Elongation (n.) Removal to a distance; withdrawal; a being at a distance; distance.,
E as in Elongation (n.) The angular distance of a planet from the sun; as, the elongation of Venus or Mercury.,
E as in Eloped (imp. & p. p.) of Elope,
E as in Eloping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Elope,
E as in Elope (v. t.) To run away, or escape privately, from the place or station to which one is bound by duty; -- said especially of a woman or a man, either married or unmarried, who runs away with a paramour or a sweetheart.,
E as in Elopement (n.) The act of eloping; secret departure; -- said of a woman and a man, one or both, who run away from their homes for marriage or for cohabitation.,
E as in Eloper (n.) One who elopes.,
E as in Elops (n.) A genus of fishes. See Saury.,
E as in Elops (n.) A mythical serpent.,
E as in Eloquence (n.) Fluent, forcible, elegant, and persuasive speech in public; the power of expressing strong emotions in striking and appropriate language either spoken or written, thereby producing conviction or persuasion.,
E as in Eloquence (n.) Fig.: Whatever produces the effect of moving and persuasive speech.,
E as in Eloquence (n.) That which is eloquently uttered or written.,
E as in Eloquent (a.) Having the power of expressing strong emotions or forcible arguments in an elevated, impassioned, and effective manner; as, an eloquent orator or preacher.,
E as in Eloquent (a.) Adapted to express strong emotion or to state facts arguments with fluency and power; as, an eloquent address or statement; an eloquent appeal to a jury.,
E as in Eloquently (adv.) In an eloquent manner.,
E as in Elrich (a.) Alt. of Elritch,
E as in Elritch (a.) Ghastly; preternatural. Same as Eldritch.,
E as in Else (a. & pron.) Other; one or something beside; as, Who else is coming? What else shall I give? Do you expect anything else?,
E as in Else (adv. & conj.) Besides; except that mentioned; in addition; as, nowhere else; no one else.,
E as in Else (adv. & conj.) Otherwise; in the other, or the contrary, case; if the facts were different.,
E as in Elsewhere (adv.) In any other place; as, these trees are not to be found elsewhere.,
E as in Elsewhere (adv.) In some other place; in other places, indefinitely; as, it is reported in town and elsewhere.,
E as in Elsewhither (adv.) To some, or any, other place; as, you will have to go elsewhither for it.,
E as in Elsewise (adv.) Otherwise.,
E as in Elsin (n.) A shoemaker's awl.,
E as in Elucidated (imp. & p. p.) of Elucidate,
E as in Elucidating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Elucidate,
E as in Elucidate (v. t.) To make clear or manifest; to render more intelligible; to illustrate; as, an example will elucidate the subject.,
E as in Elucidation (n.) A making clear; the act of elucidating or that which elucidates, as an explanation, an exposition, an illustration; as, one example may serve for further elucidation of the subject.,
E as in Elucidative (a.) Making clear; tending to elucidate; as, an elucidative note.,
E as in Elucidator (n.) One who explains or elucidates; an expositor.,
E as in Elucidatory (a.) Tending to elucidate; elucidative.,
E as in Eluctate (v. i.) To struggle out; -- with out.,
E as in Eluctation (n.) A struggling out of any difficulty.,
E as in Elucubrate (v. i.) See Lucubrate.,
E as in Elucubration (n.) See Lucubration.,
E as in Eluded (imp. & p. p.) of Elude,
E as in Eluding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Elude,
E as in Elude (v. t.) To avoid slyly, by artifice, stratagem, or dexterity; to escape from in a covert manner; to mock by an unexpected escape; to baffle; as, to elude an officer; to elude detection, inquiry, search, comprehension; to elude the force of an argument or a blow.,
E as in Eludible (a.) Capable of being eluded; evadible.,
E as in Elul (n.) The sixth month of the Jewish year, by the sacred reckoning, or the twelfth, by the civil reckoning, corresponding nearly to the month of September.,
E as in Elumbated (a.) Weak or lame in the loins.,
E as in Elusion (n.) Act of eluding; adroit escape, as by artifice; a mockery; a cheat; trickery.,
E as in Elusive (a.) Tending to elude; using arts or deception to escape; adroitly escaping or evading; eluding the grasp; fallacious.,
E as in Elusory (a.) Tending to elude or deceive; evasive; fraudulent; fallacious; deceitful; deceptive.,
E as in Elute (v. t.) To wash out.,
E as in Elutriated (imp. & p. p.) of Elutriate,
E as in Elutriating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Elutriate,
E as in Elutriate (v. t.) To wash or strain out so as to purify; as, to elutriate the blood as it passes through the lungs; to strain off or decant, as a powder which is separated from heavier particles by being drawn off with water; to cleanse, as by washing.,
E as in Elutriation (n.) The process of elutriating; a decanting or racking off by means of water, as finer particles from heavier.,
E as in Eluxate (v. t.) To dislocate; to luxate.,
E as in Eluxation (n.) Dislocation; luxation.,
E as in Elvan (a.) Pertaining to elves; elvish.,
E as in Elvan (a.) Of or pertaining to certain veins of feldspathic or porphyritic rock crossing metalliferous veins in the mining districts of Cornwall; as, an elvan course.,
E as in Elvan (n.) Alt. of Elvanite,
E as in Elvanite (n.) The rock of an elvan vein, or the elvan vein itself; an elvan course.,
E as in Elve (n.) An old form of Elf.,
E as in Elver (n.) A young eel; a young conger or sea eel; -- called also elvene.,
E as in Elf (pl. ) of Elves,
E as in Elvish (a.) Pertaining to elves; implike; mischievous; weird; also, vacant; absent in demeanor. See Elfish.,
E as in Elvish (a.) Mysterious; also, foolish.,
E as in Elvishly (adv.) In an elvish manner.,
E as in Elwand (n.) See Ellwand.,
E as in Elysian (a.) Pertaining, or the abode of the blessed after death; hence, yielding the highest pleasures; exceedingly delightful; beatific.,
E as in Elysiums (pl. ) of Elysium,
E as in Elysia (pl. ) of Elysium,
E as in Elysium (n.) A dwelling place assigned to happy souls after death; the seat of future happiness; Paradise.,
E as in Elysium (n.) Hence, any delightful place.,
E as in Elytriform (a.) Having the form, or structure, of an elytron.,
E as in Elytrin (n.) See Chitin.,
E as in Elytroid (a.) Resembling a beetle's wing case.,
E as in Elytra (pl. ) of Elytrum,
E as in Elytron (n.) Alt. of Elytrum,
E as in Elytrum (n.) One of the anterior pair of wings in the Coleoptera and some other insects, when they are thick and serve only as a protection for the posterior pair.,
E as in Elytrum (n.) One of the shieldlike dorsal scales of certain annelids. See Chaetopoda.,
E as in Elzevir (a.) Applied to books or editions (esp. of the Greek New Testament and the classics) printed and published by the Elzevir family at Amsterdam, Leyden, etc., from about 1592 to 1680; also, applied to a round open type introduced by them.,
E as in 'Em () An obsolete or colloquial contraction of the old form hem, them.,
E as in Em (n.) The portion of a line formerly occupied by the letter m, then a square type, used as a unit by which to measure the amount of printed matter on a page; the square of the body of a type.,
E as in Em- () A prefix. See En-.,
E as in Emacerate (v. t. & i.) To make lean or to become lean; to emaciate.,
E as in Emaceration (n.) Emaciation.,
E as in Emaciated (imp. & p. p.) of Emaciate,
E as in Emaciating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Emaciate,
E as in Emaciate (v. i.) To lose flesh gradually and become very lean; to waste away in flesh.,
E as in Emaciate (v. t.) To cause to waste away in flesh and become very lean; as, his sickness emaciated him.,
E as in Emaciate (a.) Emaciated.,
E as in Emaciation (n.) The act of making very lean.,
E as in Emaciation (n.) The state of being emaciated or reduced to excessive leanness; an excessively lean condition.,
E as in Emaculate (v. t.) To clear from spots or stains, or from any imperfection.,
E as in Emaculation (n.) The act of clearing from spots.,
E as in Aemail ombrant () An art or process of flooding transparent colored glaze over designs stamped or molded on earthenware or porcelain.,
E as in Emanant (a.) Issuing or flowing forth; emanating; passing forth into an act, or making itself apparent by an effect; -- said of mental acts; as, an emanant volition.,
E as in Emanated (imp. & p. p.) of Emanate,
E as in Emanating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Emanate,
E as in Emanate (v. i.) To issue forth from a source; to flow out from more or less constantly; as, fragrance emanates from flowers.,
E as in Emanate (v. i.) To proceed from, as a source or fountain; to take origin; to arise, to originate.,
E as in Emanate (a.) Issuing forth; emanant.,
E as in Emanation (n.) The act of flowing or proceeding from a fountain head or origin.,
E as in Emanation (n.) That which issues, flows, or proceeds from any object as a source; efflux; an effluence; as, perfume is an emanation from a flower.,
E as in Emanative (a.) Issuing forth; effluent.,
E as in Emanatively (adv.) By an emanation.,
E as in Emanatory (a.) Emanative; of the nature of an emanation.,
E as in Emancipated (imp. & p. p.) of Emancipate,
E as in Emancipating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Emancipate,
E as in Emancipate (v. t.) To set free from the power of another; to liberate; as: (a) To set free, as a minor from a parent; as, a father may emancipate a child. (b) To set free from bondage; to give freedom to; to manumit; as, to emancipate a slave, or a country.,
E as in Emancipate (v. t.) To free from any controlling influence, especially from anything which exerts undue or evil influence; as, to emancipate one from prejudices or error.,
E as in Emancipate (a.) Set at liberty.,
E as in Emancipation (n.) The act of setting free from the power of another, from slavery, subjection, dependence, or controlling influence; also, the state of being thus set free; liberation; as, the emancipation of slaves; the emancipation of minors; the emancipation of a person from prejudices; the emancipation of the mind from superstition; the emancipation of a nation from tyranny or subjection.,
E as in Emancipationist (n.) An advocate of emancipation, esp. the emancipation of slaves.,
E as in Emancipator (n.) One who emancipates.,
E as in Emancipatory (a.) Pertaining to emancipation, or tending to effect emancipation.,
E as in Emancipist (n.) A freed convict.,
E as in Emarginate (v. t.) To take away the margin of.,
E as in Emarginate (a.) Alt. of Emarginated,
E as in Emarginated (a.) Having the margin interrupted by a notch or shallow sinus.,
E as in Emarginated (a.) Notched at the summit.,
E as in Emarginated (a.) Having the edges truncated.,
E as in Emarginately (adv.) In an emarginate manner.,
E as in Emargination (n.) The act of notching or indenting the margin, or the state of being so notched; also, a notch or shallow sinus in a margin.,
E as in Emasculated (imp. & p. p.) of Emasculate,
E as in Emasculating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Emasculate,
E as in Emasculate (v. t.) To deprive of virile or procreative power; to castrate power; to castrate; to geld.,
E as in Emasculate (v. t.) To deprive of masculine vigor or spirit; to weaken; to render effeminate; to vitiate by unmanly softness.,
E as in Emasculate (a.) Deprived of virility or vigor; unmanned; weak.,
E as in Emasculation (n.) The act of depriving of virility, or the state of being so deprived; castration.,
E as in Emasculation (n.) The act of depriving, or state of being deprived, of vigor or strength; unmanly weakness.,
E as in Emasculator (n.) One who, or that which, emasculates.,
E as in Emasculatory (a.) Serving or tending to emasculate.,
E as in Embace (v. t.) See Embase.,
E as in Embale (v. t.) To make up into a bale or pack.,
E as in Embale (v. t.) To bind up; to inclose.,
E as in Emball (v. t.) To encircle or embrace.,
E as in Embalmed (imp. & p. p.) of Embalm,
E as in Embalming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Embalm,
E as in Embalm (v. t.) To anoint all over with balm; especially, to preserve from decay by means of balm or other aromatic oils, or spices; to fill or impregnate (a dead body), with aromatics and drugs that it may resist putrefaction.,
E as in Embalm (v. t.) To fill or imbue with sweet odor; to perfume.,
E as in Embalm (v. t.) To preserve from decay or oblivion as if with balm; to perpetuate in remembrance.,
E as in Embalmer (n.) One who embalms.,
E as in Embalmment (n.) The act of embalming.,
E as in Embanked (imp. & p. p.) of Embank,
E as in Embanking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Embank,
E as in Embank (v. t.) To throw up a bank so as to confine or to defend; to protect by a bank of earth or stone.,
E as in Embankment (n.) The act of surrounding or defending with a bank.,
E as in Embankment (n.) A structure of earth, gravel, etc., raised to prevent water from overflowing a level tract of country, to retain water in a reservoir, or to carry a roadway, etc.,
E as in Embarred (imp. & p. p.) of Embar,
E as in Embanking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Embar,
E as in Embar (v. t.) To bar or shut in; to inclose securely, as with bars.,
E as in Embar (v. t.) To stop; to hinder by prohibition; to block up.,
E as in Embarcation (n.) Same as Embarkation.,
E as in Embarge (v. t.) To put in a barge.,
E as in Embargoes (pl. ) of Embargo,
E as in Embargo (n.) An edict or order of the government prohibiting the departure of ships of commerce from some or all of the ports within its dominions; a prohibition to sail.,
E as in Embargoed (imp. & p. p.) of Embargo,
E as in Embargoing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Embargo,
E as in Embargo (v. t.) To lay an embargo on and thus detain; to prohibit from leaving port; -- said of ships, also of commerce and goods.,
E as in Embarked (imp. & p. p.) of Embark,
E as in Embarking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Embark,
E as in Embark (v. t.) To cause to go on board a vessel or boat; to put on shipboard.,
E as in Embark (v. t.) To engage, enlist, or invest (as persons, money, etc.) in any affair; as, he embarked his fortune in trade.,
E as in Embark (v. i.) To go on board a vessel or a boat for a voyage; as, the troops embarked for Lisbon.,
E as in Embark (v. i.) To engage in any affair.,
E as in Embarkation (n.) The act of putting or going on board of a vessel; as, the embarkation of troops.,
E as in Embarkation (n.) That which is embarked; as, an embarkation of Jesuits.,
E as in Embarkment (n.) Embarkation.,
E as in Embarrassed (imp. & p. p.) of Embarrass,
E as in Embarrassing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Embarrass,
E as in Embarrass (v. t.) To hinder from freedom of thought, speech, or action by something which impedes or confuses mental action; to perplex; to discompose; to disconcert; as, laughter may embarrass an orator.,
E as in Embarrass (v. t.) To hinder from liberty of movement; to impede; to obstruct; as, business is embarrassed; public affairs are embarrassed.,
E as in Embarrass (v. t.) To involve in difficulties concerning money matters; to incumber with debt; to beset with urgent claims or demands; -- said of a person or his affairs; as, a man or his business is embarrassed when he can not meet his pecuniary engagements.,
E as in Embarrass (v. t.) Embarrassment.,
E as in Embarrassment (n.) A state of being embarrassed; perplexity; impediment to freedom of action; entanglement; hindrance; confusion or discomposure of mind, as from not knowing what to do or to say; disconcertedness.,
E as in Embarrassment (n.) Difficulty or perplexity arising from the want of money to pay debts.,
E as in Embase (v. t.) To bring down or lower, as in position, value, etc.; to debase; to degrade; to deteriorate.,
E as in Embasement (v. t.) Act of bringing down; depravation; deterioration.,
E as in Embassade (n.) An embassy. See Ambassade.,
E as in Embassador (n.) Same as Ambassador.,
E as in Embassadorial (a.) Same as Ambassadorial.,
E as in Embassadress (n.) Same as Ambassadress.,
E as in Embassadry (n.) Embassy.,
E as in Embassage (n.) An embassy.,
E as in Embassage (n.) Message; errand.,
E as in Embassies (pl. ) of Embassy,
E as in Embassy (n.) The public function of an ambassador; the charge or business intrusted to an ambassador or to envoys; a public message to; foreign court concerning state affairs; hence, any solemn message.,
E as in Embassy (n.) The person or persons sent as ambassadors or envoys; the ambassador and his suite; envoys.,
E as in Embassy (n.) The residence or office of an ambassador.,
E as in Embastardize (v. t.) To bastardize.,
E as in Embathe (v. t.) To bathe; to imbathe.,
E as in Embattail (v. t.) To furnish with battlements; to fortify as with battlements.,
E as in Embattled (imp. & p. p.) of Embattle,
E as in Embattling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Embattle,
E as in Embattle (v. t.) To arrange in order of battle; to array for battle; also, to prepare or arm for battle; to equip as for battle.,
E as in Embattle (v. i.) To be arrayed for battle.,
E as in Embattle (v. t.) To furnish with battlements.,
E as in Embattled (a.) Having indentations like a battlement.,
E as in Embattled (a.) Having the edge broken like battlements; -- said of a bearing such as a fess, bend, or the like.,
E as in Embattled (a.) Having been the place of battle; as, an embattled plain or field.,
E as in Embattlement (n.) An intended parapet; a battlement.,
E as in Embattlement (n.) The fortifying of a building or a wall by means of battlements.,
E as in Embay (v. t.) To bathe; to soothe or lull as by bathing.,
E as in Embayed (imp. & p. p.) of Embay,
E as in Embaying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Embay,
E as in Embay (v. t.) To shut in, or shelter, as in a bay.,
E as in Embayment (n.) A bay.,
E as in Embeam (v. t.) To make brilliant with beams.,
E as in Embedded (imp. & p. p.) of Embed,
E as in Embedding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Embed,
E as in Embed (v. t.) To lay as in a bed; to lay in surrounding matter; to bed; as, to embed a thing in clay, mortar, or sand.,
E as in Embedment (n.) The act of embedding, or the state of being embedded.,
E as in Embellished (imp. & p. p.) of Embellish,
E as in Embellishing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Embellish,
E as in Embellish (v. t.) To make beautiful or elegant by ornaments; to decorate; to adorn; as, to embellish a book with pictures, a garden with shrubs and flowers, a narrative with striking anecdotes, or style with metaphors.,
E as in Embellisher (n.) One who embellishes.,
E as in Embellishment (n.) The act of adorning, or the state of being adorned; adornment.,
E as in Embellishment (n.) That which adds beauty or elegance; ornament; decoration; as, pictorial embellishments.,
E as in Ember (n.) A lighted coal, smoldering amid ashes; -- used chiefly in the plural, to signify mingled coals and ashes; the smoldering remains of a fire.,
E as in Ember (a.) Making a circuit of the year of the seasons; recurring in each quarter of the year; as, ember fasts.,
E as in Ember-goose (n.) The loon or great northern diver. See Loon.,
E as in Emberings (n. pl.) Ember days.,
E as in Embetter (v. t.) To make better.,
E as in Embezzled (imp. & p. p.) of Embezzle,
E as in Embezzling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Embezzle,
E as in Embezzle (v. t.) To appropriate fraudulently to one's own use, as property intrusted to one's care; to apply to one's private uses by a breach of trust; as, to embezzle money held in trust.,
E as in Embezzle (v. t.) To misappropriate; to waste; to dissipate in extravagance.,
E as in Embezzlement (n.) The fraudulent appropriation of property by a person to whom it has been intrusted; as, the embezzlement by a clerk of his employer's; embezzlement of public funds by the public officer having them in charge.,
E as in Embezzler (n.) One who embezzles.,
E as in Embillow (v. i.) To swell or heave like a ///// of the sea.,
E as in Embiotocoid (a.) Belonging to, or resembling, the Embiotocidae.,
E as in Embiotocoid (n.) One of a family of fishes (Embiotocidae) abundant on the coast of California, remarkable for being viviparous; -- also called surf fishes and viviparous fishes. See Illust. in Append.,
E as in Embitter (v. t.) To make bitter or sad. See Imbitter.,
E as in Embitterment (n.) The act of embittering; also, that which embitters.,
E as in Emblanch (v. t.) To whiten. See Blanch.,
E as in Emblazed (imp. & p. p.) of Emblaze,
E as in Emblazing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Emblaze,
E as in Emblaze (v. t.) To adorn with glittering embellishments.,
E as in Emblaze (v. t.) To paint or adorn with armorial figures; to blazon, or emblazon.,
E as in Emblazoned (imp. & p. p.) of Emblazon,
E as in Emblazoning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Emblazon,
E as in Emblazon (v. t.) To depict or represent; -- said of heraldic bearings. See Blazon.,
E as in Emblazon (v. t.) To deck in glaring colors; to set off conspicuously; to display pompously; to decorate.,
E as in Emblazoner (n.) One who emblazons; also, one who publishes and displays anything with pomp.,
E as in Emblazoning (n.) The act or art of heraldic decoration; delineation of armorial bearings.,
E as in Emblazonment (n.) An emblazoning.,
E as in Emblazonries (pl. ) of Emblazonry,
E as in Emblazonry (n.) The act or art of an emblazoner; heraldic or ornamental decoration, as pictures or figures on shields, standards, etc.; emblazonment.,
E as in Emblem (n.) Inlay; inlaid or mosaic work; something ornamental inserted in a surface.,
E as in Emblem (n.) A visible sign of an idea; an object, or the figure of an object, symbolizing and suggesting another object, or an idea, by natural aptness or by association; a figurative representation; a typical designation; a symbol; as, a balance is an emblem of justice; a scepter, the emblem of sovereignty or power; a circle, the emblem of eternity.,
E as in Emblem (n.) A picture accompanied with a motto, a set of verse, or the like, intended as a moral lesson or meditation.,
E as in Emblemed (imp. & p. p.) of Emblem,
E as in Embleming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Emblem,
E as in Emblem (v. t.) To represent by an emblem; to symbolize.,
E as in Emblematic (a.) Alt. of Emblematical,
E as in Emblematical (a.) Pertaining to, containing, or consisting in, an emblem; symbolic; typically representative; representing as an emblem; as, emblematic language or ornaments; a crown is emblematic of royalty; white is emblematic of purity.,
E as in Emblematiccize (v. t.) To render emblematic; as, to emblematicize a picture.,
E as in Emblematist (n.) A writer or inventor of emblems.,
E as in Emblematized (imp. & p. p.) of Emblematize,
E as in Emblematizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Emblematize,
E as in Emblematize (v. t.) To represent by, or as by, an emblem; to symbolize.,
E as in Emblement (n.) The growing crop, or profits of a crop which has been sown or planted; -- used especially in the plural. The produce of grass, trees, and the like, is not emblement.,
E as in Emblemized (imp. & p. p.) of Emblemize,
E as in Emblemizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Emblemize,
E as in Emblemize (v. t.) To represent by an emblem; to emblematize.,
E as in Embloom (v. t.) To emblossom.,
E as in Emblossom (v. t.) To cover or adorn with blossoms.,
E as in Embodier (n.) One who embodies.,
E as in Embodiment (n.) The act of embodying; the state of being embodied.,
E as in Embodiment (n.) That which embodies or is embodied; representation in a physical body; a completely organized system, like the body; as, the embodiment of courage, or of courtesy; the embodiment of true piety.,
E as in Embodied (imp. & p. p.) of Embody,
E as in Embodying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Embody,
E as in Embody (v. t.) To form into a body; to invest with a body; to collect into a body, a united mass, or a whole; to incorporate; as, to embody one's ideas in a treatise.,
E as in Embody (v. i.) To unite in a body, a mass, or a collection; to coalesce.,
E as in Embogue (v. i.) To disembogue; to discharge, as a river, its waters into the sea or another river.,
E as in Emboguing (n.) The mouth of a river, or place where its waters are discharged.,
E as in Emboil (v. i.) To boil with anger; to effervesce.,
E as in Emboil (v. t.) To cause to boil with anger; to irritate; to chafe.,
E as in Emboitement (n.) The hypothesis that all living things proceed from preexisting germs, and that these encase the germs of all future living things, inclosed one within another.,
E as in Emboldened (imp. & p. p.) of Embolden,
E as in Emboldening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Embolden,
E as in Embolden (v. t.) To give boldness or courage to; to encourage.,
E as in Emboldener (n.) One who emboldens.,
E as in Embolic (a.) Embolismic.,
E as in Embolic (a.) Pertaining to an embolism; produced by an embolism; as, an embolic abscess.,
E as in Embolic (a.) Pushing or growing in; -- said of a kind of invagination. See under Invagination.,
E as in Embolism (n.) Intercalation; the insertion of days, months, or years, in an account of time, to produce regularity; as, the embolism of a lunar month in the Greek year.,
E as in Embolism (n.) Intercalated time.,
E as in Embolism (n.) The occlusion of a blood vessel by an embolus. Embolism in the brain often produces sudden unconsciousness and paralysis.,
E as in Embolismal (a.) Pertaining to embolism; intercalary; as, embolismal months.,
E as in Embolismatic (a.) Alt. of Embolismatical,
E as in Embolismatical (a.) Embolismic.,
E as in Embolismic (a.) Alt. of Embolismical,
E as in Embolismical (a.) Pertaining to embolism or intercalation; intercalated; as, an embolismic year, i. e., the year in which there is intercalation.,
E as in Embolite (n.) A mineral consisting of both the chloride and the bromide of silver.,
E as in Emboli (pl. ) of Embolus,
E as in Embolus (n.) Something inserted, as a wedge; the piston or sucker of a pump or syringe.,
E as in Embolus (n.) A plug of some substance lodged in a blood vessel, being brought thither by the blood current. It consists most frequently of a clot of fibrin, a detached shred of a morbid growth, a globule of fat, or a microscopic organism.,
E as in Emboly (n.) Embolic invagination. See under Invagination.,
E as in Embonpoint (n.) Plumpness of person; -- said especially of persons somewhat corpulent.,
E as in Emborder (v. t.) To furnish or adorn with a border; to imborder.,
E as in Embosom (v. t.) To take into, or place in, the bosom; to cherish; to foster.,
E as in Embosom (v. t.) To inclose or surround; to shelter closely; to place in the midst of something.,
E as in Embossed (imp. & p. p.) of Emboss,
E as in Embossing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Emboss,
E as in Emboss (v. t.) To arise the surface of into bosses or protuberances; particularly, to ornament with raised work.,
E as in Emboss (v. t.) To raise in relief from a surface, as an ornament, a head on a coin, or the like.,
E as in Emboss (v. t.) To make to foam at the mouth, like a hunted animal.,
E as in Emboss (v. t.) To hide or conceal in a thicket; to imbosk; to inclose, shelter, or shroud in a wood.,
E as in Emboss (v. t.) To surround; to ensheath; to immerse; to beset.,
E as in Emboss (v. i.) To seek the bushy forest; to hide in the woods.,
E as in Embossed (a.) Formed or covered with bosses or raised figures.,
E as in Embossed (a.) Having a part projecting like the boss of a shield.,
E as in Embossed (a.) Swollen; protuberant.,
E as in Embosser (n.) One who embosses.,
E as in Embossment (n.) The act of forming bosses or raised figures, or the state of being so formed.,
E as in Embossment (n.) A bosslike prominence; figure in relief; raised work; jut; protuberance; esp., a combination of raised surfaces having a decorative effect.,
E as in Embottle (v. t.) To bottle.,
E as in Embouchure (n.) The mouth of a river; also, the mouth of a cannon.,
E as in Embouchure (n.) The mouthpiece of a wind instrument.,
E as in Embouchure (n.) The shaping of the lips to the mouthpiece; as, a flute player has a good embouchure.,
E as in Embow (v. t.) To bend like a bow; to curve.,
E as in Emboweled (imp. & p. p.) of Embowel,
E as in Embowelled () of Embowel,
E as in Emboweling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Embowel,
E as in Embowelling () of Embowel,
E as in Embowel (v. t.) To disembowel.,
E as in Embowel (v. t.) To imbed; to hide in the inward parts; to bury.,
E as in Emboweler (n.) One who takes out the bowels.,
E as in Embowelment (n.) Disembowelment.,
E as in Embower (v. t.) To cover with a bower; to shelter with trees.,
E as in Embower (v. i.) To lodge or rest in a bower.,
E as in Embowl (v. t.) To form like a bowl; to give a globular shape to.,
E as in Embox (v. t.) To inclose, as in a box; to imbox.,
E as in Emboyssement (n.) An ambush.,
E as in Embrace (v. t.) To fasten on, as armor.,
E as in Embraced (imp. & p. p.) of Embrace,
E as in Embracing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Embrace,
E as in Embrace (n.) To clasp in the arms with affection; to take in the arms; to hug.,
E as in Embrace (n.) To cling to; to cherish; to love.,
E as in Embrace (n.) To seize eagerly, or with alacrity; to accept with cordiality; to welcome.,
E as in Embrace (n.) To encircle; to encompass; to inclose.,
E as in Embrace (n.) To include as parts of a whole; to comprehend; to take in; as, natural philosophy embraces many sciences.,
E as in Embrace (n.) To accept; to undergo; to submit to.,
E as in Embrace (n.) To attempt to influence corruptly, as a jury or court.,
E as in Embrace (v. i.) To join in an embrace.,
E as in Embrace (n.) Intimate or close encircling with the arms; pressure to the bosom; clasp; hug.,
E as in Embracement (n.) A clasp in the arms; embrace.,
E as in Embracement (n.) State of being contained; inclosure.,
E as in Embracement (n.) Willing acceptance.,
E as in Embraceor (n.) One guilty of embracery.,
E as in Embracer (n.) One who embraces.,
E as in Embracery (n.) An attempt to influence a court, jury, etc., corruptly, by promises, entreaties, money, entertainments, threats, or other improper inducements.,
E as in Embracive (a.) Disposed to embrace; fond of caressing.,
E as in Embraid (v. t.) To braid up, as hair.,
E as in Embraid (v. t.) To upbraid.,
E as in Embranchment (n.) The branching forth, as of trees.,
E as in Embrangle (v. t.) To confuse; to entangle.,
E as in Embrasure (n.) An embrace.,
E as in Embrasure (n.) A splay of a door or window.,
E as in Embrasure (n.) An aperture with slant sides in a wall or parapet, through which cannon are pointed and discharged; a crenelle. See Illust. of Casemate.,
E as in Embrave (v. t.) To inspire with bravery.,
E as in Embrave (v. t.) To decorate; to make showy and fine.,
E as in Embrawn (v. t.) To harden.,
E as in Embread (v. t.) To braid.,
E as in Embreathement (n.) The act of breathing in; inspiration.,
E as in Embrew (v. t.) To imbrue; to stain with blood.,
E as in Embright (v. t.) To brighten.,
E as in Embrocated (imp. & p. p.) of Embrocate,
E as in Embrocating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Embrocate,
E as in Embrocate (v. t.) To moisten and rub (a diseased part) with a liquid substance, as with spirit, oil, etc., by means of a cloth or sponge.,
E as in Embrocation (n.) The act of moistening and rubbing a diseased part with spirit, oil, etc.,
E as in Embrocation (n.) The liquid or lotion with which an affected part is rubbed.,
E as in Embroglio (n.) See Imbroglio.,
E as in Embroidered (imp. & p. p.) of Embroider,
E as in Embroidering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Embroider,
E as in Embroider (v. t.) To ornament with needlework; as, to embroider a scarf.,
E as in Embroiderer (n.) One who embroiders.,
E as in Embroideries (pl. ) of Embroidery,
E as in Embroidery (n.) Needlework used to enrich textile fabrics, leather, etc.; also, the art of embroidering.,
E as in Embroidery (n.) Diversified ornaments, especially by contrasted figures and colors; variegated decoration.,
E as in Embroiled (imp. & p. p.) of Embroil,
E as in Embroiling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Embroil,
E as in Embroil (v. t.) To throw into confusion or commotion by contention or discord; to entangle in a broil or quarrel; to make confused; to distract; to involve in difficulties by dissension or strife.,
E as in Embroil (v. t.) To implicate in confusion; to complicate; to jumble.,
E as in Embroil (n.) See Embroilment.,
E as in Embroiler (n.) One who embroils.,
E as in Embroilment (n.) The act of embroiling, or the condition of being embroiled; entanglement in a broil.,
E as in Embronze (v. t.) To embody in bronze; to set up a bronze representation of, as of a person.,
E as in Embronze (v. t.) To color in imitation of bronze. See Bronze, v. t.,
E as in Embrothel (v. t.) To inclose in a brothel.,
E as in Embroude (v. t.) Alt. of Embroyde,
E as in Embrowde (v. t.) Alt. of Embroyde,
E as in Embroyde (v. t.) To embroider; to adorn.,
E as in Embrown (v. t.) To give a brown color to; to imbrown.,
E as in Embrue (v. t.) See Imbrue, Embrew.,
E as in Embrute (v. t.) To brutify; to imbrute.,
E as in Embryos (pl. ) of Embryo,
E as in Embryo (n.) The first rudiments of an organism, whether animal or plant,
E as in Embryo (n.) The young of an animal in the womb, or more specifically, before its parts are developed and it becomes a fetus (see Fetus).,
E as in Embryo (n.) The germ of the plant, which is inclosed in the seed and which is developed by germination.,
E as in Embryo (a.) Pertaining to an embryo; rudimentary; undeveloped; as, an embryo bud.,
E as in Embryogenic (a.) Pertaining to the development of an embryo.,
E as in Embryogeny (n.) The production and development of an embryo.,
E as in Embryogony (n.) The formation of an embryo.,
E as in Embryography (n.) The general description of embryos.,
E as in Embryologic (a.) Alt. of Embryological,
E as in Embryological (a.) Of or pertaining to embryology.,
E as in Embryologist (n.) One skilled in embryology.,
E as in Embryology (n.) The science which relates to the formation and development of the embryo in animals and plants; a study of the gradual development of the ovum until it reaches the adult stage.,
E as in Embryon (n. & a.) See Embryo.,
E as in Embryonal (a.) Pertaining to an embryo, or the initial state of any organ; embryonic.,
E as in Embryonary (a.) Embryonic.,
E as in Embryonate (a.) Alt. of Embryonated,
E as in Embryonated (a.) In the state of, or having, an embryonal.,
E as in Embryonic (a.) Of or pertaining to an embryo; embryonal; rudimentary.,
E as in Embryoniferous (a.) Having an embryo.,
E as in Embryoniform (a.) Like an embryo in form.,
E as in Embryoplastic (n.) Relating to, or aiding in, the formation of an embryo; as, embryoplastic cells.,
E as in Embryo sac () See under Embryonic.,
E as in Embryotic (a.) Embryonic.,
E as in Embryotomy (n.) The cutting a fetus into pieces within the womb, so as to effect its removal.,
E as in Embryotroph (n.) The material from which an embryo is formed and nourished.,
E as in Embryous (a.) Embryonic; undeveloped.,
E as in Embulk (v. t.) To enlarge in the way of bulk.,
E as in Emburse (v. t.) To furnish with money; to imburse.,
E as in Embush (v. t.) To place or hide in a thicket; to ambush.,
E as in Embushment (n.) An ambush.,
E as in Embusy (v. t.) To employ.,
E as in Eme (n.) An uncle.,
E as in Emeer (n.) Same as Emir.,
E as in Emenagogue (n.) See Emmenagogue.,
E as in Emended (imp. & p. p.) of Emend,
E as in Emending (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Emend,
E as in Emend (v. t.) To purge of faults; to make better; to correct; esp., to make corrections in (a literary work); to alter for the better by textual criticism, generally verbal.,
E as in Emendable (a.) Corrigible; amendable.,
E as in Emendately (adv.) Without fault; correctly.,
E as in Emendation (n.) The act of altering for the better, or correcting what is erroneous or faulty; correction; improvement.,
E as in Emendation (n.) Alteration by editorial criticism, as of a text so as to give a better reading; removal of errors or corruptions from a document; as, the book might be improved by judicious emendations.,
E as in Emendator (n.) One who emends or critically edits.,
E as in Emendatory (a.) Pertaining to emendation; corrective.,
E as in Emender (n.) One who emends.,
E as in Emendicate (v. t.) To beg.,
E as in Emerald (n.) A precious stone of a rich green color, a variety of beryl. See Beryl.,
E as in Emerald (n.) A kind of type, in size between minion and nonpare/l. It is used by English printers.,
E as in Emerald (a.) Of a rich green color, like that of the emerald.,
E as in Emeraldine (n.) A green compound used as a dyestuff, produced from aniline blue when acted upon by acid.,
E as in Emeraud (n.) An emerald.,
E as in Emerged (imp. & p. p.) of Emerge,
E as in Emerging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Emerge,
E as in Emerge (v. i.) To rise out of a fluid; to come forth from that in which anything has been plunged, enveloped, or concealed; to issue and appear; as, to emerge from the water or the ocean; the sun emerges from behind the moon in an eclipse; to emerge from poverty or obscurity.,
E as in Emergences (pl. ) of Emergence,
E as in Emergence (n.) The act of rising out of a fluid, or coming forth from envelopment or concealment, or of rising into view; sudden uprisal or appearance.,
E as in Emergencies (pl. ) of Emergency,
E as in Emergency (n.) Sudden or unexpected appearance; an unforeseen occurrence; a sudden occasion.,
E as in Emergency (n.) An unforeseen occurrence or combination of circumstances which calls for immediate action or remedy; pressing necessity; exigency.,
E as in Emergent (a.) Rising or emerging out of a fluid or anything that covers or conceals; issuing; coming to light.,
E as in Emergent (a.) Suddenly appearing; arising unexpectedly; calling for prompt action; urgent.,
E as in Emeril (n.) Emery.,
E as in Emeril (n.) A glazier's diamond.,
E as in Emerited (a.) Considered as having done sufficient public service, and therefore honorably discharged.,
E as in Emeritus (a.) Honorably discharged from the performance of public duty on account of age, infirmity, or long and faithful services; -- said of an officer of a college or pastor of a church.,
E as in Emeriti (pl. ) of Emeritus,
E as in Emeritus (n.) A veteran who has honorably completed his service.,
E as in Emerods (n. pl.) Alt. of Emeroids,
E as in Emeroids (n. pl.) Hemorrhoids; piles; tumors; boils.,
E as in Emersed (a.) Standing out of, or rising above, water.,
E as in Emersion (n.) The act of emerging, or of rising out of anything; as, emersion from the sea; emersion from obscurity or difficulties.,
E as in Emersion (n.) The reappearance of a heavenly body after an eclipse or occultation; as, the emersion of the moon from the shadow of the earth; the emersion of a star from behind the moon.,
E as in Emery (n.) Corundum in the form of grains or powder, used in the arts for grinding and polishing hard substances. Native emery is mixed with more or less magnetic iron. See the Note under Corundum.,
E as in Emesis (n.) A vomiting.,
E as in Emetic (a.) Inducing to vomit; exciting the stomach to discharge its contents by the mouth.,
E as in Emetic (n.) A medicine which causes vomiting.,
E as in Emetical (a.) Inducing to vomit; producing vomiting; emetic.,
E as in Emetine (n.) A white crystalline bitter alkaloid extracted from ipecacuanha root, and regarded as its peculiar emetic principle.,
E as in Emeto-cathartic (a.) Producing vomiting and purging at the same time.,
E as in Emeu (n.) Alt. of Emew,
E as in Emew (n.) See Emu.,
E as in Emeute (n.) A seditious tumult; an outbreak.,
E as in Emforth (prep.) According to; conformably to.,
E as in Emgalla (n.) The South African wart hog. See Wart hog.,
E as in Emicant (a.) Beaming forth; flashing.,
E as in Emication (n.) A flying off in small particles, as heated iron or fermenting liquors; a sparkling; scintillation.,
E as in Emiction (n.) The voiding of urine.,
E as in Emiction (n.) What is voided by the urinary passages; urine.,
E as in Emictory (a. & n.) Diuretic.,
E as in Emigrant (v. i.) Removing from one country to another; emigrating; as, an emigrant company or nation.,
E as in Emigrant (v. i.) Pertaining to an emigrant; used for emigrants; as, an emigrant ship or hospital.,
E as in Emigrant (n.) One who emigrates, or quits one country or region to settle in another.,
E as in Emigrated (imp. & p. p.) of Emigrate,
E as in Emigrating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Emigrate,
E as in Emigrate (v. i.) To remove from one country or State to another, for the purpose of residence; to migrate from home.,
E as in Emigrate (a.) Migratory; roving.,
E as in Emigration (n.) The act of emigrating; removal from one country or state to another, for the purpose of residence, as from Europe to America, or, in America, from the Atlantic States to the Western.,
E as in Emigration (n.) A body emigrants; emigrants collectively; as, the German emigration.,
E as in Emigrational (a.) Relating to emigration.,
E as in Emigrationist (n.) An advocate or promoter of emigration.,
E as in Emigrator (n.) One who emigrates; am emigrant.,
E as in Emigre (n.) One of the natives of France who were opposed to the first Revolution, and who left their country in consequence.,
E as in Eminence (n.) That which is eminent or lofty; a high ground or place; a height.,
E as in Eminence (n.) An elevated condition among men; a place or station above men in general, either in rank, office, or celebrity; social or moral loftiness; high rank; distinction; preferment.,
E as in Eminence (n.) A title of honor, especially applied to a cardinal in the Roman Catholic Church.,
E as in Eminences (pl. ) of Eminency,
E as in Eminency (n.) State of being eminent; eminence.,
E as in Eminent (a.) High; lofty; towering; prominent.,
E as in Eminent (a.) Being, metaphorically, above others, whether by birth, high station, merit, or virtue; high in public estimation; distinguished; conspicuous; as, an eminent station; an eminent historian, statements, statesman, or saint.,
E as in Eminently (adv.) In an eminent manner; in a high degree; conspicuously; as, to be eminently learned.,
E as in Emir (n.) Alt. of Emeer,
E as in Emeer (n.) An Arabian military commander, independent chieftain, or ruler of a province; also, an honorary title given to the descendants of Mohammed, in the line of his daughter Fatima; among the Turks, likewise, a title of dignity, given to certain high officials.,
E as in Emirship (n.) Alt. of Emeership,
E as in Emeership (n.) The rank or office of an Emir.,
E as in Emissaries (pl. ) of Emissary,
E as in Emissary (n.) An agent employed to advance, in a covert manner, the interests of his employers; one sent out by any power that is at war with another, to create dissatisfaction among the people of the latter.,
E as in Emissary (a.) Exploring; spying.,
E as in Emissary (a.) Applied to the veins which pass out of the cranium through apertures in its walls.,
E as in Emissaryship (n.) The office of an emissary.,
E as in Emission (n.) The act of sending or throwing out; the act of sending forth or putting into circulation; issue; as, the emission of light from the sun; the emission of heat from a fire; the emission of bank notes.,
E as in Emission (n.) That which is sent out, issued, or put in circulation at one time; issue; as, the emission was mostly blood.,
E as in Emissitious (a.) Looking, or narrowly examining; prying.,
E as in Emissive (a.) Sending out; emitting; as, emissive powers.,
E as in Emissivity (n.) Tendency to emission; comparative facility of emission, or rate at which emission takes place, as of heat from the surface of a heated body.,
E as in Emissory (a.) Same as Emissary, a., 2.,
E as in Emitted (imp. & p. p.) of Emit,
E as in Emitting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Emit,
E as in Emit (v. t.) To send forth; to throw or give out; to cause to issue; to give vent to; to eject; to discharge; as, fire emits heat and smoke; boiling water emits steam; the sun emits light.,
E as in Emit (v. t.) To issue forth, as an order or decree; to print and send into circulation, as notes or bills of credit.,
E as in Emittent (a.) Sending forth; emissive.,
E as in Emmantle (v. t.) To cover over with, or as with, a mantle; to put about as a protection.,
E as in Emmanuel (n.) See Immanuel.,
E as in Emmarble (v. t.) To turn to marble; to harden.,
E as in Emmenagogue (n.) A medicine that promotes the menstrual discharge.,
E as in Emmet (n.) An ant.,
E as in Emmetropia (n.) That refractive condition of the eye in which the rays of light are all brought accurately and without undue effort to a focus upon the retina; -- opposed to hypermetropia, myopia, an astigmatism.,
E as in Emmetropic (a.) Pertaining to, or characterized by, emmetropia.,
E as in Emmetropy (n.) Same as Emmetropia.,
E as in Emmew (v. t.) To mew or coop up.,
E as in Emmove (v. t.) To move; to rouse; to excite.,
E as in Emodin (n.) An orange-red crystalline substance, C15H10O5, obtained from the buckthorn, rhubarb, etc., and regarded as a derivative of anthraquinone; -- so called from a species of rhubarb (Rheum emodei).,
E as in Emollescence (n.) That degree of softness in a body beginning to melt which alters its shape; the first or lowest degree of fusibility.,
E as in Emolliated (imp. & p. p.) of Emolliate,
E as in Emolliating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Emolliate,
E as in Emolliate (a.) To soften; to render effeminate.,
E as in Emollient (a.) Softening; making supple; acting as an emollient.,
E as in Emollient (n.) An external something or soothing application to allay irritation, soreness, etc.,
E as in Emollition (n.) The act of softening or relaxing; relaxation.,
E as in Emolument (n.) The profit arising from office, employment, or labor; gain; compensation; advantage; perquisites, fees, or salary.,
E as in Emolumental (a.) Pertaining to an emolument; profitable.,
E as in Emong (prep.) Alt. of Emongst,
E as in Emongst (prep.) Among.,
E as in Emotion (n.) A moving of the mind or soul; excitement of the feelings, whether pleasing or painful; disturbance or agitation of mind caused by a specific exciting cause and manifested by some sensible effect on the body.,
E as in Emotioned (a.) Affected with emotion.,
E as in Emotional (a.) Pertaining to, or characterized by, emotion; excitable; easily moved; sensational; as, an emotional nature.,
E as in Emotionalism (n.) The cultivation of an emotional state of mind; tendency to regard things in an emotional manner.,
E as in Emotionalize (v. t.) To give an emotional character to.,
E as in Emotive (a.) Attended by, or having the character of, emotion.,
E as in Emotiveness (n.) Susceptibility to emotion.,
E as in Emotivity (n.) Emotiveness.,
E as in Emove (v. t.) To move.,
E as in Empair (v. t.) To impair.,
E as in Empaistic (a.) Having to do with inlaid work; -- especially used with reference to work of the ancient Greeks.,
E as in Empale (v. t.) To make pale.,
E as in Empaled (imp. & p. p.) of Empale,
E as in Empaling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Empale,
E as in Empale (v. t.) To fence or fortify with stakes; to surround with a line of stakes for defense; to impale.,
E as in Empale (v. t.) To inclose; to surround. See Impale.,
E as in Empale (v. t.) To put to death by thrusting a sharpened stake through the body.,
E as in Empale (v. t.) Same as Impale.,
E as in Empalement (n.) A fencing, inclosing, or fortifying with stakes.,
E as in Empalement (n.) A putting to death by thrusting a sharpened stake through the body.,
E as in Empalement (n.) Same as Impalement.,
E as in Empanel (n.) A list of jurors; a panel.,
E as in Empanel (v. t.) See Impanel.,
E as in Empanoplied (a.) Completely armed; panoplied.,
E as in Emparadise (v. t.) Same as Imparadise.,
E as in Empark (v. t.) To make a park of; to inclose, as with a fence; to impark.,
E as in Emparlance (n.) Parley; imparlance.,
E as in Empasm (n.) A perfumed powder sprinkled upon the body to mask the odor of sweat.,
E as in Empassion (v. t.) To move with passion; to affect strongly. See Impassion.,
E as in Empassionate (a.) Strongly affected.,
E as in Empawn (v. t.) To put in pawn; to pledge; to impawn.,
E as in Empeach (v. t.) To hinder. See Impeach.,
E as in Empearl (v. t.) To form like pearls; to decorate with, or as with, pearls; to impearl.,
E as in Empeople (v. t.) To form into a people or community; to inhabit; to people.,
E as in Emperess (n.) See Empress.,
E as in Emperice (n.) An empress.,
E as in Emperil (v. t.) To put in peril. See Imperil.,
E as in Emperished (a.) Perished; decayed.,
E as in Emperor (n.) The sovereign or supreme monarch of an empire; -- a title of dignity superior to that of king; as, the emperor of Germany or of Austria; the emperor or Czar of Russia.,
E as in Emperorship (n.) The rank or office of an emperor.,
E as in Empery (n.) Empire; sovereignty; dominion.,
E as in Emphases (pl. ) of Emphasis,
E as in Emphasis (n.) A particular stress of utterance, or force of voice, given in reading and speaking to one or more words whose signification the speaker intends to impress specially upon his audience.,
E as in Emphasis (n.) A peculiar impressiveness of expression or weight of thought; vivid representation, enforcing assent; as, to dwell on a subject with great emphasis.,
E as in Emphasized (imp. & p. p.) of Emphasize,
E as in Emphasizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Emphasize,
E as in Emphasize (v. t.) To utter or pronounce with a particular stress of voice; to make emphatic; as, to emphasize a word or a phrase.,
E as in Emphatic (a.) Alt. of Emphatical,
E as in Emphatical (a.) Uttered with emphasis; made prominent and impressive by a peculiar stress of voice; laying stress; deserving of stress or emphasis; forcible; impressive; strong; as, to remonstrate in am emphatic manner; an emphatic word; an emphatic tone; emphatic reasoning.,
E as in Emphatical (a.) Striking the sense; attracting special attention; impressive; forcible.,
E as in Emphatically (adv.) With emphasis; forcibly; in a striking manner or degree; preeminently.,
E as in Emphatically (adv.) Not really, but apparently.,
E as in Emphaticalness (n.) The quality of being emphatic; emphasis.,
E as in Emphractic (a.) Having the quality of closing the pores of the skin.,
E as in Emphrensy (v. t.) To madden.,
E as in Emphysema (n.) A swelling produced by gas or air diffused in the cellular tissue.,
E as in Emphysematous (a.) Pertaining to, or of the nature of, emphysema; swelled; bloated.,
E as in Emphyteusis (n.) A real right, susceptible of assignment and of descent, charged on productive real estate, the right being coupled with the enjoyment of the property on condition of taking care of the estate and paying taxes, and sometimes a small rent.,
E as in Emphyteutic (a.) Of or pertaining to an emphyteusis; as, emphyteutic lands.,
E as in Emphyteuticary (n.) One who holds lands by emphyteusis.,
E as in Empierce (v. t.) To pierce; to impierce.,
E as in Empight (a.) Fixed; settled; fastened.,
E as in Empire (n.) Supreme power; sovereignty; sway; dominion.,
E as in Empire (n.) The dominion of an emperor; the territory or countries under the jurisdiction and dominion of an emperor (rarely of a king), usually of greater extent than a kingdom, always comprising a variety in the nationality of, or the forms of administration in, constituent and subordinate portions; as, the Austrian empire.,
E as in Empire (n.) Any dominion; supreme control; governing influence; rule; sway; as, the empire of mind or of reason.,
E as in Empiric (n.) One who follows an empirical method; one who relies upon practical experience.,
E as in Empiric (n.) One who confines himself to applying the results of mere experience or his own observation; especially, in medicine, one who deviates from the rules of science and regular practice; an ignorant and unlicensed pretender; a quack; a charlatan.,
E as in Empiric (a.) Alt. of Empirical,
E as in Empirical (a.) Pertaining to, or founded upon, experiment or experience; depending upon the observation of phenomena; versed in experiments.,
E as in Empirical (a.) Depending upon experience or observation alone, without due regard to science and theory; -- said especially of medical practice, remedies, etc.; wanting in science and deep insight; as, empiric skill, remedies.,
E as in Empirically (adv.) By experiment or experience; without science; in the manner of quacks.,
E as in Empiricism (n.) The method or practice of an empiric; pursuit of knowledge by observation and experiment.,
E as in Empiricism (n.) Specifically, a practice of medicine founded on mere experience, without the aid of science or a knowledge of principles; ignorant and unscientific practice; charlatanry; quackery.,
E as in Empiricism (n.) The philosophical theory which attributes the origin of all our knowledge to experience.,
E as in Empiricist (n.) An empiric.,
E as in Empiristic (a.) Relating to, or resulting from, experience, or experiment; following from empirical methods or data; -- opposed to nativistic.,
E as in Emplaster (n.) See Plaster.,
E as in Emplaster (n.) To plaster over; to cover over so as to present a good appearance.,
E as in Emplastic (a.) Fit to be applied as a plaster; glutinous; adhesive; as, emplastic applications.,
E as in Emplastic (n.) A medicine causing constipation.,
E as in Emplastration (n.) The act or process of grafting by inoculation; budding.,
E as in Emplastration (n.) The application of a plaster or salve.,
E as in Emplead (v. t.) To accuse; to indict. See Implead.,
E as in Emplection (n.) See Emplecton.,
E as in Emplecton (n.) A kind of masonry in which the outer faces of the wall are ashlar, the space between being filled with broken stone and mortar. Cross layers of stone are interlaid as binders.,
E as in Emplore (v. t.) See Implore.,
E as in Employed (imp. & p. p.) of Employ,
E as in Employing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Employ,
E as in Employ (v. t.) To inclose; to infold.,
E as in Employ (v. t.) To use; to have in service; to cause to be engaged in doing something; -- often followed by in, about, on, or upon, and sometimes by to; as: (a) To make use of, as an instrument, a means, a material, etc., for a specific purpose; to apply; as, to employ the pen in writing, bricks in building, words and phrases in speaking; to employ the mind; to employ one's energies.,
E as in Employ (v. t.) To occupy; as, to employ time in study.,
E as in Employ (v. t.) To have or keep at work; to give employment or occupation to; to intrust with some duty or behest; as, to employ a hundred workmen; to employ an envoy.,
E as in Employ (n.) That which engages or occupies a person; fixed or regular service or business; employment.,
E as in Employable (a.) Capable of being employed; capable of being used; fit or proper for use.,
E as in Employe (n.) One employed by another; a clerk or workman in the service of an employer.,
E as in Employee (n.) One employed by another.,
E as in Employer (n.) One who employs another; as, an employer of workmen.,
E as in Employment (n.) The act of employing or using; also, the state of being employed.,
E as in Employment (n.) That which engages or occupies; that which consumes time or attention; office or post of business; service; as, agricultural employments; mechanical employments; public employments; in the employment of government.,
E as in Emplumed (a.) Plumed.,
E as in Emplunge (v. t.) To plunge; to implunge.,
E as in Empoison (v. t.) To poison; to impoison.,
E as in Empoison (n.) Poison.,
E as in Empoisoner (n.) Poisoner.,
E as in Empoisonment (n.) The act of poisoning.,
E as in Emporetic (a.) Alt. of Emporetical,
E as in Emporetical (a.) Pertaining to an emporium; relating to merchandise.,
E as in Emporiums (pl. ) of Emporium,
E as in Emporia (pl. ) of Emporium,
E as in Emporium (n.) A place of trade; a market place; a mart; esp., a city or town with extensive commerce; the commercial center of a country.,
E as in Emporium (n.) The brain.,
E as in Empoverish (v. t.) See Impoverish.,
E as in Empowered (imp. & p. p.) of Empower,
E as in Empowering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Empower,
E as in Empower (v. t.) To give authority to; to delegate power to; to commission; to authorize (having commonly a legal force); as, the Supreme Court is empowered to try and decide cases, civil or criminal; the attorney is empowered to sign an acquittance, and discharge the debtor.,
E as in Empower (v. t.) To give moral or physical power, faculties, or abilities to.,
E as in Empress (n.) The consort of an emperor.,
E as in Empress (n.) A female sovereign.,
E as in Empress (n.) A sovereign mistress.,
E as in Emprint (v. t.) See Imprint.,
E as in Emprise (n.) An enterprise; endeavor; adventure.,
E as in Emprise (n.) The qualifies which prompt one to undertake difficult and dangerous exploits.,
E as in Emprise (v. t.) To undertake.,
E as in Emprising (v. t.) Full of daring; adventurous.,
E as in Emprison (v. t.) See Imprison.,
E as in Emprosthotonos (n.) A drawing of the body forward, in consequence of the spasmodic action of some of the muscles.,
E as in Empte (v. t.) To empty.,
E as in Emptier (n.) One who, or that which, empties.,
E as in Emptier (compar.) of Empty.,
E as in Emptiness (n.) The state of being empty; absence of contents; void space; vacuum; as, the emptiness of a vessel; emptiness of the stomach.,
E as in Emptiness (n.) Want of solidity or substance; unsatisfactoriness; inability to satisfy desire; vacuity; hollowness; the emptiness of earthly glory.,
E as in Emptiness (n.) Want of knowledge; lack of sense; vacuity of mind.,
E as in Emption (n.) The act of buying.,
E as in Emptional (a.) Capable of being purchased.,
E as in Empty (superl.) Containing nothing; not holding or having anything within; void of contents or appropriate contents; not filled; -- said of an inclosure, as a box, room, house, etc.; as, an empty chest, room, purse, or pitcher; an empty stomach; empty shackles.,
E as in Empty (superl.) Free; clear; devoid; -- often with of.,
E as in Empty (superl.) Having nothing to carry; unburdened.,
E as in Empty (superl.) Destitute of effect, sincerity, or sense; -- said of language; as, empty words, or threats.,
E as in Empty (superl.) Unable to satisfy; unsatisfactory; hollow; vain; -- said of pleasure, the world, etc.,
E as in Empty (superl.) Producing nothing; unfruitful; -- said of a plant or tree; as, an empty vine.,
E as in Empty (superl.) Destitute of, or lacking, sense, knowledge, or courtesy; as, empty brains; an empty coxcomb.,
E as in Empty (superl.) Destitute of reality, or real existence; unsubstantial; as, empty dreams.,
E as in Empties (pl. ) of Empty,
E as in Empty (n.) An empty box, crate, cask, etc.; -- used in commerce, esp. in transportation of freight; as, "special rates for empties.",
E as in Emptied (imp. & p. p.) of Empty,
E as in Emptying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Empty,
E as in Empty (v. t.) To deprive of the contents; to exhaust; to make void or destitute; to make vacant; to pour out; to discharge; as, to empty a vessel; to empty a well or a cistern.,
E as in Empty (v. i.) To discharge itself; as, a river empties into the ocean.,
E as in Empty (v. i.) To become empty.,
E as in Emptying (n.) The act of making empty.,
E as in Emptying (n.) The lees of beer, cider, etc.; yeast.,
E as in Empugn (v. t.) See Impugn.,
E as in Empurpled (imp. & p. p.) of Empurple,
E as in Empurpling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Empurple,
E as in Empurple (v. t.) To tinge or dye of a purple color; to color with purple; to impurple.,
E as in Empuse (n.) A phantom or specter.,
E as in Empuzzle (v. t.) To puzzle.,
E as in Empyema (n.) A collection of blood, pus, or other fluid, in some cavity of the body, especially that of the pleura.,
E as in Empyesis (n.) An eruption of pustules.,
E as in Empyreal (a.) Formed of pure fire or light; refined beyond aerial substance; pertaining to the highest and purest region of heaven.,
E as in Empyreal (n.) Empyrean.,
E as in Empyrean (n.) The highest heaven, where the pure element of fire was supposed by the ancients to subsist.,
E as in Empyrean (a.) Empyreal.,
E as in Empyreuma (n.) The peculiar smell and taste arising from products of decomposition of animal or vegetable substances when burnt in close vessels.,
E as in Empyreumatic (a.) Alt. of Empyreumatical,
E as in Empyreumatical (a.) Of or pertaining to empyreuma; as, an empyreumatic odor.,
E as in Empyreumatize (v. t.) To render empyreumatic.,
E as in Empyrical (a.) Containing the combustible principle of coal.,
E as in Empyrosis (n.) A general fire; a conflagration.,
E as in Emrods (n. pl.) See Emerods.,
E as in Emu (n.) A large Australian bird, of two species (Dromaius Novae-Hollandiae and D. irroratus), related to the cassowary and the ostrich. The emu runs swiftly, but is unable to fly.,
E as in Emulable (a.) Capable of being emulated.,
E as in Emulate (a.) Striving to excel; ambitious; emulous.,
E as in Emulated (imp. & p. p.) of Emulate,
E as in Emulating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Emulate,
E as in Emulate (v. t.) To strive to equal or to excel in qualities or actions; to imitate, with a view to equal or to outdo, to vie with; to rival; as, to emulate the good and the great.,
E as in Emulation (n.) The endeavor to equal or to excel another in qualities or actions; an assiduous striving to equal or excel another; rivalry.,
E as in Emulation (n.) Jea/ous rivalry; envy; envious contention.,
E as in Emulative (a.) Inclined to emulation; aspiring to competition; rivaling; as, an emulative person or effort.,
E as in Emulatively (adv.) In an emulative manner; with emulation.,
E as in Emulator (n.) One who emulates, or strives to equal or surpass.,
E as in Emulatory (a.) Pertaining to emulation; connected with rivalry.,
E as in Emulatress (n.) A female emulator.,
E as in Emule (v. t.) To emulate.,
E as in Emulge (v. t.) To milk out; to drain.,
E as in Emulgent (a.) Pertaining to the kidneys; renal; as, emulgent arteries and veins.,
E as in Emulgent (n.) An emulgent vessel, as a renal artery or vein.,
E as in Emulgent (n.) A medicine that excites the flow of bile.,
E as in Emulous (a.) Ambitiously desirous to equal or even to excel another; eager to emulate or vie with another; desirous of like excellence with another; -- with of; as, emulous of another's example or virtues.,
E as in Emulous (a.) Vying with; rivaling; hence, contentious, envious.,
E as in Emulously (adv.) In an emulous manner.,
E as in Emulousness (n.) The quality of being emulous.,
E as in Emulsic (a.) Pertaining to, or produced from, emulsin; as, emulsic acid.,
E as in Emulsify (v. t.) To convert into an emulsion; to form an emulsion; to reduce from an oily substance to a milky fluid in which the fat globules are in a very finely divided state, giving it the semblance of solution; as, the pancreatic juice emulsifies the oily part of food.,
E as in Emulsin (n.) The white milky pulp or extract of bitter almonds.,
E as in Emulsin (n.) An unorganized ferment (contained in this extract and in other vegetable juices), which effects the decomposition of certain glucosides.,
E as in Emulsion (n.) Any liquid preparation of a color and consistency resembling milk; as: (a) In pharmacy, an extract of seeds, or a mixture of oil and water united by a mucilaginous substance. (b) In photography, a liquid preparation of collodion holding salt of silver, used in the photographic process.,
E as in Emulsive (a.) Softening; milklike.,
E as in Emulsive (a.) Yielding oil by expression; as, emulsive seeds.,
E as in Emulsive (a.) Producing or yielding a milklike substance; as, emulsive acids.,
E as in Emunctories (pl. ) of Emunctory,
E as in Emunctory (n.) Any organ or part of the body (as the kidneys, skin, etc.,) which serves to carry off excrementitious or waste matter.,
E as in Emuscation (n.) A freeing from moss.,
E as in Emu wren () A small wrenlike Australian bird (Stipiturus malachurus), having the tail feathers long and loosely barbed, like emu feathers.,
E as in Emyds (pl. ) of Emyd,
E as in Emyd// (pl. ) of Emyd,
E as in Emyd (n.) A fresh-water tortoise of the family Emydidae.,
E as in Emydea (n. pl.) A group of chelonians which comprises many species of fresh-water tortoises and terrapins.,
E as in En- () A prefix signifying in or into, used in many English words, chiefly those borrowed from the French. Some English words are written indifferently with en-or in-. For ease of pronunciation it is commonly changed to em-before p, b, and m, as in employ, embody, emmew. It is sometimes used to give a causal force, as in enable, enfeeble, to cause to be, or to make, able, or feeble; and sometimes merely gives an intensive force, as in enchasten. See In-.,
E as in En- () A prefix from Gr. / in, meaning in; as, encephalon, entomology. See In-.,
E as in -en () A suffix from AS. -an, formerly used to form the plural of many nouns, as in ashen, eyen, oxen, all obs. except oxen. In some cases, such as children and brethren, it has been added to older plural forms.,
E as in -en () A suffix corresponding to AS. -en and -on, formerly used to form the plural of verbs, as in housen, escapen.,
E as in -en () A suffix signifying to make, to cause, used to form verbs from nouns and adjectives; as in strengthen, quicken, frighten. This must not be confused with -en corresponding in Old English to the AS. infinitive ending -an.,
E as in -en () An adjectival suffix, meaning made of; as in golden, leaden, wooden.,
E as in -en () The termination of the past participle of many strong verbs; as, in broken, gotten, trodden.,
E as in En (n.) Half an em, that is, half of the unit of space in measuring printed matter. See Em.,
E as in Enabled (imp. & p. p.) of Enable,
E as in Enabling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Enable,
E as in Enable (v. t.) To give strength or ability to; to make firm and strong.,
E as in Enable (v. t.) To make able (to do, or to be, something); to confer sufficient power upon; to furnish with means, opportunities, and the like; to render competent for; to empower; to endow.,
E as in Enablement (n.) The act of enabling, or the state of being enabled; ability.,
E as in Enacted (imp. & p. p.) of Enact,
E as in Enacting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Enact,
E as in Enact (v. t.) To decree; to establish by legal and authoritative act; to make into a law; especially, to perform the legislative act with reference to (a bill) which gives it the validity of law.,
E as in Enact (v. t.) To act; to perform; to do; to effect.,
E as in Enact (v. t.) To act the part of; to represent; to play.,
E as in Enact (n.) Purpose; determination.,
E as in Enactive (a.) Having power to enact or establish as a law.,
E as in Enactment (n.) The passing of a bill into a law; the giving of legislative sanction and executive approval to a bill whereby it is established as a law.,
E as in Enactment (n.) That which is enacted or passed into a law; a law; a decree; a statute; a prescribed requirement; as, a prohibitory enactment; a social enactment.,
E as in Enactor (n.) One who enacts a law; one who decrees or establishes as a law.,
E as in Enacture (n.) Enactment; resolution.,
E as in Enaliosaur (n.) One of the Enaliosauria.,
E as in Enaliosauria (n. pl.) An extinct group of marine reptiles, embracing both the Ichthyosauria and the Plesiosauria, now regarded as distinct orders.,
E as in Enaliosaurian (a.) Pertaining to the Enaliosauria.,
E as in Enaliosaurian (n.) One of the Enaliosauria.,
E as in Enallage (n.) A substitution, as of one part of speech for another, of one gender, number, case, person, tense, mode, or voice, of the same word, for another.,
E as in Enambush (v. t.) To ambush.,
E as in Enamel (v. t.) A variety of glass, used in ornament, to cover a surface, as of metal or pottery, and admitting of after decoration in color, or used itself for inlaying or application in varied colors.,
E as in Enamel (v. t.) A glassy, opaque bead obtained by the blowpipe.,
E as in Enamel (v. t.) That which is enameled; also, any smooth, glossy surface, resembling enamel, especially if variegated.,
E as in Enamel (v. t.) The intensely hard calcified tissue entering into the composition of teeth. It merely covers the exposed parts of the teeth of man, but in many animals is intermixed in various ways with the dentine and cement.,
E as in Enameled (imp. & p. p.) of Enamel,
E as in Enamelled () of Enamel,
E as in Enameling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Enamel,
E as in Enamelling () of Enamel,
E as in Enamel (v. t.) To lay enamel upon; to decorate with enamel whether inlaid or painted.,
E as in Enamel (v. t.) To variegate with colors as if with enamel.,
E as in Enamel (v. t.) To form a glossy surface like enamel upon; as, to enamel card paper; to enamel leather or cloth.,
E as in Enamel (v. t.) To disguise with cosmetics, as a woman's complexion.,
E as in Enamel (v. i.) To practice the art of enameling.,
E as in Enamel (a.) Relating to the art of enameling; as, enamel painting.,
E as in Enamelar (a.) Consisting of enamel; resembling enamel; smooth; glossy.,
E as in Enameled (a.) Coated or adorned with enamel; having a glossy or variegated surface; glazed.,
E as in Enameler (n.) Alt. of Enamelist,
E as in Enamelist (n.) One who enamels; a workman or artist who applies enamels in ornamental work.,
E as in Enamored (imp. & p. p.) of Enamor,
E as in Enamoring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Enamor,
E as in Enamor (v. t.) To inflame with love; to charm; to captivate; -- with of, or with, before the person or thing; as, to be enamored with a lady; to be enamored of books or science.,
E as in Enamorment (n.) The state of being enamored.,
E as in Enantiomorphous (a.) Similar, but not superposable, i. e., related to each other as a right-handed to a left-handed glove; -- said of certain hemihedral crystals.,
E as in Enantiopathic (a.) Serving to palliate; palliative.,
E as in Enantiopathy (n.) An opposite passion or affection.,
E as in Enantiopathy (n.) Allopathy; -- a term used by followers of Hahnemann, or homeopathists.,
E as in Enantiosis (n.) A figure of speech by which what is to be understood affirmatively is stated negatively, and the contrary; affirmation by contraries.,
E as in Enarch (v. t.) To arch.,
E as in Enarched (a.) Bent into a curve; -- said of a bend or other ordinary.,
E as in Enargite (n.) An iron-black mineral of metallic luster, occurring in small orthorhombic crystals, also massive. It contains sulphur, arsenic, copper, and often silver.,
E as in Enarmed (a.) Same as Armed, 3.,
E as in Enarration (n.) A detailed exposition; relation.,
E as in Enarthrodia (n.) See Enarthrosis.,
E as in Enarthrosis (n.) A ball and socket joint, or the kind of articulation represented by such a joint. See Articulation.,
E as in Enascent (a.) Coming into being; nascent.,
E as in Enatation (n.) A swimming out.,
E as in Enate (a.) Growing out.,
E as in Enation (n.) Any unusual outgrowth from the surface of a thing, as of a petal; also, the capacity or act of producing such an outgrowth.,
E as in Enaunter (adv.) Lest that.,
E as in Enavigate (v. t.) To sail away or over.,
E as in Enbattled (a.) Embattled.,
E as in Enbibe (v. t.) To imbibe.,
E as in Enbroude (v. t.) See Embroude.,
E as in Encaged (imp. & p. p.) of Encage,
E as in Engaging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Encage,
E as in Encage (v. t.) To confine in a cage; to coop up.,
E as in Encalendar (v. t.) To register in a calendar; to calendar.,
E as in Encamped (imp. & p. p.) of Encamp,
E as in Encamping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Encamp,
E as in Encamp (v. i.) To form and occupy a camp; to prepare and settle in temporary habitations, as tents or huts; to halt on a march, pitch tents, or form huts, and remain for the night or for a longer time, as an army or a company traveling.,
E as in Encamp (v. t.) To form into a camp; to place in a temporary habitation, or quarters.,
E as in Encampment (n.) The act of pitching tents or forming huts, as by an army or traveling company, for temporary lodging or rest.,
E as in Encampment (n.) The place where an army or a company is encamped; a camp; tents pitched or huts erected for temporary lodgings.,
E as in Encanker (v. t.) To canker.,
E as in Encapsulation (n.) The act of inclosing in a capsule; the growth of a membrane around (any part) so as to inclose it in a capsule.,
E as in Encarnalize (v. t.) To carnalize; to make gross.,
E as in Encarpus (n.) An ornament on a frieze or capital, consisting of festoons of fruit, flowers, leaves, etc.,
E as in Encase (v. t.) To inclose as in a case. See Incase.,
E as in Encasement (n.) The act of encasing; also, that which encases.,
E as in Encasement (n.) An old theory of generation similar to embo/tement. See Ovulist.,
E as in Encash (v. t.) To turn into cash; to cash.,
E as in Encashment (n.) The payment in cash of a note, draft, etc.,
E as in Encauma (n.) An ulcer in the eye, upon the cornea, which causes the loss of the humors.,
E as in Encaustic (a.) Prepared by means of heat; burned in.,
E as in Encaustic (a.) The method of painting in heated wax, or in any way where heat is used to fix the colors.,
E as in Encave (v. t.) To hide in, or as in, a cave or recess.,
E as in -ence () A noun suffix signifying action, state, or quality; also, that which relates to the action or state; as in emergence, diffidence, diligence, influence, difference, excellence. See -ance.,
E as in Enceinte (n.) The line of works which forms the main inclosure of a fortress or place; -- called also body of the place.,
E as in Enceinte (n.) The area or town inclosed by a line of fortification.,
E as in Enceinte (a.) Pregnant; with child.,
E as in Encenia (n. pl.) A festival commemorative of the founding of a city or the consecration of a church; also, the ceremonies (as at Oxford and Cambridge, England) commemorative of founders or benefactors.,
E as in Encense (n.) To offer incense to or upon; to burn incense.,
E as in Encephalic (a.) Pertaining to the encephalon or brain.,
E as in Encephalitis (n.) Inflammation of the brain.,
E as in Encephalocele (n.) Hernia of the brain.,
E as in Encephaloid (a.) Resembling the material of the brain; cerebriform.,
E as in Encephaloid (n.) An encephaloid cancer.,
E as in Encephalology (n.) The science which treats of the brain, its structure and functions.,
E as in Encephalon (n.) The contents of the cranium; the brain.,
E as in Encephalopathy (n.) Any disease or symptoms of disease referable to disorders of the brain; as, lead encephalopathy, the cerebral symptoms attending chronic lead poisoning.,
E as in Encephalos (n.) The encephalon.,
E as in Encephalotomy (n.) The act or art of dissecting the brain.,
E as in Encephalous (a.) Having a head; -- said of most Mollusca; -- opposed to acephalous.,
E as in Enchafe (v. t.) To chafe; to enrage; to heat.,
E as in Enchafing (n.) Heating; burning.,
E as in Enchain (v. t.) To bind with a chain; to hold in chains.,
E as in Enchain (v. t.) To hold fast; to confine; as, to enchain attention.,
E as in Enchain (v. t.) To link together; to connect.,
E as in Enchainment (n.) The act of enchaining, or state of being enchained.,
E as in Enchair (v. t.) To seat in a chair.,
E as in Enchannel (v. t.) To make run in a channel.,
E as in Enchanted (imp. & p. p.) of Enchant,
E as in Enchanting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Enchant,
E as in Enchant (v. t.) To charm by sorcery; to act on by enchantment; to get control of by magical words and rites.,
E as in Enchant (v. t.) To delight in a high degree; to charm; to enrapture; as, music enchants the ear.,
E as in Enchanted (a.) Under the power of enchantment; possessed or exercised by enchanters; as, an enchanted castle.,
E as in Enchanter (n.) One who enchants; a sorcerer or magician; also, one who delights as by an enchantment.,
E as in Enchanting (a.) Having a power of enchantment; charming; fascinating.,
E as in Enchantment (n.) The act of enchanting; the production of certain wonderful effects by the aid of demons, or the agency of supposed spirits; the use of magic arts, spells, or charms; incantation.,
E as in Enchantment (n.) The effect produced by the act; the state of being enchanted; as, to break an enchantment.,
E as in Enchantment (n.) That which captivates the heart and senses; an influence or power which fascinates or highly delights.,
E as in Enchantress (n.) A woman versed in magical arts; a sorceress; also, a woman who fascinates.,
E as in Encharged (imp. & p. p.) of Encharge,
E as in Encharging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Encharge,
E as in Encharge (v. t.) To charge (with); to impose (a charge) upon.,
E as in Encharge (n.) A charge.,
E as in Enchased (imp. & p. p.) of Enchase,
E as in Enchasing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Enchase,
E as in Enchase (v. t.) To incase or inclose in a border or rim; to surround with an ornamental casing, as a gem with gold; to encircle; to inclose; to adorn.,
E as in Enchase (v. t.) To chase; to ornament by embossing or engraving; as, to enchase a watch case.,
E as in Enchase (v. t.) To delineate or describe, as by writing.,
E as in Enchaser (n.) One who enchases.,
E as in Enchasten (v. t.) To chasten.,
E as in Encheson (n.) Alt. of Encheason,
E as in Encheason (n.) Occasion, cause, or reason.,
E as in Enchest (v. t.) To inclose in a chest.,
E as in Enchiridion (n.) Handbook; a manual of devotions.,
E as in Enchisel (v. t.) To cut with a chisel.,
E as in Enchodus (n.) A genus of extinct Cretaceous fishes; -- so named from their spear-shaped teeth. They were allied to the pike (Esox).,
E as in Enchondroma (n.) A cartilaginous tumor growing from the interior of a bone.,
E as in Enchorial (a.) Alt. of Enchoric,
E as in Enchoric (a.) Belonging to, or used in, a country; native; domestic; popular; common; -- said especially of the written characters employed by the common people of ancient Egypt, in distinction from the hieroglyphics. See Demotic.,
E as in Enchylemma (n.) The basal substance of the cell nucleus; a hyaline or granular substance, more or less fluid during life, in which the other parts of the nucleus are imbedded.,
E as in Enchyma (n.) The primitive formative juice, from which the tissues, particularly the cellular tissue, are formed.,
E as in Encincture (n.) A cincture.,
E as in Encindered (a.) Burnt to cinders.,
E as in Encircled (imp. & p. p.) of Encircle,
E as in Encircling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Encircle,
E as in Encircle (v. t.) To form a circle about; to inclose within a circle or ring; to surround; as, to encircle one in the arms; the army encircled the city.,
E as in Encirclet (n.) A small circle; a ring.,
E as in Enclasp (v. t.) To clasp. See Inclasp.,
E as in Enclave (n.) A tract of land or a territory inclosed within another territory of which it is independent. See Exclave.,
E as in Enclave (v. t.) To inclose within an alien territory.,
E as in Enclavement (n.) The state of being an enclave.,
E as in Enclitic (v. i.) Alt. of Enclitical,
E as in Enclitical (v. i.) Affixed; subjoined; -- said of a word or particle which leans back upon the preceding word so as to become a part of it, and to lose its own independent accent, generally varying also the accent of the preceding word.,
E as in Enclitic (n.) A word which is joined to another so closely as to lose its proper accent, as the pronoun thee in prithee (pray thee).,
E as in Enclitically (adv.) In an enclitic manner; by throwing the accent back.,
E as in Enclitics (n.) The art of declining and conjugating words.,
E as in Encloister (v. t.) To shut up in a cloister; to cloister.,
E as in Enclose (v. t.) To inclose. See Inclose.,
E as in Enclosure (n.) Inclosure. See Inclosure.,
E as in Enclothe (v. t.) To clothe.,
E as in Encloud (v. t.) To envelop in clouds; to cloud.,
E as in Encoach (v. t.) To carry in a coach.,
E as in Encoffin (v. t.) To put in a coffin.,
E as in Encolden (v. t.) To render cold.,
E as in Encollar (v. t.) To furnish or surround with a collar.,
E as in Encolor (v. t.) To color.,
E as in Encolure (n.) The neck of horse.,
E as in Encomber (v. t.) See Encumber.,
E as in Encomberment (n.) Hindrance; molestation.,
E as in Encomiast (n.) One who praises; a panegyrist.,
E as in Encomiastic (a.) Alt. of Encomiastical,
E as in Encomiastical (a.) Bestowing praise; praising; eulogistic; laudatory; as, an encomiastic address or discourse.,
E as in Encomiastic (n.) A panegyric.,
E as in Encomion (n.) Encomium; panegyric.,
E as in Encomiums (pl. ) of Encomium,
E as in Encomium (n.) Warm or high praise; panegyric; strong commendation.,
E as in Encompassed (imp. & p. p.) of Encompass,
E as in Encompassing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Encompass,
E as in Encompass (v. t.) To circumscribe or go round so as to surround closely; to encircle; to inclose; to environ; as, a ring encompasses the finger; an army encompasses a city; a voyage encompassing the world.,
E as in Encompassment (n.) The act of surrounding, or the state of being surrounded; circumvention.,
E as in Encore (adv. / interj.) Once more; again; -- used by the auditors and spectators of plays, concerts, and other entertainments, to call for a repetition of a particular part.,
E as in Encore (n.) A call or demand (as, by continued applause) for a repetition; as, the encores were numerous.,
E as in Encored (imp. & p. p.) of Encore,
E as in Encoring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Encore,
E as in Encore (v. t.) To call for a repetition or reappearance of; as, to encore a song or a singer.,
E as in Encorporing (n.) Incorporation.,
E as in Encoubert (n.) One of several species of armadillos of the genera Dasypus and Euphractus, having five toes both on the fore and hind feet.,
E as in Encountered (imp. & p. p.) of Encounter,
E as in Encountering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Encounter,
E as in Encounter (adv.) To come against face to face; to meet; to confront, either by chance, suddenly, or deliberately; especially, to meet in opposition or with hostile intent; to engage in conflict with; to oppose; to struggle with; as, to encounter a friend in traveling; two armies encounter each other; to encounter obstacles or difficulties, to encounter strong evidence of a truth.,
E as in Encounter (v. i.) To meet face to face; to have a meeting; to meet, esp. as enemies; to engage in combat; to fight; as, three armies encountered at Waterloo.,
E as in Encounter (v. t.) A meeting face to face; a running against; a sudden or incidental meeting; an interview.,
E as in Encounter (v. t.) A meeting, with hostile purpose; hence, a combat; a battle; as, a bloody encounter.,
E as in Encounterer (n.) One who encounters; an opponent; an antagonist.,
E as in Encouraged (imp. & p. p.) of Encourage,
E as in Encouraging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Encourage,
E as in Encourage (v. t.) To give courage to; to inspire with courage, spirit, or hope; to raise, or to increase, the confidence of; to animate; enhearten; to incite; to help forward; -- the opposite of discourage.,
E as in Encouragement (n.) The act of encouraging; incitement to action or to practice; as, the encouragement of youth in generosity.,
E as in Encouragement (n.) That which serves to incite, support, promote, or advance, as favor, countenance, reward, etc.; incentive; increase of confidence; as, the fine arts find little encouragement among a rude people.,
E as in Encourager (n.) One who encourages, incites, or helps forward; a favorer.,
E as in Encouraging (a.) Furnishing ground to hope; inspiriting; favoring.,
E as in Encowl (v. t.) To make a monk (or wearer of a cowl) of.,
E as in Encradle (v. t.) To lay in a cradle.,
E as in Encratite (n.) One of a sect in the 2d century who abstained from marriage, wine, and animal food; -- called also Continent.,
E as in Encrease (v. t. &) i. [Obs.] See Increase.,
E as in Encrimson (v. t.) To give a crimson or red color to; to crimson.,
E as in Encrinic (a.) Alt. of Encrinital,
E as in Encrinal (a.) Alt. of Encrinital,
E as in Encrinital (a.) Relating to encrinites; containing encrinites, as certain kinds of limestone.,
E as in Encrinite (n.) A fossil crinoid, esp. one belonging to, or resembling, the genus Encrinus. Sometimes used in a general sense for any crinoid.,
E as in Encrinitic (a.) Alt. of Encrinitical,
E as in Encrinitical (a.) Pertaining to encrinites; encrinal.,
E as in Encrinoidea (n. pl.) That order of the Crinoidea which includes most of the living and many fossil forms, having jointed arms around the margin of the oral disk; -- also called Brachiata and Articulata. See Illusts. under Comatula and Crinoidea.,
E as in Encrini (pl. ) of Encrinus,
E as in Encrinus (n.) A genus of fossil encrinoidea, from the Mesozoic rocks.,
E as in Encrisped (a.) Curled.,
E as in Encroached (imp. & p. p.) of Encroach,
E as in Encroaching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Encroach,
E as in Encroach (v. i.) To enter by gradual steps or by stealth into the possessions or rights of another; to trespass; to intrude; to trench; -- commonly with on or upon; as, to encroach on a neighbor; to encroach on the highway.,
E as in Encroach (n.) Encroachment.,
E as in Encroacher (n.) One who by gradual steps enters on, and takes possession of, what is not his own.,
E as in Encroachingly (adv.) By way of encroachment.,
E as in Encroachment (n.) The act of entering gradually or silently upon the rights or possessions of another; unlawful intrusion.,
E as in Encroachment (n.) That which is taken by encroaching on another.,
E as in Encroachment (n.) An unlawful diminution of the possessions of another.,
E as in Encrust (v. t.) To incrust. See Incrust.,
E as in Encrustment (n.) That which is formed as a crust; incrustment; incrustation.,
E as in Encumbered (imp. & p. p.) of Encumber,
E as in Encumbering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Encumber,
E as in Encumber (v. t.) To impede the motion or action of, as with a burden; to retard with something superfluous; to weigh down; to obstruct or embarrass; as, his movements were encumbered by his mantle; his mind is encumbered with useless learning.,
E as in Encumber (v. t.) To load with debts, or other legal claims; as, to encumber an estate with mortgages.,
E as in Encumberment (n.) Encumbrance.,
E as in Encumbrance (n.) That which encumbers; a burden which impedes action, or renders it difficult and laborious; a clog; an impediment. See Incumbrance.,
E as in Encumbrance (n.) Same as Incumbrance.,
E as in Encumbrancer (n.) Same as Incumbrancer.,
E as in Encurtain (v. t.) To inclose with curtains.,
E as in -ency () A noun suffix having much the same meaning as -ence, but more commonly signifying the quality or state; as, emergency, efficiency. See -ancy.,
E as in Encyclic (a.) Alt. of Encyclical,
E as in Encyclical (a.) Sent to many persons or places; intended for many, or for a whole order of men; general; circular; as, an encyclical letter of a council, of a bishop, or the pope.,
E as in Encyclic (n.) Alt. of Encyclical,
E as in Encyclical (n.) An encyclical letter, esp. one from a pope.,
E as in Encyclopedia (n.) Alt. of Encyclopaedia,
E as in Encyclopaedia (n.) The circle of arts and sciences; a comprehensive summary of knowledge, or of a branch of knowledge; esp., a work in which the various branches of science or art are discussed separately, and usually in alphabetical order; a cyclopedia.,
E as in Encyclopediacal (a.) Encyclopedic.,
E as in Encyclopedian (a.) Embracing the whole circle of learning, or a wide range of subjects.,
E as in Encyclopedic (a.) Alt. of Encyclopedical,
E as in Encyclopedical (a.) Pertaining to, or of the nature of, an encyclopedia; embracing a wide range of subjects.,
E as in Encyclopedism (n.) The art of writing or compiling encyclopedias; also, possession of the whole range of knowledge; encyclopedic learning.,
E as in Encyclopedist (n.) The compiler of an encyclopedia, or one who assists in such compilation; also, one whose knowledge embraces the whole range of the sciences.,
E as in Encyst (v. t.) To inclose in a cyst.,
E as in Encystation (n.) Encystment.,
E as in Encysted (a.) Inclosed in a cyst, or a sac, bladder, or vesicle; as, an encysted tumor.,
E as in Encystment (n.) A process which, among some of the lower forms of life, precedes reproduction by budding, fission, spore formation, etc.,
E as in Encystment (n.) A process by which many internal parasites, esp. in their larval states, become inclosed within a cyst in the muscles, liver, etc. See Trichina.,
E as in End (n.) The extreme or last point or part of any material thing considered lengthwise (the extremity of breadth being side); hence, extremity, in general; the concluding part; termination; close; limit; as, the end of a field, line, pole, road; the end of a year, of a discourse; put an end to pain; -- opposed to beginning, when used of anything having a first part.,
E as in End (n.) Point beyond which no procession can be made; conclusion; issue; result, whether successful or otherwise; conclusive event; consequence.,
E as in End (n.) Termination of being; death; destruction; extermination; also, cause of death or destruction.,
E as in End (n.) The object aimed at in any effort considered as the close and effect of exertion; ppurpose; intention; aim; as, to labor for private or public ends.,
E as in End (n.) That which is left; a remnant; a fragment; a scrap; as, odds and ends.,
E as in End (n.) One of the yarns of the worsted warp in a Brussels carpet.,
E as in Ended (imp. & p. p.) of End,
E as in Ending (p. pr. & vb. n.) of End,
E as in End (v. t.) To bring to an end or conclusion; to finish; to close; to terminate; as, to end a speech.,
E as in End (v. t.) To form or be at the end of; as, the letter k ends the word back.,
E as in End (v. t.) To destroy; to put to death.,
E as in End (v. i.) To come to the ultimate point; to be finished; to come to a close; to cease; to terminate; as, a voyage ends; life ends; winter ends.,
E as in Endable (a.) That may be ended; terminable.,
E as in End-all (n.) Complete termination.,
E as in Endamaged (imp. & p. p.) of Endamage,
E as in Endamaging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Endamage,
E as in Endamage (v. t.) To bring loss or damage to; to harm; to injure.,
E as in Endamageable (a.) Capable of being damaged, or injured; damageable.,
E as in Endamagement (n.) Damage; injury; harm.,
E as in Endamnify (v. t.) To damnify; to injure.,
E as in Endangered (imp. & p. p.) of Endanger,
E as in Endangering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Endanger,
E as in Endanger (v. t.) To put to hazard; to bring into danger or peril; to expose to loss or injury; as, to endanger life or peace.,
E as in Endanger (v. t.) To incur the hazard of; to risk.,
E as in Endangerment (n.) Hazard; peril.,
E as in Endark (v. t.) To darken.,
E as in Endaspidean (a.) Having the anterior scutes extending around the tarsus on the inner side; -- said of certain birds.,
E as in Endazzle (v. t.) To dazzle.,
E as in Endeared (imp. & p. p.) of Endear,
E as in Endearing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Endear,
E as in Endear (v. t.) To make dear or beloved.,
E as in Endear (v. t.) To raise the price or cost of; to make costly or expensive.,
E as in Endearedly (adv.) With affection or endearment; dearly.,
E as in Endearedness (n.) State of being endeared.,
E as in Endearing (a.) Making dear or beloved; causing love.,
E as in Endearment (n.) The act of endearing or the state of being endeared; also, that which manifests, excites, or increases, affection.,
E as in Endeavored (imp. & p. p.) of Endeavor,
E as in Endeavoring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Endeavor,
E as in Endeavor (v. t.) To exert physical or intellectual strength for the attainment of; to use efforts to effect; to strive to achieve or reach; to try; to attempt.,
E as in Endeavor (v. i.) To exert one's self; to work for a certain end.,
E as in Endeavor (n.) An exertion of physical or intellectual strength toward the attainment of an object; a systematic or continuous attempt; an effort; a trial.,
E as in Endeavorer (n.) One who makes an effort or attempt.,
E as in Endeavorment (n.) Act of endeavoring; endeavor.,
E as in Endecagon (n.) A plane figure of eleven sides and angles.,
E as in Endecagynous (a.) Having eleven pistils; as, an endecagynous flower.,
E as in Endecane (n.) One of the higher hydrocarbons of the paraffin series, C11H24, found as a constituent of petroleum.,
E as in Endecaphyllous (a.) Composed of eleven leaflets; -- said of a leaf.,
E as in Endeictic (a.) Serving to show or exhibit; as, an endeictic dialogue, in the Platonic philosophy, is one which exhibits a specimen of skill.,
E as in Endeixis (n.) An indication.,
E as in Endemial (a.) Endemic.,
E as in Endemic (a.) Alt. of Endemical,
E as in Endemical (a.) Peculiar to a district or particular locality, or class of persons; as, an endemic disease.,
E as in Endemic (n.) An endemic disease.,
E as in Endemically (adv.) In an endemic manner.,
E as in Endemiology (n.) The science which treats of endemic affections.,
E as in Endenization (n.) The act of naturalizing.,
E as in Endenize (v. t.) To endenizen.,
E as in Endenizen (v. t.) To admit to the privileges of a denizen; to naturalize.,
E as in Ender (n.) One who, or that which, makes an end of something; as, the ender of my life.,
E as in Endermatic (a.) Endermic.,
E as in Endermic (a.) Acting through the skin, or by direct application to the skin.,
E as in Endermically (adv.) By the endermic method; as, applied endermically.,
E as in Enderon (n.) The deep sensitive and vascular layer of the skin and mucous membranes.,
E as in Endiademed (a.) Diademed.,
E as in Endiaper (v. t.) To decorate with a diaper pattern.,
E as in Endict (v. t.) See Indict.,
E as in Endictment (n.) See Indictment.,
E as in Ending (n.) Termination; concluding part; result; conclusion; destruction; death.,
E as in Ending (n.) The final syllable or letter of a word; the part joined to the stem. See 3d Case, 5.,
E as in Endite (v. t.) See Indite.,
E as in Endive (n.) A composite herb (Cichorium Endivia). Its finely divided and much curled leaves, when blanched, are used for salad.,
E as in Endless (a.) Without end; having no end or conclusion; perpetual; interminable; -- applied to length, and to duration; as, an endless line; endless time; endless bliss; endless praise; endless clamor.,
E as in Endless (a.) Infinite; excessive; unlimited.,
E as in Endless (a.) Without profitable end; fruitless; unsatisfying.,
E as in Endless (a.) Void of design; objectless; as, an endless pursuit.,
E as in Endlessly (adv.) In an endless manner.,
E as in Endlessness (n.) The quality of being endless; perpetuity.,
E as in Endlong (adv. & prep.) Lengthwise; along.,
E as in Endmost (a.) Farthest; remotest; at the very end.,
E as in Endo- () Alt. of End-,
E as in End- () A combining form signifying within; as, endocarp, endogen, endocuneiform, endaspidean.,
E as in Endoblast (n.) Entoblast; endoplast. See Nucleus,,
E as in Endoblastic (a.) Relating to the endoblast; as, the endoblastic layer.,
E as in Endocardiac (a.) Alt. of Endocardial,
E as in Endocardial (a.) Pertaining to the endocardium.,
E as in Endocardial (a.) Seated or generated within the heart; as, endocardial murmurs.,
E as in Endocarditis (n.) Inflammation of the endocardium.,
E as in Endocardium (n.) The membrane lining the cavities of the heart.,
E as in Endocarp (n.) The inner layer of a ripened or fructified ovary.,
E as in Endochondral (a.) Growing or developing within cartilage; -- applied esp. to developing bone.,
E as in Endochrome (n.) The coloring matter within the cells of plants, whether green, red, yellow, or any other color.,
E as in Endoctrine (v. t.) To teach; to indoctrinate.,
E as in Endocyst (n.) The inner layer of the cells of Bryozoa.,
E as in Endoderm (n.) The inner layer of the skin or integument of an animal.,
E as in Endoderm (n.) The innermost layer of the blastoderm and the structures derived from it; the hypoblast; the entoblast. See Illust. of Ectoderm.,
E as in Endodermal (a.) Alt. of Endodermic,
E as in Endodermic (a.) Of or pertaining to the endoderm.,
E as in Endodermis (n.) A layer of cells forming a kind of cuticle inside of the proper cortical layer, or surrounding an individual fibrovascular bundle.,
E as in Endogamous (a.) Marrying within the same tribe; -- opposed to exogamous.,
E as in Endogamy (n.) Marriage only within the tribe; a custom restricting a man in his choice of a wife to the tribe to which he belongs; -- opposed to exogamy.,
E as in Endogen (n.) A plant which increases in size by internal growth and elongation at the summit, having the wood in the form of bundles or threads, irregularly distributed throughout the whole diameter, not forming annual layers, and with no distinct pith. The leaves of the endogens have, usually, parallel veins, their flowers are mostly in three, or some multiple of three, parts, and their embryos have but a single cotyledon, with the first leaves alternate. The endogens constitute one of the great primary classes of plants, and included all palms, true lilies, grasses, rushes, orchids, the banana, pineapple, etc. See Exogen.,
E as in Endogenesis (n.) Endogeny.,
E as in Endogenetic (a.) Endogenous.,
E as in Endogenous (a.) Increasing by internal growth and elongation at the summit, instead of externally, and having no distinction of pith, wood, and bark, as the rattan, the palm, the cornstalk.,
E as in Endogenous (a.) Originating from within; increasing by internal growth.,
E as in Endogenously (adv.) By endogenous growth.,
E as in Endogeny (n.) Growth from within; multiplication of cells by endogenous division, as in the development of one or more cells in the interior of a parent cell.,
E as in Endognath (n.) The inner or principal branch of the oral appendages of Crustacea. See Maxilla.,
E as in Endognathal (a.) Pertaining to the endognath.,
E as in Endolymph (n.) The watery fluid contained in the membranous labyrinth of the internal ear.,
E as in Endolymphangial (a.) Within a lymphatic vessel.,
E as in Endolymphatic (a.) Pertaining to, or containing, endolymph; as, the endolymphatic duct.,
E as in Endolymphatic (a.) Within a lymphatic vessel; endolymphangial.,
E as in Endome (v. t.) To cover as with a dome.,
E as in Endometritis (n.) Inflammation of the endometrium.,
E as in Endometrium (n.) The membrane lining the inner surface of the uterus, or womb.,
E as in Endomorph (n.) A crystal of one species inclosed within one of another, as one of rutile inclosed in quartz.,
E as in Endomysium (n.) The delicate bands of connective tissue interspersed among muscular fibers.,
E as in Endoneurium (n.) The delicate bands of connective tissue among nerve fibers.,
E as in Endoparasite (n.) Any parasite which lives in the internal organs of an animal, as the tapeworms, Trichina, etc.; -- opposed to ectoparasite. See Entozoon.,
E as in Endophloeum (n.) The inner layer of the bark of trees.,
E as in Endophragma (n.) A chitinous structure above the nervous cord in the thorax of certain Crustacea.,
E as in Endophragmal (a.) Of or pertaining to the endophragma.,
E as in Endophyllous (a.) Wrapped up within a leaf or sheath.,
E as in Endoplasm (n.) The protoplasm in the interior of a cell.,
E as in Endoplasma (n.) Same as Entoplasm and Endosarc.,
E as in Endoplast (n.) See Nucleus.,
E as in Endoplastica (n. pl.) A group of Rhizopoda having a distinct nucleus, as the am/ba.,
E as in Endoplastule (n.) See Nucleolus.,
E as in Endopleura (n.) The inner coating of a seed. See Tegmen.,
E as in Endopleurite (n.) The portion of each apodeme developed from the interepimeral membrane in certain crustaceans.,
E as in Endopodite (n.) The internal or principal branch of the locomotive appendages of Crustacea. See Maxilliped.,
E as in Endorhizae (pl. ) of Endorhiza,
E as in Endorhiza (n.) Any monocotyledonous plant; -- so named because many monocotyledons have an endorhizal embryo.,
E as in Endorhizal (a.) Alt. of Endorhizous,
E as in Endorhizous (a.) Having the radicle of the embryo sheathed by the cotyledon, through which the embryo bursts in germination, as in many monocotyledonous plants.,
E as in Endorsed (imp. & p. p.) of Endorse,
E as in Endorsing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Endorse,
E as in Endorse (v. t.) Same as Indorse.,
E as in Endorse (n.) A subordinary, resembling the pale, but of one fourth its width (according to some writers, one eighth).,
E as in Endorsee (n.) Same as Indorsee.,
E as in Endorsement (n.) Same as Indorsement.,
E as in Endorser (n.) Same as Indorser.,
E as in Endosarc (n.) The semifluid, granular interior of certain unicellular organisms, as the inner layer of sarcode in the amoeba; entoplasm; endoplasta.,
E as in Endoscope (n.) An instrument for examining the interior of the rectum, the urethra, and the bladder.,
E as in Endoscopy (n.) The art or process of examining by means of the endoscope.,
E as in Endoskeletal (a.) Pertaining to, or connected with, the endoskeleton; as, endoskeletal muscles.,
E as in Endoskeleton (n.) The bony, cartilaginous, or other internal framework of an animal, as distinguished from the exoskeleton.,
E as in Endosmometer (n.) An instrument for measuring the force or amount of endosmotic action.,
E as in Endosmometric (a.) Pertaining to, or designed for, the measurement of endosmotic action.,
E as in Endosmose (n.) Alt. of Endosmosis,
E as in Endosmosis (n.) The transmission of a fluid or gas from without inward in the phenomena, or by the process, of osmose.,
E as in Endosmosmic (a.) Endosmotic.,
E as in Endosmotic (a.) Pertaining to endosmose; of the nature endosmose; osmotic.,
E as in Endosperm (n.) The albumen of a seed; -- limited by recent writers to that formed within the embryo sac.,
E as in Endospermic (a.) Relating to, accompanied by, or containing, endosperm.,
E as in Endospore (n.) The thin inner coat of certain spores.,
E as in Endosporous (a.) Having the spores contained in a case; -- applied to fungi.,
E as in Endoss (v. t.) To put upon the back or outside of anything; -- the older spelling of endorse.,
E as in Endosteal (a.) Relating to endostosis; as, endosteal ossification.,
E as in Endosternite (n.) The part of each apodeme derived from the intersternal membrane in Crustacea and insects.,
E as in Endosteum (n.) The layer of vascular connective tissue lining the medullary cavities of bone.,
E as in Endostoma (n.) A plate which supports the labrum in certain Crustacea.,
E as in Endostome (n.) The foramen or passage through the inner integument of an ovule.,
E as in Endostome (n.) And endostoma.,
E as in Endostosis (n.) A process of bone formation in which ossification takes place within the substance of the cartilage.,
E as in Endostyle (n.) A fold of the endoderm, which projects into the blood cavity of ascidians. See Tunicata.,
E as in Endotheca (n.) The tissue which partially fills the interior of the interseptal chambers of most madreporarian corals. It usually consists of a series of oblique tranverse septa, one above another.,
E as in Endothecium (n.) The inner lining of an anther cell.,
E as in Endothelial (a.) Of, or relating to, endothelium.,
E as in Endothelia (pl. ) of Endothelium,
E as in Endothelium (n.) The thin epithelium lining the blood vessels, lymphatics, and serous cavities. See Epithelium.,
E as in Endotheloid (a.) Like endothelium.,
E as in Endothorax (n.) An internal process of the sternal plates in the thorax of insects.,
E as in Endowed (imp. & p. p.) of Endow,
E as in Endowing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Endow,
E as in Endow (v. t.) To furnish with money or its equivalent, as a permanent fund for support; to make pecuniary provision for; to settle an income upon; especially, to furnish with dower; as, to endow a wife; to endow a public institution.,
E as in Endow (v. t.) To enrich or furnish with anything of the nature of a gift (as a quality or faculty); -- followed by with, rarely by of; as, man is endowed by his Maker with reason; to endow with privileges or benefits.,
E as in Endower (v. t.) To endow.,
E as in Endower (n.) One who endows.,
E as in Endowment (n.) The act of bestowing a dower, fund, or permanent provision for support.,
E as in Endowment (n.) That which is bestowed or settled on a person or an institution; property, fund, or revenue permanently appropriated to any object; as, the endowment of a church, a hospital, or a college.,
E as in Endowment (n.) That which is given or bestowed upon the person or mind; gift of nature; accomplishment; natural capacity; talents; -- usually in the plural.,
E as in Endozoa (n. pl.) See Entozoa.,
E as in Endrudge (v. t.) To make a drudge or slave of.,
E as in Endued (imp. & p. p.) of Endue,
E as in Enduing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Endue,
E as in Endue (v. t.) To invest.,
E as in Endue (v. t.) An older spelling of Endow.,
E as in Enduement (n.) Act of enduing; induement.,
E as in Endurable (a.) Capable of being endured or borne; sufferable.,
E as in Endurably (adv.) In an endurable manner.,
E as in Endurance (n.) A state or quality of lasting or duration; lastingness; continuance.,
E as in Endurance (n.) The act of bearing or suffering; a continuing under pain or distress without resistance, or without being overcome; sufferance; patience.,
E as in Endurant (a.) Capable of enduring fatigue, pain, hunger, etc.,
E as in Endured (imp. & p. p.) of Endure,
E as in Enduring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Endure,
E as in Endure (v. i.) To continue in the same state without perishing; to last; to remain.,
E as in Endure (v. i.) To remain firm, as under trial or suffering; to suffer patiently or without yielding; to bear up under adversity; to hold out.,
E as in Endure (v. t.) To remain firm under; to sustain; to undergo; to support without breaking or yielding; as, metals endure a certain degree of heat without melting; to endure wind and weather.,
E as in Endure (v. t.) To bear with patience; to suffer without opposition or without sinking under the pressure or affliction; to bear up under; to put up with; to tolerate.,
E as in Endure (v. t.) To harden; to toughen; to make hardy.,
E as in Endurement (n.) Endurance.,
E as in Endurer (n.) One who, or that which, endures or lasts; one who bears, suffers, or sustains.,
E as in Enduring (a.) Lasting; durable; long-suffering; as, an enduring disposition.,
E as in Endways (adv.) Alt. of Endwise,
E as in Endwise (adv.) On end; erectly; in an upright position.,
E as in Endwise (adv.) With the end forward.,
E as in Endyma (n.) See Ependyma.,
E as in Endyses (pl. ) of Endysis,
E as in Endysis (n.) The act of developing a new coat of hair, a new set of feathers, scales, etc.; -- opposed to ecdysis.,
E as in Enecate (v. t.) To kill off; to destroy.,
E as in Eneid (n.) Same as Aeneid.,
E as in Enemata (pl. ) of Enema,
E as in Enema (n.) An injection, or clyster, thrown into the rectum as a medicine, or to impart nourishment.,
E as in Enemies (pl. ) of Enemy,
E as in Enemy (n.) One hostile to another; one who hates, and desires or attempts the injury of, another; a foe; an adversary; as, an enemy of or to a person; an enemy to truth, or to falsehood.,
E as in Enemy (a.) Hostile; inimical.,
E as in Enepidermic (a.) Applied to the skin without friction; -- said of medicines.,
E as in Energetic (a.) Alt. of Energetical,
E as in Energetical (a.) Having energy or energies; possessing a capacity for vigorous action or for exerting force; active.,
E as in Energetical (a.) Exhibiting energy; operating with force, vigor, and effect; forcible; powerful; efficacious; as, energetic measures; energetic laws.,
E as in Energetics (n.) That branch of science which treats of the laws governing the physical or mechanical, in distinction from the vital, forces, and which comprehends the consideration and general investigation of the whole range of the forces concerned in physical phenomena.,
E as in Energic (a.) Alt. of Energical,
E as in Energical (a.) In a state of action; acting; operating.,
E as in Energical (a.) Having energy or great power; energetic.,
E as in Energized (imp. & p. p.) of Energize,
E as in Energizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Energize,
E as in Energize (v. i.) To use strength in action; to act or operate with force or vigor; to act in producing an effect.,
E as in Energize (v. t.) To give strength or force to; to make active; to alacrify; as, to energize the will.,
E as in Energizer (n.) One who, or that which, gives energy, or acts in producing an effect.,
E as in Energizing (a.) Capable of imparting or exercising energy.,
E as in Energumen (n.) One possessed by an evil spirit; a demoniac.,
E as in Energies (pl. ) of Energy,
E as in Energy (n.) Internal or inherent power; capacity of acting, operating, or producing an effect, whether exerted or not; as, men possessing energies may suffer them to lie inactive.,
E as in Energy (n.) Power efficiently and forcibly exerted; vigorous or effectual operation; as, the energy of a magistrate.,
E as in Energy (n.) Strength of expression; force of utterance; power to impress the mind and arouse the feelings; life; spirit; -- said of speech, language, words, style; as, a style full of energy.,
E as in Energy (n.) Capacity for performing work.,
E as in Enervated (imp. & p. p.) of Enervate,
E as in Enervating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Enervate,
E as in Enervate (v. t.) To deprive of nerve, force, strength, or courage; to render feeble or impotent; to make effeminate; to impair the moral powers of.,
E as in Enervate (a.) Weakened; weak; without strength of force.,
E as in Enervation (n.) The act of weakening, or reducing strength.,
E as in Enervation (n.) The state of being weakened; effeminacy.,
E as in Enervative (a.) Having power, or a tendency, to enervate; weakening.,
E as in Enerve (v. t.) To weaken; to enervate.,
E as in Enervous (a.) Lacking nerve or force; enervated.,
E as in Enfamish (v. t.) To famish; to starve.,
E as in Enfect (a.) Contaminated with illegality.,
E as in Enfeebled (imp. & p. p.) of Enfeeble,
E as in Enfeebling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Enfeeble,
E as in Enfeeble (v. t.) To make feeble; to deprive of strength; to reduce the strength or force of; to weaken; to debilitate.,
E as in Enfeeblement (n.) The act of weakening; enervation; weakness.,
E as in Enfeebler (n.) One who, or that which, weakens or makes feeble.,
E as in Enfeeblish (v. i.) To enfeeble.,
E as in Enfeloned (a.) Rendered fierce or frantic.,
E as in Enfeoffed (imp. & p. p.) of Enfeoff,
E as in Enfeoffing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Enfeoff,
E as in Enfeoff (v. t.) To give a feud, or right in land, to; to invest with a fief or fee; to invest (any one) with a freehold estate by the process of feoffment.,
E as in Enfeoff (v. t.) To give in vassalage; to make subservient.,
E as in Enfeoffment (n.) The act of enfeoffing.,
E as in Enfeoffment (n.) The instrument or deed by which one is invested with the fee of an estate.,
E as in Enfester (v. t.) To fester.,
E as in Enfetter (v. t.) To bind in fetters; to enchain.,
E as in Enfever (v. t.) To excite fever in.,
E as in Enfierced (imp. & p. p.) of Enfierce,
E as in Enfiercing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Enfierce,
E as in Enfierce (v. t.) To make fierce.,
E as in Enfilade (n.) A line or straight passage, or the position of that which lies in a straight line.,
E as in Enfilade (n.) A firing in the direction of the length of a trench, or a line of parapet or troops, etc.; a raking fire.,
E as in Enfiladed (imp. & p. p.) of Enfilade,
E as in Enfilading (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Enfilade,
E as in Enfilade (v. t.) To pierce, scour, or rake with shot in the direction of the length of, as a work, or a line of troops.,
E as in Enfiled (p. a.) Having some object, as the head of a man or beast, impaled upon it; as, a sword which is said to be "enfiled of" the thing which it pierces.,
E as in Enfire (v. t.) To set on fire.,
E as in Enflesh (v. t.) To clothe with flesh.,
E as in Enflowered (imp. & p. p.) of Enflower,
E as in Enflowering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Enflower,
E as in Enflower (v. t.) To cover or deck with flowers.,
E as in Enfold (v. t.) To infold. See Infold.,
E as in Enfoldment (n.) The act of infolding. See Infoldment.,
E as in Enforced (imp. & p. p.) of Enforce,
E as in Enforcing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Enforce,
E as in Enforce (v. t.) To put force upon; to force; to constrain; to compel; as, to enforce obedience to commands.,
E as in Enforce (v. t.) To make or gain by force; to obtain by force; as, to enforce a passage.,
E as in Enforce (v. t.) To put in motion or action by violence; to drive.,
E as in Enforce (v. t.) To give force to; to strengthen; to invigorate; to urge with energy; as, to enforce arguments or requests.,
E as in Enforce (v. t.) To put in force; to cause to take effect; to give effect to; to execute with vigor; as, to enforce the laws.,
E as in Enforce (v. t.) To urge; to ply hard; to lay much stress upon.,
E as in Enforce (v. i.) To attempt by force.,
E as in Enforce (v. i.) To prove; to evince.,
E as in Enforce (v. i.) To strengthen; to grow strong.,
E as in Enforce (n.) Force; strength; power.,
E as in Enforceable (a.) Capable of being enforced.,
E as in Enforced (a.) Compelled; forced; not voluntary.,
E as in Enforcement (n.) The act of enforcing; compulsion.,
E as in Enforcement (n.) A giving force to; a putting in execution.,
E as in Enforcement (n.) That which enforces, constraints, gives force, authority, or effect to; constraint; force applied.,
E as in Enforcer (n.) One who enforces.,
E as in Enforcible (a.) That may be enforced.,
E as in Enforcive (a.) Serving to enforce or constrain; compulsive.,
E as in Enforest (v. t.) To turn into a forest.,
E as in Enform (v. t.) To form; to fashion.,
E as in Enfouldred (a.) Mixed with, or emitting, lightning.,
E as in Enframe (v. t.) To inclose, as in a frame.,
E as in Enfranchised (imp. & p. p.) of Enfranchise,
E as in Enfranchising (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Enfranchise,
E as in Enfranchise (v. t.) To set free; to liberate from slavery, prison, or any binding power.,
E as in Enfranchise (v. t.) To endow with a franchise; to incorporate into a body politic and thus to invest with civil and political privileges; to admit to the privileges of a freeman.,
E as in Enfranchise (v. t.) To receive as denizens; to naturalize; as, to enfranchise foreign words.,
E as in Enfranchisement (n.) Releasing from slavery or custody.,
E as in Enfranchisement (n.) Admission to the freedom of a corporation or body politic; investiture with the privileges of free citizens.,
E as in Enfranchiser (n.) One who enfranchises.,
E as in Enfree (v. t.) To set free.,
E as in Enfreedom (v. t.) To set free.,
E as in Enfreeze (v. t.) To freeze; to congeal.,
E as in Enfroward (v. t.) To make froward, perverse, or ungovernable.,
E as in Engaged (imp. & p. p.) of Engage,
E as in Engaging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Engage,
E as in Engage (v. t.) To put under pledge; to pledge; to place under obligations to do or forbear doing something, as by a pledge, oath, or promise; to bind by contract or promise.,
E as in Engage (v. t.) To gain for service; to bring in as associate or aid; to enlist; as, to engage friends to aid in a cause; to engage men for service.,
E as in Engage (v. t.) To gain over; to win and attach; to attract and hold; to draw.,
E as in Engage (v. t.) To employ the attention and efforts of; to occupy; to engross; to draw on.,
E as in Engage (v. t.) To enter into contest with; to encounter; to bring to conflict.,
E as in Engage (v. t.) To come into gear with; as, the teeth of one cogwheel engage those of another, or one part of a clutch engages the other part.,
E as in Engage (v. i.) To promise or pledge one's self; to enter into an obligation; to become bound; to warrant.,
E as in Engage (v. i.) To embark in a business; to take a part; to employ or involve one's self; to devote attention and effort; to enlist; as, to engage in controversy.,
E as in Engage (v. i.) To enter into conflict; to join battle; as, the armies engaged in a general battle.,
E as in Engage (v. i.) To be in gear, as two cogwheels working together.,
E as in Engaged (a.) Occupied; employed; busy.,
E as in Engaged (a.) Pledged; promised; especially, having the affections pledged; promised in marriage; affianced; betrothed.,
E as in Engaged (a.) Greatly interested; of awakened zeal; earnest.,
E as in Engaged (a.) Involved; esp., involved in a hostile encounter; as, the engaged ships continued the fight.,
E as in Engagedly (adv.) With attachment; with interest; earnestly.,
E as in Engagedness (n.) The state of being deeply interested; earnestness; zeal.,
E as in Engagement (n.) The act of engaging, pledging, enlisting, occupying, or entering into contest.,
E as in Engagement (n.) The state of being engaged, pledged or occupied; specif., a pledge to take some one as husband or wife.,
E as in Engagement (n.) That which engages; engrossing occupation; employment of the attention; obligation by pledge, promise, or contract; an enterprise embarked in; as, his engagements prevented his acceptance of any office.,
E as in Engagement (n.) An action; a fight; a battle.,
E as in Engagement (n.) The state of being in gear; as, one part of a clutch is brought into engagement with the other part.,
E as in Engager (n.) One who enters into an engagement or agreement; a surety.,
E as in Engaging (a.) Tending to draw the attention or affections; attractive; as, engaging manners or address.,
E as in Engallant (v. t.) To make a gallant of.,
E as in Engaol (v. t.) To put in jail; to imprison.,
E as in Engarboil (v. t.) To throw into disorder; to disturb.,
E as in Engarland (v. t.) To encircle with a garland, or with garlands.,
E as in Engarrison (v. t.) To garrison; to put in garrison, or to protect by a garrison.,
E as in Engastrimuth (n.) An ventriloquist.,
E as in Engendered (imp. & p. p.) of Engender,
E as in Engendering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Engender,
E as in Engender (v. t.) To produce by the union of the sexes; to beget.,
E as in Engender (v. t.) To cause to exist; to bring forth; to produce; to sow the seeds of; as, angry words engender strife.,
E as in Engender (v. i.) To assume form; to come into existence; to be caused or produced.,
E as in Engender (v. i.) To come together; to meet, as in sexual embrace.,
E as in Engender (n.) One who, or that which, engenders.,
E as in Engendrure (n.) The act of generation.,
E as in Engild (v. t.) To gild; to make splendent.,
E as in Engine (n.) (Pronounced, in this sense, ////.) Natural capacity; ability; skill.,
E as in Engine (n.) Anything used to effect a purpose; any device or contrivance; an agent.,
E as in Engine (n.) Any instrument by which any effect is produced; especially, an instrument or machine of war or torture.,
E as in Engine (n.) A compound machine by which any physical power is applied to produce a given physical effect.,
E as in Engine (v. t.) To assault with an engine.,
E as in Engine (v. t.) To equip with an engine; -- said especially of steam vessels; as, vessels are often built by one firm and engined by another.,
E as in Engine (v. t.) (Pronounced, in this sense, /////.) To rack; to torture.,
E as in Engineer (n.) A person skilled in the principles and practice of any branch of engineering. See under Engineering, n.,
E as in Engineer (n.) One who manages as engine, particularly a steam engine; an engine driver.,
E as in Engineer (n.) One who carries through an enterprise by skillful or artful contrivance; an efficient manager.,
E as in Engineered (imp. & p. p.) of Engineer,
E as in Engineering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Engineer,
E as in Engineer (v. t.) To lay out or construct, as an engineer; to perform the work of an engineer on; as, to engineer a road.,
E as in Engineer (v. t.) To use contrivance and effort for; to guide the course of; to manage; as, to engineer a bill through Congress.,
E as in Engineering (n.) Originally, the art of managing engines; in its modern and extended sense, the art and science by which the mechanical properties of matter are made useful to man in structures and machines; the occupation and work of an engineer.,
E as in Enginemen (pl. ) of Engineman,
E as in Engineman (n.) A man who manages, or waits on, an engine.,
E as in Enginer (n.) A contriver; an inventor; a contriver of engines.,
E as in Enginery (n.) The act or art of managing engines, or artillery.,
E as in Enginery (n.) Engines, in general; instruments of war.,
E as in Enginery (n.) Any device or contrivance; machinery; structure or arrangement.,
E as in Engine-sized (a.) Sized by a machine, and not while in the pulp; -- said of paper.,
E as in Enginous (a.) Pertaining to an engine.,
E as in Enginous (a.) Contrived with care; ingenious.,
E as in Engirded (imp. & p. p.) of Engird,
E as in Engirt () of Engird,
E as in Engirding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Engird,
E as in Engird (v. t.) To gird; to encompass.,
E as in Engirdle (v. t.) To surround as with a girdle; to girdle.,
E as in Engirt (v. t.) To engird.,
E as in Engiscope (n.) A kind of reflecting microscope.,
E as in Englaimed (a.) Clammy.,
E as in Engle (n.) A favorite; a paramour; an ingle.,
E as in Engle (v. t.) To cajole or coax, as favorite.,
E as in English (a.) Of or pertaining to England, or to its inhabitants, or to the present so-called Anglo-Saxon race.,
E as in English (a.) See 1st Bond, n., 8.,
E as in English (n.) Collectively, the people of England; English people or persons.,
E as in English (n.) The language of England or of the English nation, and of their descendants in America, India, and other countries.,
E as in English (n.) A kind of printing type, in size between Pica and Great Primer. See Type.,
E as in English (n.) A twist or spinning motion given to a ball in striking it that influences the direction it will take after touching a cushion or another ball.,
E as in Englished (imp. & p. p.) of English,
E as in Englishing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of English,
E as in English (v. t.) To translate into the English language; to Anglicize; hence, to interpret; to explain.,
E as in English (v. t.) To strike (the cue ball) in such a manner as to give it in addition to its forward motion a spinning motion, that influences its direction after impact on another ball or the cushion.,
E as in Englishable (a.) Capable of being translated into, or expressed in, English.,
E as in Englishism (n.) A quality or characteristic peculiar to the English.,
E as in Englishism (n.) A form of expression peculiar to the English language as spoken in England; an Anglicism.,
E as in Englishmen (pl. ) of Englishman,
E as in Englishman (n.) A native or a naturalized inhabitant of England.,
E as in Englishry (n.) The state or privilege of being an Englishman.,
E as in Englishry (n.) A body of English or people of English descent; -- commonly applied to English people in Ireland.,
E as in Englishwomen (pl. ) of Englishwoman,
E as in Englishwoman (n.) Fem. of Englishman.,
E as in Engloom (v. t.) To make gloomy.,
E as in Englue (v. t.) To join or close fast together, as with glue; as, a coffer well englued.,
E as in Englutted (imp. & p. p.) of Englut,
E as in Englutting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Englut,
E as in Englut (v. t.) To swallow or gulp down.,
E as in Englut (v. t.) To glut.,
E as in Engore (v. t.) To gore; to pierce; to lacerate.,
E as in Engore (v. t.) To make bloody.,
E as in Engorged (imp. & p. p.) of Engorge,
E as in Engorging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Engorge,
E as in Engorge (v. t.) To gorge; to glut.,
E as in Engorge (v. t.) To swallow with greediness or in large quantities; to devour.,
E as in Engorge (v. i.) To feed with eagerness or voracity; to stuff one's self with food.,
E as in Engorged (p. a.) Swallowed with greediness, or in large draughts.,
E as in Engorged (p. a.) Filled to excess with blood or other liquid; congested.,
E as in Engorgement (n.) The act of swallowing greedily; a devouring with voracity; a glutting.,
E as in Engorgement (n.) An overfullness or obstruction of the vessels in some part of the system; congestion.,
E as in Engorgement (n.) The clogging of a blast furnace.,
E as in Engouled (a.) Partly swallowed; disappearing in the jaws of anything; as, an infant engouled by a serpent; said also of an ordinary, when its two ends to issue from the mouths of lions, or the like; as, a bend engouled.,
E as in Engoulee (a.) Same as Engouled.,
E as in Engraff (v. t.) To graft; to fix deeply.,
E as in Engraffment (n.) See Ingraftment.,
E as in Engraft (v. t.) See Ingraft.,
E as in Engraftation (n.) Alt. of Engraftment,
E as in Engraftment (n.) The act of ingrafting; ingraftment.,
E as in Engrailed (imp. & p. p.) of Engrail,
E as in Engrailing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Engrail,
E as in Engrail (v. t.) To variegate or spot, as with hail.,
E as in Engrail (v. t.) To indent with small curves. See Engrailed.,
E as in Engrail (v. i.) To form an edging or border; to run in curved or indented lines.,
E as in Engrailed (a.) Indented with small concave curves, as the edge of a bordure, bend, or the like.,
E as in Engrailment (n.) The ring of dots round the edge of a medal, etc.,
E as in Engrailment (n.) Indentation in curved lines, as of a line of division or the edge of an ordinary.,
E as in Engrained (imp. & p. p.) of Engrain,
E as in Engraining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Engrain,
E as in Engrain (v. t.) To dye in grain, or of a fast color. See Ingrain.,
E as in Engrain (v. t.) To incorporate with the grain or texture of anything; to infuse deeply. See Ingrain.,
E as in Engrain (v. t.) To color in imitation of the grain of wood; to grain. See Grain, v. t., 1.,
E as in Engrapple (v. t. & i.) To grapple.,
E as in Engrasped (imp. & p. p.) of Engrasp,
E as in Engrasping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Engrasp,
E as in Engrasp (v. t.) To grasp; to grip.,
E as in Engrave (v. t.) To deposit in the grave; to bury.,
E as in Engraved (imp.) of Engrave,
E as in Engraved (p. p.) of Engrave,
E as in Engraven () of Engrave,
E as in Engraving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Engrave,
E as in Engrave (v. t.) To cut in; to make by incision.,
E as in Engrave (v. t.) To cut with a graving instrument in order to form an inscription or pictorial representation; to carve figures; to mark with incisions.,
E as in Engrave (v. t.) To form or represent by means of incisions upon wood, stone, metal, or the like; as, to engrave an inscription.,
E as in Engrave (v. t.) To impress deeply; to infix, as if with a graver.,
E as in Engraved (a.) Made by engraving or ornamented with engraving.,
E as in Engraved (a.) Having the surface covered with irregular, impressed lines.,
E as in Engravement (n.) Engraving.,
E as in Engravement (n.) Engraved work.,
E as in Engraver (n.) One who engraves; a person whose business it is to produce engraved work, especially on metal or wood.,
E as in Engravery (n.) The trade or work of an engraver.,
E as in Engraving (n.) The act or art of producing upon hard material incised or raised patterns, characters, lines, and the like; especially, the art of producing such lines, etc., in the surface of metal plates or blocks of wood. Engraving is used for the decoration of the surface itself; also, for producing an original, from which a pattern or design may be printed on paper.,
E as in Engraving (n.) That which is engraved; an engraved plate.,
E as in Engraving (n.) An impression from an engraved plate, block of wood, or other material; a print.,
E as in Engregge (v. t.) To aggravate; to make worse; to lie heavy on.,
E as in Engrieve (v. t.) To grieve.,
E as in Engrossed (imp. & p. p.) of Engross,
E as in Engrossing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Engross,
E as in Engross (v. t.) To make gross, thick, or large; to thicken; to increase in bulk or quantity.,
E as in Engross (v. t.) To amass.,
E as in Engross (v. t.) To copy or write in a large hand (en gross, i. e., in large); to write a fair copy of in distinct and legible characters; as, to engross a deed or like instrument on parchment.,
E as in Engross (v. t.) To seize in the gross; to take the whole of; to occupy wholly; to absorb; as, the subject engrossed all his thoughts.,
E as in Engross (v. t.) To purchase either the whole or large quantities of, for the purpose of enhancing the price and making a profit; hence, to take or assume in undue quantity, proportion, or degree; as, to engross commodities in market; to engross power.,
E as in Engrosser (n.) One who copies a writing in large, fair characters.,
E as in Engrosser (n.) One who takes the whole; a person who purchases such quantities of articles in a market as to raise the price; a forestaller.,
E as in Engrossment (n.) The act of engrossing; as, the engrossment of a deed.,
E as in Engrossment (n.) That which has been engrossed, as an instrument, legislative bill, goods, etc.,
E as in Enguard (v. t.) To surround as with a guard.,
E as in Engulfed (imp. & p. p.) of Engulf,
E as in Engulfing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Engulf,
E as in Engulf (v. t.) To absorb or swallow up as in a gulf.,
E as in Engulfment (n.) A swallowing up as if in a gulf.,
E as in Engyn () Variant of Engine.,
E as in Enhalo (v. t.) To surround with a halo.,
E as in Enhanced (imp. & p. p.) of Enhance,
E as in Enhancing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Enhance,
E as in Enhance (v. t.) To raise or lift up; to exalt.,
E as in Enhance (v. t.) To advance; to augment; to increase; to heighten; to make more costly or attractive; as, to enhance the price of commodities; to enhance beauty or kindness; hence, also, to render more heinous; to aggravate; as, to enhance crime.,
E as in Enhance (v. i.) To be raised up; to grow larger; as, a debt enhances rapidly by compound interest.,
E as in Enhancement (n.) The act of increasing, or state of being increased; augmentation; aggravation; as, the enhancement of value, price, enjoyments, crime.,
E as in Enhancer (n.) One who enhances; one who, or that which, raises the amount, price, etc.,
E as in Enharbor (v. t.) To find harbor or safety in; to dwell in or inhabit.,
E as in Enharden (v. t.) To harden; to embolden.,
E as in Enharmonic (a.) Alt. of Enharmonical,
E as in Enharmonical (a.) Of or pertaining to that one of the three kinds of musical scale (diatonic, chromatic, enharmonic) recognized by the ancient Greeks, which consisted of quarter tones and major thirds, and was regarded as the most accurate.,
E as in Enharmonical (a.) Pertaining to a change of notes to the eye, while, as the same keys are used, the instrument can mark no difference to the ear, as the substitution of A/ for G/.,
E as in Enharmonical (a.) Pertaining to a scale of perfect intonation which recognizes all the notes and intervals that result from the exact tuning of diatonic scales and their transposition into other keys.,
E as in Enharmonically (adv.) In the enharmonic style or system; in just intonation.,
E as in Enhearten (v. t.) To give heart to; to fill with courage; to embolden.,
E as in Enhedge (v. t.) To surround as with a hedge.,
E as in Enhort (v. t.) To encourage.,
E as in Enhunger (v. t.) To make hungry.,
E as in Enhydros (n.) A variety of chalcedony containing water.,
E as in Enhydrous (a.) Having water within; containing fluid drops; -- said of certain crystals.,
E as in Enigmas (pl. ) of Enigma,
E as in Enigma (n.) A dark, obscure, or inexplicable saying; a riddle; a statement, the hidden meaning of which is to be discovered or guessed.,
E as in Enigma (n.) An action, mode of action, or thing, which cannot be satisfactorily explained; a puzzle; as, his conduct is an enigma.,
E as in Enigmatic (a.) Alt. of Enigmatical,
E as in Enigmatical (a.) Relating to or resembling an enigma; not easily explained or accounted for; darkly expressed; obscure; puzzling; as, an enigmatical answer.,
E as in Enigmatically (adv.) Darkly; obscurely.,
E as in Enigmatist (n.) One who makes, or talks in, enigmas.,
E as in Enigmatized (imp. & p. p.) of Enigmatize,
E as in Enigmatizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Enigmatize,
E as in Enigmatize (v. i.) To make, or talk in, enigmas; to deal in riddles.,
E as in Enigmatography (n.) Alt. of Enigmatology,
E as in Enigmatology (n.) The art of making or of solving enigmas.,
E as in Enisled (p. a.) Placed alone or apart, as if on an island; severed, as an island.,
E as in Enjailed (imp. & p. p.) of Enjall,
E as in Enjailing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Enjall,
E as in Enjall (v. t.) To put into jail; to imprison.,
E as in Enjoined (imp. & p. p.) of Enjoin,
E as in Enjoining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Enjoin,
E as in Enjoin (v. t.) To lay upon, as an order or command; to give an injunction to; to direct with authority; to order; to charge.,
E as in Enjoin (v. t.) To prohibit or restrain by a judicial order or decree; to put an injunction on.,
E as in Enjoin (v. t.) To join or unite.,
E as in Enjoiner (n.) One who enjoins.,
E as in Enjoinment (n.) Direction; command; authoritative admonition.,
E as in Enjoyed (imp. & p. p.) of Enjoy,
E as in Enjoying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Enjoy,
E as in Enjoy (v. t.) To take pleasure or satisfaction in the possession or experience of; to feel or perceive with pleasure; to be delighted with; as, to enjoy the dainties of a feast; to enjoy conversation.,
E as in Enjoy (v. t.) To have, possess, and use with satisfaction; to occupy or have the benefit of, as a good or profitable thing, or as something desirable; as, to enjoy a free constitution and religious liberty.,
E as in Enjoy (v. t.) To have sexual intercourse with.,
E as in Enjoy (v. i.) To take satisfaction; to live in happiness.,
E as in Enjoyable (a.) Capable of being enjoyed or of giving joy; yielding enjoyment.,
E as in Enjoyer (n.) One who enjoys.,
E as in Enjoyment (n.) The condition of enjoying anything; pleasure or satisfaction, as in the possession or occupancy of anything; possession and use; as, the enjoyment of an estate.,
E as in Enjoyment (n.) That which gives pleasure or keen satisfaction.,
E as in Enkennel (v. t.) To put into a kennel.,
E as in Enkerchiefed (a.) Bound with a kerchief; draped; hooded; covered.,
E as in Enkindled (imp. & p. p.) of Enkindle,
E as in Enkindling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Enkindle,
E as in Enkindle (v. t.) To set on fire; to inflame; to kindle.,
E as in Enkindle (v. t.) To excite; to rouse into action; to incite.,
E as in Enlace (v. t.) To bind or encircle with lace, or as with lace; to lace; to encircle; to enfold; hence, to entangle.,
E as in Enlacement (n.) The act of enlacing, or state of being enlaced; a surrounding as with a lace.,
E as in Enlard (v. t.) To cover or dress with lard or grease; to fatten.,
E as in Enlarged (imp. & p. p.) of Enlarge,
E as in Enlarging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Enlarge,
E as in Enlarge (v. t.) To make larger; to increase in quantity or dimensions; to extend in limits; to magnify; as, the body is enlarged by nutrition; to enlarge one's house.,
E as in Enlarge (v. t.) To increase the capacity of; to expand; to give free scope or greater scope to; also, to dilate, as with joy, affection, and the like; as, knowledge enlarges the mind.,
E as in Enlarge (v. t.) To set at large or set free.,
E as in Enlarge (v. i.) To grow large or larger; to be further extended; to expand; as, a plant enlarges by growth; an estate enlarges by good management; a volume of air enlarges by rarefaction.,
E as in Enlarge (v. i.) To speak or write at length; to be diffuse in speaking or writing; to expatiate; to dilate.,
E as in Enlarge (v. i.) To get more astern or parallel with the vessel's course; to draw aft; -- said of the wind.,
E as in Enlarged (a.) Made large or larger; extended; swollen.,
E as in Enlargement (n.) The act of increasing in size or bulk, real or apparent; the state of being increased; augmentation; further extension; expansion.,
E as in Enlargement (n.) Expansion or extension, as of the powers of the mind; ennoblement, as of the feelings and character; as, an enlargement of views, of knowledge, of affection.,
E as in Enlargement (n.) A setting at large, or being set at large; release from confinement, servitude, or distress; liberty.,
E as in Enlargement (n.) Diffusiveness of speech or writing; expatiation; a wide range of discourse or argument.,
E as in Enlarger (n.) One that enlarges.,
E as in Enlay (v. t.) See Inlay.,
E as in Enlengthen (v. t.) To lengthen.,
E as in Enleven (n.) Eleven.,
E as in Enlight (v. t.) To illumine; to enlighten.,
E as in Enlighten (v. t.) To supply with light; to illuminate; as, the sun enlightens the earth.,
E as in Enlighten (v. t.) To make clear to the intellect or conscience; to shed the light of truth and knowledge upon; to furnish with increase of knowledge; to instruct; as, to enlighten the mind or understanding.,
E as in Enlightener (n.) One who enlightens or illuminates; one who, or that which, communicates light to the eye, or clear views to the mind.,
E as in Enlightenment (n.) Act of enlightening, or the state of being enlightened or instructed.,
E as in Enlimn (v. t.) To adorn by illuminating or ornamenting with colored and decorated letters and figures, as a book or manuscript.,
E as in Enlink (v. t.) To chain together; to connect, as by links.,
E as in Enlisted (imp. & p. p.) of Enlist,
E as in Enlisting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Enlist,
E as in Enlist (v. t.) To enter on a list; to enroll; to register.,
E as in Enlist (v. t.) To engage for military or naval service, the name being entered on a list or register; as, to enlist men.,
E as in Enlist (v. t.) To secure the support and aid of; to employ in advancing interest; as, to enlist persons in the cause of truth, or in a charitable enterprise.,
E as in Enlist (v. i.) To enroll and bind one's self for military or naval service; as, he enlisted in the regular army; the men enlisted for the war.,
E as in Enlist (v. i.) To enter heartily into a cause, as if enrolled.,
E as in Enlistment (n.) The act or enlisting, or the state of being enlisted; voluntary enrollment to serve as a soldier or a sailor.,
E as in Enlistment (n.) The writing by which an enlisted man is bound.,
E as in Enlive (v. t.) To enliven.,
E as in Enlivened (imp. & p. p.) of Enliven,
E as in Enlivening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Enliven,
E as in Enliven (v. t.) To give life, action, or motion to; to make vigorous or active; to excite; to quicken; as, fresh fuel enlivens a fire.,
E as in Enliven (v. t.) To give spirit or vivacity to; to make sprightly, gay, or cheerful; to animate; as, mirth and good humor enliven a company; enlivening strains of music.,
E as in Enlivener (n.) One who, or that which, enlivens, animates, or invigorates.,
E as in Enlock (v. t.) To lock; to inclose.,
E as in Enlumine (v. t.) To illumine.,
E as in Enlute (v. t.) To coat with clay; to lute.,
E as in Enmanche (a.) Resembling, or covered with, a sleeve; -- said of the chief when lines are drawn from the middle point of the upper edge upper edge to the sides.,
E as in Enmarble (v. t.) To make hard as marble; to harden.,
E as in Enmesh (v. t.) To catch or entangle in, or as in, meshes.,
E as in Enmew (v. t.) See Emmew.,
E as in Enmist (v. t.) To infold, as in a mist.,
E as in Enmities (pl. ) of Enmity,
E as in Enmity (n.) The quality of being an enemy; hostile or unfriendly disposition.,
E as in Enmity (n.) A state of opposition; hostility.,
E as in Enmossed (a.) Covered with moss; mossed.,
E as in Enmove (v. t.) See Emmove.,
E as in Enmuffle (v. t.) To muffle up.,
E as in Enmure (v. t.) To immure.,
E as in Ennation (n.) The ninth segment in insects.,
E as in Ennead (n.) The number nine or a group of nine.,
E as in Enneagon (n.) A polygon or plane figure with nine sides and nine angles; a nonagon.,
E as in Enneagonal (a.) Belonging to an enneagon; having nine angles.,
E as in Enneagynous (a.) Having or producing nine pistils or styles; -- said of a flower or plant.,
E as in Enheahedral (a.) Having nine sides.,
E as in Enheahedria (n.) Alt. of Enheahedron,
E as in Enheahedron (n.) A figure having nine sides; a nonagon.,
E as in Enneandria (n.) A Linnaean class of plants having nine stamens.,
E as in Enneandrian (a.) Alt. of Enneandrous,
E as in Enneandrous (a.) Having nine stamens.,
E as in Enneapetalous (a.) Having nine petals, or flower leaves.,
E as in Enneaspermous (a.) Having nine seeds; -- said of fruits.,
E as in Enneatic (a.) Alt. of Enneatical,
E as in Enneatical (a.) Occurring once in every nine times, days, years, etc.; every ninth.,
E as in Ennew (v. t.) To make new.,
E as in Enniche (v. t.) To place in a niche.,
E as in Ennobled (imp. & p. p.) of Ennoble,
E as in Ennobling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ennoble,
E as in Ennoble (v. t.) To make noble; to elevate in degree, qualities, or excellence; to dignify.,
E as in Ennoble (v. t.) To raise to the rank of nobility; as, to ennoble a commoner.,
E as in Ennoblement (n.) The act of making noble, or of exalting, dignifying, or advancing to nobility.,
E as in Ennoblement (n.) That which ennobles; excellence; dignity.,
E as in Ennobler (n.) One who ennobles.,
E as in Ennui (n.) A feeling of weariness and disgust; dullness and languor of spirits, arising from satiety or want of interest; tedium.,
E as in Ennuye (a.) Affected with ennui; weary in spirits; emotionally exhausted.,
E as in Ennuye (n.) One who is affected with ennui.,
E as in Ennuyee (n.) A woman affected with ennui.,
E as in Enodal (a.) Without a node.,
E as in Enodation (n.) The act or operation of clearing of knots, or of untying; hence, also, the solution of a difficulty.,
E as in Enode (v. t.) To clear of knots; to make clear.,
E as in Enoint (a.) Anointed.,
E as in Enomotarch (n.) The commander of an enomoty.,
E as in Enomoty (n.) A band of sworn soldiers; a division of the Spartan army ranging from twenty-five to thirty-six men, bound together by oath.,
E as in Enopla (n. pl.) One of the orders of Nemertina, characterized by the presence of a peculiar armature of spines or plates in the proboscis.,
E as in Enoptomancy (n.) Divination by the use of a mirror.,
E as in Enorm (a.) Enormous.,
E as in Enormities (pl. ) of Enormity,
E as in Enormity (n.) The state or quality of exceeding a measure or rule, or of being immoderate, monstrous, or outrageous.,
E as in Enormity (n.) That which is enormous; especially, an exceeding offense against order, right, or decency; an atrocious crime; flagitious villainy; an atrocity.,
E as in Enormous (a.) Exceeding the usual rule, norm, or measure; out of due proportion; inordinate; abnormal.,
E as in Enormous (a.) Exceedingly wicked; outrageous; atrocious; monstrous; as, an enormous crime.,
E as in Enormously (adv.) In an enormous degree.,
E as in Enormousness (n.) The state of being enormous.,
E as in Enorthotrope (n.) An optical toy; a card on which confused or imperfect figures are drawn, but which form to the eye regular figures when the card is rapidly revolved. See Thaumatrope.,
E as in Enough (a.) Satisfying desire; giving content; adequate to meet the want; sufficient; -- usually, and more elegantly, following the noun to which it belongs.,
E as in Enough (adv.) In a degree or quantity that satisfies; to satisfaction; sufficiently.,
E as in Enough (adv.) Fully; quite; -- used to express slight augmentation of the positive degree, and sometimes equivalent to very; as, he is ready enough to embrace the offer.,
E as in Enough (adv.) In a tolerable degree; -- used to express mere acceptableness or acquiescence, and implying a degree or quantity rather less than is desired; as, the song was well enough.,
E as in Enough (n.) A sufficiency; a quantity which satisfies desire, is adequate to the want, or is equal to the power or ability; as, he had enough to do take care of himself.,
E as in Enough (interj.) An exclamation denoting sufficiency, being a shortened form of it is enough.,
E as in Enounced (imp. & p. p.) of Enounce,
E as in Enouncing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Enounce,
E as in Enounce (v. t.) To announce; to declare; to state, as a proposition or argument.,
E as in Enounce (v. t.) To utter; to articulate.,
E as in Enouncement (n.) Act of enouncing; that which is enounced.,
E as in Enow () A form of Enough.,
E as in Enpatron (v. t.) To act the part of a patron towards; to patronize.,
E as in Enpierce (v. t.) To pierce.,
E as in Enquere (v. i.) To inquire.,
E as in Enquicken (v. t.) To quicken; to make alive.,
E as in Enquire (v. i. & t.) See Inquire.,
E as in Enquirer (n.) See Inquirer.,
E as in Enquiry (n.) See Inquiry.,
E as in Enrace (v. t.) To enroot; to implant.,
E as in Enraged (imp. & p. p.) of Enrage,
E as in Enraging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Enrage,
E as in Enrage (v. t.) To fill with rage; to provoke to frenzy or madness; to make furious.,
E as in Enragement (n.) Act of enraging or state of being enraged; excitement.,
E as in Enrange (v. t.) To range in order; to put in rank; to arrange.,
E as in Enrange (v. t.) To rove over; to range.,
E as in Enrank (v. t.) To place in ranks or in order.,
E as in Enrapt (p. a.) Thrown into ecstasy; transported; enraptured.,
E as in Enraptured (imp. & p. p.) of Enrapture,
E as in Enrapturing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Enrapture,
E as in Enrapture (v. t.) To transport with pleasure; to delight beyond measure; to enravish.,
E as in Enravish (v. t.) To transport with delight; to enrapture; to fascinate.,
E as in Enravishingly (adv.) So as to throw into ecstasy.,
E as in Enravishment (n.) The state of being enravished or enraptured; ecstasy; rapture.,
E as in Enregister (v. t.) To register; to enroll or record; to inregister.,
E as in Enrheum (v. i.) To contract a rheum.,
E as in Enriched (imp. & p. p.) of Enrich,
E as in Enriching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Enrich,
E as in Enrich (v. t.) To make rich with any kind of wealth; to render opulent; to increase the possessions of; as, to enrich the understanding with knowledge.,
E as in Enrich (v. t.) To supply with ornament; to adorn; as, to enrich a ceiling by frescoes.,
E as in Enrich (v. t.) To make rich with manure; to fertilize; -- said of the soil; as, to enrich land by irrigation.,
E as in Enrich (v. t.) To supply with knowledge; to instruct; to store; -- said of the mind.,
E as in Enricher (n.) One who enriches.,
E as in Enrichment (n.) The act of making rich, or that which enriches; increase of value by improvements, embellishment, etc.; decoration; embellishment.,
E as in Enridge (v. t.) To form into ridges.,
E as in Enring (v. t.) To encircle.,
E as in Enripen (v. t.) To ripen.,
E as in Enrive (v. t.) To rive; to cleave.,
E as in Enrobe (v. t.) To invest or adorn with a robe; to attire.,
E as in Enrockment (n.) A mass of large stones thrown into water at random to form bases of piers, breakwaters, etc.,
E as in Enrolled (imp. & p. p.) of Enroll,
E as in Enrolling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Enroll,
E as in Enroll (n.) To insert in a roil; to register or enter in a list or catalogue or on rolls of court; hence, to record; to insert in records; to leave in writing; as, to enroll men for service; to enroll a decree or a law; also, reflexively, to enlist.,
E as in Enroll (n.) To envelop; to inwrap; to involve.,
E as in Enroller (n.) One who enrolls or registers.,
E as in Enrollment (n.) The act of enrolling; registration.,
E as in Enrollment (n.) A writing in which anything is enrolled; a register; a record.,
E as in Enroot (v. t.) To fix by the root; to fix fast; to implant deep.,
E as in Enround (v. t.) To surround.,
E as in En route () On the way or road.,
E as in Ens (n.) Entity, being, or existence; an actually existing being; also, God, as the Being of Beings.,
E as in Ens (n.) Something supposed to condense within itself all the virtues and qualities of a substance from which it is extracted; essence.,
E as in Ensafe (v. t.) To make safe.,
E as in Ensample (n.) An example; a pattern or model for imitation.,
E as in Ensample (v. t.) To exemplify, to show by example.,
E as in Ensanguine (v. t.) To stain or cover with blood; to make bloody, or of a blood-red color; as, an ensanguined hue.,
E as in Ensate (a.) Having sword-shaped leaves, or appendages; ensiform.,
E as in Enscale (v. t.) To cover with scales.,
E as in Enshedule (v. t.) To insert in a schedule. See Schedule.,
E as in Ensconced (imp. & p. p.) of Ensconce,
E as in Ensconcing (imp. & p. p.) of Ensconce,
E as in Ensconce (v. t.) To cover or shelter, as with a sconce or fort; to place or hide securely; to conceal.,
E as in Enseal (v. t.) To impress with a seal; to mark as with a seal; hence, to ratify.,
E as in Enseam (v. t.) To sew up; to inclose by a seam; hence, to include; to contain.,
E as in Enseam (v. t.) To cover with grease; to defile; to pollute.,
E as in Ensear (v. t.) To sear; to dry up.,
E as in Ensearch (v. i.) To make search; to try to find something.,
E as in Ensearch (v. t. ) To search for.,
E as in Enseel (v. t.) To close eyes of; to seel; -- said in reference to a hawk.,
E as in Enseint (a.) With child; pregnant. See Enceinte.,
E as in Ensemble (n.) The whole; all the parts taken together.,
E as in Ensemble (adv.) All at once; together.,
E as in Enshelter (v. t.) To shelter.,
E as in Enshield (v. t.) To defend, as with a shield; to shield.,
E as in Enshield (a.) Shielded; enshielded.,
E as in Enshrined (imp. & p. p.) of Enshrine,
E as in Enshrining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Enshrine,
E as in Enshrine (v. t.) To inclose in a shrine or chest; hence, to preserve or cherish as something sacred; as, to enshrine something in memory.,
E as in Enshroud (v. t.) To cover with, or as with, a shroud; to shroud.,
E as in Ensiferous (a.) Bearing a sword.,
E as in Ensiform (a.) Having the form of a sword blade; sword-shaped; as, an ensiform leaf.,
E as in Ensign (n.) A flag; a banner; a standard; esp., the national flag, or a banner indicating nationality, carried by a ship or a body of soldiers; -- as distinguished from flags indicating divisions of the army, rank of naval officers, or private signals, and the like.,
E as in Ensign (n.) A signal displayed like a standard, to give notice.,
E as in Ensign (n.) Sign; badge of office, rank, or power; symbol.,
E as in Ensign (n.) Formerly, a commissioned officer of the army who carried the ensign or flag of a company or regiment.,
E as in Ensign (n.) A commissioned officer of the lowest grade in the navy, corresponding to the grade of second lieutenant in the army.,
E as in Ensign (v. t.) To designate as by an ensign.,
E as in Ensign (v. t.) To distinguish by a mark or ornament; esp. (Her.), by a crown; thus, any charge which has a crown immediately above or upon it, is said to be ensigned.,
E as in Ensigncies (pl. ) of Ensigncy,
E as in Ensigncy (n.) The rank or office of an ensign.,
E as in Ensignship (n.) The state or rank of an ensign.,
E as in Ensilage (n.) The process of preserving fodder (such as cornstalks, rye, oats, millet, etc.) by compressing it while green and fresh in a pit or vat called a silo, where it is kept covered from the air; as the ensilage of fodder.,
E as in Ensilage (n.) The fodder preserved in a silo.,
E as in Ensilaged (imp. & p. p.) of Ensilage,
E as in Ensilaging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ensilage,
E as in Ensilage (v. t.) To preserve in a silo; as, to ensilage cornstalks.,
E as in Ensky (v. t.) To place in the sky or in heaven.,
E as in Enslaved (imp. & p. p.) of Enslave,
E as in Enslaving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Enslave,
E as in Enslave (v. t.) To reduce to slavery; to make a slave of; to subject to a dominant influence.,
E as in Enslavedness (n.) State of being enslaved.,
E as in Enslavement (n.) The act of reducing to slavery; state of being enslaved; bondage; servitude.,
E as in Enslaver (n.) One who enslaves.,
E as in Ensnare (v. t.) To catch in a snare. See Insnare.,
E as in Ensnarl (v. t.) To entangle.,
E as in Ensober (v. t.) To make sober.,
E as in Ensoul (v. t.) To indue or imbue (a body) with soul.,
E as in Ensphere (v. t.) To place in a sphere; to envelop.,
E as in Ensphere (v. t.) To form into a sphere.,
E as in Enstamp (v. t.) To stamp; to mark as /ith a stamp; to impress deeply.,
E as in Enstate (v. t.) See Instate.,
E as in Enstatite (n.) A mineral of the pyroxene group, orthorhombic in crystallization; often fibrous and massive; color grayish white or greenish. It is a silicate of magnesia with some iron. Bronzite is a ferriferous variety.,
E as in Enstatitic (a.) Relating to enstatite.,
E as in Enstore (v. t.) To restore.,
E as in Enstyle (v. t.) To style; to name.,
E as in Ensuable (a.) Ensuing; following.,
E as in Ensued (imp. & p. p.) of Ensue,
E as in Ensuing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ensue,
E as in Ensue (v. t.) To follow; to pursue; to follow and overtake.,
E as in Ensue (v. i.) To follow or come afterward; to follow as a consequence or in chronological succession; to result; as, an ensuing conclusion or effect; the year ensuing was a cold one.,
E as in Ensure (v. t.) To make sure. See Insure.,
E as in Ensure (v. t.) To betroth.,
E as in Ensurer (n.) See Insurer.,
E as in Enswathe (v. t.) To swathe; to envelop, as in swaddling clothes.,
E as in Enswathement (n.) The act of enswathing, or the state of being enswathed.,
E as in Ensweep (v. t.) To sweep over or across; to pass over rapidly.,
E as in Ent- () A prefix signifying within. See Ento-.,
E as in -ent () An adjective suffix signifying action or being; as, corrodent, excellent, emergent, continent, quiescent. See -ant.,
E as in Entablature (n.) The superstructure which lies horizontally upon the columns. See Illust. of Column, Cornice.,
E as in Entablement (n.) See Entablature.,
E as in Entackle (v. t.) To supply with tackle.,
E as in Entad (adv.) Toward the inside or central part; away from the surface; -- opposed to ectad.,
E as in Entail (n.) That which is entailed.,
E as in Entail (n.) An estate in fee entailed, or limited in descent to a particular class of issue.,
E as in Entail (n.) The rule by which the descent is fixed.,
E as in Entail (n.) Delicately carved ornamental work; intaglio.,
E as in Entailed (imp. & p. p.) of Entail,
E as in Entailing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Entail,
E as in Entail (n.) To settle or fix inalienably on a person or thing, or on a person and his descendants or a certain line of descendants; -- said especially of an estate; to bestow as an heritage.,
E as in Entail (n.) To appoint hereditary possessor.,
E as in Entail (n.) To cut or carve in a ornamental way.,
E as in Entailment (n.) The act of entailing or of giving, as an estate, and directing the mode of descent.,
E as in Entailment (n.) The condition of being entailed.,
E as in Entailment (n.) A thing entailed.,
E as in Ental (a.) Pertaining to, or situated near, central or deep parts; inner; -- opposed to ectal.,
E as in Entame (v. t.) To tame.,
E as in Entangled (imp. & p. p.) of Entangle,
E as in Entangling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Entangle,
E as in Entangle (v. t.) To twist or interweave in such a manner as not to be easily separated; to make tangled, confused, and intricate; as, to entangle yarn or the hair.,
E as in Entangle (v. t.) To involve in such complications as to render extrication a bewildering difficulty; hence, metaphorically, to insnare; to perplex; to bewilder; to puzzle; as, to entangle the feet in a net, or in briers.,
E as in Entanglement (n.) State of being entangled; intricate and confused involution; that which entangles; intricacy; perplexity.,
E as in Entangler (n.) One that entangles.,
E as in Entasia (n.) Tonic spasm; -- applied generically to denote any disease characterized by tonic spasms, as tetanus, trismus, etc.,
E as in Entasis (n.) A slight convex swelling of the shaft of a column.,
E as in Entasis (n.) Same as Entasia.,
E as in Entassment (n.) A heap; accumulation.,
E as in Entastic (a.) Relating to any disease characterized by tonic spasms.,
E as in Entelechy (n.) An actuality; a conception completely actualized, in distinction from mere potential existence.,
E as in Entellus (n.) An East Indian long-tailed bearded monkey (Semnopithecus entellus) regarded as sacred by the natives. It is remarkable for the caplike arrangement of the hair on the head. Called also hoonoomaun and hungoor.,
E as in Entend (v. i.) To attend to; to apply one's self to.,
E as in Entender (v. t.) To make tender.,
E as in Entender (v. t.) To treat with tenderness.,
E as in Ententive (a.) Attentive; zealous.,
E as in Enter- () A prefix signifying between, among, part.,
E as in Entered (imp. & p. p.) of Enter,
E as in Entering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Enter,
E as in Enter (v. t.) To come or go into; to pass into the interior of; to pass within the outer cover or shell of; to penetrate; to pierce; as, to enter a house, a closet, a country, a door, etc.; the river enters the sea.,
E as in Enter (v. t.) To unite in; to join; to be admitted to; to become a member of; as, to enter an association, a college, an army.,
E as in Enter (v. t.) To engage in; to become occupied with; as, to enter the legal profession, the book trade, etc.,
E as in Enter (v. t.) To pass within the limits of; to attain; to begin; to commence upon; as, to enter one's teens, a new era, a new dispensation.,
E as in Enter (v. t.) To cause to go (into), or to be received (into); to put in; to insert; to cause to be admitted; as, to enter a knife into a piece of wood, a wedge into a log; to enter a boy at college, a horse for a race, etc.,
E as in Enter (v. t.) To inscribe; to enroll; to record; as, to enter a name, or a date, in a book, or a book in a catalogue; to enter the particulars of a sale in an account, a manifest of a ship or of merchandise at the customhouse.,
E as in Enter (v. t.) To go into or upon, as lands, and take actual possession of them.,
E as in Enter (v. t.) To place in regular form before the court, usually in writing; to put upon record in proper from and order; as, to enter a writ, appearance, rule, or judgment.,
E as in Enter (v. t.) To make report of (a vessel or her cargo) at the customhouse; to submit a statement of (imported goods), with the original invoices, to the proper officer of the customs for estimating the duties. See Entry, 4.,
E as in Enter (v. t.) To file or inscribe upon the records of the land office the required particulars concerning (a quantity of public land) in order to entitle a person to a right pf preemption.,
E as in Enter (v. t.) To deposit for copyright the title or description of (a book, picture, map, etc.); as, "entered according to act of Congress.",
E as in Enter (v. t.) To initiate; to introduce favorably.,
E as in Enter (v. i.) To go or come in; -- often with in used pleonastically; also, to begin; to take the first steps.,
E as in Enter (v. i.) To get admission; to introduce one's self; to penetrate; to form or constitute a part; to become a partaker or participant; to share; to engage; -- usually with into; sometimes with on or upon; as, a ball enters into the body; water enters into a ship; he enters into the plan; to enter into a quarrel; a merchant enters into partnership with some one; to enter upon another's land; the boy enters on his tenth year; to enter upon a task; lead enters into the composition of pewter.,
E as in Enter (v. i.) To penetrate mentally; to consider attentively; -- with into.,
E as in Enteradenography (n.) A treatise upon, or description of, the intestinal glands.,
E as in Enteradenology (n.) The science which treats of the glands of the alimentary canal.,
E as in Enteralgia (n.) Pain in the intestines; colic.,
E as in Enterdeal (n.) Mutual dealings; intercourse.,
E as in Enterer (n.) One who makes an entrance or beginning.,
E as in Enteric (a.) Of or pertaining to the enteron, or alimentary canal; intestinal.,
E as in Enteritis (n.) An inflammation of the intestines.,
E as in Enterlace (v. t.) See Interlace.,
E as in Entermete (v. i.) To interfere; to intermeddle.,
E as in Entermewer (n.) A hawk gradually changing the color of its feathers, commonly in the second year.,
E as in Entermise (n.) Mediation.,
E as in Enterocele (n.) A hernial tumor whose contents are intestine.,
E as in Enterocoele (n.) A perivisceral cavity which arises as an outgrowth or outgrowths from the digestive tract; distinguished from a schizocoele, which arises by a splitting of the mesoblast of the embryo.,
E as in Enterography (n.) A treatise upon, or description of, the intestines; enterology.,
E as in Enterolith (n.) An intestinal concretion.,
E as in Enterology (n.) The science which treats of the viscera of the body.,
E as in Enteron (n.) The whole alimentary, or enteric, canal.,
E as in Enteropathy (n.) Disease of the intestines.,
E as in Enteropneusta (n. pl.) A group of wormlike invertebrates having, along the sides of the body, branchial openings for the branchial sacs, which are formed by diverticula of the alimentary canal. Balanoglossus is the only known genus. See Illustration in Appendix.,
E as in Enterorrhaphy (n.) The operation of sewing up a rent in the intestinal canal.,
E as in Enterotome (n.) A kind of scissors used for opening the intestinal canal, as in post-mortem examinations.,
E as in Enterotomy (n.) Incision of the intestines, especially in reducing certain cases of hernia.,
E as in Enterparlance (n.) Mutual talk or conversation; conference.,
E as in Enterplead (v. i.) Same as Interplead.,
E as in Enterprise (n.) That which is undertaken; something attempted to be performed; a work projected which involves activity, courage, energy, and the like; a bold, arduous, or hazardous attempt; an undertaking; as, a manly enterprise; a warlike enterprise.,
E as in Enterprise (n.) Willingness or eagerness to engage in labor which requires boldness, promptness, energy, and like qualities; as, a man of great enterprise.,
E as in Enterprise (v. t.) To undertake; to begin and attempt to perform; to venture upon.,
E as in Enterprise (v. t.) To treat with hospitality; to entertain.,
E as in Enterprise (v. i.) To undertake an enterprise, or something hazardous or difficult.,
E as in Enterpriser (n.) One who undertakes enterprises.,
E as in Enterprising (a.) Having a disposition for enterprise; characterized by enterprise; resolute, active or prompt to attempt; as, an enterprising man or firm.,
E as in Entertained (imp. & p. p.) of Entertain,
E as in Entertaining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Entertain,
E as in Entertain (v. t.) To be at the charges of; to take or keep in one's service; to maintain; to support; to harbor; to keep.,
E as in Entertain (v. t.) To give hospitable reception and maintenance to; to receive at one's board, or into one's house; to receive as a guest.,
E as in Entertain (v. t.) To engage the attention of agreeably; to amuse with that which makes the time pass pleasantly; to divert; as, to entertain friends with conversation, etc.,
E as in Entertain (v. t.) To give reception to; to receive, in general; to receive and take into consideration; to admit, treat, or make use of; as, to entertain a proposal.,
E as in Entertain (v. t.) To meet or encounter, as an enemy.,
E as in Entertain (v. t.) To keep, hold, or maintain in the mind with favor; to keep in the mind; to harbor; to cherish; as, to entertain sentiments.,
E as in Entertain (v. t.) To lead on; to bring along; to introduce.,
E as in Entertain (v. i.) To receive, or provide entertainment for, guests; as, he entertains generously.,
E as in Entertain (n.) Entertainment.,
E as in Entertainer (n.) One who entertains.,
E as in Entertaining (a.) Affording entertainment; pleasing; amusing; diverting.,
E as in Entertainment (n.) The act of receiving as host, or of amusing, admitting, or cherishing; hospitable reception; also, reception or treatment, in general.,
E as in Entertainment (n.) That which entertains, or with which one is entertained; as: (a) Hospitality; hospitable provision for the wants of a guest; especially, provision for the table; a hospitable repast; a feast; a formal or elegant meal. (b) That which engages the attention agreeably, amuses or diverts, whether in private, as by conversation, etc., or in public, by performances of some kind; amusement.,
E as in Entertainment (n.) Admission into service; service.,
E as in Entertainment (n.) Payment of soldiers or servants; wages.,
E as in Entertake (v. t.) To entertain.,
E as in Entertissued (a.) Same as Intertissued.,
E as in Entheal (a.) Alt. of Enthean,
E as in Enthean (a.) Divinely inspired; wrought up to enthusiasm.,
E as in Entheasm (n.) Inspiration; enthusiasm.,
E as in Entheastic (a.) Of godlike energy; inspired.,
E as in Entheat (a.) Divinely inspired.,
E as in Enthelmintha (n. pl.) Alt. of Enthelminthes,
E as in Enthelminthes (n. pl.) Intestinal worms. See Helminthes.,
E as in Entheic (a.) Caused by a morbifie virus implanted in the system; as, an enthetic disease like syphilis.,
E as in Enthrall (v. t.) To hold in thrall; to enslave. See Inthrall.,
E as in Enthrallment (n.) The act of enthralling, or state of being enthralled. See Inthrallment.,
E as in Enthrill (v. t.) To pierce; to thrill.,
E as in Enthrone (v. t.) To seat on a throne; to exalt to the seat of royalty or of high authority; hence, to invest with sovereign authority or dignity.,
E as in Enthrone (v. t.) To induct, as a bishop, into the powers and privileges of a vacant see.,
E as in Enthronement (n.) The act of enthroning, or state of being enthroned.,
E as in Enthronization (n.) The act of enthroning; hence, the admission of a bishop to his stall or throne in his cathedral.,
E as in Enthronized (imp. & p. p.) of Enthronize,
E as in Enthronizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Enthronize,
E as in Enthronize (v. t.) To place on a throne; hence, to induct into office, as a bishop.,
E as in Enthuse (v. t. & i.) To make or become enthusiastic.,
E as in Enthusiasm (n.) Inspiration as if by a divine or superhuman power; ecstasy; hence, a conceit of divine possession and revelation, or of being directly subject to some divine impulse.,
E as in Enthusiasm (n.) A state of impassioned emotion; transport; elevation of fancy; exaltation of soul; as, the poetry of enthusiasm.,
E as in Enthusiasm (n.) Enkindled and kindling fervor of soul; strong excitement of feeling on behalf of a cause or a subject; ardent and imaginative zeal or interest; as, he engaged in his profession with enthusiasm.,
E as in Enthusiasm (n.) Lively manifestation of joy or zeal.,
E as in Enthusiast (n.) One moved or actuated by enthusiasm; as: (a) One who imagines himself divinely inspired, or possessed of some special revelation; a religious madman; a fanatic. (b) One whose mind is wholly possessed and heated by what engages it; one who is influenced by a peculiar; fervor of mind; an ardent and imaginative person.,
E as in Enthusiastic (a.) Alt. of Enthusiastical,
E as in Enthusiastical (a.) Filled with enthusiasm; characterized by enthusiasm; zealous; as, an enthusiastic lover of art.,
E as in Enthusiastic (n.) An enthusiast; a zealot.,
E as in Enthymematic (a.) Alt. of Enthymematical,
E as in Enthymematical (a.) Pertaining to, or of the form of, an enthymeme.,
E as in Enthymeme (n.) An argument consisting of only two propositions, an antecedent and consequent deduced from it; a syllogism with one premise omitted; as, We are dependent; therefore we should be humble. Here the major proposition is suppressed. The complete syllogism would be, Dependent creatures should be humble; we are dependent creatures; therefore we should be humble.,
E as in Enticed (imp. & p. p.) of Entice,
E as in Enticing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Entice,
E as in Entice (v. t.) To draw on, by exciting hope or desire; to allure; to attract; as, the bait enticed the fishes. Often in a bad sense: To lead astray; to induce to evil; to tempt; as, the sirens enticed them to listen.,
E as in Enticeable (a.) Capable of being enticed.,
E as in Enticement (n.) The act or practice of alluring or tempting; as, the enticements of evil companions.,
E as in Enticement (n.) That which entices, or incites to evil; means of allurement; alluring object; as, an enticement to sin.,
E as in Enticer (n.) One who entices; one who incites or allures to evil.,
E as in Enticing (a.) That entices; alluring.,
E as in Enticingly (adv.) In an enticing manner; charmingly.,
E as in Entierty (n.) See Entirety.,
E as in Entire (a.) Complete in all parts; undivided; undiminished; whole; full and perfect; not deficient; as, the entire control of a business; entire confidence, ignorance.,
E as in Entire (a.) Without mixture or alloy of anything; unqualified; morally whole; pure; faithful.,
E as in Entire (a.) Consisting of a single piece, as a corolla.,
E as in Entire (a.) Having an evenly continuous edge, as a leaf which has no kind of teeth.,
E as in Entire (a.) Not gelded; -- said of a horse.,
E as in Entire (a.) Internal; interior.,
E as in Entire (n.) Entirely.,
E as in Entire (n.) A name originally given to a kind of beer combining qualities of different kinds of beer.,
E as in Entirely (adv.) In an entire manner; wholly; completely; fully; as, the trace is entirely lost.,
E as in Entirely (adv.) Without alloy or mixture; truly; sincerely.,
E as in Entireness (n.) The state or condition of being entire; completeness; fullness; totality; as, the entireness of an arch or a bridge.,
E as in Entireness (n.) Integrity; wholeness of heart; honesty.,
E as in Entireness (n.) Oneness; unity; -- applied to a condition of intimacy or close association.,
E as in Entireness (pl. ) of Entirety,
E as in Entirety (n.) The state of being entire; completeness; as, entirely of interest.,
E as in Entirety (n.) That which is entire; the whole.,
E as in Entitative (a.) Considered as pure entity; abstracted from all circumstances.,
E as in Entitled (imp. & p. p.) of Entitle,
E as in Entitling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Entitle,
E as in Entitle (v. t.) To give a title to; to affix to as a name or appellation; hence, also, to dignify by an honorary designation; to denominate; to call; as, to entitle a book "Commentaries;" to entitle a man "Honorable.",
E as in Entitle (v. t.) To give a claim to; to qualify for, with a direct object of the person, and a remote object of the thing; to furnish with grounds for seeking or claiming with success; as, an officer's talents entitle him to command.,
E as in Entitle (v. t.) To attribute; to ascribe.,
E as in Entitule (v. t.) To entitle.,
E as in Entities (pl. ) of Entity,
E as in Entity (n.) A real being, whether in thought (as an ideal conception) or in fact; being; essence; existence.,
E as in Ento- () A combining form signifying within; as, entoblast.,
E as in Entoblast (n.) The inner germ layer; endoderm. See Nucleolus.,
E as in Entobronchia (pl. ) of Entobronchium,
E as in Entobronchium (n.) One of the main bronchi in the lungs of birds.,
E as in Entocuneiform (n.) Alt. of Entocuniform,
E as in Entocuniform (n.) One of the bones of the tarsus. See Cuneiform.,
E as in Entoderm (n.) See Endoderm, and Illust. of Blastoderm.,
E as in Entodermal (a.) Alt. of Entodermic,
E as in Entodermic (a.) Relating to the entoderm.,
E as in Entogastric (a.) Pertaining to the interior of the stomach; -- applied to a mode of budding from the interior of the gastric cavity, in certain hydroids.,
E as in Entogenous (a.) See Endogenous.,
E as in Entoglossal (a.) Within the tongue; -- applied to the glossohyal bone.,
E as in Entoiled (imp. & p. p.) of Entoil,
E as in Entoiling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Entoil,
E as in Entoil (v. t.) To take with toils or bring into toils; to insnare.,
E as in Entombed (imp. & p. p.) of Entomb,
E as in Entombing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Entomb,
E as in Entomb (v. t.) To deposit in a tomb, as a dead body; to bury; to inter; to inhume.,
E as in Entombment (n.) The act of entombing or burying, or state of being entombed; burial.,
E as in Entomere (n.) The more granular cells, which finally become internal, in many segmenting ova, as those of mammals.,
E as in Entomic (a.) Alt. of Entomical,
E as in Entomical (a.) Relating to insects; entomological.,
E as in Entomoid (a.) Resembling an insect.,
E as in Entomoid (n.) An object resembling an insect.,
E as in Entomolin (n.) See Chitin.,
E as in Entomolite (n.) A fossil insect.,
E as in Entomologic (a.) Alt. of Entomological,
E as in Entomological (a.) Of or relating to entomology.,
E as in Entomologist (n.) One versed in entomology.,
E as in Entomologize (v. i.) To collect specimens in the study of entomology.,
E as in Entomologies (pl. ) of Entomology,
E as in Entomology (n.) That part of zoology which treats of insects.,
E as in Entomology (n.) A treatise on the science of entomology.,
E as in Entomophaga (n. pl.) One of a group of hymenopterous insects whose larvae feed parasitically upon living insects. See Ichneumon, 2.,
E as in Entomophaga (n. pl.) A group of marsupials which are partly insectivorous, as the opossum.,
E as in Entomophaga (n. pl.) A group of edentates, including the ant-eaters.,
E as in Entomophagan (a.) Relating to the Entomophaga.,
E as in Entomophagan (n.) One of the Entomophaga.,
E as in Entomophagous (a.) Feeding on insects; insectivorous.,
E as in Entomophilous (a.) Fertilized by the agency of insects; -- said of plants in which the pollen is carried to the stigma by insects.,
E as in Entomostraca (n. pl.) One of the subclasses of Crustacea, including a large number of species, many of them minute. The group embraces several orders; as the Phyllopoda, Ostracoda, Copepoda, and Pectostraca. See Copepoda, Phyllopoda, and Cladocera.,
E as in Entomostracan (a.) Relating to the Entomostraca.,
E as in Entomostracan (n.) One of the Entomostraca.,
E as in Entomostracous (a.) Belonging to the Entomostracans.,
E as in Entomotomist (n.) One who practices entomotomy.,
E as in Entomotomy (n.) The science of the dissection of insects.,
E as in Entonic (a.) Having great tension, or exaggerated action.,
E as in Entoperipheral (a.) Being, or having its origin, within the external surface of the body; -- especially applied to feelings, such as hunger, produced by internal disturbances. Opposed to epiperipheral.,
E as in Entophyte (n.) A vegetable parasite subsisting in the interior of the body.,
E as in Entophytic (a.) Of or pertaining to entophytes; as, an entophytic disease.,
E as in Entoplasm (n.) The inner granular layer of protoplasm in a developing ovum.,
E as in Entoplasm (n.) Endosarc.,
E as in Entoplastic (a.) Pertaining to, or composed of, entoplasm; as, the entoplastic products of some Protozoa, or the entoplastic modification of the cell protoplasm, by which a nucleus is produced.,
E as in Entoplastra (pl. ) of Entoplastron,
E as in Entoplastron (n.) The median plate of the plastron of turtles; -- called also entosternum.,
E as in Entoprocta (n. pl.) A group of Bryozoa in which the anus is within the circle of tentacles. See Pedicellina.,
E as in Entoptic (a.) Relating to objects situated within the eye; esp., relating to the perception of objects in one's own eye.,
E as in Entorganism (n.) An internal parasitic organism.,
E as in Entortilation (n.) A turning into a circle; round figures.,
E as in Entosterna (pl. ) of Entosternum,
E as in Entosternum (n.) See Entoplastron.,
E as in Entosthoblast (n.) The granule within the nucleolus or entoblast of a nucleated cell.,
E as in Entothorax (n.) See Endothorax.,
E as in Entotic (a.) Pertaining to the interior of the ear.,
E as in Entozoa (n. pl.) A group of worms, including the tapeworms, flukes, roundworms, etc., most of which live parasitically in the interior of other animals; the Helminthes.,
E as in Entozoa (n. pl.) An artificial group, including all kinds of animals living parasitically in others.,
E as in Entozoal (a.) Alt. of Entozoic,
E as in Entozoic (a.) Pertaining to, or consisting of, the Entozoa.,
E as in Entozoologist (n.) One versed in the science of the Entozoa.,
E as in Entozoa (pl. ) of Entozoon,
E as in Entozoon (n.) One of the Entozoa.,
E as in Entr'acte (n.) The interval of time which occurs between the performance of any two acts of a drama.,
E as in Entr'acte (n.) A dance, piece of music, or interlude, performed between two acts of a drama.,
E as in Entrail (v. t.) To interweave; to intertwine.,
E as in Entrail (n.) Entanglement; fold.,
E as in Entrails (n. pl.) The internal parts of animal bodies; the bowels; the guts; viscera; intestines.,
E as in Entrails (n. pl.) The internal parts; as, the entrails of the earth.,
E as in Entrain (v. t.) To draw along as a current does; as, water entrained by steam.,
E as in Entrain (v. t.) To put aboard a railway train; as, to entrain a regiment.,
E as in Entrain (v. i.) To go aboard a railway train; as, the troops entrained at the station.,
E as in Entrammel (v. t.) To trammel; to entangle.,
E as in Entrance (n.) The act of entering or going into; ingress; as, the entrance of a person into a house or an apartment; hence, the act of taking possession, as of property, or of office; as, the entrance of an heir upon his inheritance, or of a magistrate into office.,
E as in Entrance (n.) Liberty, power, or permission to enter; as, to give entrance to friends.,
E as in Entrance (n.) The passage, door, or gate, for entering.,
E as in Entrance (n.) The entering upon; the beginning, or that with which the beginning is made; the commencement; initiation; as, a difficult entrance into business.,
E as in Entrance (n.) The causing to be entered upon a register, as a ship or goods, at a customhouse; an entering; as, his entrance of the arrival was made the same day.,
E as in Entrance (n.) The angle which the bow of a vessel makes with the water at the water line.,
E as in Entrance (n.) The bow, or entire wedgelike forepart of a vessel, below the water line.,
E as in Entranced (imp. & p. p.) of Entrance,
E as in Entrancing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Entrance,
E as in Entrance (v. t.) To put into a trance; to make insensible to present objects.,
E as in Entrance (v. t.) To put into an ecstasy; to ravish with delight or wonder; to enrapture; to charm.,
E as in Entrancement (n.) The act of entrancing, or the state of trance or ecstasy.,
E as in Entrant (n.) One who enters; a beginner.,
E as in Entrant (n.) An applicant for admission.,
E as in Entrapped (imp. & p. p.) of Entrap,
E as in Entrapping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Entrap,
E as in Entrap (v. t.) To catch in a trap; to insnare; hence, to catch, as in a trap, by artifices; to involve in difficulties or distresses; to catch or involve in contradictions; as, to be entrapped by the devices of evil men.,
E as in Entreated (imp. & p. p.) of Entreat,
E as in Entreating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Entreat,
E as in Entreat (v. t.) To treat, or conduct toward; to deal with; to use.,
E as in Entreat (v. t.) To treat with, or in respect to, a thing desired; hence, to ask earnestly; to beseech; to petition or pray with urgency; to supplicate; to importune.,
E as in Entreat (v. t.) To beseech or supplicate successfully; to prevail upon by prayer or solicitation; to persuade.,
E as in Entreat (v. t.) To invite; to entertain.,
E as in Entreat (v. i.) To treat or discourse; hence, to enter into negotiations, as for a treaty.,
E as in Entreat (v. i.) To make an earnest petition or request.,
E as in Entreat (n.) Entreaty.,
E as in Entreatable (a.) That may be entreated.,
E as in Entreatance (n.) Entreaty.,
E as in Entreater (n.) One who entreats; one who asks earnestly; a beseecher.,
E as in Entreatful (a.) Full of entreaty. [R.] See Intreatful.,
E as in Entreatingly (adv.) In an entreating manner.,
E as in Entreative (a.) Used in entreaty; pleading.,
E as in Entreatment (n.) Entreaty; invitation.,
E as in Entreaties (pl. ) of Entreaty,
E as in Entreaty (n.) Treatment; reception; entertainment.,
E as in Entreaty (n.) The act of entreating or beseeching; urgent prayer; earnest petition; pressing solicitation.,
E as in Entree (n.) A coming in, or entrance; hence, freedom of access; permission or right to enter; as, to have the entree of a house.,
E as in Entree (n.) In French usage, a dish served at the beginning of dinner to give zest to the appetite; in English usage, a side dish, served with a joint, or between the courses, as a cutlet, scalloped oysters, etc.,
E as in Entremets (n. sing. & pl.) A side dish; a dainty or relishing dish usually eaten after the joints or principal dish; also, a sweetmeat, served with a dinner.,
E as in Entremets (n. sing. & pl.) Any small entertainment between two greater ones.,
E as in Entrench (v. t.) See Intrench.,
E as in Entrepot (n.) A warehouse; a magazine for depositing goods, stores, etc.; a mart or place where merchandise is deposited; as, an entrepot for shipping goods in transit.,
E as in Entrepreneur (n.) One who creates a product on his own account; whoever undertakes on his own account an industrial enterprise in which workmen are employed.,
E as in Entresol (n.) A low story between two higher ones, usually between the ground floor and the first story; mezzanine.,
E as in Entrick (v. t.) To trick, to perplex.,
E as in Entrochal (a.) Pertaining to, or consisting of, entrochites, or the joints of encrinites; -- used of a kind of stone or marble.,
E as in Entrochite (n.) A fossil joint of a crinoid stem.,
E as in Entropion (n.) Same as Entropium.,
E as in Entropium (n.) The inversion or turning in of the border of the eyelids.,
E as in Entropy (n.) A certain property of a body, expressed as a measurable quantity, such that when there is no communication of heat the quantity remains constant, but when heat enters or leaves the body the quantity increases or diminishes. If a small amount, h, of heat enters the body when its temperature is t in the thermodynamic scale the entropy of the body is increased by h / t. The entropy is regarded as measured from some standard temperature and pressure. Sometimes called the thermodynamic function.,
E as in Entrust (v. t.) See Intrust.,
E as in Entries (pl. ) of Entry,
E as in Entry (n.) The act of entering or passing into or upon; entrance; ingress; hence, beginnings or first attempts; as, the entry of a person into a house or city; the entry of a river into the sea; the entry of air into the blood; an entry upon an undertaking.,
E as in Entry (n.) The act of making or entering a record; a setting down in writing the particulars, as of a transaction; as, an entry of a sale; also, that which is entered; an item.,
E as in Entry (n.) That by which entrance is made; a passage leading into a house or other building, or to a room; a vestibule; an adit, as of a mine.,
E as in Entry (n.) The exhibition or depositing of a ship's papers at the customhouse, to procure license to land goods; or the giving an account of a ship's cargo to the officer of the customs, and obtaining his permission to land the goods. See Enter, v. t., 8, and Entrance, n., 5.,
E as in Entry (n.) The actual taking possession of lands or tenements, by entering or setting foot on them.,
E as in Entry (n.) A putting upon record in proper form and order.,
E as in Entry (n.) The act in addition to breaking essential to constitute the offense or burglary.,
E as in Entryng (n.) Am entrance.,
E as in Entune (v. t.) To tune; to intone.,
E as in Entwine (v. t.) To twine, twist, or wreathe together or round.,
E as in Entwine (v. i.) To be twisted or twined.,
E as in Entwinement (n.) A twining or twisting together or round; union.,
E as in Entwist (v. t.) To twist or wreathe round; to intwine.,
E as in Enubilate (v. t.) To clear from mist, clouds, or obscurity.,
E as in Enubilous (a.) Free from fog, mist, or clouds; clear.,
E as in Enucleated (imp. & p. p.) of Enucleate,
E as in Enucleating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Enucleate,
E as in Enucleate (v. t.) To bring or peel out, as a kernel from its enveloping husks its enveloping husks or shell.,
E as in Enucleate (v. t.) To remove without cutting (as a tumor).,
E as in Enucleate (v. t.) To bring to light; to make clear.,
E as in Enucleation (n.) The act of enucleating; elucidation; exposition.,
E as in Enumerated (imp. & p. p.) of Enumerate,
E as in Enumerating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Enumerate,
E as in Enumerate (v. t.) To count; to tell by numbers; to count over, or tell off one after another; to number; to reckon up; to mention one by one; to name over; to make a special and separate account of; to recount; as, to enumerate the stars in a constellation.,
E as in Enumeration (n.) The act of enumerating, making separate mention, or recounting.,
E as in Enumeration (n.) A detailed account, in which each thing is specially noticed.,
E as in Enumeration (n.) A recapitulation, in the peroration, of the heads of an argument.,
E as in Enumerative (a.) Counting, or reckoning up, one by one.,
E as in Enumerator (n.) One who enumerates.,
E as in Enunciable (a.) Capable of being enunciated or expressed.,
E as in Enunciated (imp. & p. p.) of Enunciate,
E as in Enunciating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Enunciate,
E as in Enunciate (v. t.) To make a formal statement of; to announce; to proclaim; to declare, as a truth.,
E as in Enunciate (v. t.) To make distinctly audible; to utter articulately; to pronounce; as, to enunciate a word distinctly.,
E as in Enunciate (v. i.) To utter words or syllables articulately.,
E as in Enunciation (n.) The act of enunciating, announcing, proclaiming, or making known; open attestation; declaration; as, the enunciation of an important truth.,
E as in Enunciation (n.) Mode of utterance or pronunciation, especially as regards fullness and distinctness or articulation; as, to speak with a clear or impressive enunciation.,
E as in Enunciation (n.) That which is enunciated or announced; words in which a proposition is expressed; an announcement; a formal declaration; a statement.,
E as in Enunciative (a.) Pertaining to, or containing, enunciation; declarative.,
E as in Enunciator (n.) One who enunciates or proclaims.,
E as in Enunciatory (a.) Pertaining to, or containing, enunciation or utterance.,
E as in Enure (v. t.) See Inure.,
E as in Enuresis (n.) An involuntary discharge of urine; incontinence of urine.,
E as in Envassal (v. t.) To make a vassal of.,
E as in Envault (v. t.) To inclose in a vault; to entomb.,
E as in Enveigle (v. t.) To entice. See Inveigle.,
E as in Enveloped (imp. & p. p.) of Envelop,
E as in Enveloping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Envelop,
E as in Envelop (v. t.) To put a covering about; to wrap up or in; to inclose within a case, wrapper, integument or the like; to surround entirely; as, to envelop goods or a letter; the fog envelops a ship.,
E as in Envelope (n.) Alt. of Envelop,
E as in Envelop (n.) That which envelops, wraps up, encases, or surrounds; a wrapper; an inclosing cover; esp., the cover or wrapper of a document, as of a letter.,
E as in Envelop (n.) The nebulous covering of the head or nucleus of a comet; -- called also coma.,
E as in Envelop (n.) A work of earth, in the form of a single parapet or of a small rampart. It is sometimes raised in the ditch and sometimes beyond it.,
E as in Envelop (n.) A curve or surface which is tangent to each member of a system of curves or surfaces, the form and position of the members of the system being allowed to vary according to some continuous law. Thus, any curve is the envelope of its tangents.,
E as in Envelop (n.) A set of limits for the performance capabilities of some type of machine, originally used to refer to aircraft. Now also used metaphorically to refer to capabilities of any system in general, including human organizations, esp. in the phrase push the envelope. It is used to refer to the maximum performance available at the current state of the technology, and therefore refers to a class of machines in general, not a specific machine.,
E as in Envelopment (n.) The act of enveloping or wrapping; an inclosing or covering on all sides.,
E as in Envelopment (n.) That which envelops or surrounds; an envelop.,
E as in Envenime (v. t.) To envenom.,
E as in Envenomed (imp. & p. p.) of Envenom,
E as in Envenoming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Envenom,
E as in Envenom (v. t.) To taint or impregnate with venom, or any substance noxious to life; to poison; to render dangerous or deadly by poison, as food, drink, a weapon; as, envenomed meat, wine, or arrow; also, to poison (a person) by impregnating with venom.,
E as in Envenom (v. t.) To taint or impregnate with bitterness, malice, or hatred; to imbue as with venom; to imbitter.,
E as in Envermeil (v. t.) To color with, or as with, vermilion; to dye red.,
E as in Enviable (a.) Fitted to excite envy; capable of awakening an ardent desire to posses or to resemble.,
E as in Envie (v. i.) To vie; to emulate; to strive.,
E as in Envier (n.) One who envies; one who desires inordinately what another possesses.,
E as in Envigor (v. t.) To invigorate.,
E as in Envious (a.) Malignant; mischievous; spiteful.,
E as in Envious (a.) Feeling or exhibiting envy; actuated or directed by, or proceeding from, envy; -- said of a person, disposition, feeling, act, etc.; jealously pained by the excellence or good fortune of another; maliciously grudging; -- followed by of, at, and against; as, an envious man, disposition, attack; envious tongues.,
E as in Envious (a.) Inspiring envy.,
E as in Envious (a.) Excessively careful; cautious.,
E as in Environed (imp. & p. p.) of Environ,
E as in Environing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Environ,
E as in Environ (v. t.) To surround; to encompass; to encircle; to hem in; to be round about; to involve or envelop.,
E as in Environ (adv.) About; around.,
E as in Environment (n.) Act of environing; state of being environed.,
E as in Environment (n.) That which environs or surrounds; surrounding conditions, influences, or forces, by which living forms are influenced and modified in their growth and development.,
E as in Environs (n. pl.) The parts or places which surround another place, or lie in its neighborhood; suburbs; as, the environs of a city or town.,
E as in Envisaged (imp. & p. p.) of Envisage,
E as in Envisaging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Envisage,
E as in Envisage (v. t.) To look in the face of; to apprehend; to regard.,
E as in Envisagement (n.) The act of envisaging.,
E as in Envolume (v. t.) To form into, or incorporate with, a volume.,
E as in Envolup (v. t.) To wrap up; to envelop.,
E as in Envoy (n.) One dispatched upon an errand or mission; a messenger; esp., a person deputed by a sovereign or a government to negotiate a treaty, or transact other business, with a foreign sovereign or government; a minister accredited to a foreign government. An envoy's rank is below that of an ambassador.,
E as in Envoy (n.) An explanatory or commendatory postscript to a poem, essay, or book; -- also in the French from, l'envoi.,
E as in Envoyship (n.) The office or position of an envoy.,
E as in Envies (pl. ) of Envy,
E as in Envy (n.) Malice; ill will; spite.,
E as in Envy (n.) Chagrin, mortification, discontent, or uneasiness at the sight of another's excellence or good fortune, accompanied with some degree of hatred and a desire to possess equal advantages; malicious grudging; -- usually followed by of; as, they did this in envy of Caesar.,
E as in Envy (n.) Emulation; rivalry.,
E as in Envy (n.) Public odium; ill repute.,
E as in Envy (n.) An object of envious notice or feeling.,
E as in Envied (imp. & p. p.) of Envy,
E as in Envying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Envy,
E as in Envy (v. t.) To feel envy at or towards; to be envious of; to have a feeling of uneasiness or mortification in regard to (any one), arising from the sight of another's excellence or good fortune and a longing to possess it.,
E as in Envy (v. t.) To feel envy on account of; to have a feeling of grief or repining, with a longing to possess (some excellence or good fortune of another, or an equal good fortune, etc.); to look with grudging upon; to begrudge.,
E as in Envy (v. t.) To long after; to desire strongly; to covet.,
E as in Envy (v. t.) To do harm to; to injure; to disparage.,
E as in Envy (v. t.) To hate.,
E as in Envy (v. t.) To emulate.,
E as in Envy (v. i.) To be filled with envious feelings; to regard anything with grudging and longing eyes; -- used especially with at.,
E as in Envy (v. i.) To show malice or ill will; to rail.,
E as in Envyned (a.) Stored or furnished with wine.,
E as in Enwall (v. t.) See Inwall.,
E as in Enwallow (v. t.) To plunge into, or roll in, flith; to wallow.,
E as in Enwheel (v. t.) To encircle.,
E as in Enwiden (v. t.) To widen.,
E as in Enwind (v. t.) To wind about; to encircle.,
E as in Enwoman (v. t.) To endow with the qualities of a woman.,
E as in Enwombed (imp. & p. p.) of Enwomb,
E as in Enwombing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Enwomb,
E as in Enwomb (v. t.) To conceive in the womb.,
E as in Enwomb (v. t.) To bury, as it were in a womb; to hide, as in a gulf, pit, or cavern.,
E as in Enwrap (v. t.) To envelop. See Inwrap.,
E as in Enwrapment (n.) Act of enwrapping; a wrapping or an envelope.,
E as in Enwreathe (v. t.) See Inwreathe.,
E as in Enzootic (a.) Afflicting animals; -- used of a disease affecting the animals of a district. It corresponds to an endemic disease among men.,
E as in Enzyme (n.) An unorganized or unformed ferment, in distinction from an organized or living ferment; a soluble, or chemical, ferment. Ptyalin, pepsin, diastase, and rennet are good examples of enzymes.,
E as in Eocene (a.) Pertaining to the first in time of the three subdivisions into which the Tertiary formation is divided by geologists, and alluding to the approximation in its life to that of the present era; as, Eocene deposits.,
E as in Eocene (n.) The Eocene formation.,
E as in Eolian (a.) Aeolian.,
E as in Eolian (a.) Formed, or deposited, by the action of wind, as dunes.,
E as in Eolic (a. & n.) See Aeolic.,
E as in Eolipile (n.) Same as Aeolipile.,
E as in Eolis (n.) A genus of nudibranch mollusks having clusters of branchial papillae along the back. See Ceratobranchia.,
E as in Eon (n.) Alt. of Aeon,
E as in Aeon (n.) An immeasurable or infinite space of time; eternity; a long space of time; an age.,
E as in Aeon (n.) One of the embodiments of the divine attributes of the Eternal Being.,
E as in Eophyte (n.) A fossil plant which is found in the lowest beds of the Silurian age.,
E as in Eophytic (a.) Of or pertaining to eophytes.,
E as in Eos (n.) Aurora, the goddess of morn.,
E as in Eosaurus (n.) An extinct marine reptile from the coal measures of Nova Scotia; -- so named because supposed to be of the earliest known reptiles.,
E as in Eosin (n.) A yellow or brownish red dyestuff obtained by the action of bromine on fluorescein, and named from the fine rose-red which it imparts to silk. It is also used for making a fine red ink. Its solution is fluorescent.,
E as in Eosphorite (n.) A hydrous phosphate of alumina and manganese. It is generally of a rose-pink color, -- whence the name.,
E as in Eozoic (a.) Of or pertaining to rocks or strata older than the Paleozoic, in many of which the eozoon has been found.,
E as in Eozoons (pl. ) of Eozoon,
E as in Eozoa (pl. ) of Eozoon,
E as in Eozoon (n.) A peculiar structure found in the Archaean limestones of Canada and other regions. By some geologists it is believed to be a species of gigantic Foraminifera, but others consider it a concretion, without organic structure.,
E as in Eozoonal (a.) Pertaining to the eozoon; containing eozoons; as, eozoonal limestone.,
E as in Ep- () See Epi-.,
E as in Epacris (n.) A genus of shrubs, natives of Australia, New Zealand, etc., having pretty white, red, or purple blossoms, and much resembling heaths.,
E as in Epact (n.) The moon's age at the beginning of the calendar year, or the number of days by which the last new moon has preceded the beginning of the year.,
E as in Epagoge (n.) The adducing of particular examples so as to lead to a universal conclusion; the argument by induction.,
E as in Epagogic (a.) Inductive.,
E as in Epalate (a.) Without palpi.,
E as in Epanadiplosis (n.) A figure by which the same word is used both at the beginning and at the end of a sentence; as, "Rejoice in the Lord always: and again I say, Rejoice.",
E as in Epanalepsis (n.) A figure by which the same word or clause is repeated after intervening matter.,
E as in Epanaphora (n.) Same as Anaphora.,
E as in Epanastrophe (n.) Same as Anadiplosis.,
E as in Epanodos (n.) A figure of speech in which the parts of a sentence or clause are repeated in inverse order,
E as in Epanody (n.) The abnormal change of an irregular flower to a regular form; -- considered by evolutionists to be a reversion to an ancestral condition.,
E as in Epanorthosis (n.) A figure by which a speaker recalls a word or words, in order to substitute something else stronger or more significant; as, Most brave! Brave, did I say? most heroic act!,
E as in Epanthous (a.) Growing upon flowers; -- said of certain species of fungi.,
E as in Eparch (n.) In ancient Greece, the governor or perfect of a province; in modern Greece, the ruler of an eparchy.,
E as in Eparchy (n.) A province, prefecture, or territory, under the jurisdiction of an eparch or governor; esp., in modern Greece, one of the larger subdivisions of a monarchy or province of the kingdom; in Russia, a diocese or archdiocese.,
E as in Eparterial (a.) Situated upon or above an artery; -- applied esp. to the branches of the bronchi given off above the point where the pulmonary artery crosses the bronchus.,
E as in Epaule (n.) The shoulder of a bastion, or the place where its face and flank meet and form the angle, called the angle of the shoulder.,
E as in Epaulement (n.) A side work, made of gabions, fascines, or bags, filled with earth, or of earth heaped up, to afford cover from the flanking fire of an enemy.,
E as in Epaulet (n.) Alt. of Epaulette,
E as in Epaulette (n.) A shoulder ornament or badge worn by military and naval officers, differences of rank being marked by some peculiar form or device, as a star, eagle, etc.; a shoulder knot.,
E as in Epauleted (a.) Alt. of Epauletted,
E as in Epauletted (a.) Wearing epaulets; decorated with epaulets.,
E as in Epaxial (a.) Above, or on the dorsal side of, the axis of the skeleton; episkeletal.,
E as in Epeira (n.) A genus of spiders, including the common garden spider (E. diadema). They spin geometrical webs. See Garden spider.,
E as in Epen (n.) See Epencephalon.,
E as in Epencephalic (a.) Pertaining to the epencephalon.,
E as in Epencephalic (a.) Situated on or over the brain.,
E as in Epencephalon (n.) The segment of the brain next behind the midbrain, including the cerebellum and pons; the hindbrain. Sometimes abbreviated to epen.,
E as in Ependyma (n.) The epithelial lining of the ventricles of the brain and the canal of the spinal cord; endyma; ependymis.,
E as in Ependymis (n.) See Ependyma.,
E as in Epenetic (a.) Bestowing praise; eulogistic; laudatory.,
E as in Epentheses (pl. ) of Epenthesis,
E as in Epenthesis (n.) The insertion of a letter or a sound in the body of a word; as, the b in "nimble" from AS. n/mol.,
E as in Epenthetic (a.) Inserted in the body of a word; as, an epenthetic letter or sound.,
E as in Epergne (n.) A centerpiece for table decoration, usually consisting of several dishes or receptacles of different sizes grouped together in an ornamental design.,
E as in Eperlan (n.) The European smelt (Osmerus eperlanus).,
E as in Epexegesis (n.) A full or additional explanation; exegesis.,
E as in Epexegetical (a.) Relating to epexegesis; explanatory; exegetical.,
E as in Ephah (n.) Alt. of Epha,
E as in Epha (n.) A Hebrew dry measure, supposed to be equal to two pecks and five quarts. ten ephahs make one homer.,
E as in Ephemera (n.) A fever of one day's continuance only.,
E as in Ephemera (n.) A genus of insects including the day flies, or ephemeral flies. See Ephemeral fly, under Ephemeral.,
E as in Ephemeral (a.) Beginning and ending in a day; existing only, or no longer than, a day; diurnal; as, an ephemeral flower.,
E as in Ephemeral (a.) Short-lived; existing or continuing for a short time only.,
E as in Ephemeral (n.) Anything lasting but a day, or a brief time; an ephemeral plant, insect, etc.,
E as in Ephemeran (n.) One of the ephemeral flies.,
E as in Ephemeric (a.) Ephemeral.,
E as in Ephemerides (pl. ) of Ephemeris,
E as in Ephemeris (n.) A diary; a journal.,
E as in Ephemeris (n.) A publication giving the computed places of the heavenly bodies for each day of the year, with other numerical data, for the use of the astronomer and navigator; an astronomical almanac; as, the "American Ephemeris and Nautical Almanac.",
E as in Ephemeris (n.) Any tabular statement of the assigned places of a heavenly body, as a planet or comet, on several successive days.,
E as in Ephemeris (n.) A collective name for reviews, magazines, and all kinds of periodical literature.,
E as in Ephemerist (n.) One who studies the daily motions and positions of the planets.,
E as in Ephemerist (n.) One who keeps an ephemeris; a journalist.,
E as in Ephemera (pl. ) of Ephemeron,
E as in Ephemeron (n.) One of the ephemeral flies.,
E as in Ephemerous (a.) Ephemeral.,
E as in Ephesian (a.) Of or pertaining to Ephesus, an ancient city of Ionia, in Asia Minor.,
E as in Ephesian (n.) A native of Ephesus.,
E as in Ephesian (n.) A jolly companion; a roisterer.,
E as in Ephialtes (n.) The nightmare.,
E as in Ephippial (a.) Saddle-shaped; occupying an ephippium.,
E as in Ephippium (n.) A depression in the sphenoid bone; the pituitary fossa.,
E as in Ephippium (n.) A saddle-shaped cavity to contain the winter eggs, situated on the back of Cladocera.,
E as in Ephod (n.) A part of the sacerdotal habit among Jews, being a covering for the back and breast, held together on the shoulders by two clasps or brooches of onyx stones set in gold, and fastened by a girdle of the same stuff as the ephod. The ephod for the priests was of plain linen; that for the high priest was richly embroidered in colors. The breastplate of the high priest was worn upon the ephod in front.,
E as in Ephors (pl. ) of Ephor,
E as in Ephori (pl. ) of Ephor,
E as in Ephor (n.) A magistrate; one of a body of five magistrates chosen by the people of ancient Sparta. They exercised control even over the king.,
E as in Ephoral (a.) Pertaining to an ephor.,
E as in Ephoralty (n.) The office of an ephor, or the body of ephors.,
E as in Ephraim (n.) A hunter's name for the grizzly bear.,
E as in Ephyra (n.) A stage in the development of discophorous medusae, when they first begin to swim about after being detached from the strobila. See Strobila.,
E as in Epi- () A prefix, meaning upon, beside, among, on the outside, above, over. It becomes ep-before a vowel, as in epoch, and eph-before a Greek aspirate, as in ephemeral.,
E as in Epiblast (n.) The outer layer of the blastoderm; the ectoderm. See Blastoderm, Delamination.,
E as in Epiblastic (a.) Of or relating to, or consisting of, the epiblast.,
E as in Epiblema (n.) The epidermal cells of rootlets, specially adapted to absorb liquids.,
E as in Epibolic (a.) Growing or covering over; -- said of a kind of invagination. See under Invagination.,
E as in Epiboly (n.) Epibolic invagination. See under Invagination.,
E as in Epibranchial (a.) Pertaining to the segment between the ceratobranchial and pharyngobranchial in a branchial arch.,
E as in Epibranchial (n.) An epibranchial cartilage or bone.,
E as in Epic (a.) Narrated in a grand style; pertaining to or designating a kind of narrative poem, usually called an heroic poem, in which real or fictitious events, usually the achievements of some hero, are narrated in an elevated style.,
E as in Epic (n.) An epic or heroic poem. See Epic, a.,
E as in Epical (a.) Epic.,
E as in Epicardiac (a.) Of or relating to the epicardium.,
E as in Epicardium (n.) That of the pericardium which forms the outer surface of the heart; the cardiac pericardium.,
E as in Epicarican (n.) An isopod crustacean, parasitic on shrimps.,
E as in Epicarp () The external or outermost layer of a fructified or ripened ovary. See Illust. under Endocarp.,
E as in Epicede (n.) A funeral song or discourse; an elegy.,
E as in Epicedial (a.) Elegiac; funereal.,
E as in Epicedian (a.) Epicedial.,
E as in Epicedian (n.) An epicede.,
E as in Epicedium (n.) An epicede.,
E as in Epicene (a. & n.) Common to both sexes; -- a term applied, in grammar, to such nouns as have but one form of gender, either the masculine or feminine, to indicate animals of both sexes; as boy^s, bos, for the ox and cow; sometimes applied to eunuchs and hermaphrodites.,
E as in Epicene (a. & n.) Fig.: Sexless; neither one thing nor the other.,
E as in Epicentral (a.) Arising from the centrum of a vertebra.,
E as in Epicerastic (a.) Lenient; assuaging.,
E as in Epichiremata (pl. ) of Epichirema,
E as in Epichirema (n.) A syllogism in which the proof of the major or minor premise, or both, is introduced with the premises themselves, and the conclusion is derived in the ordinary manner.,
E as in Epichordal (a.) Upon or above the notochord; -- applied esp. to a vertebral column which develops upon the dorsal side of the notochord, as distinguished from a perichordal column, which develops around it.,
E as in Epichorial (a.) In or of the country.,
E as in Epicleidium (n.) A projection, formed by a separate ossification, at the scapular end of the clavicle of many birds.,
E as in Epiclinal (a.) Situated on the receptacle or disk of a flower.,
E as in Epicoele (n.) A cavity formed by the invagination of the outer wall of the body, as the atrium of an amphioxus and possibly the body cavity of vertebrates.,
E as in Epicoene (a.) Epicene.,
E as in Epicolic (a.) Situated upon or over the colon; -- applied to the region of the abdomen adjacent to the colon.,
E as in Epicondylar (n.) Pertaining to, or resembling, an epicondyle.,
E as in Epicondyle (n.) A projection on the inner side of the distal end of the numerus; the internal condyle.,
E as in Epicoracoid (n.) A ventral cartilaginous or bony element of the coracoid in the shoulder girdle of some vertebrates.,
E as in Epicranial (a.) Pertaining to the epicranium; as epicranial muscles.,
E as in Epicranium (n.) The upper and superficial part of the head, including the scalp, muscles, etc.,
E as in Epicranium (n.) The dorsal wall of the head of insects.,
E as in Epictetain (a.) Pertaining to Epictetus, the Roman Stoic philosopher, whose conception of life was to be passionless under whatever circumstances.,
E as in Epicure (n.) A follower of Epicurus; an Epicurean.,
E as in Epicure (n.) One devoted to dainty or luxurious sensual enjoyments, esp. to the luxuries of the table.,
E as in Epicurean (a.) Pertaining to Epicurus, or following his philosophy.,
E as in Epicurean (a.) Given to luxury; adapted to luxurious tastes; luxurious; pertaining to good eating.,
E as in Epicurean (n.) A follower or Epicurus.,
E as in Epicurean (n.) One given to epicurean indulgence.,
E as in Epicureanism (n.) Attachment to the doctrines of Epicurus; the principles or belief of Epicurus.,
E as in Epicurely (adv.) Luxuriously.,
E as in Epicureous (a.) Epicurean.,
E as in Epicurism (n.) The doctrines of Epicurus.,
E as in Epicurism (n.) Epicurean habits of living; luxury.,
E as in Epicurize (v. i.) To profess or tend towards the doctrines of Epicurus.,
E as in Epicurize (v. i.) To feed or indulge like an epicure.,
E as in Epicycle (n.) A circle, whose center moves round in the circumference of a greater circle; or a small circle, whose center, being fixed in the deferent of a planet, is carried along with the deferent, and yet, by its own peculiar motion, carries the body of the planet fastened to it round its proper center.,
E as in Epicycle (n.) A circle which rolls on the circumference of another circle, either externally or internally.,
E as in Epicyclic (a.) Pertaining to, resembling, or having the motion of, an epicycle.,
E as in Epicycloid (n.) A curve traced by a point in the circumference of a circle which rolls on the convex side of a fixed circle.,
E as in Epicycloidal (a.) Pertaining to the epicycloid, or having its properties.,
E as in Epideictic (a.) Serving to show forth, explain, or exhibit; -- applied by the Greeks to a kind of oratory, which, by full amplification, seeks to persuade.,
E as in Epidemic (a.) Alt. of Epidemical,
E as in Epidemical (a.) Common to, or affecting at the same time, a large number in a community; -- applied to a disease which, spreading widely, attacks many persons at the same time; as, an epidemic disease; an epidemic catarrh, fever, etc. See Endemic.,
E as in Epidemical (a.) Spreading widely, or generally prevailing; affecting great numbers, as an epidemic does; as, epidemic rage; an epidemic evil.,
E as in Epidemic (n.) An epidemic disease.,
E as in Epidemic (n.) Anything which takes possession of the minds of people as an epidemic does of their bodies; as, an epidemic of terror.,
E as in Epidemically (adv.) In an epidemic manner.,
E as in Epidemiography (n.) A treatise upon, or history of, epidemic diseases.,
E as in Epidemiological (a.) Connected with, or pertaining to, epidemiology.,
E as in Epidemiologist (n.) A person skilled in epidemiology.,
E as in Epidemiology (n.) That branch of science which treats of epidemics.,
E as in Epidemy (n.) An epidemic disease.,
E as in Epiderm (n.) The epidermis.,
E as in Epidermal (a.) Of or pertaining to the epidermis; epidermic; cuticular.,
E as in Epidermatic (a.) Epidermal.,
E as in Epidermatoid (a.) Epidermoid.,
E as in Epidermeous (a.) Epidermal.,
E as in Epidermic (a.) Epidermal; connected with the skin or the bark.,
E as in Epidermical (a.) Epidermal.,
E as in Epidermidal (a.) Epidermal.,
E as in Epidermis (v. t.) The outer, nonsensitive layer of the skin; cuticle; scarfskin. See Dermis.,
E as in Epidermis (v. t.) The outermost layer of the cells, which covers both surfaces of leaves, and also the surface of stems, when they are first formed. As stems grow old this layer is lost, and never replaced.,
E as in Epidermoid (a.) Like epidermis; pertaining to the epidermis.,
E as in Epidermose (n.) Keratin.,
E as in Epidictic (a.) Alt. of Epidictical,
E as in Epidictical (a.) Serving to explain; demonstrative.,
E as in Epididymis (n.) An oblong vermiform mass on the dorsal side of the testicle, composed of numerous convolutions of the excretory duct of that organ.,
E as in Epididymitis (n.) Inflammation of the epididymis, one of the common results of gonorrhea.,
E as in Epidote (n.) A mineral, commonly of a yellowish green (pistachio) color, occurring granular, massive, columnar, and in monoclinic crystals. It is a silicate of alumina, lime, and oxide of iron, or manganese.,
E as in Epidotic (a.) Related to, resembling, or containing epidote; as, an epidotic granite.,
E as in Epigaea (n.) An American genus of plants, containing but a single species (E. repens), the trailing arbutus.,
E as in Epigaeous (a.) Growing on, or close to, the ground.,
E as in Epigastrial (a.) Epigastric.,
E as in Epigastric (a.) Pertaining to the epigastrium, or to the epigastric region.,
E as in Epigastric (a.) Over the stomach; -- applied to two of the areas of the carapace of crabs.,
E as in Epigastrium (n.) The upper part of the abdomen.,
E as in Epigeal (a.) Epigaeous.,
E as in Epigee (n.) See Perigee.,
E as in Epigene (a.) Foreign; unnatural; unusual; -- said of forms of crystals not natural to the substances in which they are found.,
E as in Epigene (a.) Formed originating on the surface of the earth; -- opposed to hypogene; as, epigene rocks.,
E as in Epigenesis (n.) The theory of generation which holds that the germ is created entirely new, not merely expanded, by the procreative power of the parents. It is opposed to the theory of evolution, also to syngenesis.,
E as in Epigenesist (n.) One who believes in, or advocates the theory of, epigenesis.,
E as in Epigenetic (a.) Of or pertaining to the epigenesis; produced according to the theory of epigenesis.,
E as in Epigeous (a.) Same as Epigaeous.,
E as in Epigeum (n.) See Perigee.,
E as in Epiglottic (a.) Pertaining to, or connected with, the epiglottis.,
E as in Epiglottidean (a.) Same as Epiglottic.,
E as in Epiglottis (n.) A cartilaginous lidlike appendage which closes the glottis while food or drink is passing while food or drink is passing through the pharynx.,
E as in Epignathous (a.) Hook-billed; having the upper mandible longer than the lower.,
E as in Epigram (n.) A short poem treating concisely and pointedly of a single thought or event. The modern epigram is so contrived as to surprise the reader with a witticism or ingenious turn of thought, and is often satirical in character.,
E as in Epigram (n.) An effusion of wit; a bright thought tersely and sharply expressed, whether in verse or prose.,
E as in Epigram (n.) The style of the epigram.,
E as in Epigrammatic () Alt. of Epigrammatical,
E as in Epigrammatical () Writing epigrams; dealing in epigrams; as, an epigrammatical poet.,
E as in Epigrammatical () Suitable to epigrams; belonging to epigrams; like an epigram; pointed; piquant; as, epigrammatic style, wit, or sallies of fancy.,
E as in Epigrammatically (adv.) In the way of epigram; in an epigrammatic style.,
E as in Epigrammatist (n.) One who composes epigrams, or makes use of them.,
E as in Epigrammatized (imp. & p. p.) of Epigrammatize,
E as in Epigrammatizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Epigrammatize,
E as in Epigrammatize (v. t.) To represent by epigrams; to express by epigrams.,
E as in Epigrammatizer (n.) One who writes in an affectedly pointed style.,
E as in Epigrammist (n.) An epigrammatist.,
E as in Epigraph (n.) Any inscription set upon a building; especially, one which has to do with the building itself, its founding or dedication.,
E as in Epigraph (n.) A citation from some author, or a sentence framed for the purpose, placed at the beginning of a work or of its separate divisions; a motto.,
E as in Epigraphic (a.) Alt. of Epigraphical,
E as in Epigraphical (a.) Of or pertaining to epigraphs or to epigraphy; as, an epigraphic style; epigraphical works or studies.,
E as in Epigraphics (n.) The science or study of epigraphs.,
E as in Epigraphist (n.) A student of, or one versed in, epigraphy.,
E as in Epigraphy (n.) The science of inscriptions; the art of engraving inscriptions or of deciphering them.,
E as in Epigynous (a.) Adnate to the surface of the ovary, so as to be apparently inserted upon the top of it; -- said of stamens, petals, sepals, and also of the disk.,
E as in Epihyal (n.) A segment next above the ceratohyal in the hyoidean arch.,
E as in Epilepsy (n.) The "falling sickness," so called because the patient falls suddenly to the ground; a disease characterized by paroxysms (or fits) occurring at interval and attended by sudden loss of consciousness, and convulsive motions of the muscles.,
E as in Epileptic (a.) Pertaining to, affected with, or of the nature of, epilepsy.,
E as in Epileptic (n.) One affected with epilepsy.,
E as in Epileptic (n.) A medicine for the cure of epilepsy.,
E as in Epileptical (a.) Epileptic.,
E as in Epileptiform (a.) Resembling epilepsy.,
E as in Epileptogenous (a.) Producing epilepsy or epileptoid convulsions; -- applied to areas of the body or of the nervous system, stimulation of which produces convulsions.,
E as in Epileptoid (a.) Resembling epilepsy; as, epileptoid convulsions.,
E as in Epilogation (n.) A summing up in a brief account.,
E as in Epilogic (a.) Alt. of Epilogical,
E as in Epilogical (a.) Of or pertaining to an epilogue.,
E as in Epilogism (n.) Enumeration; computation.,
E as in Epilogistic (a.) Of or pertaining to epilogue; of the nature of an epilogue.,
E as in Epilogize (v. i. & t.) To speak an epilogue to; to utter as an epilogue.,
E as in Epilogue (n.) A speech or short poem addressed to the spectators and recited by one of the actors, after the conclusion of the play.,
E as in Epilogue (n.) The closing part of a discourse, in which the principal matters are recapitulated; a conclusion.,
E as in Epiloguize (v. i. & t.) Same as Epilogize.,
E as in Epimachus (n.) A genus of highly ornate and brilliantly colored birds of Australia, allied to the birds of Paradise.,
E as in Epimera (n. pl.) See Epimeron.,
E as in Epimeral (a.) Pertaining to the epimera.,
E as in Epimere (n.) One of the segments of the transverse axis, or the so called homonymous parts; as, for example, one of the several segments of the extremities in vertebrates, or one of the similar segments in plants, such as the segments of a segmented leaf.,
E as in Epimera (pl. ) of Epimeron,
E as in Epimeron (n.) In crustaceans: The part of the side of a somite external to the basal joint of each appendage.,
E as in Epimeron (n.) In insects: The lateral piece behind the episternum.,
E as in Epinastic (a.) A term applied to that phase of vegetable growth in which an organ grows more rapidly on its upper than on its under surface. See Hyponastic.,
E as in Epineural (a.) Arising from the neurapophysis of a vertebra.,
E as in Epineurium (n.) The connective tissue framework and sheath of a nerve which bind together the nerve bundles, each of which has its own special sheath, or perineurium.,
E as in Epinglette (n.) An iron needle for piercing the cartridge of a cannon before priming.,
E as in Epinicial (a.) Relating to victory.,
E as in Epinicion (n.) A song of triumph.,
E as in Epinikian (a.) Epinicial.,
E as in Epiornis (n.) One of the gigantic ostrichlike birds of the genus Aepiornis, only recently extinct. Its remains have been found in Madagascar.,
E as in Epiotic (n.) The upper and outer element of periotic bone, -- in man forming a part of the temporal bone.,
E as in Epipedometry (n.) The mensuration of figures standing on the same base.,
E as in Epiperipheral (a.) Connected with, or having its origin upon, the external surface of the body; -- especially applied to the feelings which originate at the extremities of nerves distributed on the outer surface, as the sensation produced by touching an object with the finger; -- opposed to entoperipheral.,
E as in Epipetalous (a.) Borne on the petals or corolla.,
E as in Epiphany (n.) An appearance, or a becoming manifest.,
E as in Epiphany (n.) A church festival celebrated on the 6th of January, the twelfth day after Christmas, in commemoration of the visit of the Magi of the East to Bethlehem, to see and worship the child Jesus; or, as others maintain, to commemorate the appearance of the star to the Magi, symbolizing the manifestation of Christ to the Gentles; Twelfthtide.,
E as in Epipharyngeal (a.) Pertaining to the segments above the epibranchial in the branchial arches of fishes.,
E as in Epipharyngeal (n.) An epipharyngeal bone or cartilage.,
E as in Epipharynx (n.) A structure which overlaps the mouth of certain insects.,
E as in Epiphonema (n.) An exclamatory sentence, or striking reflection, which sums up or concludes a discourse.,
E as in Epiphoneme (n.) Epiphonema.,
E as in Epiphora (n.) The watery eye; a disease in which the tears accumulate in the eye, and trickle over the cheek.,
E as in Epiphora (n.) The emphatic repetition of a word or phrase, at the end of several sentences or stanzas.,
E as in Epiphragm (n.) A membranaceous or calcareous septum with which some mollusks close the aperture of the shell during the time of hibernation, or aestivation.,
E as in Epiphylospermous (a.) Bearing fruit on the back of the leaves, as ferns.,
E as in Epiphyllous (a.) Growing upon, or inserted into, the leaf.,
E as in Epiphyllum (n.) A genus of cactaceous plants having flattened, jointed stems, and petals united in a tube. The flowers are very showy, and several species are in cultivation.,
E as in Epiphyseal () Alt. of Epiphysial,
E as in Epiphysial () Pertaining to, or having the nature of, an epiphysis.,
E as in Epiphyses (pl. ) of Epiphysis,
E as in Epiphysis (n.) The end, or other superficial part, of a bone, which ossifies separately from the central portion, or diaphysis.,
E as in Epiphysis (n.) The cerebral epiphysis, or pineal gland. See Pineal gland, under Pineal.,
E as in Epiphytal (a.) Pertaining to an epiphyte.,
E as in Epiphyte (n.) An air plant which grows on other plants, but does not derive its nourishment from them. See Air plant.,
E as in Epiphyte (n.) A vegetable parasite growing on the surface of the body.,
E as in Epiphytic (a.) Alt. of Epiphytical,
E as in Epiphytical (a.) Pertaining to, or having the nature of, an epiphyte.,
E as in Epiplastra (pl. ) of Epiplastron,
E as in Epiplastron (n.) One of the first pair of lateral plates in the plastron of turtles.,
E as in Epipleural (a.) Arising from the pleurapophysis of a vertebra.,
E as in Epiplexis (n.) A figure by which a person seeks to convince and move by an elegant kind of upbraiding.,
E as in Epiploce (n.) A figure by which one striking circumstance is added, in due gradation, to another; climax; e. g., "He not only spared his enemies, but continued them in employment; not only continued, but advanced them.",
E as in Epiploic (a.) Relating to the epiploon.,
E as in Epiploa (pl. ) of Epiploon,
E as in Epiploon (n.) See Omentum.,
E as in Epipodial (a.) Pertaining to the epipodialia or the parts of the limbs to which they belong.,
E as in Epipodial (a.) Pertaining to the epipodium of Mollusca.,
E as in Epipodialia (pl. ) of Epipodiale,
E as in Epipodiale (n.) One of the bones of either the forearm or shank, the epipodialia being the radius, ulna, tibia, and fibula.,
E as in Epipodite (n.) The outer branch of the legs in certain Crustacea. See Maxilliped.,
E as in Epipodia (pl. ) of Epipodium,
E as in Epipodium (n.) One of the lateral lobes of the foot in certain gastropods.,
E as in Epipolic (a.) Producing, or relating to, epipolism or fluorescence.,
E as in Epipolism (n.) See Fluorescence.,
E as in Epipolized (a.) Changed to the epipolic condition, or that in which the phenomenon of fluorescence is presented; produced by fluorescence; as, epipolized light.,
E as in Epipteric (a.) Pertaining to a small Wormian bone sometimes present in the human skull between the parietal and the great wing of the sphenoid.,
E as in Epipteric (n.) The epipteric bone.,
E as in Epipterygoid (a.) Situated upon or above the pterygoid bone.,
E as in Epipterygoid (n.) An epipterygoid bone or cartilage; the columella in the skulls of many lizards.,
E as in Epipubic (a.) Relating to the epipubis.,
E as in Epipubes (pl. ) of Epipubis,
E as in Epipubis (n.) A cartilage or bone in front of the pubis in some amphibians and other animals.,
E as in Episcopacy (n.) Government of the church by bishops; church government by three distinct orders of ministers -- bishops, priests, and deacons -- of whom the bishops have an authority superior and of a different kind.,
E as in Episcopal (a.) Governed by bishops; as, an episcopal church.,
E as in Episcopal (a.) Belonging to, or vested in, bishops; as, episcopal jurisdiction or authority; the episcopal system.,
E as in Episcopalian (a.) Pertaining to bishops, or government by bishops; episcopal; specifically, of or relating to the Protestant Episcopal Church.,
E as in Episcopalian (n.) One who belongs to an episcopal church, or adheres to the episcopal form of church government and discipline; a churchman; specifically, in the United States, a member of the Protestant Episcopal Church.,
E as in Episcopalianism (n.) The doctrine and usages of Episcopalians; episcopacy.,
E as in Episcopally (adv.) By episcopal authority; in an episcopal manner.,
E as in Episcopant (n.) A bishop.,
E as in Episcoparian (a.) Episcopal.,
E as in Episcopate (n.) A bishopric; the office and dignity of a bishop.,
E as in Episcopate (n.) The collective body of bishops.,
E as in Episcopate (n.) The time of a bishop's rule.,
E as in Episcopated (imp. & p. p.) of Episcopate,
E as in Episcopating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Episcopate,
E as in Episcopate (v. i.) To act as a bishop; to fill the office of a prelate.,
E as in Episcopicide (n.) The killing of a bishop.,
E as in Episcopize (v. t.) To make a bishop of by consecration.,
E as in Episcopize (v. i.) To perform the duties of a bishop.,
E as in Episcopy (n.) Survey; superintendence.,
E as in Episcopy (n.) Episcopacy.,
E as in Episepalous (a.) Growing on the sepals or adnate to them.,
E as in Episkeletal (a.) Above or outside of the endoskeleton; epaxial.,
E as in Episodal (a.) Same as Episodic.,
E as in Episode (n.) A separate incident, story, or action, introduced for the purpose of giving a greater variety to the events related; an incidental narrative, or digression, separable from the main subject, but naturally arising from it.,
E as in Episodial (a.) Pertaining to an episode; by way of episode; episodic.,
E as in Episodic (a.) Alt. of Episodical,
E as in Episodical (a.) Of or pertaining to an episode; adventitious.,
E as in Epispadias (n.) A deformity in which the urethra opens upon the top of the penis, instead of at its extremity.,
E as in Epispastic (a.) Attracting the humors to the skin; exciting action in the skin; blistering.,
E as in Epispastic (n.) An external application to the skin, which produces a puriform or serous discharge by exciting inflammation; a vesicatory.,
E as in Episperm (n.) The skin or coat of a seed, especially the outer coat. See Testa.,
E as in Epispermic (a.) Pertaining, or belonging, to the episperm, or covering of a seed.,
E as in Epispore (n.) The thickish outer coat of certain spores.,
E as in Epistaxis (n.) Bleeding at the nose.,
E as in Epistemology (n.) The theory or science of the method or grounds of knowledge.,
E as in Episternal (a.) Of or pertaining to the episternum.,
E as in Episterna (pl. ) of Episternum,
E as in Episternum (n.) A median bone connected with the sternum, in many vertebrates; the interclavicle.,
E as in Episternum (n.) Same as Epiplastron.,
E as in Episternum (n.) One of the lateral pieces next to the sternum in the thorax of insects.,
E as in Epistilbite (n.) A crystallized, transparent mineral of the Zeolite family. It is a hydrous silicate of alumina and lime.,
E as in Epistle (n.) A writing directed or sent to a person or persons; a written communication; a letter; -- applied usually to formal, didactic, or elegant letters.,
E as in Epistle (n.) One of the letters in the New Testament which were addressed to their Christian brethren by Apostles.,
E as in Epistle (v. t.) To write; to communicate in a letter or by writing.,
E as in Epistler (n.) A writer of epistles, or of an epistle of the New Testament.,
E as in Epistler (n.) The ecclesiastic who reads the epistle at the communion service.,
E as in Epistolar (a.) Epistolary.,
E as in Epistolary (a.) Pertaining to epistles or letters; suitable to letters and correspondence; as, an epistolary style.,
E as in Epistolary (a.) Contained in letters; carried on by letters.,
E as in Epistolean (n.) One who writes epistles; a correspondent.,
E as in Epistoler (n.) One of the clergy who reads the epistle at the communion service; an epistler.,
E as in Epistolet (n.) A little epistle.,
E as in Epistolic (a.) Alt. of Epistolical,
E as in Epistolical (a.) Pertaining to letters or epistles; in the form or style of letters; epistolary.,
E as in Epistolize (v. i.) To write epistles.,
E as in Epistolizer (n.) A writer of epistles.,
E as in Epistolographic (a.) Pertaining to the writing of letters; used in writing letters; epistolary.,
E as in Epistolography (n.) The art or practice of writing epistles.,
E as in Epistoma (n.) Alt. of Epistome,
E as in Epistome (n.) The region between the antennae and the mouth, in Crustacea.,
E as in Epistome (n.) A liplike organ that covers the mouth, in most Bryozoa. See Illust., under Entoprocta.,
E as in Epistrophe (n.) A figure in which successive clauses end with the same word or affirmation; e. g., "Are they Hebrews? so am I. Are they Israelites? so am I.",
E as in Epistyle (n.) A massive piece of stone or wood laid immediately on the abacus of the capital of a column or pillar; -- now called architrave.,
E as in Episyllogism (n.) A syllogism which assumes as one of its premises a proposition which was the conclusion of a preceding syllogism, called, in relation to this, the prosyllogism.,
E as in Epitaph (n.) An inscription on, or at, a tomb, or a grave, in memory or commendation of the one buried there; a sepulchral inscription.,
E as in Epitaph (n.) A brief writing formed as if to be inscribed on a monument, as that concerning Alexander: "Sufficit huic tumulus, cui non sufficeret orbis.",
E as in Epitaph (v. t.) To commemorate by an epitaph.,
E as in Epitaph (v. i.) To write or speak after the manner of an epitaph.,
E as in Epitapher (n.) A writer of epitaphs.,
E as in Epitaphial (a.) Alt. of Epitaphian,
E as in Epitaphian (a.) Relating to, or of the nature of, an epitaph.,
E as in Epitaphic (a.) Pertaining to an epitaph; epitaphian.,
E as in Epitaphic (n.) An epitaph.,
E as in Epitaphist (n.) An epitapher.,
E as in Epitasis (n.) That part which embraces the main action of a play, poem, and the like, and leads on to the catastrophe; -- opposed to protasis.,
E as in Epitasis (n.) The period of violence in a fever or disease; paroxysm.,
E as in Epithalamic (a.) Belonging to, or designed for, an epithalamium.,
E as in Epithalamiums (pl. ) of Epithalamium,
E as in Epithalamia (pl. ) of Epithalamium,
E as in Epithalamium (n.) A nuptial song, or poem in honor of the bride and bridegroom.,
E as in Epithalamies (pl. ) of Epithalamy,
E as in Epithalamy (n.) Epithalamium.,
E as in Epitheca (n.) A continuous and, usually, structureless layer which covers more or less of the exterior of many corals.,
E as in Epithelial (a.) Of or pertaining to epithelium; as, epithelial cells; epithelial cancer.,
E as in Epithelioid (a.) Like epithelium; as, epithelioid cells.,
E as in Epithelioma (n.) A malignant growth containing epithelial cells; -- called also epithelial cancer.,
E as in Epitheliums (pl. ) of Epithelium,
E as in Epithelia (pl. ) of Epithelium,
E as in Epithelium (n.) The superficial layer of cells lining the alimentary canal and all its appendages, all glands and their ducts, blood vessels and lymphatics, serous cavities, etc. It often includes the epidermis (i. e., keratin-producing epithelial cells), and it is sometimes restricted to the alimentary canal, the glands and their appendages, -- the term endothelium being applied to the lining membrane of the blood vessels, lymphatics, and serous cavities.,
E as in Epitheloid (a.) Epithelioid.,
E as in Epithem (n.) Any external topical application to the body, except ointments and plasters, as a poultice, lotion, etc.,
E as in Epithema (n.) A horny excrescence upon the beak of birds.,
E as in Epithesis (n.) The addition of a letter at the end of a word, without changing its sense; as, numb for num, whilst for whiles.,
E as in Epithet (n.) An adjective expressing some quality, attribute, or relation, that is properly or specially appropriate to a person or thing; as, a just man; a verdant lawn.,
E as in Epithet (n.) Term; expression; phrase.,
E as in Epithet (v. t.) To describe by an epithet.,
E as in Epithetic (a.) Alt. of Epithetical,
E as in Epithetical (a.) Pertaining to, or abounding with, epithets.,
E as in Epithite (n.) A lazy, worthless fellow; a vagrant.,
E as in Epithumetic (a.) Epithumetical.,
E as in Epithumetical (a.) Pertaining to sexual desire; sensual.,
E as in Epitithides (n.) The uppermost member of the cornice of an entablature.,
E as in Epitomator (n.) An epitomist.,
E as in Epitomes (pl. ) of Epitome,
E as in Epitome (n.) A work in which the contents of a former work are reduced within a smaller space by curtailment and condensation; a brief summary; an abridgement.,
E as in Epitome (n.) A compact or condensed representation of anything.,
E as in Epitomist (n.) One who makes an epitome; one who abridges; an epitomizer.,
E as in Epitomized (imp. & p. p.) of Epitomize,
E as in Epitomizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Epitomize,
E as in Epitomize (v. t.) To make an epitome of; to shorten or abridge, as a writing or discourse; to reduce within a smaller space; as, to epitomize the works of Justin.,
E as in Epitomize (v. t.) To diminish, as by cutting off something; to curtail; as, to epitomize words.,
E as in Epitomizer (n.) An epitomist.,
E as in Epitrite (n.) A foot consisting of three long syllables and one short syllable.,
E as in Epitrochlea (n.) A projection on the outer side of the distal end of the humerus; the external condyle.,
E as in Epitrochlear (a.) Relating to the epitrochlea.,
E as in Epitrochoid (n.) A kind of curve. See Epicycloid, any Trochoid.,
E as in Epitrope (n.) A figure by which permission is either seriously or ironically granted to some one, to do what he proposes to do; e. g., "He that is unjust, let him be unjust still.",
E as in Epizeuxis (n.) A figure by which a word is repeated with vehemence or emphasis, as in the following lines: -,
E as in Epozoan (n.) An epizoon.,
E as in Epozoic (a.) Living upon the exterior of another animal; ectozoic; -- said of external parasites.,
E as in Epizoa (pl. ) of Epizoon,
E as in Epizoon (n.) One of the artificial group of invertebrates of various kinds, which live parasitically upon the exterior of other animals; an ectozoon. Among them are the lice, ticks, many acari, the lerneans, or fish lice, and other crustaceans.,
E as in Epizootic (a.) Of or pertaining to an epizoon.,
E as in Epizootic (a.) Containing fossil remains; -- said of rocks, formations, mountains, and the like.,
E as in Epizootic (a.) Of the nature of a disease which attacks many animals at the same time; -- corresponding to epidemic diseases among men.,
E as in Epizooty (n.) Alt. of Epizootic,
E as in Epizootic (n.) An epizootic disease; a murrain; an epidemic influenza among horses.,
E as in Epoch (n.) A fixed point of time, established in history by the occurrence of some grand or remarkable event; a point of time marked by an event of great subsequent influence; as, the epoch of the creation; the birth of Christ was the epoch which gave rise to the Christian era.,
E as in Epoch (n.) A period of time, longer or shorter, remarkable for events of great subsequent influence; a memorable period; as, the epoch of maritime discovery, or of the Reformation.,
E as in Epoch (n.) A division of time characterized by the prevalence of similar conditions of the earth; commonly a minor division or part of a period.,
E as in Epoch (n.) The date at which a planet or comet has a longitude or position.,
E as in Epoch (n.) An arbitrary fixed date, for which the elements used in computing the place of a planet, or other heavenly body, at any other date, are given; as, the epoch of Mars; lunar elements for the epoch March 1st, 1860.,
E as in Epocha (n.) See Epoch.,
E as in Epochal (a.) Belonging to an epoch; of the nature of an epoch.,
E as in Epode (n.) The after song; the part of a lyric ode which follows the strophe and antistrophe, -- the ancient ode being divided into strophe, antistrophe, and epode.,
E as in Epode (n.) A species of lyric poem, invented by Archilochus, in which a longer verse is followed by a shorter one; as, the Epodes of Horace. It does not include the elegiac distich.,
E as in Epodic (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, an epode.,
E as in Eponym (n.) Alt. of Eponyme,
E as in Eponyme (n.) The hypothetical individual who is assumed as the person from whom any race, city, etc., took its name; as, Hellen is an eponym of the Hellenes.,
E as in Eponyme (n.) A name, as of a people, country, and the like, derived from that of an individual.,
E as in Eponymic (a.) Same as Eponymous.,
E as in Eponymist (n.) One from whom a race, tribe, city, or the like, took its name; an eponym.,
E as in Eponymous (a.) Relating to an eponym; giving one's name to a tribe, people, country, and the like.,
E as in Eponymy (n.) The derivation of the name of a race, tribe, etc., from that of a fabulous hero, progenitor, etc.,
E as in Epoophoron (n.) See Parovarium.,
E as in Epopee (n.) Alt. of Epopoeia,
E as in Epopoeia (n.) An epic poem; epic poetry.,
E as in Epopt (n.) One instructed in the mysteries of a secret system.,
E as in Epos (n.) An epic.,
E as in Epotation (n.) A drinking up; a quaffing.,
E as in Eprouvette (n.) An apparatus for testing or proving the strength of gunpowder.,
E as in Epsomite (n.) Native sulphate of magnesia or Epsom salt.,
E as in Epsom salts () Alt. of salt,
E as in salt () Sulphate of magnesia having cathartic qualities; -- originally prepared by boiling down the mineral waters at Epsom, England, -- whence the name; afterwards prepared from sea water; but now from certain minerals, as from siliceous hydrate of magnesia.,
E as in Epulary (a.) Of or pertaining to a feast or banquet.,
E as in Epulation (n.) A feasting or feast; banquet.,
E as in Epulis (n.) A hard tumor developed from the gums.,
E as in Epulose (a.) Feasting to excess.,
E as in Epulosity (n.) A feasting to excess.,
E as in Epulotic (a.) Promoting the skinning over or healing of sores; as, an epulotic ointment.,
E as in Epulotic (n.) An epulotic agent.,
E as in Epuration (n.) Purification.,
E as in Epure (n.) A draught or model from which to build; especially, one of the full size of the work to be done; a detailed drawing.,
E as in Equability (n.) The quality or condition of being equable; evenness or uniformity; as, equability of temperature; the equability of the mind.,
E as in Equable (a.) Equal and uniform; continuing the same at different times; -- said of motion, and the like; uniform in surface; smooth; as, an equable plain or globe.,
E as in Equable (a.) Uniform in action or intensity; not variable or changing; -- said of the feelings or temper.,
E as in Equableness (n.) Quality or state of being equable.,
E as in Equably (adv.) In an equable manner.,
E as in Equal (a.) Agreeing in quantity, size, quality, degree, value, etc.; having the same magnitude, the same value, the same degree, etc.; -- applied to number, degree, quantity, and intensity, and to any subject which admits of them; neither inferior nor superior, greater nor less, better nor worse; corresponding; alike; as, equal quantities of land, water, etc. ; houses of equal size; persons of equal stature or talents; commodities of equal value.,
E as in Equal (a.) Bearing a suitable relation; of just proportion; having competent power, abilities, or means; adequate; as, he is not equal to the task.,
E as in Equal (a.) Not variable; equable; uniform; even; as, an equal movement.,
E as in Equal (a.) Evenly balanced; not unduly inclining to either side; characterized by fairness; unbiased; impartial; equitable; just.,
E as in Equal (a.) Of the same interest or concern; indifferent.,
E as in Equal (a.) Intended for voices of one kind only, either all male or all female; -- opposed to mixed.,
E as in Equal (a.) Exactly agreeing with respect to quantity.,
E as in Equal (n.) One not inferior or superior to another; one having the same or a similar age, rank, station, office, talents, strength, or other quality or condition; an equal quantity or number; as, "If equals be taken from equals the remainders are equal.",
E as in Equal (n.) State of being equal; equality.,
E as in Equaled (imp. & p. p.) of Equal,
E as in Equalled () of Equal,
E as in Equaling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Equal,
E as in Equalling () of Equal,
E as in Equal (v. t.) To be or become equal to; to have the same quantity, the same value, the same degree or rank, or the like, with; to be commen/urate with.,
E as in Equal (v. t.) To make equal return to; to recompense fully.,
E as in Equal (v. t.) To make equal or equal to; to equalize; hence, to compare or regard as equals; to put on equality.,
E as in Equalitarian (n.) One who believes in equalizing the condition of men; a leveler.,
E as in Equalities (pl. ) of Equality,
E as in Equality (n.) The condition or quality of being equal; agreement in quantity or degree as compared; likeness in bulk, value, rank, properties, etc.; as, the equality of two bodies in length or thickness; an equality of rights.,
E as in Equality (n.) Sameness in state or continued course; evenness; uniformity; as, an equality of temper or constitution.,
E as in Equality (n.) Evenness; uniformity; as, an equality of surface.,
E as in Equality (n.) Exact agreement between two expressions or magnitudes with respect to quantity; -- denoted by the symbol =; thus, a = x signifies that a contains the same number and kind of units of measure that x does.,
E as in Equalization (n.) The act of equalizing, or state of being equalized.,
E as in Equalized (imp. & p. p.) of Equalize,
E as in Equalizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Equalize,
E as in Equalize (v. t.) To make equal; to cause to correspond, or be like, in amount or degree as compared; as, to equalize accounts, burdens, or taxes.,
E as in Equalize (v. t.) To pronounce equal; to compare as equal.,
E as in Equalize (v. t.) To be equal to; equal; to match.,
E as in Equalizer (n.) One who, or that which, equalizes anything.,
E as in Equally (adv.) In an equal manner or degree in equal shares or proportion; with equal and impartial justice; without difference; alike; evenly; justly; as, equally taxed, furnished, etc.,
E as in Equalness (n.) Equality; evenness.,
E as in Equangular (a.) Having equal angles; equiangular.,
E as in Equanimity (n.) Evenness of mind; that calm temper or firmness of mind which is not easily elated or depressed; patience; calmness; composure; as, to bear misfortunes with equanimity.,
E as in Equanimous (a.) Of an even, composed frame of mind; of a steady temper; not easily elated or depressed.,
E as in Equant (n.) A circle around whose circumference a planet or the center of ann epicycle was conceived to move uniformly; -- called also eccentric equator.,
E as in Equated (imp. & p. p.) of Equate,
E as in Equating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Equate,
E as in Equate (v. t.) To make equal; to reduce to an average; to make such an allowance or correction in as will reduce to a common standard of comparison; to reduce to mean time or motion; as, to equate payments; to equate lines of railroad for grades or curves; equated distances.,
E as in Equation (n.) A making equal; equal division; equality; equilibrium.,
E as in Equation (n.) An expression of the condition of equality between two algebraic quantities or sets of quantities, the sign = being placed between them; as, a binomial equation; a quadratic equation; an algebraic equation; a transcendental equation; an exponential equation; a logarithmic equation; a differential equation, etc.,
E as in Equation (n.) A quantity to be applied in computing the mean place or other element of a celestial body; that is, any one of the several quantities to be added to, or taken from, its position as calculated on the hypothesis of a mean uniform motion, in order to find its true position as resulting from its actual and unequal motion.,
E as in Equator (n.) The imaginary great circle on the earth's surface, everywhere equally distant from the two poles, and dividing the earth's surface into two hemispheres.,
E as in Equator (n.) The great circle of the celestial sphere, coincident with the plane of the earth's equator; -- so called because when the sun is in it, the days and nights are of equal length; hence called also the equinoctial, and on maps, globes, etc., the equinoctial line.,
E as in Equatorial (a.) Of or pertaining to the equator; as, equatorial climates; also, pertaining to an equatorial instrument.,
E as in Equatorial (n.) An instrument consisting of a telescope so mounted as to have two axes of motion at right angles to each other, one of them parallel to the axis of the earth, and each carrying a graduated circle, the one for measuring declination, and the other right ascension, or the hour angle, so that the telescope may be directed, even in the daytime, to any star or other object whose right ascension and declination are known. The motion in right ascension is sometimes communicated by clockwork, so as to keep the object constantly in the field of the telescope. Called also an equatorial telescope.,
E as in Equatorially (adv.) So as to have motion or direction parallel to the equator.,
E as in Equerries (pl. ) of Equerry,
E as in Equerry (n.) A large stable or lodge for horses.,
E as in Equerry (n.) An officer of princes or nobles, charged with the care of their horses.,
E as in Equery (n.) Same as Equerry.,
E as in Equestrian (a.) Of or pertaining to horses or horsemen, or to horsemanship; as, equestrian feats, or games.,
E as in Equestrian (a.) Being or riding on horseback; mounted; as, an equestrian statue.,
E as in Equestrian (a.) Belonging to, or composed of, the ancient Roman equities or knights; as, the equestrian order.,
E as in Equestrian (n.) One who rides on horseback; a horseman; a rider.,
E as in Equestrianism (n.) The art of riding on horseback; performance on horseback; horsemanship; as, feats equestrianism.,
E as in Equestrienne (n.) A woman skilled in equestrianism; a horsewoman.,
E as in Equi- () A prefix, meaning equally; as, equidistant; equiangular.,
E as in Equiangled (a.) Equiangular.,
E as in Equiangular (a.) Having equal angles; as, an equiangular figure; a square is equiangular.,
E as in Equibalance (n.) Equal weight; equiponderance.,
E as in Equibalanced (imp. & p. p.) of Equibalance,
E as in Equibalancing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Equibalance,
E as in Equibalance (v. t.) To make of equal weight; to balance equally; to counterbalance; to equiponderate.,
E as in Equicrescent (a.) Increasing by equal increments; as, an equicrescent variable.,
E as in Equicrural (a.) Having equal legs or sides; isosceles.,
E as in Equicrure (a.) Equicrural.,
E as in Equidifferent (a.) Having equal differences; as, the terms of arithmetical progression are equidifferent.,
E as in Equidistance (n.) Equal distance.,
E as in Equidistant (a.) Being at an equal distance from the same point or thing.,
E as in Equidiurnal (a.) Pertaining to the time of equal day and night; -- applied to the equinoctial line.,
E as in Equiform (a.) Having the same form; uniform.,
E as in Equilateral (a.) Having all the sides equal; as, an equilateral triangle; an equilateral polygon.,
E as in Equilateral (n.) A side exactly corresponding, or equal, to others; also, a figure of equal sides.,
E as in Equilibrated (imp. & p. p.) of Equilibrate,
E as in Equilibrating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Equilibrate,
E as in Equilibrate (v. t.) To balance two scales, sides, or ends; to keep even with equal weight on each side; to keep in equipoise.,
E as in Equilibration (n.) Act of keeping a balance, or state of being balanced; equipoise.,
E as in Equilibration (n.) The process by which animal and vegetable organisms preserve a physiological balance.,
E as in Equilibrious (a.) Evenly poised; balanced.,
E as in Equilibrist (n.) One who balances himself in unnatural positions and hazardous movements; a balancer.,
E as in Equilibrity (n.) The state of being balanced; equality of weight.,
E as in Equilibriums (pl. ) of Equilibrium,
E as in Equilibria (pl. ) of Equilibrium,
E as in Equilibrium (n.) Equality of weight or force; an equipoise or a state of rest produced by the mutual counteraction of two or more forces.,
E as in Equilibrium (n.) A level position; a just poise or balance in respect to an object, so that it remains firm; equipoise; as, to preserve the equilibrium of the body.,
E as in Equilibrium (n.) A balancing of the mind between motives or reasons, with consequent indecision and doubt.,
E as in Equimomental (a.) Having equal moments of inertia.,
E as in Equimultiple (a.) Multiplied by the same number or quantity.,
E as in Equimultiple (n.) One of the products arising from the multiplication of two or more quantities by the same number or quantity. Thus, seven times 2, or 14, and seven times 4, or 28, are equimultiples of 2 and 4.,
E as in Equinal (a.) See Equine.,
E as in Equine (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a horse.,
E as in Equinia (n.) Glanders.,
E as in Equinoctial (a.) Pertaining to an equinox, or the equinoxes, or to the time of equal day and night; as, the equinoctial line.,
E as in Equinoctial (a.) Pertaining to the regions or climate of the equinoctial line or equator; in or near that line; as, equinoctial heat; an equinoctial sun.,
E as in Equinoctial (a.) Pertaining to the time when the sun enters the equinoctial points; as, an equinoctial gale or storm, that is, one happening at or near the time of the equinox, in any part of the world.,
E as in Equinoctial (n.) The equinoctial line.,
E as in Equinoctially (adv.) Towards the equinox.,
E as in Equinox (n.) The time when the sun enters one of the equinoctial points, that is, about March 21 and September 22. See Autumnal equinox, Vernal equinox, under Autumnal and Vernal.,
E as in Equinox (n.) Equinoctial wind or storm.,
E as in Equinumerant (a.) Equal as to number.,
E as in Equipped (imp. & p. p.) of Equip,
E as in Equipping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Equip,
E as in Equip (v. t.) To furnish for service, or against a need or exigency; to fit out; to supply with whatever is necessary to efficient action in any way; to provide with arms or an armament, stores, munitions, rigging, etc.; -- said esp. of ships and of troops.,
E as in Equip (v. t.) To dress up; to array; accouter.,
E as in Equipage (n.) Furniture or outfit, whether useful or ornamental; especially, the furniture and supplies of a vessel, fitting her for a voyage or for warlike purposes, or the furniture and necessaries of an army, a body of troops, or a single soldier, including whatever is necessary for efficient service; equipments; accouterments; habiliments; attire.,
E as in Equipage (n.) Retinue; train; suite.,
E as in Equipage (n.) A carriage of state or of pleasure with all that accompanies it, as horses, liveried servants, etc., a showy turn-out.,
E as in Equipaged (a.) Furnished with equipage.,
E as in Equiparable (a.) Comparable.,
E as in Equiparate (v. t.) To compare.,
E as in Equipedal (a.) Equal-footed; having the pairs of feet equal.,
E as in Equipendency (n.) The act or condition of hanging in equipoise; not inclined or determined either way.,
E as in Equipensate (v. t.) To weigh equally; to esteem alike.,
E as in Equipment (n.) The act of equipping, or the state of being equipped, as for a voyage or expedition.,
E as in Equipment (n.) Whatever is used in equipping; necessaries for an expedition or voyage; the collective designation for the articles comprising an outfit; equipage; as, a railroad equipment (locomotives, cars, etc. ; for carrying on business); horse equipments; infantry equipments; naval equipments; laboratory equipments.,
E as in Equipoise (n.) Equality of weight or force; hence, equilibrium; a state in which the two ends or sides of a thing are balanced, and hence equal; state of being equally balanced; -- said of moral, political, or social interests or forces.,
E as in Equipoise (n.) Counterpoise.,
E as in Equipollence (n.) Alt. of Equipollency,
E as in Equipollency (n.) Equality of power, force, signification, or application.,
E as in Equipollency (n.) Sameness of signification of two or more propositions which differ in language.,
E as in Equipollent (a.) Having equal power or force; equivalent.,
E as in Equipollent (a.) Having equivalent signification and reach; expressing the same thing, but differently.,
E as in Equipollently (adv.) With equal power.,
E as in Equiponderance (n.) Alt. of Equiponderancy,
E as in Equiponderancy (n.) Equality of weight; equipoise.,
E as in Equiponderant (a.) Being of the same weight.,
E as in Equiponderate (v. i.) To be equal in weight; to weigh as much as another thing.,
E as in Equiponderate (v. t.) To make equal in weight; to counterbalance.,
E as in Equiponderous (a.) Having equal weight.,
E as in Equipondious (a.) Of equal weight on both sides; balanced.,
E as in Equipotential (a.) Having the same potential.,
E as in Equiradical (a.) Equally radical.,
E as in Equirotal (a.) Having wheels of the same size or diameter; having equal rotation.,
E as in Equisetaceous (a.) Belonging to the Equisetaceae, or Horsetail family.,
E as in Equisetiform (a.) Having the form of the equisetum.,
E as in Equiseta (pl. ) of Equisetum,
E as in Equisetum (n.) A genus of vascular, cryptogamic, herbaceous plants; -- also called horsetails.,
E as in Equisonance (n.) An equal sounding; the consonance of the unison and its octaves.,
E as in Equisonant (a.) Of the same or like sound.,
E as in Equitable (a.) Possessing or exhibiting equity; according to natural right or natural justice; marked by a due consideration for what is fair, unbiased, or impartial; just; as an equitable decision; an equitable distribution of an estate; equitable men.,
E as in Equitable (a.) That can be sustained or made available or effective in a court of equity, or upon principles of equity jurisprudence; as, an equitable estate; equitable assets, assignment, mortgage, etc.,
E as in Equitableness (n.) The quality of being equitable, just, or impartial; as, the equitableness of a judge, a decision, or distribution of property.,
E as in Equitably (adv.) In an equitable manner; justly; as, the laws should be equitably administered.,
E as in Equitancy (n.) Horsemanship.,
E as in Equitant (a.) Mounted on, or sitting upon, a horse; riding on horseback.,
E as in Equitant (a.) Overlapping each other; -- said of leaves whose bases are folded so as to overlap and bestride the leaves within or above them, as in the iris.,
E as in Equitation (n.) A riding, or the act of riding, on horseback; horsemanship.,
E as in Equitemporaneous (a.) Contemporaneous.,
E as in Equites (n. pl) An order of knights holding a middle place between the senate and the commonalty; members of the Roman equestrian order.,
E as in Equities (pl. ) of Equity,
E as in Equity (n.) Equality of rights; natural justice or right; the giving, or desiring to give, to each man his due, according to reason, and the law of God to man; fairness in determination of conflicting claims; impartiality.,
E as in Equity (n.) An equitable claim; an equity of redemption; as, an equity to a settlement, or wife's equity, etc.,
E as in Equity (n.) A system of jurisprudence, supplemental to law, properly so called, and complemental of it.,
E as in Equivalence (n.) The condition of being equivalent or equal; equality of worth, value, signification, or force; as, an equivalence of definitions.,
E as in Equivalence (n.) Equal power or force; equivalent amount.,
E as in Equivalence (n.) The quantity of the combining power of an atom, expressed in hydrogen units; the number of hydrogen atoms can combine with, or be exchanged for; valency. See Valence.,
E as in Equivalence (n.) The degree of combining power as determined by relative weight. See Equivalent, n., 2.,
E as in Equivalence (v. t.) To be equivalent or equal to; to counterbalance.,
E as in Equivalency (n.) Same as Equivalence.,
E as in Equivalent (a.) Equal in wortir or value, force, power, effect, import, and the like; alike in significance and value; of the same import or meaning.,
E as in Equivalent (a.) Equal in measure but not admitting of superposition; -- applied to magnitudes; as, a square may be equivalent to a triangle.,
E as in Equivalent (a.) Contemporaneous in origin; as, the equivalent strata of different countries.,
E as in Equivalent (n.) Something equivalent; that which is equal in value, worth, weight, or force; as, to offer an equivalent for damage done.,
E as in Equivalent (n.) That comparative quantity by weight of an element which possesses the same chemical value as other elements, as determined by actual experiment and reference to the same standard. Specifically: (a) The comparative proportions by which one element replaces another in any particular compound; thus, as zinc replaces hydrogen in hydrochloric acid, their equivalents are 32.5 and 1. (b) The combining proportion by weight of a substance, or the number expressing this proportion, in any particular compound; as, the equivalents of hydrogen and oxygen in water are respectively 1 and 8, and in hydric dioxide 1 and 16.,
E as in Equivalent (n.) A combining unit, whether an atom, a radical, or a molecule; as, in acid salt two or more equivalents of acid unite with one or more equivalents of base.,
E as in Equivalent (v. t.) To make the equivalent to; to equal; equivalence.,
E as in Equivalently (adv.) In an equal manner.,
E as in Equivalue (v. t.) To put an equal value upon; to put (something) on a par with another thing.,
E as in Equivalve (a.) Alt. of Equivalved,
E as in Equivalved (a.) Having the valves equal in size and from, as in most bivalve shells.,
E as in Equivalvular (a.) Same as Equivalve or Equivalved.,
E as in Equivocacy (n.) Equivocalness.,
E as in Equivocal (a.) (Literally, called equally one thing or the other; hence:) Having two significations equally applicable; capable of double interpretation; of doubtful meaning; ambiguous; uncertain; as, equivocal words; an equivocal sentence.,
E as in Equivocal (a.) Capable of being ascribed to different motives, or of signifying opposite feelings, purposes, or characters; deserving to be suspected; as, his actions are equivocal.,
E as in Equivocal (a.) Uncertain, as an indication or sign; doubtful.,
E as in Equivocal (n.) A word or expression capable of different meanings; an ambiguous term; an equivoque.,
E as in Equivocally (adv.) In an equivocal manner.,
E as in Equivocalness (n.) The state of being equivocal.,
E as in Equivocated (imp. & p. p.) of Equivocate,
E as in Equivocating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Equivocate,
E as in Equivocate (a.) To use words of equivocal or doubtful signification; to express one's opinions in terms which admit of different senses, with intent to deceive; to use ambiguous expressions with a view to mislead; as, to equivocate is the work of duplicity.,
E as in Equivocate (v. t.) To render equivocal or ambiguous.,
E as in Equivocation (n.) The use of expressions susceptible of a double signification, with a purpose to mislead.,
E as in Equivocator (n.) One who equivocates.,
E as in Equivocatory (a.) Indicating, or characterized by, equivocation.,
E as in Equivoque (n.) Alt. of Equivoke,
E as in Equivoke (n.) An ambiguous term; a word susceptible of different significations.,
E as in Equivoke (n.) An equivocation; a guibble.,
E as in Equivorous (a.) Feeding on horseflesh; as, equivorous Tartars.,
E as in Equus (n.) A genus of mammals, including the horse, ass, etc.,
E as in -er () .,
E as in -er () The termination of many English words, denoting the agent; -- applied either to men or things; as in hater, farmer, heater, grater. At the end of names of places, -er signifies a man of the place; as, Londoner, i. e., London man.,
E as in -er () A suffix used to form the comparative degree of adjectives and adverbs; as, warmer, sooner, lat(e)er, earl(y)ier.,
E as in Eras (pl. ) of Era,
E as in Era (n.) A fixed point of time, usually an epoch, from which a series of years is reckoned.,
E as in Era (n.) A period of time reckoned from some particular date or epoch; a succession of years dating from some important event; as, the era of Alexander; the era of Christ, or the Christian era (see under Christian).,
E as in Era (n.) A period of time in which a new order of things prevails; a signal stage of history; an epoch.,
E as in Eradiated (imp. & p. p.) of Eradiate,
E as in Eradiating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Eradiate,
E as in Eradiate (v. i.) To shoot forth, as rays of light; to beam; to radiate.,
E as in Eradiation (n.) Emission of radiance.,
E as in Eradicable (a.) Capable of being eradicated.,
E as in Eradicated (imp. & p. p.) of Eradicate,
E as in Eradicating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Eradicate,
E as in Eradicate (v. t.) To pluck up by the roots; to root up; as, an oak tree eradicated.,
E as in Eradicate (v. t.) To root out; to destroy utterly; to extirpate; as, to eradicate diseases, or errors.,
E as in Eradication (n.) The act of plucking up by the roots; a rooting out; extirpation; utter destruction.,
E as in Eradication (n.) The state of being plucked up by the roots.,
E as in Eradicative (a.) Tending or serving to eradicate; curing or destroying thoroughly, as a disease or any evil.,
E as in Eradicative (n.) A medicine that effects a radical cure.,
E as in Erasable (a.) Capable of being erased.,
E as in Erased (imp. & p. p.) of Erase,
E as in Erasing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Erase,
E as in Erase (v. t.) To rub or scrape out, as letters or characters written, engraved, or painted; to efface; to expunge; to cross out; as, to erase a word or a name.,
E as in Erase (v. t.) Fig.: To obliterate; to expunge; to blot out; -- used of ideas in the mind or memory.,
E as in Erased (p. pr. & a.) Rubbed or scraped out; effaced; obliterated.,
E as in Erased (p. pr. & a.) Represented with jagged and uneven edges, as is torn off; -- used esp. of the head or limb of a beast. Cf. Couped.,
E as in Erasement (n.) The act of erasing; a rubbing out; expunction; obliteration.,
E as in Eraser (n.) One who, or that which, erases; esp., a sharp instrument or a piece of rubber used to erase writings, drawings, etc.,
E as in Erasion (n.) The act of erasing; a rubbing out; obliteration.,
E as in Erastian (n.) One of the followers of Thomas Erastus, a German physician and theologian of the 16th century. He held that the punishment of all offenses should be referred to the civil power, and that holy communion was open to all. In the present day, an Erastian is one who would see the church placed entirely under the control of the State.,
E as in Erastianism (n.) The principles of the Erastains.,
E as in Erasure (n.) The act of erasing; a scratching out; obliteration.,
E as in Erative (a.) Pertaining to the Muse Erato who presided over amatory poetry.,
E as in Erato (n.) The Muse who presided over lyric and amatory poetry.,
E as in Erbium (n.) A rare metallic element associated with several other rare elements in the mineral gadolinite from Ytterby in Sweden. Symbol Er. Atomic weight 165.9. Its salts are rose-colored and give characteristic spectra. Its sesquioxide is called erbia.,
E as in Ercedeken (n.) An archdeacon.,
E as in Erd (n.) The earth.,
E as in Ere (adv.) Before; sooner than.,
E as in Ere (adv.) Rather than.,
E as in Ere (v. t.) To plow. [Obs.] See Ear, v. t.,
E as in Erebus (n.) A place of nether darkness, being the gloomy space through which the souls passed to Hades. See Milton's "Paradise Lost," Book II., line 883.,
E as in Erebus (n.) The son of Chaos and brother of Nox, who dwelt in Erebus.,
E as in Erect (a.) Upright, or having a vertical position; not inverted; not leaning or bent; not prone; as, to stand erect.,
E as in Erect (a.) Directed upward; raised; uplifted.,
E as in Erect (a.) Bold; confident; free from depression; undismayed.,
E as in Erect (a.) Watchful; alert.,
E as in Erect (a.) Standing upright, with reference to the earth's surface, or to the surface to which it is attached.,
E as in Erect (a.) Elevated, as the tips of wings, heads of serpents, etc.,
E as in Erected (imp. & p. p.) of Erect,
E as in Erecting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Erect,
E as in Erect (v. t.) To raise and place in an upright or perpendicular position; to set upright; to raise; as, to erect a pole, a flagstaff, a monument, etc.,
E as in Erect (v. t.) To raise, as a building; to build; to construct; as, to erect a house or a fort; to set up; to put together the component parts of, as of a machine.,
E as in Erect (v. t.) To lift up; to elevate; to exalt; to magnify.,
E as in Erect (v. t.) To animate; to encourage; to cheer.,
E as in Erect (v. t.) To set up as an assertion or consequence from premises, or the like.,
E as in Erect (v. t.) To set up or establish; to found; to form; to institute.,
E as in Erect (v. i.) To rise upright.,
E as in Erectable (a.) Capable of being erected; as, an erectable feather.,
E as in Erecter (n.) An erector; one who raises or builds.,
E as in Erectile (a.) Capable of being erected; susceptible of being erected of dilated.,
E as in Erectility (n.) The quality or state of being erectile.,
E as in Erection (n.) The act of erecting, or raising upright; the act of constructing, as a building or a wall, or of fitting together the parts of, as a machine; the act of founding or establishing, as a commonwealth or an office; also, the act of rousing to excitement or courage.,
E as in Erection (n.) The state of being erected, lifted up, built, established, or founded; exaltation of feelings or purposes.,
E as in Erection (n.) State of being stretched to stiffness; tension.,
E as in Erection (n.) Anything erected; a building of any kind.,
E as in Erection (n.) The state of a part which, from having been soft, has become hard and swollen by the accumulation of blood in the erectile tissue.,
E as in Erective (a.) Making erect or upright; raising; tending to erect.,
E as in Erectly (adv.) In an erect manner or posture.,
E as in Erectness (n.) Uprightness of posture or form.,
E as in Erecto-patent (a.) Having a position intermediate between erect and patent, or spreading.,
E as in Erecto-patent (a.) Standing partially spread and erect; -- said of the wings of certain insects.,
E as in Erector (n.) One who, or that which, erects.,
E as in Erector (n.) A muscle which raises any part.,
E as in Erector (n.) An attachment to a microscope, telescope, or other optical instrument, for making the image erect instead of inverted.,
E as in Erelong (adv.) Before the /apse of a long time; soon; -- usually separated, ere long.,
E as in Eremacausis (n.) A gradual oxidation from exposure to air and moisture, as in the decay of old trees or of dead animals.,
E as in Eremitage (n.) See Hermitage.,
E as in Eremite (n.) A hermit.,
E as in Eremitic (a.) Alt. of Eremitical,
E as in Eremitical (a.) Of or pertaining to an eremite; hermitical; living in solitude.,
E as in Eremitish (a.) Eremitic.,
E as in Eremitism (n.) The state of a hermit; a living in seclusion from social life.,
E as in Eretation (n.) A creeping forth.,
E as in Ereption (n.) A snatching away.,
E as in Erethism (n.) A morbid degree of excitement or irritation in an organ.,
E as in Erethistic (a.) Relating to erethism.,
E as in Erewhile (adv.) Alt. of Erewhiles,
E as in Erewhiles (adv.) Some time ago; a little while before; heretofore.,
E as in Erven (pl. ) of Erf,
E as in Erf (n.) A garden plot, usually about half an acre.,
E as in Erg (n.) The unit of work or energy in the C. G. S. system, being the amount of work done by a dyne working through a distance of one centimeter; the amount of energy expended in moving a body one centimeter against a force of one dyne. One foot pound is equal to 13,560,000 ergs.,
E as in Ergat (v. t.) To deduce logically, as conclusions.,
E as in Ergo (conj. / adv.) Therefore; consequently; -- often used in a jocular way.,
E as in Ergot (n.) A diseased condition of rye and other cereals, in which the grains become black, and often spur-shaped. It is caused by a parasitic fungus, Claviceps purpurea.,
E as in Ergot (n.) The mycelium or spawn of this fungus infecting grains of rye and wheat. It is a powerful remedial agent, and also a dangerous poison, and is used as a means of hastening childbirth, and to arrest bleeding.,
E as in Ergot (n.) A stub, like soft horn, about the size of a chestnut, situated behind and below the pastern joint.,
E as in Ergot (n.) See 2d Calcar, 3 (b).,
E as in Ergotic (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, ergot; as, ergotic acid.,
E as in Ergotin (n.) An extract made from ergot.,
E as in Ergotine () A powerful astringent alkaloid extracted from ergot as a brown, amorphous, bitter substance. It is used to produce contraction of the uterus.,
E as in Ergotism (n.) A logical deduction.,
E as in Ergotism (n.) A diseased condition produced by eating rye affected with the ergot fungus.,
E as in Ergotized (a.) Affected with the ergot fungus; as, ergotized rye.,
E as in Eriach (n.) Alt. of Eric,
E as in Eric (n.) A recompense formerly given by a murderer to the relatives of the murdered person.,
E as in Erica (n.) A genus of shrubby plants, including the heaths, many of them producing beautiful flowers.,
E as in Ericaceous (a.) Belonging to the Heath family, or resembling plants of that family; consisting of heats.,
E as in Ericinol (n.) A colorless oil (quickly becoming brown), with a pleasant odor, obtained by the decomposition of ericolin.,
E as in Ericius (n.) The Vulgate rendering of the Hebrew word qip/d, which in the "Authorized Version" is translated bittern, and in the Revised Version, porcupine.,
E as in Ericolin (n.) A glucoside found in the bearberry (and others of the Ericaceae), and extracted as a bitter, yellow, amorphous mass.,
E as in Eridanus (n.) A long, winding constellation extending southward from Taurus and containing the bright star Achernar.,
E as in Erigible (a.) Capable of being erected.,
E as in Erin (n.) An early, and now a poetic, name of Ireland.,
E as in Erinaceous (a.) Of the Hedgehog family; like, or characteristic of, a hedgehog.,
E as in Eringo (n.) The sea holly. See Eryngo.,
E as in Erinite (n.) A hydrous arseniate of copper, of an emerald-green color; -- so called from Erin, or Ireland, where it occurs.,
E as in Erinyes (pl. ) of Erinys,
E as in Erinys (n.) An avenging deity; one of the Furies; sometimes, conscience personified.,
E as in Eriometer (n.) An instrument for measuring the diameters of minute particles or fibers, from the size of the colored rings produced by the diffraction of the light in which the objects are viewed.,
E as in Eristalis (n.) A genus of dipterous insects whose young (called rat-tailed larvae) are remarkable for their long tapering tail, which spiracles at the tip, and for their ability to live in very impure and salt waters; -- also called drone fly.,
E as in Eristic (a.) Alt. of Eristical,
E as in Eristical (a.) Controversial.,
E as in Erke (a.) ASlothful.,
E as in Erlking (n.) A personification, in German and Scandinavian mythology, of a spirit natural power supposed to work mischief and ruin, esp. to children.,
E as in Erme (v. i.) To grieve; to feel sad.,
E as in Ermelin (n.) Alt. of Ermilin,
E as in Ermilin (n.) See Ermine.,
E as in Ermin (n.) An Armenian.,
E as in Ermine (n.) A valuable fur-bearing animal of the genus Mustela (M. erminea), allied to the weasel; the stoat. It is found in the northern parts of Asia, Europe, and America. In summer it is brown, but in winter it becomes white, except the tip of the tail, which is always black.,
E as in Ermine (n.) The fur of the ermine, as prepared for ornamenting garments of royalty, etc., by having the tips of the tails, which are black, arranged at regular intervals throughout the white.,
E as in Ermine (n.) By metonymy, the office or functions of a judge, whose state robe, lined with ermine, is emblematical of purity and honor without stain.,
E as in Ermine (n.) One of the furs. See Fur (Her.),
E as in Ermine (v. t.) To clothe with, or as with, ermine.,
E as in Ermined (a.) Clothed or adorned with the fur of the ermine.,
E as in Ermines (n.) Alt. of Erminois,
E as in Erminois (n.) See Note under Ermine, n., 4.,
E as in Ermit (n.) A hermit.,
E as in Ern (n.) Alt. of Erne,
E as in Erne (n.) A sea eagle, esp. the European white-tailed sea eagle (Haliaeetus albicilla).,
E as in Ern (v. i.) To stir with strong emotion; to grieve; to mourn. [Corrupted into yearn in modern editions of Shakespeare.],
E as in Ernest (n.) See Earnest.,
E as in Ernestful (a.) Serious.,
E as in Eroded (imp. & p. p.) of Erode,
E as in Eroding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Erode,
E as in Erode (v. t.) To eat into or away; to corrode; as, canker erodes the flesh.,
E as in Eroded (p. p. & a.) Eaten away; gnawed; irregular, as if eaten or worn away.,
E as in Eroded (p. p. & a.) Having the edge worn away so as to be jagged or irregularly toothed.,
E as in Erodent (n.) A medicine which eats away extraneous growths; a caustic.,
E as in Erogated (imp. & p. p.) of Erogate,
E as in Erogating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Erogate,
E as in Erogate (v. t.) To lay out, as money; to deal out; to expend.,
E as in Erogation (n.) The act of giving out or bestowing.,
E as in Eros (n.) Love; the god of love; -- by earlier writers represented as one of the first and creative gods, by later writers as the son of Aphrodite, equivalent to the Latin god Cupid.,
E as in Erose (a.) Irregular or uneven as if eaten or worn away.,
E as in Erose (a.) Jagged or irregularly toothed, as if nibbled out or gnawed.,
E as in Erosion (n.) The act or operation of eroding or eating away.,
E as in Erosion (n.) The state of being eaten away; corrosion; canker.,
E as in Erosive (a.) That erodes or gradually eats away; tending to erode; corrosive.,
E as in Erostrate (a.) Without a beak.,
E as in Eroteme (n.) A mark indicating a question; a note of interrogation.,
E as in Erotesis (n.) A figure o/ speech by which a strong affirmation of the contrary, is implied under the form o/ an earnest interrogation, as in the following lines; -,
E as in Erotic (a.) Alt. of Erotical,
E as in Erotical (a.) Of or pertaining to the passion of love; treating of love; amatory.,
E as in Erotic (n.) An amorous composition or poem.,
E as in Eroticism (n.) Erotic quality.,
E as in Erpetologist (n.) Herpetologist.,
E as in Erpetology (n.) Herpetology.,
E as in Erred (imp. & p. p.) of Err,
E as in Erring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Err,
E as in Err (v. i.) To wander; to roam; to stray.,
E as in Err (v. i.) To deviate from the true course; to miss the thing aimed at.,
E as in Err (v. i.) To miss intellectual truth; to fall into error; to mistake in judgment or opinion; to be mistaken.,
E as in Err (v. i.) To deviate morally from the right way; to go astray, in a figurative sense; to do wrong; to sin.,
E as in Err (v. i.) To offend, as by erring.,
E as in Errable (a.) Liable to error; fallible.,
E as in Errableness (n.) Liability to error.,
E as in Errabund (a.) Erratic.,
E as in Errancy (n.) A wandering; state of being in error.,
E as in Errand (n.) A special business intrusted to a messenger; something to be told or done by one sent somewhere for the purpose; often, a verbal message; a commission; as, the servant was sent on an errand; to do an errand. Also, one's purpose in going anywhere.,
E as in Errant (a.) Wandering; deviating from an appointed course, or from a direct path; roving.,
E as in Errant (a.) Notorious; notoriously bad; downright; arrant.,
E as in Errant (a.) Journeying; itinerant; -- formerly applied to judges who went on circuit and to bailiffs at large.,
E as in Errant (n.) One who wanders about.,
E as in Errantia (n. pl.) A group of chaetopod annelids, including those that are not confined to tubes. See Chaetopoda.,
E as in Errantry (n.) A wandering; a roving; esp., a roving in quest of adventures.,
E as in Errantry (n.) The employment of a knight-errant.,
E as in Errata (n. pl.) See Erratum.,
E as in Erratic (a.) Having no certain course; roving about without a fixed destination; wandering; moving; -- hence, applied to the planets as distinguished from the fixed stars.,
E as in Erratic (a.) Deviating from a wise of the common course in opinion or conduct; eccentric; strange; queer; as, erratic conduct.,
E as in Erratic (a.) Irregular; changeable.,
E as in Erratic (n.) One who deviates from common and accepted opinions; one who is eccentric or preserve in his intellectual character.,
E as in Erratic (n.) A rogue.,
E as in Erratic (n.) Any stone or material that has been borne away from its original site by natural agencies; esp., a large block or fragment of rock; a bowlder.,
E as in Erratical (a.) Erratic.,
E as in Erration (n.) A wandering; a roving about.,
E as in Errata (pl. ) of Erratum,
E as in Erratum (n.) An error or mistake in writing or printing.,
E as in Erthine (n.) A medicine designed to be snuffed up the nose, to promote discharges of mucus; a sternutatory.,
E as in Erthine (a.) Causing or increasing secretion of nasal mucus.,
E as in Erroneous (a.) Wandering; straying; deviating from the right course; -- hence, irregular; unnatural.,
E as in Erroneous (a.) Misleading; misled; mistaking.,
E as in Erroneous (a.) Containing error; not conformed to truth or justice; incorrect; false; mistaken; as, an erroneous doctrine; erroneous opinion, observation, deduction, view, etc.,
E as in Error (n.) A wandering; a roving or irregular course.,
E as in Error (n.) A wandering or deviation from the right course or standard; irregularity; mistake; inaccuracy; something made wrong or left wrong; as, an error in writing or in printing; a clerical error.,
E as in Error (n.) A departing or deviation from the truth; falsity; false notion; wrong opinion; mistake; misapprehension.,
E as in Error (n.) A moral offense; violation of duty; a sin or transgression; iniquity; fault.,
E as in Error (n.) The difference between the approximate result and the true result; -- used particularly in the rule of double position.,
E as in Error (n.) The difference between an observed value and the true value of a quantity.,
E as in Error (n.) The difference between the observed value of a quantity and that which is taken or computed to be the true value; -- sometimes called residual error.,
E as in Error (n.) A mistake in the proceedings of a court of record in matters of law or of fact.,
E as in Error (n.) A fault of a player of the side in the field which results in failure to put out a player on the other side, or gives him an unearned base.,
E as in Errorful (a.) Full of error; wrong.,
E as in Errorist (n.) One who encourages and propagates error; one who holds to error.,
E as in Ers (n.) The bitter vetch (Ervum Ervilia).,
E as in Erse (n.) A name sometimes given to that dialect of the Celtic which is spoken in the Highlands of Scotland; -- called, by the Highlanders, Gaelic.,
E as in Erse (a.) Of or pertaining to the Celtic race in the Highlands of Scotland, or to their language.,
E as in Ersh (n.) See Arrish.,
E as in Erst (adv.) First.,
E as in Erst (adv.) Previously; before; formerly; heretofore.,
E as in Erstwhile (adv.) Till then or now; heretofore; formerly.,
E as in Erubescence (n.) Alt. of Erubescency,
E as in Erubescency (n.) The act of becoming red; redness of the skin or surface of anything; a blushing.,
E as in Erubescent (a.) Red, or reddish; blushing.,
E as in Erubescite (n.) See Bornite.,
E as in Erucae (pl. ) of Eruca,
E as in Eruca (n.) An insect in the larval state; a caterpillar; a larva.,
E as in Erucic (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, a genus of cruciferous Mediterranean herbs (Eruca or Brassica); as, erucic acid, a fatty acid resembling oleic acid, and found in colza oil, mustard oil, etc.,
E as in Erucifrom (a.) Having the form of a caterpillar; -- said of insect larvae.,
E as in Eruct (v. t.) Alt. of Eructate,
E as in Eructate (v. t.) To eject, as wind, from the stomach; to belch.,
E as in Eructation (n.) The act of belching wind from the stomach; a belch.,
E as in Eructation (n.) A violent belching out or emitting, as of gaseous or other matter from the crater of a volcano, geyser, etc.,
E as in Erudiate (v. t.) To instruct; to educate; to teach.,
E as in Erudite (a.) Characterized by extensive reading or knowledge; well instructed; learned.,
E as in Erudition (n.) The act of instructing; the result of thorough instruction; the state of being erudite or learned; the acquisitions gained by extensive reading or study; particularly, learning in literature or criticism, as distinct from the sciences; scholarship.,
E as in Erugate (a.) Freed from wrinkles; smooth.,
E as in Eruginous (a.) Partaking of the substance or nature of copper, or of the rust copper; resembling the trust of copper or verdigris; aeruginous.,
E as in Erumpent (a.) Breaking out; -- said of certain fungi which burst through the texture of leaves.,
E as in Erupt (v. t.) To cause to burst forth; to eject; as, to erupt lava.,
E as in Eruption (n.) The act of breaking out or bursting forth; as: (a) A violent throwing out of flames, lava, etc., as from a volcano of a fissure in the earth's crust. (b) A sudden and overwhelming hostile movement of armed men from one country to another. Milton. (c) A violent commotion.,
E as in Eruption (n.) That which bursts forth.,
E as in Eruption (n.) A violent exclamation; ejaculation.,
E as in Eruption (n.) The breaking out of pimples, or an efflorescence, as in measles, scarlatina, etc.,
E as in Eruptional (a.) Eruptive.,
E as in Eruptive (a.) Breaking out or bursting forth.,
E as in Eruptive (a.) Attended with eruption or efflorescence, or producing it; as, an eruptive fever.,
E as in Eruptive (a.) Produced by eruption; as, eruptive rocks, such as the igneous or volcanic.,
E as in Eruptive (n.) An eruptive rock.,
E as in Eryngium (n.) A genus of umbelliferous plants somewhat like thistles in appearance. Eryngium maritimum, or sea holly, has been highly esteemed as an aphrodisiac, the roots being formerly candied.,
E as in Eryngo (n.) A plant of the genus Eryngium.,
E as in Erysipelas (n.) St. Anthony's fire; a febrile disease accompanied with a diffused inflammation of the skin, which, starting usually from a single point, spreads gradually over its surface. It is usually regarded as contagious, and often occurs epidemically.,
E as in Erysipelatoid (a.) Resembling erysipelas.,
E as in Erysipelatous (a.) Resembling erysipelas, or partaking of its nature.,
E as in Erysipelous (a.) Erysipelatous.,
E as in Erythema (n.) A disease of the skin, in which a diffused inflammation forms rose-colored patches of variable size.,
E as in Erythematic (a.) Characterized by, or causing, a morbid redness of the skin; relating to erythema.,
E as in Erythematous (a.) Relating to, or causing, erythema.,
E as in Erythrean (a.) Alt. of Erythraean,
E as in Erythraean (a.) Red in color.,
E as in Erythric (a.) Pertaining to, derived from, or resembling, erythrin.,
E as in Erythrin (n.) Alt. of Erythrine,
E as in Erythrine (n.) A colorless crystalline substance, C20H22O10, extracted from certain lichens, as the various species of Rocella. It is a derivative of orsellinic acid. So called because of certain red compounds derived from it. Called also erythric acid.,
E as in Erythrine (n.) See Erythrite, 2.,
E as in Erythrina (n.) A genus of leguminous plants growing in the tropics; coral tree; -- so called from its red flowers.,
E as in Erythrism (n.) A condition of excessive redness. See Erythrochroism.,
E as in Erythrite (n.) A colorless crystalline substance, C4H6.(OH)4, of a sweet, cooling taste, extracted from certain lichens, and obtained by the decomposition of erythrin; -- called also erythrol, erythroglucin, erythromannite, pseudorcin, cobalt bloom, and under the name phycite obtained from the alga Protococcus vulgaris. It is a tetrabasic alcohol, corresponding to glycol and glycerin.,
E as in Erythrite (n.) A rose-red mineral, crystallized and earthy, a hydrous arseniate of cobalt, known also as cobalt bloom; -- called also erythrin or erythrine.,
E as in Erythrochroic (a.) Having, or subject to, erythrochroism.,
E as in Erythrochroism (n.) An unusual redness, esp. in the plumage of birds, or hair of mammals, independently of age, sex, or season.,
E as in Erythrodextrin (n.) A dextrin which gives a red color with iodine. See Dextrin.,
E as in Erythrogen (n.) Carbon disulphide; -- so called from certain red compounds which it produces in combination with other substances.,
E as in Erythrogen (n.) A substance reddened by acids, which is supposed to be contained in flowers.,
E as in Erythrogen (n.) A crystalline substance obtained from diseased bile, which becomes blood-red when acted on by nitric acid or ammonia.,
E as in Erythrogranulose (n.) A term applied by Brucke to a substance present in small amount in starch granules, colored red by iodine.,
E as in Erythroid (a.) Of a red color; reddish; as, the erythroid tunic (the cremaster muscle).,
E as in Erythroleic (a.) Having a red color and oily appearance; -- applied to a purple semifluid substance said to be obtained from archil.,
E as in Erythrolein (n.) A red substance obtained from litmus.,
E as in Erythrolitmin (n.) Erythrolein.,
E as in Erythronium (n.) A name originally given (from its red acid) to the metal vanadium.,
E as in Erythrophleine (n.) A white crystalline alkaloid, extracted from sassy bark (Erythrophleum Guineense).,
E as in Erythrophyll (n.) Alt. of Erythrophyllin,
E as in Erythrophyllin (n.) The red coloring matter of leaves, fruits, flowers, etc., in distinction from chlorophyll.,
E as in Erythrosin (n.) A red substance formed by the oxidation of tyrosin.,
E as in Erythrosin (n.) A red dyestuff obtained from fluorescein by the action of iodine.,
E as in Erythroxylon (n.) A genus of shrubs or small trees of the Flax family, growing in tropical countries. E. Coca is the source of cocaine. See Coca.,
E as in Erythrozyme (n.) A ferment extracted from madder root, possessing the power of inducing alcoholic fermentation in solutions of sugar.,
E as in Escalade (v. t.) A furious attack made by troops on a fortified place, in which ladders are used to pass a ditch or mount a rampart.,
E as in Escaladed (imp. & p. p.) of Escalade,
E as in Escalading (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Escalade,
E as in Escalade (v. t.) To mount and pass or enter by means of ladders; to scale; as, to escalate a wall.,
E as in Escallop (n.) See Escalop.,
E as in Escalloped (a.) See Escaloped.,
E as in Escalop (n.) A bivalve shell of the genus Pecten. See Scallop.,
E as in Escalop (n.) A regular, curving indenture in the margin of anything. See Scallop.,
E as in Escalop (n.) The figure or shell of an escalop, considered as a sign that the bearer had been on a pilgrimage to the Holy Land.,
E as in Escalop (n.) A bearing or a charge consisting of an escalop shell.,
E as in Escaloped (a.) Cut or marked in the form of an escalop; scalloped.,
E as in Escaloped (a.) Covered with a pattern resembling a series of escalop shells, each of which issues from between two others. Its appearance is that of a surface covered with scales.,
E as in Escambio (n.) A license formerly required for the making over a bill of exchange to another over sea.,
E as in Escapable (a.) Avoidable.,
E as in Escapade (n.) The fling of a horse, or ordinary kicking back of his heels; a gambol.,
E as in Escapade (n.) Act by which one breaks loose from the rules of propriety or good sense; a freak; a prank.,
E as in Escaped (imp. & p. p.) of Escape,
E as in Escaping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Escape,
E as in Escape (v.) To flee from and avoid; to be saved or exempt from; to shun; to obtain security from; as, to escape danger.,
E as in Escape (v.) To avoid the notice of; to pass unobserved by; to evade; as, the fact escaped our attention.,
E as in Escape (v. i.) To flee, and become secure from danger; -- often followed by from or out of.,
E as in Escape (v. i.) To get clear from danger or evil of any form; to be passed without harm.,
E as in Escape (v. i.) To get free from that which confines or holds; -- used of persons or things; as, to escape from prison, from arrest, or from slavery; gas escapes from the pipes; electricity escapes from its conductors.,
E as in Escape (n.) The act of fleeing from danger, of evading harm, or of avoiding notice; deliverance from injury or any evil; flight; as, an escape in battle; a narrow escape; also, the means of escape; as, a fire escape.,
E as in Escape (n.) That which escapes attention or restraint; a mistake; an oversight; also, transgression.,
E as in Escape (n.) A sally.,
E as in Escape (n.) The unlawful permission, by a jailer or other custodian, of a prisoner's departure from custody.,
E as in Escape (n.) An apophyge.,
E as in Escape (n.) Leakage or outflow, as of steam or a liquid.,
E as in Escape (n.) Leakage or loss of currents from the conducting wires, caused by defective insulation.,
E as in Escapement (n.) The act of escaping; escape.,
E as in Escapement (n.) Way of escape; vent.,
E as in Escapement (n.) The contrivance in a timepiece which connects the train of wheel work with the pendulum or balance, giving to the latter the impulse by which it is kept in vibration; -- so called because it allows a tooth to escape from a pallet at each vibration.,
E as in Escaper (n.) One who escapes.,
E as in Escarbuncle (n.) See Carbuncle, 3.,
E as in Escargatoire (n.) A nursery of snails.,
E as in Escarp (n.) The side of the ditch next the parapet; -- same as scarp, and opposed to counterscarp.,
E as in Escarped (imp. & p. p.) of Escarp,
E as in Escarping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Escarp,
E as in Escarp (v. t.) To make into, or furnish with, a steep slope, like that of a scrap.,
E as in Escarpment (n.) A steep descent or declivity; steep face or edge of a ridge; ground about a fortified place, cut away nearly vertically to prevent hostile approach. See Scarp.,
E as in -escent () A suffix signifying beginning, beginning to be; as, adolescent, effervescent, etc.,
E as in Eschalot (n.) See Shallot.,
E as in Eschar (n.) A dry slough, crust, or scab, which separates from the healthy part of the body, as that produced by a burn, or the application of caustics.,
E as in Eschar (n.) In Ireland, one of the continuous mounds or ridges of gravelly and sandy drift which extend for many miles over the surface of the country. Similar ridges in Scotland are called kames or kams.,
E as in Eschara (n.) A genus of Bryozoa which produce delicate corals, often incrusting like lichens, but sometimes branched.,
E as in Escharine (a.) Like, or pertaining to, the genus Eschara, or family Escharidae.,
E as in Escharotic (a.) Serving or tending to form an eschar; producing a scar; caustic.,
E as in Escharotic (n.) A substance which produces an eschar; a caustic, esp., a mild caustic.,
E as in Eschatological (a.) Pertaining to the last or final things.,
E as in Eschatology (n.) The doctrine of the last or final things, as death, judgment, and the events therewith connected.,
E as in Eschaunge (n.) Exchange.,
E as in Escheat (n.) The falling back or reversion of lands, by some casualty or accident, to the lord of the fee, in consequence of the extinction of the blood of the tenant, which may happen by his dying without heirs, and formerly might happen by corruption of blood, that is, by reason of a felony or attainder.,
E as in Escheat (n.) The reverting of real property to the State, as original and ultimate proprietor, by reason of a failure of persons legally entitled to hold the same.,
E as in Escheat (n.) A writ, now abolished, to recover escheats from the person in possession.,
E as in Escheat (n.) Lands which fall to the lord or the State by escheat.,
E as in Escheat (n.) That which falls to one; a reversion or return,
E as in Esheated (imp. & p. p.) of Escheat,
E as in Escheating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Escheat,
E as in Escheat (v. i.) To revert, or become forfeited, to the lord, the crown, or the State, as lands by the failure of persons entitled to hold the same, or by forfeiture.,
E as in Escheat (v. t.) To forfeit.,
E as in Escheatable (a.) Liable to escheat.,
E as in Escheatage (n.) The right of succeeding to an escheat.,
E as in Escheator (n.) An officer whose duty it is to observe what escheats have taken place, and to take charge of them.,
E as in Eschevin (n.) The alderman or chief officer of an ancient guild.,
E as in Eshewed (imp. & p. p.) of Eschew,
E as in Eshewing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Eschew,
E as in Eschew (a.) To shun; to avoid, as something wrong, or from a feeling of distaste; to keep one's self clear of.,
E as in Eschew (a.) To escape from; to avoid.,
E as in Eschewer (n.) One who eschews.,
E as in Eschewment (n.) The act of eschewing.,
E as in Eschscholtzia (n.) A genus of papaveraceous plants, found in California and upon the west coast of North America, some species of which produce beautiful yellow, orange, rose-colored, or white flowers; the California poppy.,
E as in Eschynite (n.) A rare mineral, containing chiefly niobium, titanium, thorium, and cerium. It was so called by Berzelius on account of the inability of chemical science, at the time of its discovery, to separate some of its constituents.,
E as in Escocheon (n.) Escutcheon.,
E as in Escopet (n.) Alt. of Escopette,
E as in Escopette (n.) A kind of firearm; a carbine.,
E as in Escorial (n.) See Escurial.,
E as in Escort (n.) A body of armed men to attend a person of distinction for the sake of affording safety when on a journey; one who conducts some one as an attendant; a guard, as of prisoners on a march; also, a body of persons, attending as a mark of respect or honor; -- applied to movements on land, as convoy is to movements at sea.,
E as in Escort (n.) Protection, care, or safeguard on a journey or excursion; as, to travel under the escort of a friend.,
E as in Escorted (imp. & p. p.) of Escort,
E as in Escorting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Escort,
E as in Escort (n.) To attend with a view to guard and protect; to accompany as safeguard; to give honorable or ceremonious attendance to; -- used esp. with reference to journeys or excursions on land; as, to escort a public functionary, or a lady; to escort a baggage wagon.,
E as in Escot (n.) See Scot, a tax.,
E as in Escot (v. t.) To pay the reckoning for; to support; to maintain.,
E as in Escouade (n.) See Squad,,
E as in Escout (n.) See Scout.,
E as in Escribed (a.) Drawn outside of; -- used to designate a circle that touches one of the sides of a given triangle, and also the other two sides produced.,
E as in Escript (n.) A writing.,
E as in Escritoire (n.) A piece of furniture used as a writing table, commonly with drawers, pigeonholes, and the like; a secretary or writing desk.,
E as in Escritorial (a.) Of or pertaining to an escritoire.,
E as in Escrod (n.) See Scrod, a young cod.,
E as in Escrol (n.) Alt. of Escroll,
E as in Escroll (n.) A scroll.,
E as in Escroll (n.) A long strip or scroll resembling a ribbon or a band of parchment, or the like, anciently placed above the shield, and supporting the crest.,
E as in Escroll (n.) In modern heraldry, a similar ribbon on which the motto is inscribed.,
E as in Escrow (n.) A deed, bond, or other written engagement, delivered to a third person, to be held by him till some act is done or some condition is performed, and then to be by him delivered to the grantee.,
E as in Escuage (n.) Service of the shield, a species of knight service by which a tenant was bound to follow his lord to war, at his own charge. It was afterward exchanged for a pecuniary satisfaction. Called also scutage.,
E as in Esculapian (n.) Aesculapian.,
E as in Esculapius (n.) Same as Aesculapius.,
E as in Esculent (a.) Suitable to be used by man for food; eatable; edible; as, esculent plants; esculent fish.,
E as in Esculent (n.) Anything that is fit for eating; that which may be safely eaten by man.,
E as in Esculic (a.) Pertaining to, or obtained from, the horse-chestnut; as, esculic acid.,
E as in Esculin (n.) A glucoside obtained from the Aesculus hippocastanum, or horse-chestnut, and characterized by its fine blue fluorescent solutions.,
E as in Escurial (n.) A palace and mausoleum of the kinds of Spain, being a vast and wonderful structure about twenty-five miles northwest of Madrid.,
E as in Escutcheon (n.) The surface, usually a shield, upon which bearings are marshaled and displayed. The surface of the escutcheon is called the field, the upper part is called the chief, and the lower part the base (see Chiff, and Field.). That side of the escutcheon which is on the right hand of the knight who bears the shield on his arm is called dexter, and the other side sinister.,
E as in Escutcheon (n.) A marking upon the back of a cow's udder and the space above it (the perineum), formed by the hair growing upward or outward instead of downward. It is esteemed an index of milking qualities.,
E as in Escutcheon (n.) That part of a vessel's stern on which her name is written.,
E as in Escutcheon (n.) A thin metal plate or shield to protect wood, or for ornament, as the shield around a keyhole.,
E as in Escutcheon (n.) The depression behind the beak of certain bivalves; the ligamental area.,
E as in Escutcheoned (a.) Having an escutcheon; furnished with a coat of arms or ensign.,
E as in Ese (n.) Ease; pleasure.,
E as in Esemplastic (a.) Shaped into one; tending to, or formative into, unity.,
E as in Eserine (n.) An alkaloid found in the Calabar bean, and the seed of Physostigma venenosum; physostigmine. It is used in ophthalmic surgery for its effect in contracting the pupil.,
E as in Esexual (a.) Sexless; asexual.,
E as in Esguard (n.) Guard.,
E as in Eskar (n.) Alt. of Esker,
E as in Esker (n.) See Eschar.,
E as in Eskimos (pl. ) of Eskimo,
E as in Eskimo (n.) One of a peculiar race inhabiting Arctic America and Greenland. In many respects the Eskimos resemble the Mongolian race.,
E as in Esloin (v. t.) To remove; to banish; to withdraw; to avoid; to eloign.,
E as in Esnecy (n.) A prerogative given to the eldest coparcener to choose first after an inheritance is divided.,
E as in Esodic (a.) Conveying impressions from the surface of the body to the spinal cord; -- said of certain nerves. Opposed to exodic.,
E as in Esophagal (a.) Esophageal.,
E as in Esophageal (a.) Pertaining to the esophagus.,
E as in Esophagean (a.) Esophageal.,
E as in Esophagotomy (n.) The operation of making an incision into the esophagus, for the purpose of removing any foreign substance that obstructs the passage.,
E as in Esophagus (n.) That part of the alimentary canal between the pharynx and the stomach; the gullet. See Illust. of Digestive apparatus, under Digestive.,
E as in Esopian (a.) Alt. of Esopic,
E as in Esopic (a.) Same as Aesopian, Aesopic.,
E as in Esoteric (a.) Designed for, and understood by, the specially initiated alone; not communicated, or not intelligible, to the general body of followers; private; interior; acroamatic; -- said of the private and more recondite instructions and doctrines of philosophers. Opposed to exoteric.,
E as in Esoterical (a.) Esoteric.,
E as in Esoterically (adv.) In an esoteric manner.,
E as in Esotericism (n.) Esoteric doctrine or principles.,
E as in Esoterics (n.) Mysterious or hidden doctrines; secret science.,
E as in Esotery (n.) Mystery; esoterics; -- opposed to exotery.,
E as in Esox (n.) A genus of fresh-water fishes, including pike and pickerel.,
E as in Espace (n.) Space.,
E as in Espadon (n.) A long, heavy, two-handed and two-edged sword, formerly used by Spanish foot soldiers and by executioners.,
E as in Espalier (n.) A railing or trellis upon which fruit trees or shrubs are trained, as upon a wall; a tree or row of trees so trained.,
E as in Espaliered (imp. & p. p.) of Espalier,
E as in Espaliering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Espalier,
E as in Espalier (v. t.) To form an espalier of, or to protect by an espalier.,
E as in Esparcet (n.) The common sainfoin (Onobrychis sativa), an Old World leguminous forage plant.,
E as in Esparto (n.) A species of Spanish grass (Macrochloa tenacissima), of which cordage, shoes, baskets, etc., are made. It is also used for making paper.,
E as in Espauliere (n.) A defense for the shoulder, composed of flexible overlapping plates of metal, used in the 15th century; -- the origin of the modern epaulette.,
E as in Especial (a.) Distinguished among others of the same class or kind; special; concerning a species or a single object; principal; particular; as, in an especial manner or degree.,
E as in Especially (adv.) In an especial manner; chiefly; particularly; peculiarly; in an uncommon degree.,
E as in Especialness (n.) The state of being especial.,
E as in Esperance (n.) Hope.,
E as in Espiaille (n.) Espial.,
E as in Espial (n.) The act of espying; notice; discovery.,
E as in Espial (n.) One who espies; a spy; a scout.,
E as in Espier (n.) One who espies.,
E as in Espinel (n.) A kind of ruby. See Spinel.,
E as in Espionage (n.) The practice or employment of spies; the practice of watching the words and conduct of others, to make discoveries, as spies or secret emissaries; secret watching.,
E as in Esplanade (n.) A clear space between a citadel and the nearest houses of the town.,
E as in Esplanade (n.) The glacis of the counterscarp, or the slope of the parapet of the covered way toward the country.,
E as in Esplanade (n.) A grass plat; a lawn.,
E as in Esplanade (n.) Any clear, level space used for public walks or drives; esp., a terrace by the seaside.,
E as in Esplees (n. pl.) The full profits or products which ground or land yields, as the hay of the meadows, the feed of the pasture, the grain of arable fields, the rents, services, and the like.,
E as in Espousage (n.) Espousal.,
E as in Espousal (n.) The act of espousing or betrothing; especially, in the plural, betrothal; plighting of the troths; a contract of marriage; sometimes, the marriage ceremony.,
E as in Espousal (n.) The uniting or allying one's self with anything; maintenance; adoption; as, the espousal of a quarrel.,
E as in Espoused (imp. & p. p.) of Espouse,
E as in Espousing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Espouse,
E as in Espouse (v. t.) To betroth; to promise in marriage; to give as spouse.,
E as in Espouse (v. t.) To take as spouse; to take to wife; to marry.,
E as in Espouse (v. t.) To take to one's self with a view to maintain; to make one's own; to take up the cause of; to adopt; to embrace.,
E as in Espousement (n.) The act of espousing, or the state of being espoused.,
E as in Espouser (n.) One who espouses; one who embraces the cause of another or makes it his own.,
E as in Espressivo (a.) With expression.,
E as in Espringal (n.) An engine of war used for throwing viretons, large stones, and other missiles; a springal.,
E as in Esprit (n.) Spirit.,
E as in Espied (imp. & p. p.) of Espy,
E as in Espying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Espy,
E as in Espy (v. t.) To catch sight of; to perceive with the eyes; to discover, as a distant object partly concealed, or not obvious to notice; to see at a glance; to discern unexpectedly; to spy; as, to espy land; to espy a man in a crowd.,
E as in Espy (v. t.) To inspect narrowly; to examine and keep watch upon; to watch; to observe.,
E as in Espy (v. i.) To look or search narrowly; to look about; to watch; to take notice; to spy.,
E as in Espies (pl. ) of Espy,
E as in Espy (n.) A spy; a scout.,
E as in -esque () A suffix of certain words from the French, Italian, and Spanish. It denotes manner or style; like; as, arabesque, after the manner of the Arabs.,
E as in Esquimaux (pl. ) of Esquimau,
E as in Esquimau (n.) Same as Eskimo.,
E as in Esquire (n.) Originally, a shield-bearer or armor-bearer, an attendant on a knight; in modern times, a title of dignity next in degree below knight and above gentleman; also, a title of office and courtesy; -- often shortened to squire.,
E as in Esquired (imp. & p. p.) of Esquire,
E as in Esquiring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Esquire,
E as in Esquire (v. t.) To wait on as an esquire or attendant in public; to attend.,
E as in Esquisse (n.) The first sketch of a picture or model of a statue.,
E as in -ess () A suffix used to form feminine nouns; as, actress, deaconess, songstress.,
E as in Essays (pl. ) of Essay,
E as in Essay (n.) An effort made, or exertion of body or mind, for the performance of anything; a trial; attempt; as, to make an essay to benefit a friend.,
E as in Essay (n.) A composition treating of any particular subject; -- usually shorter and less methodical than a formal, finished treatise; as, an essay on the life and writings of Homer; an essay on fossils, or on commerce.,
E as in Essay (n.) An assay. See Assay, n.,
E as in Essayed (imp. & p. p.) of Essay,
E as in Essaying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Essay,
E as in Essay (n.) To exert one's power or faculties upon; to make an effort to perform; to attempt; to endeavor; to make experiment or trial of; to try.,
E as in Essay (n.) To test the value and purity of (metals); to assay. See Assay.,
E as in Essayer (n.) One who essays.,
E as in Essayist (n.) A writer of an essay, or of essays.,
E as in Essence (n.) The constituent elementary notions which constitute a complex notion, and must be enumerated to define it; sometimes called the nominal essence.,
E as in Essence (n.) The constituent quality or qualities which belong to any object, or class of objects, or on which they depend for being what they are (distinguished as real essence); the real being, divested of all logical accidents; that quality which constitutes or marks the true nature of anything; distinctive character; hence, virtue or quality of a thing, separated from its grosser parts.,
E as in Essence (n.) Constituent substance.,
E as in Essence (n.) A being; esp., a purely spiritual being.,
E as in Essence (n.) The predominant qualities or virtues of a plant or drug, extracted and refined from grosser matter; or, more strictly, the solution in spirits of wine of a volatile or essential oil; as, the essence of mint, and the like.,
E as in Essence (n.) Perfume; odor; scent; or the volatile matter constituting perfume.,
E as in Essenced (imp. & p. p.) of Essence,
E as in Essencing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Essence,
E as in Essence (v. t.) To perfume; to scent.,
E as in Essenes (pl. ) of Essene,
E as in Essene (n.) One of a sect among the Jews in the time of our Savior, remarkable for their strictness and abstinence.,
E as in Essenism (n.) The doctrine or the practices of the Essenes.,
E as in Essential (a.) Belonging to the essence, or that which makes an object, or class of objects, what it is.,
E as in Essential (a.) Hence, really existing; existent.,
E as in Essential (a.) Important in the highest degree; indispensable to the attainment of an object; indispensably necessary.,
E as in Essential (a.) Containing the essence or characteristic portion of a substance, as of a plant; highly rectified; pure; hence, unmixed; as, an essential oil.,
E as in Essential (a.) Necessary; indispensable; -- said of those tones which constitute a chord, in distinction from ornamental or passing tones.,
E as in Essential (a.) Idiopathic; independent of other diseases.,
E as in Esential (n.) Existence; being.,
E as in Esential (n.) That which is essential; first or constituent principle; as, the essentials or religion.,
E as in Essentiality (n.) The quality of being essential; the essential part.,
E as in Esentially (adv.) In an essential manner or degree; in an indispensable degree; really; as, essentially different.,
E as in Esentialness (n.) Essentiality.,
E as in Essentiated (imp. & p. p.) of Essentiate,
E as in Essentiating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Essentiate,
E as in Essentiate (v. t.) To form or constitute the essence or being of.,
E as in Essentiate (v. i.) To become assimilated; to be changed into the essence.,
E as in Essoin (n.) Alt. of Essoign,
E as in Essoign (n.) An excuse for not appearing in court at the return of process; the allegation of an excuse to the court.,
E as in Essoign (n.) Excuse; exemption.,
E as in Essoin (n.) To excuse for nonappearance in court.,
E as in Essoiner (n.) An attorney who sufficiently excuses the absence of another.,
E as in Essonite (n.) Cinnamon stone, a variety of garnet. See Garnet.,
E as in Essorant (a.) Standing, but with the wings spread, as if about to fly; -- said of a bird borne as a charge on an escutcheon.,
E as in Est (n. & adv.) East.,
E as in -est () A suffix used to form the superlative of adjectives and adverbs; as, smoothest; earl(y)iest.,
E as in Established (imp. & p. p.) of Establish,
E as in Establishing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Establish,
E as in Establish (a.) To make stable or firm; to fix immovably or firmly; to set (a thing) in a place and make it stable there; to settle; to confirm.,
E as in Establish (a.) To appoint or constitute for permanence, as officers, laws, regulations, etc.; to enact; to ordain.,
E as in Establish (a.) To originate and secure the permanent existence of; to found; to institute; to create and regulate; -- said of a colony, a state, or other institutions.,
E as in Establish (a.) To secure public recognition in favor of; to prove and cause to be accepted as true; as, to establish a fact, usage, principle, opinion, doctrine, etc.,
E as in Establish (a.) To set up in business; to place advantageously in a fixed condition; -- used reflexively; as, he established himself in a place; the enemy established themselves in the citadel.,
E as in Establisher (n.) One who establishes.,
E as in Establishment (n.) The act of establishing; a ratifying or ordaining; settlement; confirmation.,
E as in Establishment (n.) The state of being established, founded, and the like; fixed state.,
E as in Establishment (n.) That which is established; as: (a) A form of government, civil or ecclesiastical; especially, a system of religion maintained by the civil power; as, the Episcopal establishment of England. (b) A permanent civil, military, or commercial, force or organization. (c) The place in which one is permanently fixed for residence or business; residence, including grounds, furniture, equipage, etc.; with which one is fitted out; also, any office or place of business, with its fixtures; that which serves for the carrying on of a business; as, to keep up a large establishment; a manufacturing establishment.,
E as in Establishmentarian (n.) One who regards the Church primarily as an establishment formed by the State, and overlooks its intrinsic spiritual character.,
E as in Estacade (n.) A dike of piles in the sea, a river, etc., to check the approach of an enemy.,
E as in Estafet (n.) Alt. of Estafette,
E as in Estafette (n.) A courier who conveys messages to another courier; a military courier sent from one part of an army to another.,
E as in Estancia (n.) A grazing; a country house.,
E as in Estate (n.) Settled condition or form of existence; state; condition or circumstances of life or of any person; situation.,
E as in Estate (n.) Social standing or rank; quality; dignity.,
E as in Estate (n.) A person of high rank.,
E as in Estate (n.) A property which a person possesses; a fortune; possessions, esp. property in land; also, property of all kinds which a person leaves to be divided at his death.,
E as in Estate (n.) The state; the general body politic; the common-wealth; the general interest; state affairs.,
E as in Estate (n.) The great classes or orders of a community or state (as the clergy, the nobility, and the commonalty of England) or their representatives who administer the government; as, the estates of the realm (England), which are (1) the lords spiritual, (2) the lords temporal, (3) the commons.,
E as in Estate (n.) The degree, quality, nature, and extent of one's interest in, or ownership of, lands, tenements, etc.; as, an estate for life, for years, at will, etc.,
E as in Estate (v. t.) To establish.,
E as in Estate (v. t.) Tom settle as a fortune.,
E as in Estate (v. t.) To endow with an estate.,
E as in Estatlich (a.) Alt. of Estatly,
E as in Estatly (a.) Stately; dignified.,
E as in Esteemed (imp. & p. p.) of Esteem,
E as in Esteeming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Esteem,
E as in Esteem (v. t.) To set a value on; to appreciate the worth of; to estimate; to value; to reckon.,
E as in Esteem (v. t.) To set a high value on; to prize; to regard with reverence, respect, or friendship.,
E as in Esteem (v. i.) To form an estimate; to have regard to the value; to consider.,
E as in Esteem (v. t.) Estimation; opinion of merit or value; hence, valuation; reckoning; price.,
E as in Esteem (v. t.) High estimation or value; great regard; favorable opinion, founded on supposed worth.,
E as in Esteemable (a.) Worthy of esteem; estimable.,
E as in Esteemer (n.) One who esteems; one who sets a high value on any thing.,
E as in Ester (n.) An ethereal salt, or compound ether, consisting of an organic radical united with the residue of any oxygen acid, organic or inorganic; thus the natural fats are esters of glycerin and the fatty acids, oleic, etc.,
E as in Esthesiometer (n.) Same as Aesthesiometer.,
E as in Esthete (n.) Alt. of Esthetics,
E as in Esthetic (n.) Alt. of Esthetics,
E as in Esthetical (n.) Alt. of Esthetics,
E as in Esthetics (n.) Same as Aesthete, Aesthetic, Aesthetical, Aesthetics, etc.,
E as in Estiferous (a.) Producing heat.,
E as in Estimable (a.) Capable of being estimated or valued; as, estimable damage.,
E as in Estimable (a.) Valuable; worth a great price.,
E as in Estimable (a.) Worth of esteem or respect; deserving our good opinion or regard.,
E as in Estimable (n.) A thing worthy of regard.,
E as in Estimableness (n.) The quality of deserving esteem or regard.,
E as in Estimably (adv.) In an estimable manner.,
E as in Estimated (imp. & p. p.) of Estimate,
E as in Estimating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Estimate,
E as in Estimate (v. t.) To judge and form an opinion of the value of, from imperfect data, -- either the extrinsic (money), or intrinsic (moral), value; to fix the worth of roughly or in a general way; as, to estimate the value of goods or land; to estimate the worth or talents of a person.,
E as in Estimate (v. t.) To from an opinion of, as to amount,, number, etc., from imperfect data, comparison, or experience; to make an estimate of; to calculate roughly; to rate; as, to estimate the cost of a trip, the number of feet in a piece of land.,
E as in Estimate (n.) A valuing or rating by the mind, without actually measuring, weighing, or the like; rough or approximate calculation; as, an estimate of the cost of a building, or of the quantity of water in a pond.,
E as in Estimation (v. t.) The act of estimating.,
E as in Estimation (v. t.) An opinion or judgment of the worth, extent, or quantity of anything, formed without using precise data; valuation; as, estimations of distance, magnitude, amount, or moral qualities.,
E as in Estimation (v. t.) Favorable opinion; esteem; regard; honor.,
E as in Estimation (v. t.) Supposition; conjecture.,
E as in Estimative (a.) Inclined, or able, to estimate; serving for, or capable of being used in, estimating.,
E as in Estimative (a.) Pertaining to an estimate.,
E as in Estimator (n.) One who estimates or values; a valuer.,
E as in Estival (n.) Alt. of Estivation,
E as in Estivate (n.) Alt. of Estivation,
E as in Estivation (n.) Same as Aestival, Aestivate, etc.,
E as in Estoile (n.) A six-pointed star whose rays are wavy, instead of straight like those of a mullet.,
E as in Estophed (imp. & p. p.) of Estop,
E as in Estopping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Estop,
E as in Estop (v. t.) To impede or bar by estoppel.,
E as in Estoppel (n.) A stop; an obstruction or bar to one's alleging or denying a fact contrary to his own previous action, allegation, or denial; an admission, by words or conduct, which induces another to purchase rights, against which the party making such admission can not take a position inconsistent with the admission.,
E as in Estoppel (n.) The agency by which the law excludes evidence to dispute certain admissions, which the policy of the law treats as indisputable.,
E as in Estovers (n. pl.) Necessaries or supples; an allowance to a person out of an estate or other thing for support; as of wood to a tenant for life, etc., of sustenance to a man confined for felony of his estate, or alimony to a woman divorced out of her husband's estate.,
E as in Estrade (n.) A portion of the floor of a room raised above the general level, as a place for a bed or a throne; a platform; a dais.,
E as in Estramacon (n.) A straight, heavy sword with two edges, used in the 16th and 17th centuries.,
E as in Estramacon (n.) A blow with edge of a sword.,
E as in Estranged (imp. & p. p.) of Estrange,
E as in Estranging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Estrange,
E as in Estrange (v. t.) To withdraw; to withhold; hence, reflexively, to keep at a distance; to cease to be familiar and friendly with.,
E as in Estrange (v. t.) To divert from its original use or purpose, or from its former possessor; to alienate.,
E as in Estrange (v. t.) To alienate the affections or confidence of; to turn from attachment to enmity or indifference.,
E as in Estrangedness (n.) State of being estranged; estrangement.,
E as in Estrangement (n.) The act of estranging, or the state of being estranged; alienation.,
E as in Estranger (n.) One who estranges.,
E as in Estrangle (v. t.) To strangle.,
E as in Estrapade (n.) The action of a horse, when, to get rid of his rider, he rears, plunges, and kicks furiously.,
E as in Estray (v. i.) To stray.,
E as in Estray (n.) Any valuable animal, not wild, found wandering from its owner; a stray.,
E as in Estre (n.) The inward part of a building; the interior.,
E as in Estreat (n.) A true copy, duplicate, or extract of an original writing or record, esp. of amercements or penalties set down in the rolls of court to be levied by the bailiff, or other officer.,
E as in Estreated (imp. & p. p.) of Estreat,
E as in Estreating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Estreat,
E as in Estreat (v. t.) To extract or take out from the records of a court, and send up to the court of exchequer to be enforced; -- said of a forfeited recognizance.,
E as in Estreat (v. t.) To bring in to the exchequer, as a fine.,
E as in Estrepe (v. t.) To strip or lay bare, as land of wood, houses, etc.; to commit waste.,
E as in Estrepement (n.) A destructive kind of waste, committed by a tenant for life, in lands, woods, or houses.,
E as in Estrich (n.) Ostrich.,
E as in Estrich (n.) The down of the ostrich.,
E as in Estuance (n.) Heat.,
E as in Estuarine (a.) Pertaining to an estuary; estuary.,
E as in Estuaries (pl. ) of Estuary,
E as in Estuary (n.) A place where water boils up; a spring that wells forth.,
E as in Estuary (n.) A passage, as the mouth of a river or lake, where the tide meets the current; an arm of the sea; a frith.,
E as in Estuary (a.) Belonging to, or formed in, an estuary; as, estuary strata.,
E as in Estuated (imp. & p. p.) of Estuate,
E as in Estuating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Estuate,
E as in Estuate (v. i.) To boil up; to swell and rage; to be agitated.,
E as in Estuation (n.) The act of estuating; commotion, as of a fluid; agitation.,
E as in Estufas (pl. ) of Estufa,
E as in Estufa (n.) An assembly room in dwelling of the Pueblo Indians.,
E as in Esture (n.) Commotion.,
E as in Esurient (a.) Inclined to eat; hungry; voracious.,
E as in Esurient (n.) One who is hungry or greedy.,
E as in Esurine (a.) Causing hunger; eating; corroding.,
E as in Esurine (n.) A medicine which provokes appetites, or causes hunger.,
E as in -et () A noun suffix with a diminutive force; as in baronet, pocket, facet, floweret, latchet.,
E as in Etaac (n.) The blue buck.,
E as in Etacism (n.) The pronunciation of the Greek / (eta) like the Italian e long, that is like a in the English word ate. See Itacism.,
E as in Etacist (n.) One who favors etacism.,
E as in Etagere (n.) A piece of furniture having a number of uninclosed shelves or stages, one above another, for receiving articles of elegance or use.,
E as in Etat Major () The staff of an army, including all officers above the rank of colonel, also, all adjutants, inspectors, quartermasters, commissaries, engineers, ordnance officers, paymasters, physicians, signal officers, judge advocates; also, the noncommissioned assistants of the above officers.,
E as in Et cetera () Alt. of Et caetera,
E as in Et caetera () Others of the like kind; and the rest; and so on; -- used to point out that other things which could be mentioned are to be understood. Usually abbreviated into etc. or &c. (&c).,
E as in Etch (n.) A variant of Eddish.,
E as in Etched (imp. & p. p.) of Etch,
E as in Etching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Etch,
E as in Etch (v. t.) To produce, as figures or designs, on mental, glass, or the like, by means of lines or strokes eaten in or corroded by means of some strong acid.,
E as in Etch (v. t.) To subject to etching; to draw upon and bite with acid, as a plate of metal.,
E as in Etch (v. t.) To sketch; to delineate.,
E as in Etch (v. i.) To practice etching; to make etchings.,
E as in Etcher (n.) One who etches.,
E as in Etching (n.) The act, art, or practice of engraving by means of acid which eats away lines or surfaces left unprotected in metal, glass, or the like. See Etch, v. t.,
E as in Etching (v. t.) A design carried out by means of the above process; a pattern on metal, glass, etc., produced by etching.,
E as in Etching (v. t.) An impression on paper, parchment, or other material, taken in ink from an etched plate.,
E as in Eteostic (n.) A kind of chronogram.,
E as in Eterminable (a.) Interminable.,
E as in Etern (a.) Alt. of Eterne,
E as in Eterne (a.) Eternal.,
E as in Eternal (a.) Without beginning or end of existence; always existing.,
E as in Eternal (a.) Without end of existence or duration; everlasting; endless; immortal.,
E as in Eternal (a.) Continued without intermission; perpetual; ceaseless; constant.,
E as in Eternal (a.) Existing at all times without change; immutable.,
E as in Eternal (a.) Exceedingly great or bad; -- used as a strong intensive.,
E as in Eternal (n.) One of the appellations of God.,
E as in Eternal (n.) That which is endless and immortal.,
E as in Eternalist (n.) One who holds the existence of matter to be from eternity.,
E as in Eternalize (v. t.) To make eternal.,
E as in Eternally (adv.) In an eternal manner.,
E as in Eterne (a.) See Etern.,
E as in Eternify (v. t.) To make eternal.,
E as in Eternities (pl. ) of Eternity,
E as in Eternity (n.) Infinite duration, without beginning in the past or end in the future; also, duration without end in the future; endless time.,
E as in Eternity (n.) Condition which begins at death; immortality.,
E as in Eternization (n.) The act of eternizing; the act of rendering immortal or famous.,
E as in Eternized (imp. & p. p.) of Eternize,
E as in Eterniziing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Eternize,
E as in Eternize (v. t.) To make eternal or endless.,
E as in Eternize (v. t.) To make forever famous; to immortalize; as, to eternize one's self, a name, exploits.,
E as in Etesian (a.) Periodical; annual; -- applied to winds which annually blow from the north over the Mediterranean, esp. the eastern part, for an irregular period during July and August.,
E as in Ethal (n.) A white waxy solid, C16H33.OH; -- called also cetylic alcohol. See Cetylic alcohol, under Cetylic.,
E as in Ethane (n.) A gaseous hydrocarbon, C2H6, forming a constituent of ordinary illuminating gas. It is the second member of the paraffin series, and its most important derivatives are common alcohol, aldehyde, ether, and acetic acid. Called also dimethyl.,
E as in Ethe (a.) Easy.,
E as in Ethel (a.) Noble.,
E as in Ethene (n.) Ethylene; olefiant gas.,
E as in Ethenic (a.) Pertaining to, derived from. or resembling, ethene or ethylene; as, ethenic ether.,
E as in Ethenyl (n.) A trivalent hydrocarbon radical, CH3.C.,
E as in Ethenyl (n.) A univalent hydrocarbon radical of the ethylene series, CH2:CH; -- called also vinyl. See Vinyl.,
E as in Etheostomoid (a.) Pertaining to, or like, the genus Etheostoma.,
E as in Etheostomoid (n.) Any fish of the genus Etheostoma and related genera, allied to the perches; -- also called darter. The etheostomoids are small and often bright-colored fishes inhabiting the fresh waters of North America. About seventy species are known. See Darter.,
E as in Ether (n.) A medium of great elasticity and extreme tenuity, supposed to pervade all space, the interior of solid bodies not excepted, and to be the medium of transmission of light and heat; hence often called luminiferous ether.,
E as in Ether (n.) Supposed matter above the air; the air itself.,
E as in Ether (n.) A light, volatile, mobile, inflammable liquid, (C2H5)2O, of a characteristic aromatic odor, obtained by the distillation of alcohol with sulphuric acid, and hence called also sulphuric ether. It is powerful solvent of fats, resins, and pyroxylin, but finds its chief use as an anaesthetic. Called also ethyl oxide.,
E as in Ether (n.) Any similar oxide of hydrocarbon radicals; as, amyl ether; valeric ether.,
E as in Ethereal (a.) Pertaining to the hypothetical upper, purer air, or to the higher regions beyond the earth or beyond the atmosphere; celestial; as, ethereal space; ethereal regions.,
E as in Ethereal (a.) Consisting of ether; hence, exceedingly light or airy; tenuous; spiritlike; characterized by extreme delicacy, as form, manner, thought, etc.,
E as in Ethereal (a.) Pertaining to, derived from, or resembling, ether; as, ethereal salts.,
E as in Etherealism (n.) Ethereality.,
E as in Ethereality (n.) The state of being ethereal; etherealness.,
E as in Etherealization (n.) An ethereal or spiritlike state.,
E as in Etherealize (v. t.) To convert into ether, or into subtile fluid; to saturate with ether.,
E as in Etherealize (v. t.) To render ethereal or spiritlike.,
E as in Ethereally (adv.) In an ethereal manner.,
E as in Etherealness (n.) Ethereality.,
E as in Ethereous (a.) Formed of ether; ethereal.,
E as in Ethereous (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, ether.,
E as in Etherification (n.) The act or process of making ether; specifically, the process by which a large quantity of alcohol is transformed into ether by the agency of a small amount of sulphuric, or ethyl sulphuric, acid.,
E as in Etheriform (a.) Having the form of ether.,
E as in Etherin (n.) A white, crystalline hydrocarbon, regarded as a polymeric variety of ethylene, obtained in heavy oil of wine, the residue left after making ether; -- formerly called also concrete oil of wine.,
E as in Etherization (n.) The administration of ether to produce insensibility.,
E as in Etherization (n.) The state of the system under the influence of ether.,
E as in Etherized (imp. & p. p.) of Etherize,
E as in Etherizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Etherize,
E as in Etherize (v. t.) To convert into ether.,
E as in Etherize (v. t.) To render insensible by means of ether, as by inhalation; as, to etherize a patient.,
E as in Etherol (n.) An oily hydrocarbon regarded as a polymeric variety of ethylene, produced with etherin.,
E as in Ethic (a.) Alt. of Ethical,
E as in Ethical (a.) Of, or belonging to, morals; treating of the moral feelings or duties; containing percepts of morality; moral; as, ethic discourses or epistles; an ethical system; ethical philosophy.,
E as in Ethically (adv.) According to, in harmony with, moral principles or character.,
E as in Ethicist (n.) One who is versed in ethics, or has written on ethics.,
E as in Ethics (n.) The science of human duty; the body of rules of duty drawn from this science; a particular system of principles and rules concerting duty, whether true or false; rules of practice in respect to a single class of human actions; as, political or social ethics; medical ethics.,
E as in Ethide (n.) Any compound of ethyl of a binary type; as, potassium ethide.,
E as in Ethidene (n.) Ethylidene.,
E as in Ethine (n.) Acetylene.,
E as in Ethionic (a.) Pertaining to, derived from, or designating, an acid so called.,
E as in Ethiop (n.) Alt. of Ethiopian,
E as in Ethiopian (n.) A native or inhabitant of Ethiopia; also, in a general sense, a negro or black man.,
E as in Ethiopian (a.) Alt. of Ethiopic,
E as in Ethiopic (a.) Of or relating to Ethiopia or the Ethiopians.,
E as in Ethiopic (n.) The language of ancient Ethiopia; the language of the ancient Abyssinian empire (in Ethiopia), now used only in the Abyssinian church. It is of Semitic origin, and is also called Geez.,
E as in Ethiops (n.) A black substance; -- formerly applied to various preparations of a black or very dark color.,
E as in Ethmoid (a.) Alt. of Ethmoidal,
E as in Ethmoidal (a.) Like a sieve; cribriform.,
E as in Ethmoidal (a.) Pertaining to, or in the region of, the ethmoid bone.,
E as in Ethmoid (n.) The ethmoid bone.,
E as in Ethmotrubinal (a.) See Turbinal.,
E as in Ethmotrubinal (n.) An ethmoturbinal bone.,
E as in Ethmovomerine (n.) Pertaining to the region of the vomer and the base of the ethmoid in the skull.,
E as in Ethnarch (n.) The governor of a province or people.,
E as in Ethnarchy (n.) The dominion of an ethnarch; principality and rule.,
E as in Ethnic (a.) Alt. of Ethnical,
E as in Ethnical (a.) Belonging to races or nations; based on distinctions of race; ethnological.,
E as in Ethnical (a.) Pertaining to the gentiles, or nations not converted to Christianity; heathen; pagan; -- opposed to Jewish and Christian.,
E as in Ethnic (n.) A heathen; a pagan.,
E as in Ethnically (adv.) In an ethnical manner.,
E as in Ethnicism (n.) Heathenism; paganism; idolatry.,
E as in Ethnographer (n.) One who investigates ethnography.,
E as in Ethnographic (a.) Alt. of Ethnographical,
E as in Ethnographical (a.) pertaining to ethnography.,
E as in Ethnographically (adv.) In an ethnographical manner.,
E as in Ethnography (n.) That branch of knowledge which has for its subject the characteristics of the human family, developing the details with which ethnology as a comparative science deals; descriptive ethnology. See Ethnology.,
E as in Ethnologic (a) Alt. of Ethnological,
E as in Ethnological (a) Of or pertaining to ethnology.,
E as in Ethnologically (adv.) In an ethnological manner; by ethnological classification; as, one belonging ethnologically to an African race.,
E as in Ethnologist (n.) One versed in ethnology; a student of ethnology.,
E as in Ethnology (n.) The science which treats of the division of mankind into races, their origin, distribution, and relations, and the peculiarities which characterize them.,
E as in Ethologic (a) Alt. of Ethological,
E as in Ethological (a) treating of, or pertaining to, ethnic or morality, or the science of character.,
E as in Ethologist (n.) One who studies or writes upon ethology.,
E as in Ethology (n.) A treatise on morality; ethics.,
E as in Ethology (n.) The science of the formation of character, national and collective as well as individual.,
E as in Ethopoetic () Expressing character.,
E as in Ethule () Ethyl.,
E as in Ethyl (n.) A monatomic, hydrocarbon radical, C2H5 of the paraffin series, forming the essential radical of ethane, and of common alcohol and ether.,
E as in Ethylamine (n.) A colorless, mobile, inflammable liquid, C2H5.NH2, very volatile and with an ammoniacal odor. It is a strong base, and is a derivative of ammonia. Called also ethyl carbamine, and amido ethane.,
E as in Ethylate (n.) A compound derived from ethyl alcohol by the replacement of the hydroxyl hydrogen, after the manner of a hydrate; an ethyl alcoholate; as, potassium ethylate, C2H5.O.K.,
E as in Ethylene (n.) A colorless, gaseous hydrocarbon, C2H4, forming an important ingredient of illuminating gas, and also obtained by the action of concentrated sulphuric acid in alcohol. It is an unsaturated compound and combines directly with chlorine and bromine to form oily liquids (Dutch liquid), -- hence called olefiant gas. Called also ethene, elayl, and formerly, bicarbureted hydrogen.,
E as in Ethylic () Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, ethyl; as, ethylic alcohol.,
E as in Ethylidene () An unsymmetrical, divalent, hydrocarbon radical, C2H4 metameric with ethylene but written thus, CH3.CH to distinguish it from the symmetrical ethylene, CH2.CH2. Its compounds are derived from aldehyde. Formerly called also ethidene.,
E as in Ethylin () Any one of the several complex ethers of ethyl and glycerin.,
E as in Ethylsulphuric (a.) Pertaining to, or containing, ethyl and sulphuric acid.,
E as in Etiolated (imp. & p. p.) of Etiolate,
E as in Etiolating (p. pr. & vb. n) of Etiolate,
E as in Etiolate (v. i.) To become white or whiter; to be whitened or blanched by excluding the light of the sun, as, plants.,
E as in Etiolate (v. i.) To become pale through disease or absence of light.,
E as in Etiolate (v. t.) To blanch; to bleach; to whiten by depriving of the sun's rays.,
E as in Etiolate (v. t.) To cause to grow pale by disease or absence of light.,
E as in Etiolate (a.) Alt. of Etiolated,
E as in Etiolated (a.) Having a blanched or faded appearance, as birds inhabiting desert regions.,
E as in Etiolation (n.) The operation of blanching plants, by excluding the light of the sun; the condition of a blanched plant.,
E as in Etiolation (n.) Paleness produced by absence of light, or by disease.,
E as in Etoolin (n.) A yellowish coloring matter found in plants grown in darkness, which is supposed to be an antecedent condition of chlorophyll.,
E as in Etiological (a.) Pertaining to, or inquiring into, causes; aetiological.,
E as in Etiology (n.) The science of causes. Same as /tiology.,
E as in Etiquette (n.) The forms required by good breeding, or prescribed by authority, to be observed in social or official life; observance of the proprieties of rank and occasion; conventional decorum; ceremonial code of polite society.,
E as in Etna (n.) A kind of small, portable, cooking apparatus for which heat is furnished by a spirit lamp.,
E as in Etnean (a.) Pertaining to Etna, a volcanic mountain in Sicily.,
E as in Etoile (n.) See Estoile.,
E as in Etrurian (a.) Of or relating to ancient Etruria, in Italy.,
E as in Etrurian (n.) A native or inhabitant of ancient Etruria.,
E as in Etruscan (n.) Of or relating to Etruria.,
E as in Etruscan (n.) A native or inhabitant of Etruria.,
E as in Etter pike (n.) The stingfish, or lesser weever (Tranchinus vipera).,
E as in Ettin (n.) A giant.,
E as in Ettle (v. t.) To earn. [Obs.] See Addle, to earn.,
E as in Etude (n.) A composition in the fine arts which is intended, or may serve, for a study.,
E as in Etude (n.) A study; an exercise; a piece for practice of some special point of technical execution.,
E as in Etui (n.) A case for one or several small articles; esp., a box in which scissors, tweezers, and other articles of toilet or of daily use are carried.,
E as in Etwee (n.) See Etui.,
E as in Etym (n.) See Etymon.,
E as in Etymic (a.) Relating to the etymon; as, an etymic word.,
E as in Etymologer (n.) An etymologist.,
E as in Etymological (a.) Pertaining to etymology, or the derivation of words.,
E as in Etymologicon (n.) An etymological dictionary or manual.,
E as in Etymologist (n.) One who investigates the derivation of words.,
E as in Etymologize (v. t.) To give the etymology of; to trace to the root or primitive, as a word.,
E as in Etymologize (v. t.) To search into the origin of words; to deduce words from their simple roots.,
E as in Etymologies (pl. ) of Etymology,
E as in Etymology (n.) That branch of philological science which treats of the history of words, tracing out their origin, primitive significance, and changes of form and meaning.,
E as in Etymology (n.) That part of grammar which relates to the changes in the form of the words in a language; inflection.,
E as in Etymons (pl. ) of Etymon,
E as in Etyma (pl. ) of Etymon,
E as in Etymon (n.) An original form; primitive word; root.,
E as in Etymon (n.) Original or fundamental signification.,
E as in Etypical (a.) Diverging from, or lacking conformity to, a type.,
E as in Eu () A prefix used frequently in composition, signifying well, good, advantageous; -- the opposite of dys-.,
E as in Eucairite (n.) A metallic mineral, a selenide of copper and silver; -- so called by Berzelius on account of its being found soon after the discovery of the metal selenium.,
E as in Eucalyn (n.) An unfermentable sugar, obtained as an uncrystallizable sirup by the decomposition of melitose; also obtained from a Tasmanian eucalyptus, -- whence its name.,
E as in Eucalyptol (n.) A volatile, terpenelike oil extracted from the eucalyptus, and consisting largely of cymene.,
E as in Eucalyptus (n.) A myrtaceous genus of trees, mostly Australian. Many of them grow to an immense height, one or two species exceeding the height even of the California Sequoia.,
E as in Eucharis (n.) A genus of South American amaryllidaceous plants with large and beautiful white blossoms.,
E as in Eucharist (n.) The act of giving thanks; thanksgiving.,
E as in Eucharist (n.) The sacrament of the Lord's Supper; the solemn act of ceremony of commemorating the death of Christ, in the use of bread and wine, as the appointed emblems; the communion.,
E as in Eucharistic (a.) Alt. of Eucharistical,
E as in Eucharistical (a.) Giving thanks; expressing thankfulness; rejoicing.,
E as in Eucharistical (a.) Pertaining to the Lord's Supper.,
E as in Euchite (n.) One who resolves religion into prayer.,
E as in Euchloric (a.) Relating to, or consisting of, euchlorine; as, euchloric /.,
E as in Euchlorine (n.) A yellow or greenish yellow gas, first prepared by Davy, evolved from potassium chlorate and hydrochloric acid. It is supposed to consist of chlorine tetroxide with some free chlorine.,
E as in Euchologion (n.) Alt. of Euchology,
E as in Euchology (n.) A formulary of prayers; the book of offices in the Greek Church, containing the liturgy, sacraments, and forms of prayers.,
E as in Euchologue (n.) Euchology.,
E as in Euchre (n.) A game at cards, that may be played by two, three, or four persons, the highest card (except when an extra card called the Joker is used) being the knave of the same suit as the trump, and called right bower, the lowest card used being the seven, or frequently, in two-handed euchre, the nine spot. See Bower.,
E as in Euchre (v. t.) To defeat, in a game of euchre, the side that named the trump.,
E as in Euchre (v. t.) To defeat or foil thoroughly in any scheme.,
E as in Euchroic (a.) Having a fine color.,
E as in Euchroite (n.) A mineral occurring in transparent emerald green crystals. It is hydrous arseniate of copper.,
E as in Euchrone (n.) A substance obtained from euchroic acid. See Eychroic.,
E as in Euchymy (n.) A good state of the blood and other fluids of the body.,
E as in Euclase (n.) A brittle gem occurring in light green, transparent crystals, affording a brilliant clinodiagonal cleavage. It is a silicate of alumina and glucina.,
E as in Euclid (n.) A Greek geometer of the 3d century b. c.; also, his treatise on geometry, and hence, the principles of geometry, in general.,
E as in Euclidian (n.) Related to Euclid, or to the geometry of Euclid.,
E as in Eucopepoda (n. pl.) A group which includes the typical copepods and the lerneans.,
E as in Eucrasy () Such a due mixture of qualities in bodies as constitutes health or soundness.,
E as in Euctical () Expecting a wish; supplicatory.,
E as in Eudemon (n.) Alt. of Eudaemon,
E as in Eudaemon (n.) A good angel.,
E as in Eudemonics (n.) Alt. of Eudaemonics,
E as in Eudaemonics (n.) That part of moral philosophy which treats of happiness; the science of happiness; -- contrasted with aretaics.,
E as in Eudemonism (n.) Alt. of Eudaemonism,
E as in Eudaemonism (n.) That system of ethics which defines and enforces moral obligation by its relation to happiness or personal well-being.,
E as in Eudemonist (n.) Alt. of Eudaemonist,
E as in Eudaemonist (n.) One who believes in eudemonism.,
E as in Eudemonistic (a.) Alt. of Eudaemonistic,
E as in Eudaemonistic (a.) Of or pertaining to eudemonism.,
E as in Eudemonistical (a.) Alt. of Eudaemonistical,
E as in Eudaemonistical (a.) Eudemonistic.,
E as in Eudialyte (n.) A mineral of a brownish red color and vitreous luster, consisting chiefly of the silicates of iron, zirconia, and lime.,
E as in Eudiometer (n.) An instrument for the volumetric measurement of gases; -- so named because frequently used to determine the purity of the air.,
E as in Eudiometric (a.) Alt. of Eudiometrical,
E as in Eudiometrical (a.) Of or pertaining to a eudiometer; as, eudiometrical experiments or results.,
E as in Eudiometry (n.) The art or process of determining the constituents of a gaseous mixture by means of the eudiometer, or for ascertaining the purity of the air or the amount of oxygen in it.,
E as in Eudipleura (n. pl.) The fundamental forms of organic life, that are composed of two equal and symmetrical halves.,
E as in Eudoxian (n.) A follower of Eudoxius, patriarch of Antioch and Constantinople in the 4th century, and a celebrated defender of the doctrines of Arius.,
E as in Euganoidei (n. pl.) A group which includes the bony ganoids, as the gar pikes.,
E as in Euge (n.) Applause.,
E as in Eugenia (n.) A genus of myrtaceous plants, mostly of tropical countries, and including several aromatic trees and shrubs, among which are the trees which produce allspice and cloves of commerce.,
E as in Eugenic (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, cloves; as, eugenic acid.,
E as in Eugenic (a.) Well-born; of high birth.,
E as in Eugenics (n.) The science of improving stock, whether human or animal.,
E as in Eugenin (n.) A colorless, crystalline substance extracted from oil of cloves; -- called also clove camphor.,
E as in Eugenol (n.) A colorless, aromatic, liquid hydrocarbon, C10H12O2 resembling the phenols, and hence also called eugenic acid. It is found in the oils of pimento and cloves.,
E as in Eugeny () Nobleness of birth.,
E as in Eugetic (a.) Alt. of Eugetinic,
E as in Eugetinic (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, eugenol; as, eugetic acid.,
E as in Eugh (n.) The yew.,
E as in Eugubian (a.) Alt. of Eugubine,
E as in Eugubine (a.) Of or pertaining to the ancient town of Eugubium (now Gubbio); as, the Eugubine tablets, or tables, or inscriptions.,
E as in Euharmonic (a.) Producing mathematically perfect harmony or concord; sweetly or perfectly harmonious.,
E as in Euhemerism (n.) The theory, held by Euhemerus, that the gods of mythology were but deified mortals, and their deeds only the amplification in imagination of human acts.,
E as in Euhemerist (n.) One who advocates euhemerism.,
E as in Euhemeristic (a.) Of or pertaining to euhemerism.,
E as in Euhemerize (v. t.) To interpret (mythology) on the theory of euhemerism.,
E as in Euisopoda () A group which includes the typical Isopoda.,
E as in Eulachon (n.) The candlefish. [Written also oulachan, oolacan, and ulikon.] See Candlefish.,
E as in Eulerian (a.) Pertaining to Euler, a German mathematician of the 18th century.,
E as in Eulogic (a.) Alt. of Eulogical,
E as in Eulogical (a.) Bestowing praise of eulogy; commendatory; eulogistic.,
E as in Eulogist (n.) One who eulogizes or praises; panegyrist; encomiast.,
E as in Eulogistic (a.) Alt. of Eulogistical,
E as in Eulogistical (a.) Of or pertaining to eulogy; characterized by eulogy; bestowing praise; panegyrical; commendatory; laudatory; as, eulogistic speech or discourse.,
E as in Eulogiums (pl. ) of Eulogium,
E as in Eulogium (n.) A formal eulogy.,
E as in Eulogized (imp. & p. p.) of Eulogize,
E as in Eulogizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Eulogize,
E as in Eulogize (v. t.) To speak or write in commendation of (another); to extol in speech or writing; to praise.,
E as in Eulogies (pl. ) of Eulogy,
E as in Eulogy (n.) A speech or writing in commendation of the character or services of a person; as, a fitting eulogy to worth.,
E as in Eulytite (n.) A mineral, consisting chiefly of the silicate of bismuth, found at Freiberg; -- called also culytine.,
E as in Eumenides (n. pl.) A euphemistic name for the Furies of Erinyes.,
E as in Eumolpus (n.) A genus of small beetles, one species of which (E. viti) is very injurious to the vines in the wine countries of Europe.,
E as in Eunomian (n.) A follower of Eunomius, bishop of Cyzicus (4th century A. D.), who held that Christ was not God but a created being, having a nature different from that of the Father.,
E as in Eunomian (a.) Of or pertaining to Eunomius or his doctrine.,
E as in Eunomy (n.) Equal law, or a well-adjusted constitution of government.,
E as in Eunuch (n.) A male of the human species castrated; commonly, one of a class of such persons, in Oriental countries, having charge of the women's apartments. Some of them, in former times, gained high official rank.,
E as in Eunuch (v. t.) Alt. of Eunuchate,
E as in Eunuchate (v. t.) To make a eunuch of; to castrate. as a man.,
E as in Eunuchism (n.) The state of being eunuch.,
E as in Euonymin (n.) A principle or mixture of principles derived from Euonymus atropurpureus, or spindle tree.,
E as in Euonymus (n.) A genus of small European and American trees; the spindle tree. The bark is used as a cathartic.,
E as in Euornithes (n. pl.) The division of Aves which includes all the typical birds, or all living birds except the penguins and birds of ostrichlike form.,
E as in Euosmitte (n.) A fossil resin, so called from its strong, peculiar, pleasant odor.,
E as in Eupathy (n.) Right feeling.,
E as in Eupatorin Eupatorine (n.) A principle or mixture of principles extracted from various species of Eupatorium.,
E as in Eupatorium (n.) A genus of perennial, composite herbs including hemp agrimony, boneset, throughwort, etc.,
E as in Eupatrid (n.) One well born, or of noble birth.,
E as in Eupepsia (n.) Alt. of Eupepsy,
E as in Eupepsy (n.) Soundness of the nutritive or digestive organs; good concoction or digestion; -- opposed to dyspepsia.,
E as in Eupeptic (a.) Of or pertaining to good digestion; easy of digestion; having a good digestion; as, eupeptic food; an eupeptic man.,
E as in Euphemism (n.) A figure in which a harts or indelicate word or expression is softened; a way of describing an offensive thing by an inoffensive expression; a mild name for something disagreeable.,
E as in Euphemistic (a.) Alt. of Euphemistical,
E as in Euphemistical (a.) Pertaining to euphemism; containing a euphemism; softened in expression.,
E as in Euphemized (imp. & p. p.) of Euphemize,
E as in Euphemizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Euphemize,
E as in Euphemize (v. t. & i.) To express by a euphemism, or in delicate language; to make use of euphemistic expressions.,
E as in Euphoniad (n.) An instrument in which are combined the characteristic tones of the organ and various other instruments.,
E as in Euphonic (a.) Alt. of Euphonical,
E as in Euphonical (a.) Pertaining to, or exhibiting, euphony; agreeable in sound; pleasing to the ear; euphonious; as, a euphonic expression; euphonical orthography.,
E as in Euphonicon (n.) A kind of upright piano.,
E as in Euphonious (a.) Pleasing or sweet in sound; euphonic; smooth-sounding.,
E as in Euphonism (n.) An agreeable combination of sounds; euphony.,
E as in Euphonium (n.) A bass instrument of the saxhorn family.,
E as in Euphonize (v. t.) To make euphonic.,
E as in Euphonon (n.) An instrument resembling the organ in tine and the upright piano in form. It is characterized by great strength and sweetness of tone.,
E as in Euphonous (n.) Euphonious.,
E as in Euphonies (pl. ) of Euphony,
E as in Euphony (n.) A pleasing or sweet sound; an easy, smooth enunciation of sounds; a pronunciation of letters and syllables which is pleasing to the ear.,
E as in Euphorbia (n.) Spurge, or bastard spurge, a genus of plants of many species, mostly shrubby, herbaceous succulents, affording an acrid, milky juice. Some of them are armed with thorns. Most of them yield powerful emetic and cathartic products.,
E as in Euphorbiaceous (a.) Alt. of Euphorbial,
E as in Euphorbial (a.) Of, relating to, or resembling, the Euphorbia family.,
E as in Euphorbin Euphorbine (n.) A principle, or mixture of principles, derived from various species of Euphorbia.,
E as in Euphorbium (n.) An inodorous exudation, usually in the form of yellow tears, produced chiefly by the African Euphorbia resinifrea. It was formerly employed medicinally, but was found so violent in its effects that its use is nearly abandoned.,
E as in Euphotide (n.) A rock occurring in the Alps, consisting of saussurite and smaragdite; -- sometimes called gabbro.,
E as in Euphrasy (n.) The plant eyesight (euphrasia officionalis), formerly regarded as beneficial in disorders of the eyes.,
E as in Euphroe (n.) A block or long slat of wood, perforated for the passage of the crowfoot, or cords by which an awning is held up.,
E as in Euphuism (n.) An affectation of excessive elegance and refinement of language; high-flown diction.,
E as in Euphuist (n.) One who affects excessive refinement and elegance of language; -- applied esp. to a class of writers, in the age of Elizabeth, whose productions are marked by affected conceits and high-flown diction.,
E as in Euphuistic (a.) Belonging to the euphuists, or euphuism; affectedly refined.,
E as in Euphuize (v. t.) To affect excessive refinement in language; to be overnice in expression.,
E as in Eupione (n.) A limpid, oily liquid obtained by the destructive distillation of various vegetable and animal substances; -- specifically, an oil consisting largely of the higher hydrocarbons of the paraffin series.,
E as in Eupittone (n.) A yellow, crystalline substance, resembling aurin, and obtained by the oxidation of pittacal; -- called also eupittonic acid.,
E as in Eupittonic (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, eupittone.,
E as in Euplastic (a.) Having the capacity of becoming organizable in a high degree, as the matter forming the false membranes which sometimes result from acute inflammation in a healthy person.,
E as in Euplastic (n.) Organizable substance by which the tissues of an animal body are renewed.,
E as in Euplectella (n.) A genus of elegant, glassy sponges, consisting of interwoven siliceous fibers, and growing in the form of a cornucopia; -- called also Venus's flower-basket.,
E as in Euplexoptera (n. pl.) An order of insects, including the earwig. The anterior wings are short, in the form of elytra, while the posterior wings fold up beneath them. See Earwig.,
E as in Eupnaea (n.) Normal breathing where arterialization of the blood is normal, in distinction from dyspnaea, in which the blood is insufficiently arterialized.,
E as in Eupryion (n.) A contrivance for obtaining a light instantaneous, as a lucifer match.,
E as in Eurasian (n.) A child of a European parent on the one side and an Asiatic on the other.,
E as in Eurasian (n.) One born of European parents in Asia.,
E as in Eurasian (a.) Of European and Asiatic descent; of or pertaining to both Europe and Asia; as, the great Eurasian plain.,
E as in Eurasiatio (a.) Of or pertaining to the continents of Europe and Asia combined.,
E as in Eureka () The exclamation attributed to Archimedes, who is said to have cried out "Eureka! eureka!" (I have found it! I have found it!), upon suddenly discovering a method of finding out how much the gold of King Hiero's crown had been alloyed. Hence, an expression of triumph concerning a discovery.,
E as in Eurhipidurous (a.) Having a fanlike tail; belonging to the Eurhipidurae, a division of Aves which includes all living birds.,
E as in Euripize (v. t.) To whirl hither and thither.,
E as in Euripus (n.) A strait; a narrow tract of water, where the tide, or a current, flows and reflows with violence, as the ancient fright of this name between Eubaea and Baeotia. Hence, a flux and reflux.,
E as in Euritte (n.) A compact feldspathic rock; felsite. See Felsite.,
E as in Euritic (a.) Of or pelating to eurite.,
E as in Euroclydon (n.) A tempestuous northeast wind which blows in the Mediterranean. See Levanter.,
E as in European (a.) Of or pertaining to Europe, or to its inhabitants.,
E as in European (n.) A native or an inhabitant of Europe.,
E as in Europeanize (v. t.) To cause to become like the Europeans in manners or character; to habituate or accustom to European usages.,
E as in Eurus (n.) The east wind.,
E as in Euryale (n.) A genus of water lilies, growing in India and China. The only species (E. ferox) is very prickly on the peduncles and calyx. The rootstocks and seeds are used as food.,
E as in Euryale (n.) A genus of ophiurans with much-branched arms.,
E as in Euryalida (n. pl.) A tribe of Ophiuroidea, including the genera Euryale, Astrophyton, etc. They generally have the arms branched. See Astrophyton.,
E as in Eurycerous (a.) Having broad horns.,
E as in Eurypteroid (a.) Like, or pertaining to, the genus Euryperus.,
E as in Eurypteroidea (n. pl.) An extinct order of Merostomata, of which the genus Eurypterus is the type. They are found only in Paleozoic rocks.,
E as in Eurypterus (n.) A genus of extinct Merostomata, found in Silurian rocks. Some of the species are more than three feet long.,
E as in Eurythmy (n.) Just or harmonious proportion or movement, as in the composition of a poem, an edifice, a painting, or a statue.,
E as in Eurythmy (n.) Regularly of the pulse.,
E as in Eusebian (n.) A follower of Eusebius, bishop of Caesarea, who was a friend and protector of Arius.,
E as in Eustachian (a.) Discovered by Eustachius.,
E as in Eustachian (a.) Pertaining to the Eustachian tube; as, Eustachian catheter.,
E as in Eustyle (n.) See Intercolumnlation.,
E as in Eutaxy (n.) Good or established order or arrangement.,
E as in Euterpe () The Muse who presided over music.,
E as in Euterpe () A genus of palms, some species of which are elegant trees.,
E as in Euterpean (a.) Of or pertaining to Euterpe or to music.,
E as in Euthanasia (n.) An easy death; a mode of dying to be desired.,
E as in Euthanasy (n.) Same as Euthanasia.,
E as in Euthiochroic (a.) Pertaining to, or denoting, an acid so called.,
E as in Euthyneura (n. pl.) A large division of gastropod molluske, including the Pulmonifera and Opisthobranchiata.,
E as in Eutrophy (n.) Healthy nutrition; soundless as regards the nutritive functions.,
E as in Eutychian (n.) A follower of Eutyches [5th century], who held that the divine and the human in the person of Christ were blended together as to constitute but one nature; a monophysite; -- opposed to Nestorian.,
E as in Eutychianism (n.) The doctrine of Eutyches and his followers.,
E as in Euxanthic (a.) Having a yellow color; pertaining to, derived from, or resembling, euxanthin.,
E as in Euxanthin (n.) A yellow pigment imported from India and China. It has a strong odor, and is said to be obtained from the urine of herbivorous animals when fed on the mango. It consists if a magnesium salt of euxanthic acid. Called also puri, purree, and Indian yellow.,
E as in Euxenite (n.) A brownish black mineral with a metallic luster, found in Norway. It contains niobium, titanium, yttrium, and uranium, with some other metals.,
E as in Evacate (v. t.) To empty.,
E as in Evacuant (a.) Emptying; evacuative; purgative; cathartic.,
E as in Evacuant (n.) A purgative or cathartic.,
E as in Evacuated (imp. & p. p.) of Evacuate,
E as in Evacuating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Evacuate,
E as in Evacuate (v. t.) To make empty; to empty out; to remove the contents of; as, to evacuate a vessel or dish.,
E as in Evacuate (v. t.) Fig.: To make empty; to deprive.,
E as in Evacuate (v. t.) To remove; to eject; to void; to discharge, as the contents of a vessel, or of the bowels.,
E as in Evacuate (v. t.) To withdraw from; to quit; to retire from; as, soldiers from a country, city, or fortress.,
E as in Evacuate (v. t.) To make void; to nullify; to vacate; as, to evacuate a contract or marriage.,
E as in Evacuate (v. i.) To let blood,
E as in Evacuation (n.) The act of emptying, clearing of the contents, or discharging.,
E as in Evacuation (n.) Withdrawal of troops from a town, fortress, etc.,
E as in Evacuation (n.) Voidance of any matter by the natural passages of the body or by an artificial opening; defecation; also, a diminution of the fluids of an animal body by cathartics, venesection, or other means.,
E as in Evacuation (n.) That which is evacuated or discharged; especially, a discharge by stool or other natural means.,
E as in Evacuation (n.) Abolition; nullification.,
E as in Evacuative (a.) Serving of tending to evacuate; cathartic; purgative.,
E as in Evacuator (n.) One who evacuates; a nullifier.,
E as in Evacuatory (n.) A purgative.,
E as in Evaded (imp. & p. p.) of Evade,
E as in Evading (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Evade,
E as in Evade (v. t.) To get away from by artifice; to avoid by dexterity, subterfuge, address, or ingenuity; to elude; to escape from cleverly; as, to evade a blow, a pursuer, a punishment; to evade the force of an argument.,
E as in Evade (v. t.) To escape; to slip away; -- sometimes with from.,
E as in Evade (v. t.) To attempt to escape; to practice artifice or sophistry, for the purpose of eluding.,
E as in Evadible (a.) Capable of being evaded.,
E as in Evagation (n.) A wandering about; excursion; a roving.,
E as in Evagination (n.) The act of unsheathing.,
E as in Eval (a.) Relating to time or duration.,
E as in Evaluate (v. t.) To fix the value of; to rate; to appraise.,
E as in Evaluation (n.) Valuation; appraisement.,
E as in Evanesced (imp. & p. p.) of Evanesce,
E as in Evanescing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Evanesce,
E as in Evanesce (v. i.) To vanish away; to become dissipated and disappear, like vapor.,
E as in Evanescence (n.) The act or state of vanishing away; disappearance; as, the evanescence of vapor, of a dream, of earthly plants or hopes.,
E as in Evanescent (a.) Liable to vanish or pass away like vapor; vanishing; fleeting; as, evanescent joys.,
E as in Evanescent (a.) Vanishing from notice; imperceptible.,
E as in Evanescently (adv. In a vanishing manner) ; imperceptibly.,
E as in Evangel (n.) Good news; announcement of glad tidings; especially, the gospel, or a gospel.,
E as in Evangelian (a.) Rendering thanks for favors.,
E as in Evangelic (a.) Belonging to, or contained in, the gospel; evangelical.,
E as in Evangelical (a.) Contained in, or relating to, the four Gospels; as, the evangelical history.,
E as in Evangelical (a.) Belonging to, agreeable or consonant to, or contained in, the gospel, or the truth taught in the New Testament; as, evangelical religion.,
E as in Evangelical (a.) Earnest for the truth taught in the gospel; strict in interpreting Christian doctrine; preeminetly orthodox; -- technically applied to that party in the Church of England, and in the Protestant Episcopal Church, which holds the doctrine of "Justification by Faith alone"; the Low Church party. The term is also applied to other religion bodies not regarded as orthodox.,
E as in Evangelical (n.) One of evangelical principles.,
E as in Evangelicalism (n.) Adherence to evangelical doctrines; evangelism.,
E as in Evangelically (adv.) In an evangelical manner.,
E as in Evangelicalness (n.) State of being evangelical.,
E as in Evangelicism (n.) Evangelical principles; evangelism.,
E as in Evangelicity (n.) Evangelicism.,
E as in Evangelism (n.) The preaching or promulgation of the gospel.,
E as in Evangelist (n.) A bringer of the glad tidings of Church and his doctrines. Specially: (a) A missionary preacher sent forth to prepare the way for a resident pastor; an itinerant missionary preacher. (b) A writer of one of the four Gospels (With the definite article); as, the four evangelists, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. (c) A traveling preacher whose efforts are chiefly directed to arouse to immediate repentance.,
E as in Evangelistary (n.) A selection of passages from the Gospels, as a lesson in divine service.,
E as in Evangelistic (a.) Pertaining to the four evangelists; designed or fitted to evangelize; evangelical; as, evangelistic efforts.,
E as in Evangelization (n.) The act of evangelizing; the state of being evangelized.,
E as in Evangelized (imp. & p. p.) of Evangelize,
E as in Evangelizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Evangelize,
E as in Evangelize (v. t.) To instruct in the gospel; to preach the gospel to; to convert to Christianity; as, to evangelize the world.,
E as in Evangelize (v. i.) To preach the gospel.,
E as in Evangely (n.) Evangel.,
E as in Evangile (n.) Good tidings; evangel.,
E as in Evanid (a.) Liable to vanish or disappear; faint; weak; evanescent; as, evanid color.,
E as in Evanish (v. i.) To vanish.,
E as in Evanishment (n.) A vanishing; disappearance.,
E as in Evaporable (a.) Capable of being converted into vapor, or dissipated by evaporation.,
E as in Evaporated (imp. & p. p.) of Evaporate,
E as in Evaporating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Evaporate,
E as in Evaporate (v. t.) To pass off in vapor, as a fluid; to escape and be dissipated, either in visible vapor, or in practice too minute to be visible.,
E as in Evaporate (v. t.) To escape or pass off without effect; to be dissipated; to be wasted, as, the spirit of writer often evaporates in the process of translation.,
E as in Evaporate (v. t.) To convert from a liquid or solid state into vapor (usually) by the agency of heat; to dissipate in vapor or fumes.,
E as in Evaporate (v. t.) To expel moisture from (usually by means of artificial heat), leaving the solid portion; to subject to evaporation; as, to evaporate apples.,
E as in Evaporate (v. t.) To give vent to; to dissipate.,
E as in Evaporate (a.) Dispersed in vapors.,
E as in Evaporation (n.) The process by which any substance is converted from a liquid state into, and carried off in, vapor; as, the evaporation of water, of ether, of camphor.,
E as in Evaporation (n.) The transformation of a portion of a fluid into vapor, in order to obtain the fixed matter contained in it in a state of greater consistence.,
E as in Evaporation (n.) That which is evaporated; vapor.,
E as in Evaporation (n.) See Vaporization.,
E as in Evaporaive (a.) Pertaining to, or producing, evaporation; as, the evaporative process.,
E as in Evaporator (n.) An apparatus for condensing vegetable juices, or for drying fruit by heat.,
E as in Evaporometer (n.) An instrument for ascertaining the quantity of a fluid evaporated in a given time; an atmometer.,
E as in Evasible (a.) That may be evaded.,
E as in Evasion (n.) The act of eluding or avoiding, particularly the pressure of an argument, accusation, charge, or interrogation; artful means of eluding.,
E as in Evasive (a.) Tending to evade, or marked by evasion; elusive; shuffling; avoiding by artifice.,
E as in Eve (n.) Evening.,
E as in Eve (n.) The evening before a holiday, -- from the Jewish mode of reckoning the day as beginning at sunset. not at midnight; as, Christians eve is the evening before Christmas; also, the period immediately preceding some important event.,
E as in Evectics (n.) The branch of medical science which teaches the method of acquiring a good habit of body.,
E as in Evection () The act of carrying up or away; exaltation.,
E as in Evection () An inequality of the moon's motion is its orbit to the attraction of the sun, by which the equation of the center is diminished at the syzygies, and increased at the quadratures by about 1� 20'.,
E as in Evection () The libration of the moon.,
E as in Even (n.) Evening. See Eve, n. 1.,
E as in Even (a.) Level, smooth, or equal in surface; not rough; free from irregularities; hence uniform in rate of motion of action; as, even ground; an even speed; an even course of conduct.,
E as in Even (a.) Equable; not easily ruffed or disturbed; calm; uniformly self-possessed; as, an even temper.,
E as in Even (a.) Parallel; on a level; reaching the same limit.,
E as in Even (a.) Balanced; adjusted; fair; equitable; impartial; just to both side; owing nothing on either side; -- said of accounts, bargains, or persons indebted; as, our accounts are even; an even bargain.,
E as in Even (a.) Without an irregularity, flaw, or blemish; pure.,
E as in Even (a.) Associate; fellow; of the same condition.,
E as in Even (a.) Not odd; capable of division by two without a remainder; -- said of numbers; as, 4 and 10 are even numbers.,
E as in Evened (imp. & p. p.) of Even,
E as in Evening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Even,
E as in Even (v. t.) To make even or level; to level; to lay smooth.,
E as in Even (v. t.) To equal,
E as in Even (v. t.) To place in an equal state, as to obligation, or in a state in which nothing is due on either side; to balance, as accounts; to make quits.,
E as in Even (v. t.) To set right; to complete.,
E as in Even (v. t.) To act up to; to keep pace with.,
E as in Even (v. i.) To be equal.,
E as in Even (a.) In an equal or precisely similar manner; equally; precisely; just; likewise; as well.,
E as in Even (a.) Up to, or down to, an unusual measure or level; so much as; fully; quite.,
E as in Even (a.) As might not be expected; -- serving to introduce what is unexpected or less expected.,
E as in Even (a.) At the very time; in the very case.,
E as in Evene (v. i.) To happen.,
E as in Evener (n.) One who, or that which makes even.,
E as in Evener (n.) In vehicles, a swinging crossbar, to the ends of which other crossbars, or whiffletrees, are hung, to equalize the draught when two or three horses are used abreast.,
E as in Evenfall (n.) Beginning of evening.,
E as in Evenhand (n.) Equality.,
E as in Evenhanded (a.) Fair or impartial; unbiased.,
E as in Evening (n.) The latter part and close of the day, and the beginning of darkness or night; properly, the decline of the day, or of the sum.,
E as in Evening (n.) The latter portion, as of life; the declining period, as of strength or glory.,
E as in Evenly (adv.) With an even, level, or smooth surface; without roughness, elevations, or depression; uniformly; equally; comfortably; impartially; serenely.,
E as in Evenminded (a.) Having equanimity.,
E as in Evenness (n.) The state of being ven, level, or disturbed; smoothness; horizontal position; uniformity; impartiality; calmness; equanimity; appropriate place or level; as, evenness of surface, of a fluid at rest, of motion, of dealings, of temper, of condition.,
E as in Evensong (n.) A song for the evening; the evening service or form of worship (in the Church of England including vespers and compline); also, the time of evensong.,
E as in Event (n.) That which comes, arrives, or happens; that which falls out; any incident, good or bad.,
E as in Event (n.) An affair in hand; business; enterprise.,
E as in Event (n.) The consequence of anything; the issue; conclusion; result; that in which an action, operation, or series of operations, terminates.,
E as in Event (v. t.) To break forth.,
E as in Eventerate (v. t.) To rip open; todisembowel.,
E as in Eventful (a.) Full of, or rich in, events or incidents; as, an eventful journey; an eventful period of history; an eventful period of life.,
E as in Eventide (n.) The time of evening; evening.,
E as in Eventilate (v. t.) To winnow out; to fan.,
E as in Eventilate (v. t.) To discuss; to ventilate.,
E as in Eventilation (n.) The act of eventilating; discussion.,
E as in Eventless (a.) Without events; tame; monotomous; marked by nothing unusual; uneventful.,
E as in Eventognathi (n. pl.) An order of fishes including a vast number of freshwater species such as the carp, loach, chub, etc.,
E as in Eventration (n.) A tumor containing a large portion of the abdominal viscera, occasioned by relaxation of the walls of the abdomen.,
E as in Eventration (n.) A wound, of large extent, in the abdomen, through which the greater part of the intestines protrude.,
E as in Eventration (n.) The act af disemboweling.,
E as in Eventtual (a.) Coming or happening as a consequence or result; consequential.,
E as in Eventtual (a.) Final; ultimate.,
E as in Eventtual (a.) Dependent on events; contingent.,
E as in Eventualities (pl. ) of Eventuality,
E as in Eventuality (n.) The coming as a consequence; contingency; also, an event which comes as a consequence.,
E as in Eventuality (n.) Disposition to take cognizance of events.,
E as in Eventually (adv.) In an eventual manner; finally; ultimately.,
E as in Eventuated (imp. & p. p.) of Eventuate,
E as in Eventuating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Eventuate,
E as in Eventuate (v. i.) To come out finally or in conclusion; to result; to come to pass.,
E as in Eventuation (n.) The act of eventuating or happening as a result; the outcome.,
E as in Ever (adv.) At any time; at any period or point of time.,
E as in Ever (adv.) At all times; through all time; always; forever.,
E as in Ever (adv.) Without cessation; continually.,
E as in Everduring (a.) Everlasting.,
E as in Everglade (n.) A swamp or low tract of land inundated with water and interspersed with hummocks, or small islands, and patches of high grass; as, the everglades of Florida.,
E as in Evergreen (a.) Remaining unwithered through the winter, or retaining unwithered leaves until the leaves of the next year are expanded, as pines cedars, hemlocks, and the like.,
E as in Evergreen (n.) An evergreen plant.,
E as in Evergreen (n.) Twigs and branches of evergreen plants used for decoration.,
E as in Everich (a.) Alt. of Everych,
E as in Everych (a.) each one; every one; each of two. See Every.,
E as in Everichon (pron.) Alt. of Everychon,
E as in Everychon (pron.) Every one.,
E as in Everlasting (a.) Lasting or enduring forever; exsisting or continuing without end; immoral; eternal.,
E as in Everlasting (a.) Continuing indefinitely, or during a long period; perpetual; sometimes used, colloquially, as a strong intensive; as, this everlasting nonsence.,
E as in Enerlasting (n.) Eternal duration, past of future; eternity.,
E as in Enerlasting (n.) (With the definite article) The Eternal Being; God.,
E as in Enerlasting (n.) A plant whose flowers may be dried without losing their form or color, as the pearly everlasting (Anaphalis margaritacea), the immortelle of the French, the cudweeds, etc.,
E as in Enerlasting (n.) A cloth fabic for shoes, etc. See Lasting.,
E as in Everlastingly (adv.) In an everlasting manner.,
E as in Everlastingness (n.) The state of being everlasting; endless duration; indefinite duration.,
E as in Everliving (a.) Living always; immoral; eternal; as, the everliving God.,
E as in Everliving (a.) Continual; incessant; unintermitted.,
E as in Evermore (adv.) During eternity; always; forever; for an indefinite period; at all times; -- often used substantively with for.,
E as in Evernic (a.) Pertaining to Evernia, a genus of lichens; as, evernic acid.,
E as in Everse (v. t.) To overthrow or subvert.,
E as in Eversion (n.) The act of eversing; destruction.,
E as in Eversion (n.) The state of being turned back or outward; as, eversion of eyelids; ectropium.,
E as in Eversive (a.) Tending to evert or overthrow; subversive; with of.,
E as in Everted (imp. & p. p.) of Evert,
E as in Everting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Evert,
E as in Evert (v. t.) To overthrow; to subvert.,
E as in Evert (v. t.) To turn outwards, or inside out, as an intestine.,
E as in Every (a. & a. pron.) All the parts which compose a whole collection or aggregate number, considered in their individuality, all taken separately one by one, out of an indefinite bumber.,
E as in Every (a. & a. pron.) Every one. Cf.,
E as in Everybody (n.) Every person.,
E as in Everyday (a.) Used or fit for every day; common; usual; as, an everyday suit or clothes.,
E as in Everyone (n.) Everybody; -- commonly separated, every one.,
E as in Everything (n.) Whatever pertains to the subject under consideration; all things.,
E as in Everywhen (adv.) At any or all times; every instant.,
E as in Everywhere (adv.) In every place; in all places; hence, in every part; throughly; altogether.,
E as in Everywhereness (n.) Ubiquity; omnipresence.,
E as in Evesdrop (v. i.) See Eavesdrop.,
E as in Evesdropper (n.) See Eavesdropper.,
E as in Evestigate (v. t.) To investigate.,
E as in Evet (n.) The common newt or eft. In America often applied to several species of aquatic salamanders.,
E as in Evibrate (v. t. & i.) To vibrate.,
E as in Evicted (imp. & p. p.) of Evict,
E as in Evicting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Evict,
E as in Evict (v. t.) To dispossess by a judicial process; to dispossess by paramount right or claim of such right; to eject; to oust.,
E as in Evict (v. t.) To evince; to prove.,
E as in Eviction (n.) The act or process of evicting; or state of being evicted; the recovery of lands, tenements, etc., from another's possession by due course of law; dispossession by paramount title or claim of such title; ejectment; ouster.,
E as in Eviction (n.) Conclusive evidence; proof.,
E as in Evidence (n.) That which makes evident or manifest; that which furnishes, or tends to furnish, proof; any mode of proof; the ground of belief or judgement; as, the evidence of our senses; evidence of the truth or falsehood of a statement.,
E as in Evidence (n.) One who bears witness.,
E as in Evidence (n.) That which is legally submitted to competent tribunal, as a means of ascertaining the truth of any alleged matter of fact under investigation before it; means of making proof; -- the latter, strictly speaking, not being synonymous with evidence, but rather the effect of it.,
E as in Evidenced (imp. & p. p.) of Evidence,
E as in Evidencing (p, pr. & vb. n.) of Evidence,
E as in Evidence (v. t.) To render evident or clear; to prove; to evince; as, to evidence a fact, or the guilt of an offender.,
E as in Evidencer (n.) One whi gives evidence.,
E as in Evident (a.) Clear to the vision; especially, clear to the understanding, and satisfactory to the judgment; as, the figure or color of a body is evident to the senses; the guilt of an offender can not always be made evident.,
E as in Evidential (a.) Relating to, or affording, evidence; indicative; especially, relating to the evidences of Christianity.,
E as in Evidentiary (a.) Furnishing evidence; asserting; proving; evidential.,
E as in Evidently (adv.) In an evident manner; clearly; plainly.,
E as in Evidentness (n.) State of being evident.,
E as in Evigilation (n.) A waking up or awakening.,
E as in Evil (a.) Having qualities tending to injury and mischief; having a nature or properties which tend to badness; mischievous; not good; worthless or deleterious; poor; as, an evil beast; and evil plant; an evil crop.,
E as in Evil (a.) Having or exhibiting bad moral qualities; morally corrupt; wicked; wrong; vicious; as, evil conduct, thoughts, heart, words, and the like.,
E as in Evil (a.) Producing or threatening sorrow, distress, injury, or calamity; unpropitious; calamitous; as, evil tidings; evil arrows; evil days.,
E as in Evil (n.) Anything which impairs the happiness of a being or deprives a being of any good; anything which causes suffering of any kind to sentient beings; injury; mischief; harm; -- opposed to good.,
E as in Evil (n.) Moral badness, or the deviation of a moral being from the principles of virtue imposed by conscience, or by the will of the Supreme Being, or by the principles of a lawful human authority; disposition to do wrong; moral offence; wickedness; depravity.,
E as in Evil (n.) malady or disease; especially in the phrase king's evil, the scrofula.,
E as in Evil (adv.) In an evil manner; not well; ill; badly; unhappily; injuriously; unkindly.,
E as in Evil eye () See Evil eye under Evil, a.,
E as in Evil-eyed (a.) Possessed of the supposed evil eye; also, looking with envy, jealousy, or bad design; malicious.,
E as in Evil-favored (a.) Having a bad countenance or appearance; ill-favored; blemished; deformed.,
E as in Evilly (adv.) In an evil manner; not well; ill.,
E as in Evil-minded (a.) Having evil dispositions or intentions; disposed to mischief or sin; malicious; malignant; wicked.,
E as in Evilness (n.) The condition or quality of being evil; badness; viciousness; malignity; vileness; as, evilness of heart; the evilness of sin.,
E as in Evinced (imp. & p. p.) of Evince,
E as in Evincing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Evince,
E as in Evince (v. t.) To conquer; to subdue.,
E as in Evince (v. t.) To show in a clear manner; to prove beyond any reasonable doubt; to manifest; to make evident; to bring to light; to evidence.,
E as in Evincement (n.) The act of evincing or proving, or the state of being evinced.,
E as in Evincible (a.) Capable of being proved or clearly brought to light; demonstrable.,
E as in Evincive (a.) Tending to prove; having the power to demonstrate; demonstrative; indicative.,
E as in Evirate (v. t.) To emasculate; to dispossess of manhood.,
E as in Eviration (n.) Castration.,
E as in Eviscerated (imp. & p. p.) of Eviscerate,
E as in Eviscerating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Eviscerate,
E as in Eviscerate (v. t.) To take out the entrails of; to disembowel; to gut.,
E as in Evisceration (a.) A disemboweling.,
E as in Evitable (a.) Avoidable.,
E as in Evitate (v. t.) To shun; to avoid.,
E as in Evitation (n.) A shunning; avoidance.,
E as in Evite (v. t.) To shun.,
E as in Eviternal (a.) Eternal; everlasting.,
E as in Eviternity (n.) Eternity.,
E as in Evocate (v. t.) To call out or forth; to summon; to evoke.,
E as in Evocation (n.) The act of calling out or forth.,
E as in Evocative (a.) Calling forth; serving to evoke; developing.,
E as in Evocator (n.) One who calls forth.,
E as in Evoked (imp. & p. p.) of Evoke,
E as in Evoking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Evoke,
E as in Evoke (v. t.) To call out; to summon forth.,
E as in Evoke (v. t.) To call away; to remove from one tribunal to another.,
E as in Evolatic (a.) Alt. of Evolatical,
E as in Evolatical (a.) Apt to fly away.,
E as in Evolation (n.) A flying out or up.,
E as in Evolute (n.) A curve from which another curve, called the involute or evolvent, is described by the end of a thread gradually wound upon the former, or unwound from it. See Involute. It is the locus of the centers of all the circles which are osculatory to the given curve or evolvent.,
E as in Evolutility (n.) The faculty possessed by all substances capable of self-nourishment of manifesting the nutritive acts by changes of form, of volume, or of structure.,
E as in Evolution (n.) The act of unfolding or unrolling; hence, in the process of growth; development; as, the evolution of a flower from a bud, or an animal from the egg.,
E as in Evolution (n.) A series of things unrolled or unfolded.,
E as in Evolution (n.) The formation of an involute by unwrapping a thread from a curve as an evolute.,
E as in Evolution (n.) The extraction of roots; -- the reverse of involution.,
E as in Evolution (n.) A prescribed movement of a body of troops, or a vessel or fleet; any movement designed to effect a new arrangement or disposition; a maneuver.,
E as in Evolution (n.) A general name for the history of the steps by which any living organism has acquired the morphological and physiological characters which distinguish it; a gradual unfolding of successive phases of growth or development.,
E as in Evolution (n.) That theory of generation which supposes the germ to preexist in the parent, and its parts to be developed, but not actually formed, by the procreative act; -- opposed to epigenesis.,
E as in Evolution (n.) That series of changes under natural law which involves continuous progress from the homogeneous to the heterogeneous in structure, and from the single and simple to the diverse and manifold in quality or function. The pocess is by some limited to organic beings; by others it is applied to the inorganic and the psychical. It is also applied to explain the existence and growth of institutions, manners, language, civilization, and every product of human activity. The agencies and laws of the process are variously explained by different philosophrs.,
E as in Evolutional (a.) Relating to evolution.,
E as in Evolutionary (a.) Relating to evolution; as, evolutionary discussions.,
E as in Evolutionism (n.) The theory of, or belief in, evolution. See Evolution, 6 and 7.,
E as in Evolutionist (n.) One skilled in evolutions.,
E as in Evolutionist (n.) one who holds the doctrine of evolution, either in biology or in metaphysics.,
E as in Evolved (imp. & p. p.) of Evolve,
E as in Evolving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Evolve,
E as in Evolve (v. t.) To unfold or unroll; to open and expand; to disentangle and exhibit clearly and satisfactorily; to develop; to derive; to educe.,
E as in Evolve (v. t.) To throw out; to emit; as, to evolve odors.,
E as in Evolve (v. i.) To become open, disclosed, or developed; to pass through a process of evolution.,
E as in Evolvement (n.) The act of evolving, or the state of being evolved; evolution.,
E as in Evolvent (n.) The involute of a curve. See Involute, and Evolute.,
E as in Evomit (v. t.) To vomit.,
E as in Evomition (n.) The act of vomiting.,
E as in Evulgate (v. t.) To publish abroad.,
E as in Evulgation (n.) A divulging.,
E as in Evulsion (n.) The act of plucking out; a rooting out.,
E as in Ew (n.) A yew.,
E as in Ewe (n.) The female of the sheep, and of sheeplike animals.,
E as in Ewe-necked (a.) Having a neck like a ewe; -- said of horses in which the arch of the neck is deficent, being somewhat hollowed out.,
E as in Ewer (n.) A kind of widemouthed pitcher or jug; esp., one used to hold water for the toilet.,
E as in Ewery (n.) Alt. of Ewry,
E as in Ewry (n.) An office or place of household service where the ewers were formerly kept.,
E as in Ewt (n.) The newt.,
E as in Ex- () A prefix from the latin preposition, ex, akin to Gr. 'ex or 'ek signifying out of, out, proceeding from. Hence, in composition, it signifies out of, as, in exhale, exclude; off, from, or out. as in exscind; beyond, as, in excess, exceed, excel; and sometimes has a privative sense of without, as in exalbuminuos, exsanguinous. In some words, it intensifies the meaning; in others, it has little affect on the signification. It becomes ef- before f, as in effuse. The form e- occurs instead of ex- before b, d, g, l, m, n, r, and v, as in ebullient, emanate, enormous, etc. In words from the French it often appears as es-, sometimes as s- or e-; as, escape, scape, elite. Ex-, prefixed to names implying office, station, condition, denotes that the person formerly held the office, or is out of the office or condition now; as, ex-president, ex-governor, ex-mayor, ex-convict. The Greek form 'ex becomes ex in English, as in exarch; 'ek becomes ec, as in eccentric.,
E as in Exacerrated (imp. & p. p.) of Exacerbate,
E as in Exacerrating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Exacerbate,
E as in Exacerbate (v. t.) To render more violent or bitter; to irriate; to exasperate; to imbitter, as passions or disease.,
E as in Exacerbation (n.) The act rendering more violent or bitter; the state of being exacerbated or intensified in violence or malignity; as, exacerbation of passion.,
E as in Exacerbation (n.) A periodical increase of violence in a disease, as in remittent or continious fever; an increased energy of diseased and painful action.,
E as in Exacerbescence (n.) Increase of irritation or violence, particularly the increase of a fever or disease.,
E as in Exacervation (n.) The act of heaping up.,
E as in Exacinate (v. t.) To remove the kernel form.,
E as in Exacination (n.) Removal of the kernel.,
E as in Exact (a.) Precisely agreeing with a standard, a fact, or the truth; perfectly conforming; neither exceeding nor falling short in any respect; true; correct; precise; as, the clock keeps exact time; he paid the exact debt; an exact copy of a letter; exact accounts.,
E as in Exact (a.) Habitually careful to agree with a standard, a rule, or a promise; accurate; methodical; punctual; as, a man exact in observing an appointment; in my doings I was exact.,
E as in Exact (a.) Precisely or definitely conceived or stated; strict.,
E as in Exacted (imp. & p. p.) of Exact,
E as in Exacting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Exact,
E as in Exact (a.) To demand or require authoritatively or peremptorily, as a right; to enforce the payment of, or a yielding of; to compel to yield or to furnish; hence, to wrest, as a fee or reward when none is due; -- followed by from or of before the one subjected to exaction; as, to exact tribute, fees, obedience, etc., from or of some one.,
E as in Exact (v. i.) To practice exaction.,
E as in Exacter (n.) An exactor.,
E as in Exacting (a.) Oppressive or unreasonably severe in making demands or requiring the exact fulfillment of obligations; harsh; severe.,
E as in Exaction (n.) The act of demanding with authority, and compelling to pay or yield; compulsion to give or furnish; a levying by force; a driving to compliance; as, the exaction to tribute or of obedience; hence, extortion.,
E as in Exaction (n.) That which is exacted; a severe tribute; a fee, reward, or contribution, demanded or levied with severity or injustice.,
E as in Exacritude (n.) The quality of being exact; exactness.,
E as in Exactly (adv.) In an exact manner; precisely according to a rule, standard, or fact; accurately; strictly; correctly; nicely.,
E as in Exactness (n.) The condition of being exact; accuracy; nicety; precision; regularity; as, exactness of jurgement or deportment.,
E as in Exactness (n.) Careful observance of method and conformity to truth; as, exactness in accounts or business.,
E as in Exactor (n.) One who exacts or demands by authority or right; hence, an extortioner; also, one unreasonably severe in injunctions or demands.,
E as in Exactress (n.) A woman who is an exactor.,
E as in Exacuate (v. t.) To whet or sharpen.,
E as in Exaeresis (n.) In old writers, the operations concerned in the removal of parts of the body.,
E as in Exaggerated (imp. & p. p.) of Exaggerate,
E as in Exaggerating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Exaggerate,
E as in Exaggerate (v. t.) To heap up; to accumulate.,
E as in Exaggerate (v. t.) To amplify; to magnify; to enlarge beyond bounds or the truth ; to delineate extravagantly ; to overstate the truth concerning.,
E as in Exaggerated (a.) Enlarged beyond bounds or the truth.,
E as in Exaggerating (a.) That exaggerates; enlarging beyond bounds.,
E as in Exaggeration (n.) The act of heaping or piling up.,
E as in Exaggeration (n.) The act of exaggerating; the act of doing or representing in an excessive manner; a going beyond the bounds of truth reason, or justice; a hyperbolical representation; hyperbole; overstatement.,
E as in Exaggeration (n.) A representation of things beyond natural life, in expression, beauty, power, vigor.,
E as in Exaggerative (a.) Tending to exaggerate; involving exaggeration.,
E as in Exaggerator (n.) One who exaggerates; one addicted to exaggeration.,
E as in Exaggeratory (a.) Containing, or tending to, exaggeration; exaggerative.,
E as in Exagitate (v. t.) To stir up; to agitate.,
E as in Exagitate (v. t.) To satirize; to censure severely.,
E as in Exagitation (n.) Agitation.,
E as in Exalbuminous (a.) Having no albumen about the embryo; -- said of certain seeds.,
E as in Exalted (imp. & p. p.) of Exalt,
E as in Exalting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Exalt,
E as in Exalt (v. t.) To raise high; to elevate; to lift up.,
E as in Exalt (v. t.) To elevate in rank, dignity, power, wealth, character, or the like; to dignify; to promote; as, to exalt a prince to the throne, a citizen to the presidency.,
E as in Exalt (v. t.) To elevate by prise or estimation; to magnify; to extol; to glorify.,
E as in Exalt (v. t.) To lift up with joy, pride, or success; to inspire with delight or satisfaction; to elate.,
E as in Exalt (v. t.) To elevate the tone of, as of the voice or a musical instrument.,
E as in Exalt (v. t.) To render pure or refined; to intensify or concentrate; as, to exalt the juices of bodies.,
E as in Exaltate (a.) Exercising its highest influence; -- said of a planet.,
E as in Exaltation (n.) The act of exalting or raising high; also, the state of being exalted; elevation.,
E as in Exaltation (n.) The refinement or subtilization of a body, or the increasing of its virtue or principal property.,
E as in Exaltation (n.) That place of a planet in the zodiac in which it was supposed to exert its strongest influence.,
E as in Exalted (a.) Raised to lofty height; elevated; extolled; refined; dignified; sublime.,
E as in Exalter (n.) One who exalts or raises to dignity.,
E as in Exaltment (n.) Exaltation.,
E as in Examen (a.) Examination; inquiry.,
E as in Exametron (n.) An hexameter.,
E as in Examinable (a.) Capable of being examined or inquired into.,
E as in Examinant (n.) One who examines; an examiner.,
E as in Examinant (n.) One who is to be examined.,
E as in Examinate (n.) A person subjected to examination.,
E as in Examination (n.) The act of examining, or state of being examined; a careful search, investigation, or inquiry; scrutiny by study or experiment.,
E as in Examination (n.) A process prescribed or assigned for testing qualification; as, the examination of a student, or of a candidate for admission to the bar or the ministry.,
E as in Examinator (n.) An examiner.,
E as in Examined (imp. & p. p.) of Examine,
E as in Examining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Examine,
E as in Examine (v. t.) To test by any appropriate method; to inspect carefully with a view to discover the real character or state of; to subject to inquiry or inspection of particulars for the purpose of obtaining a fuller insight into the subject of examination, as a material substance, a fact, a reason, a cause, the truth of a statement; to inquire or search into; to explore; as, to examine a mineral; to examine a ship to know whether she is seaworthy; to examine a proposition, theory, or question.,
E as in Examine (v. t.) To interrogate as in a judicial proceeding; to try or test by question; as, to examine a witness in order to elicit testimony, a student to test his qualifications, a bankrupt touching the state of his property, etc.,
E as in Examinee (n.) A person examined.,
E as in Examiner (n.) One who examines, tries, or inspects; one who interrogates; an officer or person charged with the duty of making an examination; as, an examiner of students for a degree; an examiner in chancery, in the patent office, etc.,
E as in Examinership (n.) The office or rank of an examiner.,
E as in Examining (a.) Having power to examine; appointed to examine; as, an examining committee.,
E as in Examplary (a.) Serving for example or pattern; exemplary.,
E as in Example (n.) One or a portion taken to show the character or quality of the whole; a sample; a specimen.,
E as in Example (n.) That which is to be followed or imitated as a model; a pattern or copy.,
E as in Example (n.) That which resembles or corresponds with something else; a precedent; a model.,
E as in Example (n.) That which is to be avoided; one selected for punishment and to serve as a warning; a warning.,
E as in Example (n.) An instance serving for illustration of a rule or precept, especially a problem to be solved, or a case to be determined, as an exercise in the application of the rules of any study or branch of science; as, in trigonometry and grammar, the principles and rules are illustrated by examples.,
E as in Exampled (imp. & p. p.) of Example,
E as in Exampling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Example,
E as in Example (v. t.) To set an example for; to give a precedent for; to exemplify; to give an instance of; to instance.,
E as in Exampleless (a.) Without or above example.,
E as in Exampler (n.) A pattern; an exemplar.,
E as in Exampless (a.) Exampleless. [Wrongly formed.],
E as in Exanguious (a.) Bloodless. [Obs.] See Exsanguious.,
E as in Exangulous (a.) Having no corners; without angles.,
E as in Exanimate (a.) Lifeless; dead.,
E as in Exanimate (a.) Destitute of animation; spiritless; disheartened.,
E as in Exanimate (v. t.) To deprive of animation or of life.,
E as in Exanimation (n.) Deprivation of life or of spirits.,
E as in Exanimous (a.) Lifeless; dead.,
E as in Exannulate (a.) Having the sporangium destitute of a ring; -- said of certain genera of ferns.,
E as in Exanthem (n.) Same as Exanthema.,
E as in Exanthemata (pl. ) of Exanthema,
E as in Exanthema (n.) An efflorescence or discoloration of the skin; an eruption or breaking out, as in measles, smallpox, scarlatina, and the like diseases; -- sometimes limited to eruptions attended with fever.,
E as in Exanthematic (a.) Alt. of Exanthematous,
E as in Exanthematous (a.) Of, relating to, or characterized by, exanthema; efflorescent; as, an exanthematous eruption.,
E as in Exanthesis (n.) An eruption of the skin; cutaneous efflorescence.,
E as in Exantlate (v. t.) To exhaust or wear out.,
E as in Exantlation (n.) Act of drawing out ; exhaustion.,
E as in Exarate (v. t.) To plow up; also, to engrave; to write.,
E as in Exaration (n.) Act of plowing; also, act of writing.,
E as in Exarch (n.) A viceroy; in Ravenna, the title of the viceroys of the Byzantine emperors; in the Eastern Church, the superior over several monasteries; in the modern Greek Church, a deputy of the patriarch , who visits the clergy, investigates ecclesiastical cases, etc.,
E as in Exarchate (n.) The office or the province of an exarch.,
E as in Exarillate (a.) Having no aril; -- said of certain seeds, or of the plants producing them.,
E as in Exarticulate (a.) Having but one joint; -- said of certain insects.,
E as in Exarticulation (n.) Luxation; the dislocation of a joint.,
E as in Exasperate (a.) Exasperated; imbittered.,
E as in Exsasperated (imp. & p. p.) of Exasperate,
E as in Exasperating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Exasperate,
E as in Exasperate (v. t.) To irritate in a high degree; to provoke; to enrage; to exscite or to inflame the anger of; as, to exasperate a person or his feelings.,
E as in Exasperate (v. t.) To make grievous, or more grievous or malignant; to aggravate; to imbitter; as, to exasperate enmity.,
E as in Exasperater (n.) One who exasperates or inflames anger, enmity, or violence.,
E as in Exasperation (n.) The act of exasperating or the state of being exasperated; irritation; keen or bitter anger.,
E as in Exasperation (n.) Increase of violence or malignity; aggravation; exacerbation.,
E as in Exaspidean (a.) Having the anterior scute/ extending around the tarsus on the outer side, leaving the inner side naked; -- said of certain birds.,
E as in Exauctorate (v. t.) See Exauthorate.,
E as in Exauctoration (n.) See Exauthoration.,
E as in Exaugurate (v. t.) To annul the consecration of; to secularize; to unhellow.,
E as in Exauguration (n.) The act of exaugurating; desecration.,
E as in Exauthorate (v. t.) To deprive of authority or office; to depose; to discharge.,
E as in Exauthoration (n.) Deprivation of authority or dignity; degration.,
E as in Exauthorize (v. t.) To deprive of uthority.,
E as in Exauthorize (v. t.) To deprive of authority.,
E as in Excalceate (v. t.) To deprive of shoes.,
E as in Excalceation (n.) The act of depriving or divesting of shoes.,
E as in Excalfaction (n.) A heating or warming; calefaction.,
E as in Excalfactive (a.) Serving to heat; warming.,
E as in Excalfactory (a.) Heating; warming.,
E as in Excalibur (n.) The name of King Arthur's mythical sword.,
E as in Excamb (v. t.) Alt. of Excambie,
E as in Excambie (v. t.) To exchange; -- used with reference to transfers of land.,
E as in Excambion (n.) Alt. of Excambium,
E as in Excambium (n.) Exchange; barter; -- used commonly of lands.,
E as in Excandescence (n.) A growing hot; a white or glowing heat; incandescence.,
E as in Excandescence (n.) Violent anger; a growing angry.,
E as in Excandescent (a.) White or glowing with heat.,
E as in Excantation (n.) Disenchantment by a countercharm.,
E as in Excarnate (v. t.) To deprive or clear of flesh.,
E as in Excarnation (n.) The act of depriving or divesting of flesh; excarnification; -- opposed to incarnation.,
E as in Excarnificate (v. t.) To clear of flesh; to excarnate.,
E as in Excarnification (n.) The act of excarnificating or of depriving of flesh; excarnation.,
E as in Excavated (imp. & p. p.) of Excavate,
E as in Excavating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Excavate,
E as in Excavate (v. t.) To hollow out; to form cavity or hole in; to make hollow by cutting, scooping, or digging; as, to excavate a ball; to excavate the earth.,
E as in Excavate (v. t.) To form by hollowing; to shape, as a cavity, or anything that is hollow; as, to excavate a canoe, a cellar, a channel.,
E as in Excavate (v. t.) To dig out and remove, as earth.,
E as in Excavation (n.) The act of excavating, or of making hollow, by cutting, scooping, or digging out a part of a solid mass.,
E as in Excavation (n.) A cavity formed by cutting, digging, or scooping.,
E as in Excavation (n.) An uncovered cutting in the earth, in distinction from a covered cutting or tunnel.,
E as in Excavation (n.) The material dug out in making a channel or cavity.,
E as in Excavator (n.) One who, or that which, excavates or hollows out; a machine, as a dredging machine, or a tool, for excavating.,
E as in Excave (v. t.) To excavate.,
E as in Excecate (v. t.) To blind.,
E as in Excecation (n.) The act of making blind.,
E as in Excedent (v. t.) Excess.,
E as in Exceeded (imp. & p. p.) of Exceed,
E as in Exceeding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Exceed,
E as in Exceed (v. t.) To go beyond; to proceed beyond the given or supposed limit or measure of; to outgo; to surpass; -- used both in a good and a bad sense; as, one man exceeds another in bulk, stature, weight, power, skill, etc.; one offender exceeds another in villainy; his rank exceeds yours.,
E as in Exceed (v. i.) To go too far; to pass the proper bounds or measure.,
E as in Exceed (v. i.) To be more or greater; to be paramount.,
E as in Exceedable (a.) Capable of exceeding or surpassing.,
E as in Exceeder (n.) One who exceeds.,
E as in Exceeding (a.) More than usual; extraordinary; more than sufficient; measureless.,
E as in Exceeding (adv.) In a very great degree; extremely; exceedingly.,
E as in Exceedingly (adv.) To a very great degree; beyond what is usual; surpassingly. It signifies more than very.,
E as in Excelled (imp. & p. p.) of Excel,
E as in Excelling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Excel,
E as in Excel (v. t.) To go beyond or surpass in good qualities or laudable deeds; to outdo or outgo, in a good sense.,
E as in Excel (v. t.) To exceed or go beyond; to surpass.,
E as in Excel (v. i.) To surpass others in good qualities, laudable actions, or acquirements; to be distinguished by superiority; as, to excel in mathematics, or classics.,
E as in Excellence (n.) The quality of being excellent; state of possessing good qualities in an eminent degree; exalted merit; superiority in virtue.,
E as in Excellence (n.) An excellent or valuable quality; that by which any one excels or is eminent; a virtue.,
E as in Excellence (n.) A title of honor or respect; -- more common in the form excellency.,
E as in Excellencies (pl. ) of Excellency,
E as in Excellency (n.) Excellence; virtue; dignity; worth; superiority.,
E as in Excellency (n.) A title of honor given to certain high dignitaries, esp. to viceroys, ministers, and ambassadors, to English colonial governors, etc. It was formerly sometimes given to kings and princes.,
E as in Excellent (a.) Excelling; surpassing others in some good quality or the sum of qualities; of great worth; eminent, in a good sense; superior; as, an excellent man, artist, citizen, husband, discourse, book, song, etc.; excellent breeding, principles, aims, action.,
E as in Excellent (a.) Superior in kind or degree, irrespective of moral quality; -- used with words of a bad significance.,
E as in Excellent (adv.) Excellently; eminently; exceedingly.,
E as in Excellently (adv.) In an excellent manner; well in a high degree.,
E as in Excellently (adv.) In a high or superior degree; -- in this literal use, not implying worthiness.,
E as in Excelsior (v. t.) More lofty; still higher; ever upward.,
E as in Excelsior (n.) A kind of stuffing for upholstered furniture, mattresses, etc., in which curled shreds of wood are substituted for curled hair.,
E as in Excentral (a.) Out of the center.,
E as in Excentric (a.) Alt. of Excentrical,
E as in Excentrical (a.) Same as Eccentric, Eccentrical.,
E as in Excentrical (a.) One-sided; having the normally central portion not in the true center.,
E as in Excentricity () Same as Eccentricity.,
E as in Excepted (imp. & p. p.) of Except,
E as in Excepting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Except,
E as in Except (v. t.) To take or leave out (anything) from a number or a whole as not belonging to it; to exclude; to omit.,
E as in Except (v. t.) To object to; to protest against.,
E as in Except (v. i.) To take exception; to object; -- usually followed by to, sometimes by against; as, to except to a witness or his testimony.,
E as in Except (prep.) With exclusion of; leaving or left out; excepting.,
E as in Except (conj.) Unless; if it be not so that.,
E as in Exceptant (a.) Making exception.,
E as in Excepting (prep. & conj., but properly a participle) With rejection or exception of; excluding; except.,
E as in Exception (n.) The act of excepting or excluding; exclusion; restriction by taking out something which would otherwise be included, as in a class, statement, rule.,
E as in Exception (n.) That which is excepted or taken out from others; a person, thing, or case, specified as distinct, or not included; as, almost every general rule has its exceptions.,
E as in Exception (n.) An objection, oral or written, taken, in the course of an action, as to bail or security; or as to the decision of a judge, in the course of a trail, or in his charge to a jury; or as to lapse of time, or scandal, impertinence, or insufficiency in a pleading; also, as in conveyancing, a clause by which the grantor excepts something before granted.,
E as in Exception (n.) An objection; cavil; dissent; disapprobation; offense; cause of offense; -- usually followed by to or against.,
E as in Exceptionable (a.) Liable to exception or objection; objectionable.,
E as in Exceptional (a.) Forming an exception; not ordinary; uncommon; rare; hence, better than the average; superior.,
E as in Exceptioner (n.) One who takes exceptions or makes objections.,
E as in Exceptionless (a.) Without exception.,
E as in Exceptious (a.) Disposed or apt to take exceptions, or to object; captious.,
E as in Exceptive (a.) That excepts; including an exception; as, an exceptive proposition.,
E as in Exceptless (a.) Not exceptional; usual.,
E as in Exceptor (n.) One who takes exceptions.,
E as in Excerebration (n.) The act of removing or beating out the brains.,
E as in Excerebrose (a.) Brainless.,
E as in Excern (v. t.) To excrete; to throw off through the pores; as, fluids are excerned in perspiration.,
E as in Excernent (a.) Connected with, or pertaining to, excretion.,
E as in Excerp (a.) To pick out.,
E as in Excerpted (imp. & p. p.) of Excerpt,
E as in Excerpting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Excerpt,
E as in Excerpt (v. t.) To select; to extract; to cite; to quote.,
E as in Excerpt (n.) An extract; a passage selected or copied from a book or record.,
E as in Excerption (n.) The act of excerpting or selecting.,
E as in Excerption (n.) That which is selected or gleaned; an extract.,
E as in Excerptive (a.) That excerpts, selects, or chooses.,
E as in Excerptor (n.) One who makes excerpts; a picker; a culler.,
E as in Excess (n.) The state of surpassing or going beyond limits; the being of a measure beyond sufficiency, necessity, or duty; that which exceeds what is usual or prover; immoderateness; superfluity; superabundance; extravagance; as, an excess of provisions or of light.,
E as in Excess (n.) An undue indulgence of the appetite; transgression of proper moderation in natural gratifications; intemperance; dissipation.,
E as in Excess (n.) The degree or amount by which one thing or number exceeds another; remainder; as, the difference between two numbers is the excess of one over the other.,
E as in Excessive (a.) Characterized by, or exhibiting, excess; overmuch.,
E as in Exchange (n.) The act of giving or taking one thing in return for another which is regarded as an equivalent; as, an exchange of cattle for grain.,
E as in Exchange (n.) The act of substituting one thing in the place of another; as, an exchange of grief for joy, or of a scepter for a sword, and the like; also, the act of giving and receiving reciprocally; as, an exchange of civilities or views.,
E as in Exchange (n.) The thing given or received in return; esp., a publication exchanged for another.,
E as in Exchange (n.) The process of setting accounts or debts between parties residing at a distance from each other, without the intervention of money, by exchanging orders or drafts, called bills of exchange. These may be drawn in one country and payable in another, in which case they are called foreign bills; or they may be drawn and made payable in the same country, in which case they are called inland bills. The term bill of exchange is often abbreviated into exchange; as, to buy or sell exchange.,
E as in Exchange (n.) A mutual grant of equal interests, the one in consideration of the other. Estates exchanged must be equal in quantity, as fee simple for fee simple.,
E as in Exchange (n.) The place where the merchants, brokers, and bankers of a city meet at certain hours, to transact business. In this sense often contracted to 'Change.,
E as in Exchanged (imp. & p. p.) of Exchange,
E as in Exchanging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Exchange,
E as in Exchange (n.) To part with give, or transfer to another in consideration of something received as an equivalent; -- usually followed by for before the thing received.,
E as in Exchange (n.) To part with for a substitute; to lay aside, quit, or resign (something being received in place of the thing parted with); as, to exchange a palace for cell.,
E as in Exchange (n.) To give and receive reciprocally, as things of the same kind; to barter; to swap; as, to exchange horses with a neighbor; to exchange houses or hats.,
E as in Exchange (v. i.) To be changed or received in exchange for; to pass in exchange; as, dollar exchanges for ten dimes.,
E as in Exchangeability (n.) The quality or state of being exchangeable.,
E as in Exchangeable (a.) Capable of being exchanged; fit or proper to be exchanged.,
E as in Exchangeable (a.) Available for making exchanges; ratable.,
E as in Exchangeably (adv.) By way of exchange.,
E as in Exchanger (n.) One who exchanges; one who practices exchange.,
E as in Excheat (n.) See Escheat.,
E as in Excheator (n.) See Escheator.,
E as in Exchequer (n.) One of the superior courts of law; -- so called from a checkered cloth, which covers, or formerly covered, the table.,
E as in Exchequer (n.) The department of state having charge of the collection and management of the royal revenue. [Eng.] Hence, the treasury; and, colloquially, pecuniary possessions in general; as, the company's exchequer is low.,
E as in Exchequered (imp. & p. p.) of Exchequer,
E as in Exchequering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Exchequer,
E as in Exchequer (v. t.) To institute a process against (any one) in the Court of Exchequer.,
E as in Excide (v. t.) To cut off.,
E as in Excipient (v. t.) Taking an exception.,
E as in Excipient (n.) An exceptor.,
E as in Excipient (n.) An inert or slightly active substance used in preparing remedies as a vehicle or medium of administration for the medicinal agents.,
E as in Exciple (n.) Alt. of Excipulum,
E as in Excipulum (n.) The outer part of the fructification of most lichens.,
E as in Excisable (a.) Liable or subject to excise; as, tobacco in an excisable commodity.,
E as in Excise (n.) In inland duty or impost operating as an indirect tax on the consumer, levied upon certain specified articles, as, tobacco, ale, spirits, etc., grown or manufactured in the country. It is also levied to pursue certain trades and deal in certain commodities. Certain direct taxes (as, in England, those on carriages, servants, plate, armorial bearings, etc.), are included in the excise. Often used adjectively; as, excise duties; excise law; excise system.,
E as in Excise (n.) That department or bureau of the public service charged with the collection of the excise taxes.,
E as in Excised (imp. & p. p.) of Excise,
E as in Excising (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Excise,
E as in Excise (v. t.) To lay or impose an excise upon.,
E as in Excise (v. t.) To impose upon; to overcharge.,
E as in Excise (v. t.) To cut out or off; to separate and remove; as, to excise a tumor.,
E as in Excisemen (pl. ) of Exciseman,
E as in Exciseman (n.) An officer who inspects and rates articles liable to excise duty.,
E as in Excision (n.) The act of excising or cutting out or off; extirpation; destruction.,
E as in Excision (n.) The act of cutting off from the church; excommunication.,
E as in Excision (n.) The removal, especially of small parts, with a cutting instrument.,
E as in Excitability (n.) The quality of being readily excited; proneness to be affected by exciting causes.,
E as in Excitability (n.) The property manifested by living organisms, and the elements and tissues of which they are constituted, of responding to the action of stimulants; irritability; as, nervous excitability.,
E as in Excitable (a.) Capable of being excited, or roused into action; susceptible of excitement; easily stirred up, or stimulated.,
E as in Excitant (a.) Tending to excite; exciting.,
E as in Excitant (n.) An agent or influence which arouses vital activity, or produces increased action, in a living organism or in any of its tissues or parts; a stimulant.,
E as in Excitate (v. t.) To excite.,
E as in Excitation (n.) The act of exciting or putting in motion; the act of rousing up or awakening.,
E as in Excitation (n.) The act of producing excitement (stimulation); also, the excitement produced.,
E as in Excitative (a.) Having power to excite; tending or serving to excite; excitatory.,
E as in Excitator (n.) A kind of discarder.,
E as in Excitatory (a.) Tending to excite; containing excitement; excitative.,
E as in Excited (imp. & p. p.) of Excite,
E as in exciting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Excite,
E as in Excite (v. t.) To call to activity in any way; to rouse to feeling; to kindle to passionate emotion; to stir up to combined or general activity; as, to excite a person, the spirits, the passions; to excite a mutiny or insurrection; to excite heat by friction.,
E as in Excite (v. t.) To call forth or increase the vital activity of an organism, or any of its parts.,
E as in Exciteful (n.) Full of exciting qualities; as, an exciteful story; exciteful players.,
E as in Excitement (n.) The act of exciting, or the state of being roused into action, or of having increased action; impulsion; agitation; as, an excitement of the people.,
E as in Excitement (n.) That which excites or rouses; that which moves, stirs, or induces action; a motive.,
E as in Excitement (n.) A state of aroused or increased vital activity in an organism, or any of its organs or tissues.,
E as in Exciter (n.) One who, or that which, excites.,
E as in Exciting (a.) Calling or rousing into action; producing excitement; as, exciting events; an exciting story.,
E as in Excitive (a.) Serving or tending to excite; excitative.,
E as in Excitive (n.) That which excites; an excitant.,
E as in Excito-motion (n.) Motion excited by reflex nerves. See Excito-motory.,
E as in Excito-motor (a.) Excito-motory; as, excito-motor power or causes.,
E as in Excito-motory (a.) Exciting motion; -- said of that portion of the nervous system concerned in reflex actions, by which impressions are transmitted to a nerve center and then reflected back so as to produce muscular contraction without sensation or volition.,
E as in Excito-nutrient (a) Exciting nutrition; said of the reflex influence by which the nutritional processes are either excited or modified.,
E as in Excito-secretory (a.) Exciting secretion; -- said of the influence exerted by reflex action on the function of secretion, by which the various glands are excited to action.,
E as in Exclaimed (imp. & p. p.) of Exclaim,
E as in Exclaiming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Exclaim,
E as in Exclaim (v. t. & i.) To cry out from earnestness or passion; to utter with vehemence; to call out or declare loudly; to protest vehemently; to vociferate; to shout; as, to exclaim against oppression with wonder or astonishment; "The field is won!" he exclaimed.,
E as in Exclaim (n.) Outcry; clamor.,
E as in Exclaimer (n.) One who exclaims.,
E as in Exclamation (n.) A loud calling or crying out; outcry; loud or emphatic utterance; vehement vociferation; clamor; that which is cried out, as an expression of feeling; sudden expression of sound or words indicative of emotion, as in surprise, pain, grief, joy, anger, etc.,
E as in Exclamation (n.) A word expressing outcry; an interjection; a word expressing passion, as wonder, fear, or grief.,
E as in Exclamation (n.) A mark or sign by which outcry or emphatic utterance is marked; thus [!]; -- called also exclamation point.,
E as in Exclamative (a.) Exclamatory.,
E as in Exclamatory (a.) Containing, expressing, or using exclamation; as, an exclamatory phrase or speaker.,
E as in Exclave (n.) A portion of a country which is separated from the main part and surrounded by politically alien territory.,
E as in Excluded (imp. & p. p.) of Exclude,
E as in Excluding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Exclude,
E as in Exclude (v. t.) To shut out; to hinder from entrance or admission; to debar from participation or enjoyment; to deprive of; to except; -- the opposite to admit; as, to exclude a crowd from a room or house; to exclude the light; to exclude one nation from the ports of another; to exclude a taxpayer from the privilege of voting.,
E as in Exclude (v. t.) To thrust out or eject; to expel; as, to exclude young animals from the womb or from eggs.,
E as in Exclusion (n.) The act of excluding, or of shutting out, whether by thrusting out or by preventing admission; a debarring; rejection; prohibition; the state of being excluded.,
E as in Exclusion (n.) The act of expelling or ejecting a fetus or an egg from the womb.,
E as in Exclusion (n.) Thing emitted.,
E as in Exclusionary (a.) Tending to exclude; causing exclusion; exclusive.,
E as in Exclusionism (n.) The character, manner, or principles of an exclusionist.,
E as in Exclusionist (n.) One who would exclude another from some right or privilege; esp., one of the anti-popish politicians of the time of Charles II.,
E as in Exclusive (a.) Having the power of preventing entrance; debarring from participation or enjoyment; possessed and enjoyed to the exclusion of others; as, exclusive bars; exclusive privilege; exclusive circles of society.,
E as in Exclusive (a.) Not taking into the account; excluding from consideration; -- opposed to inclusive; as, five thousand troops, exclusive of artillery.,
E as in Exclusive (n.) One of a coterie who exclude others; one who from real of affected fastidiousness limits his acquaintance to a select few.,
E as in Exclusiveness (n.) Quality of being exclusive.,
E as in Exclusivism (n.) The act or practice of excluding being exclusive; exclusiveness.,
E as in Exclusivist (n.) One who favor or practices any from of exclusiveness or exclusivism.,
E as in Exclusory (a.) Able to exclude; excluding; serving to exclude.,
E as in Excoct (v. t.) To boil out; to produce by boiling.,
E as in Excoction () The act of excocting or boiling out.,
E as in Excogitated (imp. & p. p.) of Excogitate,
E as in Excogitating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Excogitate,
E as in Excogitate (v. t.) To think out; to find out or discover by thinking; to devise; to contrive.,
E as in Excogitate (v. i.) To cogitate.,
E as in Excogitation (n.) The act of excogitating; a devising in the thoughts; invention; contrivance.,
E as in Excommune (v. t.) To exclude from participation in; to excommunicate.,
E as in Excommunicable (a.) Liable or deserving to be excommunicated; making excommunication possible or proper.,
E as in Excommunicant (n.) One who has been excommunicated.,
E as in Excommunicate (a.) Excommunicated; interdicted from the rites of the church.,
E as in Excommunicate (n.) One excommunicated.,
E as in Excommunicated (imp. & p. p.) of Excommunicate,
E as in Excommunicating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Excommunicate,
E as in Excommunicate (v. t.) To put out of communion; especially, to cut off, or shut out, from communion with the church, by an ecclesiastical sentence.,
E as in Excommunicate (v. t.) To lay under the ban of the church; to interdict.,
E as in Excommunication (n.) The act of communicating or ejecting; esp., an ecclesiastical censure whereby the person against whom it is pronounced is, for the time, cast out of the communication of the church; exclusion from fellowship in things spiritual.,
E as in Excommunicator (n.) One who excommunicates.,
E as in Excommunion () A shutting out from communion; excommunication.,
E as in Excoriable () Capable of being excoriated.,
E as in Excoriated (imp. & p. p.) of Eccoriate,
E as in excoriating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Eccoriate,
E as in Eccoriate (v. t.) To strip or wear off the skin of; to abrade; to gall; to break and remove the cuticle of, in any manner, as by rubbing, beating, or by the action of acrid substances.,
E as in Excoriation (n.) The act of excoriating or flaying, or state of being excoriated, or stripped of the skin; abrasion.,
E as in Excoriation (n.) Stripping of possession; spoliation.,
E as in Excorticate (v. t.) To strip of bark or skin; to decorticate.,
E as in Excortication (n.) The act of stripping off bark, or the state of being thus stripped; decortication.,
E as in Excreable (a.) Capable of being discharged by spitting.,
E as in Excreate (v. t.) To spit out; to discharge from the throat by hawking and spitting.,
E as in Excreation (n.) Act of spitting out.,
E as in Excrement (n.) Matter excreted and ejected; that which is excreted or cast out of the animal body by any of the natural emunctories; especially, alvine, discharges; dung; ordure.,
E as in Excrement (n.) An excrescence or appendage; an outgrowth.,
E as in Excremental (a.) Of or pertaining to excrement.,
E as in Excrementitial (a.) Alt. of Excrementitious,
E as in Excrementitious (a.) Pertaining to, or consisting of, excrement; of the nature of excrement.,
E as in Excrementive (a.) Serving to excrete; connected with excretion or excrement.,
E as in Excrementize (v. i.) To void excrement.,
E as in Excrescence (n.) An excrescent appendage, as, a wart or tumor; anything growing out unnaturally from anything else; a preternatural or morbid development; hence, a troublesome superfluity; an incumbrance; as, an excrescence on the body, or on a plant.,
E as in Excrescency (n.) Excrescence.,
E as in Excrescent (a.) Growing out in an abnormal or morbid manner or as a superfluity.,
E as in Excrescential (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, an excrescence.,
E as in Excreta (n. pl.) Matters to be excreted.,
E as in Excreted (imp. & p. p.) of Excrete,
E as in Excreting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Excrete,
E as in Excrete (v. t.) To separate and throw off; to excrete urine.,
E as in Excretin (n.) A nonnitrogenous, crystalline body, present in small quantity in human faeces.,
E as in Excretion (n.) The act of excreting.,
E as in Excretion (n.) That which is excreted; excrement.,
E as in Excretive (a.) Having the power of excreting, or promoting excretion.,
E as in Excretory (a.) Having the quality of excreting, or throwing off excrementitious matter.,
E as in Excruciable (a.) Liable to torment.,
E as in Excruciate (a.) Excruciated; tortured.,
E as in Excruciated (imp. & p. p.) of Excruciate,
E as in Excruciating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Excruciate,
E as in Excruciate (v. t.) To inflict agonizing pain upon; to torture; to torment greatly; to rack; as, to excruciate the heart or the body.,
E as in Excruciating () Torturing; racking.,
E as in Excruciation (n.) The act of inflicting agonizing pain, or the state of being thus afflicted; that which excruciates; torture.,
E as in Excubation (n.) A keeping watch.,
E as in Excubitorium (n.) A gallery in a church, where persons watched all night.,
E as in Exculpable () Capable of being exculpated; deserving exculpation.,
E as in Exculpated (imp. & p. p.) of Exculpate,
E as in Exculpating () of Exculpate,
E as in Exculpate (v. t.) To clear from alleged fault or guilt; to prove to be guiltless; to relieve of blame; to acquit.,
E as in Exculpation (n.) The act of exculpating from alleged fault or crime; that which exculpates; excuse.,
E as in Exculpatory () Clearing, or tending to clear, from alleged fault or guilt; excusing.,
E as in Excur (i.) To run out or forth; to extend.,
E as in Excurrent (a.) Running or flowing out,
E as in Excurrent (a.) Running or extending out; as, an excurrent midrib, one which projects beyond the apex of a leaf; an excurrent steam or trunk, one which continues to the top.,
E as in Excurrent (a.) Characterized by a current which flows outward; as, an excurrent orifice or tube.,
E as in Excurse (v. t.) To journey or pass thought.,
E as in Excursion () A running or going out or forth; an expedition; a sally.,
E as in Excursion () A journey chiefly for recreation; a pleasure trip; a brief tour; as, an excursion into the country.,
E as in Excursion () A wandering from a subject; digression.,
E as in Excursion () Length of stroke, as of a piston; stroke. [An awkward use of the word.],
E as in Excursionist (n.) One who goes on an excursion, or pleasure trip.,
E as in Excursive (a.) Prone to make excursions; wandering; roving; exploring; as, an excursive fancy.,
E as in Excursus (n.) A dissertation or digression appended to a work, and containing a more extended exposition of some important point or topic.,
E as in Excusable (a.) That may be excused, forgiven, justified, or acquitted of blame; pardonable; as, the man is excusable; an excusable action.,
E as in Excusation (n.) Excuse; apology.,
E as in Excusator (n.) One who makes, or is authorized to make, an excuse; an apologist.,
E as in Excusatory (a.) Making or containing excuse or apology; apologetical; as, an excusatory plea.,
E as in Excused (imp. & p. p.) of Excuse,
E as in Excusing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Excuse,
E as in Excuse (v. t.) To free from accusation, or the imputation of fault or blame; to clear from guilt; to release from a charge; to justify by extenuating a fault; to exculpate; to absolve; to acquit.,
E as in Excuse (v. t.) To pardon, as a fault; to forgive entirely, or to admit to be little censurable, and to overlook; as, we excuse irregular conduct, when extraordinary circumstances appear to justify it.,
E as in Excuse (v. t.) To regard with indulgence; to view leniently or to overlook; to pardon.,
E as in Excuse (v. t.) To free from an impending obligation or duty; hence, to disengage; to dispense with; to release by favor; also, to remit by favor; not to exact; as, to excuse a forfeiture.,
E as in Excuse (v. t.) To relieve of an imputation by apology or defense; to make apology for as not seriously evil; to ask pardon or indulgence for.,
E as in Excuse (v. t.) The act of excusing, apologizing, exculpating, pardoning, releasing, and the like; acquittal; release; absolution; justification; extenuation.,
E as in Excuse (v. t.) That which is offered as a reason for being excused; a plea offered in extenuation of a fault or irregular deportment; apology; as, an excuse for neglect of duty; excuses for delay of payment.,
E as in Excuse (v. t.) That which excuses; that which extenuates or justifies a fault.,
E as in Excuseless (a.) Having no excuse; not admitting of excuse or apology.,
E as in Excusement (n.) Excuse.,
E as in Excuser (n.) One who offers excuses or pleads in extenuation of the fault of another.,
E as in Excuser (n.) One who excuses or forgives another.,
E as in Excuss (v. t.) To shake off; to discard.,
E as in Excuss (v. t.) To inspect; to investigate; to decipher.,
E as in Excuss (v. t.) To seize and detain by law, as goods.,
E as in Excussion (n.) The act of excusing; seizure by law.,
E as in Exeat (n.) A license for absence from a college or a religious house.,
E as in Exeat (n.) A permission which a bishop grants to a priest to go out of his diocese.,
E as in Execrable (a.) Deserving to be execrated; accursed; damnable; detestable; abominable; as, an execrable wretch.,
E as in Execrated (imp. & p. p.) of Execrate,
E as in Execrating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Execrate,
E as in Execrate (v. t.) To denounce evil against, or to imprecate evil upon; to curse; to protest against as unholy or detestable; hence, to detest utterly; to abhor; to abominate.,
E as in Execration (n.) The act of cursing; a curse dictated by violent feelings of hatred; imprecation; utter detestation expressed.,
E as in Execration (n.) That which is execrated; a detested thing.,
E as in Execrative (a.) Cursing; imprecatory; vilifying.,
E as in Execrative (n.) A word used for cursing; an imprecatory word or expression.,
E as in Execratory (a.) Of the nature of execration; imprecatory; denunciatory.,
E as in Execratory (n.) A formulary of execrations.,
E as in Exect (v. t.) To cut off or out. [Obs.] See Exsect.,
E as in Exection (n.) See Exsection.,
E as in Executable (a.) Capable of being executed; feasible; as, an executable project.,
E as in Executant (n.) One who executes or performs; esp., a performer on a musical instrument.,
E as in Executed (imp. & p. p.) of Execute,
E as in Executing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Execute,
E as in Execute (v. t.) To follow out or through to the end; to carry out into complete effect; to complete; to finish; to effect; to perform.,
E as in Execute (v. t.) To complete, as a legal instrument; to perform what is required to give validity to, as by signing and perhaps sealing and delivering; as, to execute a deed, lease, mortgage, will, etc.,
E as in Execute (v. t.) To give effect to; to do what is provided or required by; to perform the requirements or stimulations of; as, to execute a decree, judgment, writ, or process.,
E as in Execute (v. t.) To infect capital punishment on; to put to death in conformity to a legal sentence; as, to execute a traitor.,
E as in Execute (v. t.) Too put to death illegally; to kill.,
E as in Execute (v. t.) To perform, as a piece of music, either on an instrument or with the voice; as, to execute a difficult part brilliantly.,
E as in Execute (v. i.) To do one's work; to act one's part of purpose.,
E as in Execute (v. i.) To perform musically.,
E as in Executer (n.) One who performs or carries into effect. See Executor.,
E as in Execution (n.) The act of executing; a carrying into effect or to completion; performance; achievement; consummation; as, the execution of a plan, a work, etc.,
E as in Execution (n.) A putting to death as a legal penalty; death lawfully inflicted; as, the execution of a murderer.,
E as in Execution (n.) The act of the mode of performing a work of art, of performing on an instrument, of engraving, etc.; as, the execution of a statue, painting, or piece of music.,
E as in Execution (n.) The carrying into effect the judgment given in a court of law.,
E as in Execution (n.) A judicial writ by which an officer is empowered to carry a judgment into effect; final process.,
E as in Execution (n.) The act of signing, and delivering a legal instrument, or giving it the forms required to render it valid; as, the execution of a deed, or a will.,
E as in Execution (n.) That which is executed or accomplished; effect; effective work; -- usually with do.,
E as in Execution (n.) The act of sacking a town.,
E as in Executioner (n.) One who executes; an executer.,
E as in Executioner (n.) One who puts to death in conformity to legal warrant, as a hangman.,
E as in Executive (a.) Designed or fitted for execution, or carrying into effect; as, executive talent; qualifying for, concerned with, or pertaining to, the execution of the laws or the conduct of affairs; as, executive power or authority; executive duties, officer, department, etc.,
E as in Executive (n.) An impersonal title of the chief magistrate or officer who administers the government, whether king, president, or governor; the governing person or body.,
E as in Executively (adv.) In the way of executing or performing.,
E as in Executor (n.) One who executes or performs; a doer; as, an executor of baseness.,
E as in Executor (n.) An executioner.,
E as in Executor (n.) The person appointed by a testator to execute his will, or to see its provisions carried into effect, after his decease.,
E as in Executorial (a.) Of or pertaining to an executive.,
E as in Executorship (n.) The office of an executor.,
E as in Executory (a.) Pertaining to administration, or putting the laws in force; executive.,
E as in Executory (a.) Designed to be executed or carried into effect in time to come, or to take effect on a future contingency; as, an executory devise, reminder, or estate; an executory contract.,
E as in Executress (n.) An executrix.,
E as in Executrix (n.) A woman exercising the functions of an executor.,
E as in Exedent (a.) Eating out; consuming.,
E as in Exedrae (pl. ) of Exedra,
E as in Exedra (n.) A room in a public building, furnished with seats.,
E as in Exedra (n.) The projection of any part of a building in a rounded form.,
E as in Exedra (n.) Any out-of-door seat in stone, large enough for several persons; esp., one of curved form.,
E as in Exegeses (pl. ) of Exegesis,
E as in Exegesis (n.) Exposition; explanation; especially, a critical explanation of a text or portion of Scripture.,
E as in Exegesis (n.) The process of finding the roots of an equation.,
E as in Exegete (n.) An exegetist.,
E as in Exegetic (a.) Alt. of Exegetical,
E as in Exegetical (a.) Pertaining to exegesis; tending to unfold or illustrate; explanatory; expository.,
E as in Exegetics (n.) The science of interpretation or exegesis.,
E as in Exegetist (n.) One versed in the science of exegesis or interpretation; -- also called exegete.,
E as in Exemplar (n.) A model, original, or pattern, to be copied or imitated; a specimen; sometimes; an ideal model or type, as that which an artist conceives.,
E as in Exemplar (n.) A copy of a book or writing.,
E as in Exemplar (a.) Exemplary.,
E as in Exemplarily (adv.) In a manner fitted or designed to be an example for imitation or for warning; by way of example.,
E as in Exemplariness (n.) The state or quality of being exemplary; fitness to be an example.,
E as in Exemplarity (n.) Exemplariness.,
E as in Exemplary (a.) Serving as a pattern; deserving to be proposed for imitation; commendable; as, an exemplary person; exemplary conduct.,
E as in Exemplary (a.) Serving as a warning; monitory; as, exemplary justice, punishment, or damages.,
E as in Exemplary (a.) Illustrating as the proof of a thing.,
E as in Exemplary (n.) An exemplar; also, a copy of a book or writing.,
E as in Exemplifiable (a.) That can be exemplified.,
E as in Exemplification (n.) The act of exemplifying; a showing or illustrating by example.,
E as in Exemplification (n.) That which exemplifies; a case in point; example.,
E as in Exemplification (n.) A copy or transcript attested to be correct by the seal of an officer having custody of the original.,
E as in Exemplifier (n.) One who exemplifies by following a pattern.,
E as in Exemplified (imp. & p. p.) of Exemplify,
E as in Exemplifying (p. pr. &. vb. n.) of Exemplify,
E as in Exemplify (v. t.) To show or illustrate by example.,
E as in Exemplify (v. t.) To copy; to transcribe; to make an attested copy or transcript of, under seal, as of a record.,
E as in Exemplify (v. t.) To prove or show by an attested copy.,
E as in Exempt (a.) Cut off; set apart.,
E as in Exempt (a.) Extraordinary; exceptional.,
E as in Exempt (a.) Free, or released, from some liability to which others are subject; excepted from the operation or burden of some law; released; free; clear; privileged; -- (with from): not subject to; not liable to; as, goods exempt from execution; a person exempt from jury service.,
E as in Exempt (n.) One exempted or freed from duty; one not subject.,
E as in Exempt (n.) One of four officers of the Yeomen of the Royal Guard, having the rank of corporal; an Exon.,
E as in Exempted (imp. & p. p.) of Exempt,
E as in Exempting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Exempt,
E as in Exempt (a.) To remove; to set apart.,
E as in Exempt (a.) To release or deliver from some liability which others are subject to; to except or excuse from he operation of a law; to grant immunity to; to free from obligation; to release; as, to exempt from military duty, or from jury service; to exempt from fear or pain.,
E as in Exemptible (a.) That may be exempted.,
E as in Exemption (n.) The act of exempting; the state of being exempt; freedom from any charge, burden, evil, etc., to which others are subject; immunity; privilege; as, exemption of certain articles from seizure; exemption from military service; exemption from anxiety, suffering, etc.,
E as in Exemptitious (a.) Separable.,
E as in Exenterate (v. t.) To take out the bowels or entrails of; to disembowel; to eviscerate; as, exenterated fishes.,
E as in Exenteration (n.) Act of exenterating.,
E as in Exequatur (n.) A written official recognition of a consul or commercial agent, issued by the government to which he is accredited, and authorizing him to exercise his powers in the place to which he is assigned.,
E as in Exequatur (n.) Official recognition or permission.,
E as in Exequial (a.) Of or pertaining to funerals; funereal.,
E as in Exequious (a.) Funereal.,
E as in Exequies (pl. ) of Exequy,
E as in Exequy (n.) A funeral rite (usually in the plural); the ceremonies of burial; obsequies; funeral procession.,
E as in Exercent (a.) Practicing; professional.,
E as in Exercisable (a.) That may be exercised, used, or exerted.,
E as in Exercise (n.) The act of exercising; a setting in action or practicing; employment in the proper mode of activity; exertion; application; use; habitual activity; occupation, in general; practice.,
E as in Exercise (n.) Exertion for the sake of training or improvement whether physical, intellectual, or moral; practice to acquire skill, knowledge, virtue, perfectness, grace, etc.,
E as in Exercise (n.) Bodily exertion for the sake of keeping the organs and functions in a healthy state; hygienic activity; as, to take exercise on horseback.,
E as in Exercise (n.) The performance of an office, a ceremony, or a religious duty.,
E as in Exercise (n.) That which is done for the sake of exercising, practicing, training, or promoting skill, health, mental, improvement, moral discipline, etc.; that which is assigned or prescribed for such ends; hence, a disquisition; a lesson; a task; as, military or naval exercises; musical exercises; an exercise in composition.,
E as in Exercise (n.) That which gives practice; a trial; a test.,
E as in Exercised (imp. & p. p.) of Exercise,
E as in Exercising (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Exercise,
E as in Exercise (v. t.) To set in action; to cause to act, move, or make exertion; to give employment to; to put in action habitually or constantly; to school or train; to exert repeatedly; to busy.,
E as in Exercise (v. t.) To exert for the sake of training or improvement; to practice in order to develop; hence, also, to improve by practice; to discipline, and to use or to for the purpose of training; as, to exercise arms; to exercise one's self in music; to exercise troops.,
E as in Exercise (v. t.) To occupy the attention and effort of; to task; to tax, especially in a painful or vexatious manner; harass; to vex; to worry or make anxious; to affect; to discipline; as, exercised with pain.,
E as in Exercise (v. t.) To put in practice; to carry out in action; to perform the duties of; to use; to employ; to practice; as, to exercise authority; to exercise an office.,
E as in Exercise (v. i.) To exercise one's self, as under military training; to drill; to take exercise; to use action or exertion; to practice gymnastics; as, to exercise for health or amusement.,
E as in Exerciser (n.) One who exercises.,
E as in Exercisible (a.) Capable of being exercised, employed, or enforced; as, the authority of a magistrate is exercisible within his jurisdiction.,
E as in Exercitation (n.) exercise; practice; use.,
E as in Exergue (n.) The small space beneath the base line of a subject engraved on a coin or medal. It usually contains the date, place, engraver's name, etc., or other subsidiary matter.,
E as in Exerted (imp. & p. p.) of Exert,
E as in Exerting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Exert,
E as in Exert (v. t.) To thrust forth; to emit; to push out.,
E as in Exert (v. t.) To put force, ability, or anything of the nature of an active faculty; to put in vigorous action; to bring into active operation; as, to exert the strength of the body, limbs, faculties, or imagination; to exert the mind or the voice.,
E as in Exert (v. t.) To put forth, as the result or exercise of effort; to bring to bear; to do or perform.,
E as in Exertion (n.) The act of exerting, or putting into motion or action; the active exercise of any power or faculty; an effort, esp. a laborious or perceptible effort; as, an exertion of strength or power; an exertion of the limbs or of the mind; it is an exertion for him to move, to-day.,
E as in Exertive (a.) Having power or a tendency to exert; using exertion.,
E as in Exertment (n.) Exertion.,
E as in Exesion (n.) The act of eating out or through.,
E as in Exestuate (v. i.) To be agitated; to boil up; to effervesce.,
E as in Exestuation (n.) A boiling up; effervescence.,
E as in Exeunt () They go out, or retire from the scene; as, exeunt all except Hamlet. See 1st Exit.,
E as in Exfetation (n) Imperfect fetation in some organ exterior to the uterus; extra-uterine fetation.,
E as in Exfoliated (imp. & p. p.) of Exfoliate,
E as in Exfoliating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Exfoliate,
E as in Exfoliate (v. i.) To separate and come off in scales or laminae, as pieces of carious bone or of bark.,
E as in Exfoliate (v. i.) To split into scales, especially to become converted into scales at the result of heat or decomposition.,
E as in Exfoliate (v. t.) To remove scales, laminae, or splinters from the surface of.,
E as in Exfoliation (n.) The scaling off of a bone, a rock, or a mineral, etc.; the state of being exfoliated.,
E as in Exfoliative (a.) Having the power of causing exfoliation.,
E as in Exfoliative (n.) An exfoliative agent.,
E as in Exhalable (a.) Capable of being exhaled or evaporated.,
E as in Exhalant (a.) Having the quality of exhaling or evaporating.,
E as in Exhalation (n.) The act or process of exhaling, or sending forth in the form of steam or vapor; evaporation.,
E as in Exhalation (n.) That which is exhaled, or which rises in the form of vapor, fume, or steam; effluvium; emanation; as, exhalations from the earth or flowers, decaying matter, etc.,
E as in Exhalation (n.) A bright phenomenon; a meteor.,
E as in Exaled (imp. & p. p.) of Exhale,
E as in Exaling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Exhale,
E as in Exhale (v. t.) To breathe out. Hence: To emit, as vapor; to send out, as an odor; to evaporate; as, the earth exhales vapor; marshes exhale noxious effluvia.,
E as in Exhale (v. t.) To draw out; to cause to be emitted in vapor; as, the sum exhales the moisture of the earth.,
E as in Exhale (v. i.) To rise or be given off, as vapor; to pass off, or vanish.,
E as in Exhalement (n.) Exhalation.,
E as in Exhalence (n.) Exhalation.,
E as in Exhausted (imp. & p. p.) of Exhaust,
E as in Exhausting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Exhaust,
E as in Exhaust (v. t.) To draw or let out wholly; to drain off completely; as, to exhaust the water of a well; the moisture of the earth is exhausted by evaporation.,
E as in Exhaust (v. t.) To empty by drawing or letting out the contents; as, to exhaust a well, or a treasury.,
E as in Exhaust (v. t.) To drain, metaphorically; to use or expend wholly, or till the supply comes to an end; to deprive wholly of strength; to use up; to weary or tire out; to wear out; as, to exhaust one's strength, patience, or resources.,
E as in Exhaust (v. t.) To bring out or develop completely; to discuss thoroughly; as, to exhaust a subject.,
E as in Exhaust (v. t.) To subject to the action of various solvents in order to remove all soluble substances or extractives; as, to exhaust a drug successively with water, alcohol, and ether.,
E as in Exhaust (a.) Drained; exhausted; having expended or lost its energy.,
E as in Exhaust (a.) Pertaining to steam, air, gas, etc., that is released from the cylinder of an engine after having preformed its work.,
E as in Exhaust (n.) The steam let out of a cylinder after it has done its work there.,
E as in Exhaust (n.) The foul air let out of a room through a register or pipe provided for the purpose.,
E as in Exhauster (n.) One who, or that which, exhausts or draws out.,
E as in Exhaustibility (n.) Capability of being exhausted.,
E as in Exhaustible (a.) Capable of being exhausted, drained off, or expended.,
E as in Exhausting (a.) Producing exhaustion; as, exhausting labors.,
E as in Exhaustion (n.) The act of draining out or draining off; the act of emptying completely of the contents.,
E as in Exhaustion (n.) The state of being exhausted or emptied; the state of being deprived of strength or spirits.,
E as in Exhaustion (n.) An ancient geometrical method in which an exhaustive process was employed. It was nearly equivalent to the modern method of limits.,
E as in Exhaustive (a.) Serving or tending to exhaust; exhibiting all the facts or arguments; as, an exhaustive method.,
E as in Exhaustless (a.) Not be exhausted; inexhaustible; as, an exhaustless fund or store.,
E as in Exhaustment (n.) Exhaustion; drain.,
E as in Exhausture (n.) Exhaustion.,
E as in Exhedra (n.) See Exedra.,
E as in Exheredate (v. t.) To disinherit.,
E as in Exheredation (n.) A disinheriting; disherisor.,
E as in Exhereditation (n.) A disinheriting; disherison.,
E as in Exhibited (imp. & p. p.) of Exhibit,
E as in Exhibiting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Exhibit,
E as in Exhibit (v. t.) To hold forth or present to view; to produce publicly, for inspection; to show, especially in order to attract notice to what is interesting; to display; as, to exhibit commodities in a warehouse, a picture in a gallery.,
E as in Exhibit (v. t.) To submit, as a document, to a court or officer, in course of proceedings; also, to present or offer officially or in legal form; to bring, as a charge.,
E as in Exhibit (v. t.) To administer as a remedy; as, to exhibit calomel.,
E as in Exhibit (n.) Any article, or collection of articles, displayed to view, as in an industrial exhibition; a display; as, this exhibit was marked A; the English exhibit.,
E as in Exhibit (n.) A document produced and identified in court for future use as evidence.,
E as in Exhibiter (n.) One who exhibits; one who presents a petition, charge or bill.,
E as in Exhibition (n.) The act of exhibiting for inspection, or of holding forth to view; manifestation; display.,
E as in Exhibition (n.) That which is exhibited, held forth, or displayed; also, any public show; a display of works of art, or of feats of skill, or of oratorical or dramatic ability; as, an exhibition of animals; an exhibition of pictures, statues, etc.; an industrial exhibition.,
E as in Exhibition (n.) Sustenance; maintenance; allowance, esp. for meat and drink; pension. Specifically: (Eng. Univ.) Private benefaction for the maintenance of scholars.,
E as in Exhibition (n.) The act of administering a remedy.,
E as in Exhibitioner (n.) One who has a pension or allowance granted for support.,
E as in Exhibitive (a.) Serving for exhibition; representative; exhibitory.,
E as in Exhibitor (n.) One who exhibits.,
E as in Exhibitory (a.) Exhibiting; publicly showing.,
E as in Exhilarant (a.) Exciting joy, mirth, or pleasure.,
E as in Exhilarant (n.) That which exhilarates.,
E as in Exhilarated (imp. & p. p.) of Exhilarate,
E as in Exilarating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Exhilarate,
E as in Exhilarate (v. t.) To make merry or jolly; to enliven; to animate; to gladden greatly; to cheer; as, good news exhilarates the mind; wine exhilarates a man.,
E as in Exhilarate (v. i.) To become joyous.,
E as in Exhilarating (a.) That exhilarates; cheering; gladdening.,
E as in Exhilaration (n.) The act of enlivening the spirits; the act of making glad or cheerful; a gladdening.,
E as in Exhilaration (n.) The state of being enlivened or cheerful.,
E as in Exhorted (imp. & p. p.) of Exhort,
E as in Exhorting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Exhort,
E as in Exhort (v. t.) To incite by words or advice; to animate or urge by arguments, as to a good deed or laudable conduct; to address exhortation to; to urge strongly; hence, to advise, warn, or caution.,
E as in Exhort (v. i.) To deliver exhortation; to use words or arguments to incite to good deeds.,
E as in Exhort (n.) Exhortation.,
E as in Exhortation (n.) The act of practice of exhorting; the act of inciting to laudable deeds; incitement to that which is good or commendable.,
E as in Exhortation (n.) Language intended to incite and encourage; advice; counsel; admonition.,
E as in Exhortative (a.) Serving to exhort; exhortatory; hortative.,
E as in Exhortatory (a.) Of or pertaining to exhortation; hortatory.,
E as in Exhorter (n.) One who exhorts or incites.,
E as in Exhumated (a.) Disinterred.,
E as in Exhumation (n.) The act of exhuming that which has been buried; as, the exhumation of a body.,
E as in Exhumed (imp. & p. p.) of Exhume,
E as in Exhuming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Exhume,
E as in Exhume (v. t.) To dig out of the ground; to take out of a place of burial; to disinter.,
E as in Exiccate (v. t.) See Exsiccate.,
E as in Exiccation (n.) See Exsiccation.,
E as in Exigence (n.) Exigency.,
E as in Exigencies (pl. ) of Exigency,
E as in Exigency (n.) The state of being exigent; urgent or exacting want; pressing necessity or distress; need; a case demanding immediate action, supply, or remedy; as, an unforeseen exigency.,
E as in Exigendary (n.) See Exigenter.,
E as in Exigent (a.) Exacting or requiring immediate aid or action; pressing; critical.,
E as in Exigent (n.) Exigency; pressing necessity; decisive moment.,
E as in Exigent (n.) The name of a writ in proceedings before outlawry.,
E as in Exigenter (n.) An officer in the Court of King's Bench and Common Pleas whose duty it was make out exigents. The office in now abolished.,
E as in Exigible (a.) That may be exacted; repairable.,
E as in Exiguity (n.) Scantiness; smallness; thinness.,
E as in Exiguous (a.) Scanty; small; slender; diminutive.,
E as in Exile (n.) Forced separation from one's native country; expulsion from one's home by the civil authority; banishment; sometimes, voluntary separation from one's native country.,
E as in Exile (n.) The person expelled from his country by authority; also, one who separates himself from his home.,
E as in Exiled (imp. & p. p.) of Exile,
E as in Exiling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Exile,
E as in Exile (v. t.) To banish or expel from one's own country or home; to drive away.,
E as in Exile (a.) Small; slender; thin; fine.,
E as in Exilement (n.) Banishment.,
E as in Exilic (a.) Pertaining to exile or banishment, esp. to that of the Jews in Babylon.,
E as in Exilition (n.) A sudden springing or leaping out.,
E as in Exility (a.) Smallness; meagerness; slenderness; fineness, thinness.,
E as in Eximious (a.) Select; choice; hence, extraordinary, excellent.,
E as in Exinanite (v. t.) To make empty; to render of no effect; to humble.,
E as in Exinanition (n.) An emptying; an enfeebling; exhaustion; humiliation.,
E as in Existed (imp. & p. p.) of Exist,
E as in Existing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Exist,
E as in Exist (v. i.) To be as a fact and not as a mode; to have an actual or real being, whether material or spiritual.,
E as in Exist (v. i.) To be manifest in any manner; to continue to be; as, great evils existed in his reign.,
E as in Exist (v. i.) To live; to have life or the functions of vitality; as, men can not exist water, nor fishes on land.,
E as in Existence (n.) The state of existing or being; actual possession of being; continuance in being; as, the existence of body and of soul in union; the separate existence of the soul; immortal existence.,
E as in Existence (n.) Continued or repeated manifestation; occurrence, as of events of any kind; as, the existence of a calamity or of a state of war.,
E as in Existence (n.) That which exists; a being; a creature; an entity; as, living existences.,
E as in Existency (n.) Existence.,
E as in Existent (a.) Having being or existence; existing; being; occurring now; taking place.,
E as in Existential (a.) Having existence.,
E as in Exister (n.) One who exists.,
E as in Existible (a.) Capable of existence.,
E as in Existimation (n.) Esteem; opinion; reputation.,
E as in Exit () He (or she ) goes out, or retires from view; as, exit Macbeth.,
E as in Exit (n.) The departure of a player from the stage, when he has performed his part.,
E as in Exit (n.) Any departure; the act of quitting the stage of action or of life; death; as, to make one's exit.,
E as in Exit (n.) A way of departure; passage out of a place; egress; way out.,
E as in Exitial (a.) Alt. of Exitious,
E as in Exitious (a.) Destructive; fatal.,
E as in Exo () A prefix signifying out of, outside; as in exocarp, exogen, exoskeleton.,
E as in Exocardiac (a.) Alt. of Exocardial,
E as in Exocardial (a.) Situated or arising outside of the heat; as, exocardial murmurs; -- opposed to endocardiac.,
E as in Exocarp (n.) The outer portion of a fruit, as the flesh of a peach or the rind of an orange. See Illust. of Drupe.,
E as in Exoccipital (a.) Pertaining to a bone or region on each side of the great foremen of the skull.,
E as in Exoccipital (n.) The exoccipital bone, which often forms a part of the occipital in the adult, but is usually distinct in the young.,
E as in Exocetus (n.) Alt. of Exocoetus,
E as in Exocoetus (n.) A genus of fishes, including the common flying fishes. See Flying fish.,
E as in Exoculate (v. t.) To deprive of eyes.,
E as in Exode (n.) Departure; exodus; esp., the exodus of the Israelites from Egypt.,
E as in Exode (n.) The final chorus; the catastrophe.,
E as in Exode (n.) An afterpiece of a comic description, either a farce or a travesty.,
E as in Exodic (a.) Conducting influences from the spinal cord outward; -- said of the motor or efferent nerves. Opposed to esodic.,
E as in Exogium (n.) See Exode.,
E as in Exodus (n.) A going out; particularly (the Exodus), the going out or journey of the Israelites from Egypt under the conduct of Moses; and hence, any large migration from a place.,
E as in Exodus (n.) The second of the Old Testament, which contains the narrative of the departure of the Israelites from Egypt.,
E as in Exody (n.) Exodus; withdrawal.,
E as in Ex-official (a.) Proceeding from office or authority.,
E as in Ex officiis (pl. ) of Ex officio,
E as in Ex officio () From office; by virtue, or as a consequence, of an office; officially.,
E as in Exogamous (a.) Relating to exogamy; marrying outside of the limits of one's own tribe; -- opposed to endogenous.,
E as in Exogamy (n.) The custom, or tribal law, which prohibits marriage between members of the same tribe; marriage outside of the tribe; -- opposed to endogamy.,
E as in Exogen (n.) A plant belonging to one of the greater part of the vegetable kingdom, and which the plants are characterized by having c wood bark, and pith, the wood forming a layer between the other two, and increasing, if at all, by the animal addition of a new layer to the outside next to the bark. The leaves are commonly netted-veined, and the number of cotyledons is two, or, very rarely, several in a whorl. Cf. Endogen.,
E as in Exogenetic (a.) Arising or growing from without; exogenous.,
E as in Exogenous (a.) Pertaining to, or having the character of, an exogen; -- the opposite of endogenous.,
E as in Exogenous (a.) Growing by addition to the exterior.,
E as in Exogenous (a.) Growing from previously ossified parts; -- opposed to autogenous.,
E as in Exogyra (n.) A genus of Cretaceous fossil shells allied to oysters.,
E as in Exolete (a.) Obsolete; out of use; state; insipid.,
E as in Exolution (n.) See Exsolution.,
E as in Exolve (v. t.) To loose; to pay.,
E as in Exon (n.) A native or inhabitant of Exeter, in England.,
E as in Exon (n.) An officer of the Yeomen of the Guard; an Exempt.,
E as in Exonerated (imp. & p. p.) of Exonerate,
E as in Exonerating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Exonerate,
E as in Exonerate (v. t.) To unload; to disburden; to discharge.,
E as in Exonerate (v. t.) To relieve, in a moral sense, as of a charge, obligation, or load of blame resting on one; to clear of something that lies upon oppresses one, as an accusation or imputation; as, to exonerate one's self from blame, or from the charge of avarice.,
E as in Exonerate (v. t.) To discharge from duty or obligation, as a ball.,
E as in Exoneration (n.) The act of disburdening, discharging, or freeing morally from a charge or imputation; also, the state of being disburdened or freed from a charge.,
E as in Exonerative (a.) Freeing from a burden or obligation; tending to exonerate.,
E as in Exonerator (n.) One who exonerates or frees from obligation.,
E as in Exophthalmia (n.) The protrusion of the eyeball so that the eyelids will not cover it, in consequence of disease.,
E as in Exophthalmic (a.) Of or pertaining to, or characterized by, exophthalmia.,
E as in Exophthalmos (n.) Alt. of Exophthalmus,
E as in Exophthalmus (n.) Same as Exophthalmia.,
E as in Exophthalmy (n.) Exophthalmia.,
E as in Exophyllous (a.) Not sheathed in another leaf.,
E as in Exoplasm (n.) See Ectosarc, and Ectoplasm.,
E as in Exopodite (n.) The external branch of the appendages of Crustacea.,
E as in Exoptable (a.) Very desirable.,
E as in Exoptile (n.) A name given by Lestiboudois to dicotyledons; -- so called because the plumule is naked.,
E as in Exrable (a.) Capable of being moved by entreaty; pitiful; tender.,
E as in Exorate (v. t.) To persuade, or to gain, by entreaty.,
E as in Exoration (n.) Entreaty.,
E as in Exorbitance (n.) Alt. of Exorbitancy,
E as in Exorbitancy (n.) A going out of or beyond the usual or due limit; hence, enormity; extravagance; gross deviation from rule, right, or propriety; as, the exorbitances of the tongue or of deportment; exorbitance of demands.,
E as in Exorbitant (a.) Departing from an orbit or usual track; hence, deviating from the usual or due course; going beyond the appointed rules or established limits of right or propriety; excessive; extravagant; enormous; inordinate; as, exorbitant appetites and passions; exorbitant charges, demands, or claims.,
E as in Exorbitant (a.) Not comprehended in a settled rule or method; anomalous.,
E as in Exorbitantly (adv.) In an exorbitant, excessive, or irregular manner; enormously.,
E as in Exorbitate (v. i.) To go out of the track; to deviate.,
E as in Exorcised (imp. & p. p.) of Exorcise,
E as in Exorcising (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Exorcise,
E as in Exorcise (v. t.) To cast out, as a devil, evil spirits, etc., by conjuration or summoning by a holy name, or by certain ceremonies; to expel (a demon) or to conjure (a demon) to depart out of a person possessed by one.,
E as in Exorcise (v. t.) To deliver or purify from the influence of an evil spirit or demon.,
E as in Exorciser (n.) An exorcist.,
E as in Exorcism (n.) The act of exorcising; the driving out of evil spirits from persons or places by conjuration; also, the form of conjuration used.,
E as in Exorcism (n.) Conjuration for raising spirits.,
E as in Exorcist (n.) One who expels evil spirits by conjuration or exorcism.,
E as in Exorcist (n.) A conjurer who can raise spirits.,
E as in Exordial (a.) Pertaining to the exordium of a discourse: introductory.,
E as in Exordiums (pl. ) of Exordium,
E as in Exordia (pl. ) of Exordium,
E as in Exordium (n.) A beginning; an introduction; especially, the introductory part of a discourse or written composition, which prepares the audience for the main subject; the opening part of an oration.,
E as in Exorhizae (pl. ) of Exorhiza,
E as in Exorhiza (n.) A plant Whose radicle is not inclosed or sheathed by the cotyledons or plumule.,
E as in Exorhizal (a.) Alt. of Exorhizous,
E as in Exorhizous (a.) Having a radicle which is not inclosed by the cotyledons or plumule; of or relating to an exorhiza.,
E as in Exornation (n.) Ornament; decoration; embellishment.,
E as in Exortive (a.) Rising; relating to the east.,
E as in Exosculate (v. t.) To kiss; especially, to kiss repeatedly or fondly.,
E as in Exoskeletal (a.) Pertaining to the exoskeleton; as exoskeletal muscles.,
E as in Exoskeleton (n.) The hardened parts of the external integument of an animal, including hair, feathers, nails, horns, scales, etc.,as well as the armor of armadillos and many reptiles, and the shells or hardened integument of numerous invertebrates; external skeleton; dermoskeleton.,
E as in Exosmose (n.) The passage of gases, vapors, or liquids thought membranes or porous media from within outward, in the phenomena of osmose; -- opposed to endosmose. See Osmose.,
E as in Exosmosis (n.) See Exosmose.,
E as in Exosmotic (a.) Pertaining to exosmose.,
E as in Exospore (n.) The extreme outer wall of a spore; the epispore.,
E as in Exosstate (v. t.) To deprive of bones; to take out the bones of; to bone.,
E as in Exossation (n.) A depriving of bone or of fruit stones.,
E as in Exosse-ous (a.) Boneless.,
E as in Exostome (n.) The small aperture or foremen in the outer coat of the ovule of a plant.,
E as in Exostosis (n.) Any protuberance of a bone which is not natural; an excrescence or morbid enlargement of a bone.,
E as in Exostosis (n.) A knot formed upon or in the wood of trees by disease.,
E as in Exoteric (a.) Alt. of Exoterical,
E as in Exoterical (a.) External; public; suitable to be imparted to the public; hence, capable of being readily or fully comprehended; -- opposed to esoteric, or secret.,
E as in Exoterics (n. pl.) The public lectures or published writings of Aristotle. See Esoterics.,
E as in Exoteries (pl. ) of Exotery,
E as in Exotery (n.) That which is obvious, public, or common.,
E as in Exotheca (n.) The tissue which fills the interspaces between the costae of many madreporarian corals, usually consisting of small transverse or oblique septa.,
E as in Exothecium (n.) The outer coat of the anther.,
E as in Exotic (a.) Introduced from a foreign country; not native; extraneous; foreign; as, an exotic plant; an exotic term or word.,
E as in Exotic (n.) Anything of foreign origin; something not of native growth, as a plant, a word, a custom.,
E as in Exotical (a.) Foreign; not native; exotic.,
E as in Exoticism (n.) The state of being exotic; also, anything foreign, as a word or idiom; an exotic.,
E as in Expanded (imp. & p. p.) of Expand,
E as in Expanding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Expand,
E as in Expand (v. t.) To lay open by extending; to open wide; to spread out; to diffuse; as, a flower expands its leaves.,
E as in Expand (v. t.) To cause the particles or parts of to spread themselves or stand apart, thus increasing bulk without addition of substance; to make to occupy more space; to dilate; to distend; to extend every way; to enlarge; -- opposed to contract; as, to expand the chest; heat expands all bodies; to expand the sphere of benevolence.,
E as in Expand (v. t.) To state in enlarged form; to develop; as, to expand an equation. See Expansion, 5.,
E as in Expand (v. i.) To become widely opened, spread apart, dilated, distended, or enlarged; as, flowers expand in the spring; metals expand by heat; the heart expands with joy.,
E as in Expander (n.) Anything which causes expansion esp. (Mech.) a tool for stretching open or expanding a tube, etc.,
E as in Expanding (a.) That expands, or may be expanded; extending; spreading; enlarging.,
E as in Expanse (n.) That which is expanded or spread out; a wide extent of space or body; especially, the arch of the sky.,
E as in Expanse (v. t.) To expand.,
E as in Expansibility (n.) The capacity of being expanded; as, the expansibility of air.,
E as in Expansible (a.) Capable of being expanded or spread out widely.,
E as in Expansile (a.) Expansible.,
E as in Expansion (n.) The act of expanding or spreading out; the condition of being expanded; dilation; enlargement.,
E as in Expansion (n.) That which is expanded; expanse; extend surface; as, the expansion of a sheet or of a lake; the expansion was formed of metal.,
E as in Expansion (n.) Space through which anything is expanded; also, pure space.,
E as in Expansion (n.) Enlargement or extension of business transactions; esp., increase of the circulation of bank notes.,
E as in Expansion (n.) The developed result of an indicated operation; as, the expansion of (a + b)2 is a2 + 2ab + b2.,
E as in Expansion (n.) The operation of steam in a cylinder after its communication with the boiler has been cut off, by which it continues to exert pressure upon the moving piston.,
E as in Expansion (n.) The enlargement of the ship mathematically from a model or drawing to the full or building size, in the process of construction.,
E as in Expansive (a.) Having a capacity or tendency to expand or dilate; diffusive; of much expanse; wide-extending; as, the expansive force of heat; the expansive quality of air.,
E as in Expansure (n.) Expanse.,
E as in Ex parte () Upon or from one side only; one-sided; partial; as, an ex parte statement.,
E as in Expatiated (imp. & p. p.) of Expatiate,
E as in Expariating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Expatiate,
E as in Expatiate (v. i.) To range at large, or without restraint.,
E as in Expatiate (v. i.) To enlarge in discourse or writing; to be copious in argument or discussion; to descant.,
E as in Expatiate (v. t.) To expand; to spread; to extend; to diffuse; to broaden.,
E as in Expatiation (n.) Act of expatiating.,
E as in Expatiatory (a.) Expansive; diffusive.,
E as in Expatriated (imp. & p. p.) of Expatriate,
E as in Expatriating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Expatriate,
E as in Expatriate (v. t.) To banish; to drive or force (a person) from his own country; to make an exile of.,
E as in Expatriate (v. t.) Reflexively, as To expatriate one's self: To withdraw from one's native country; to renounce the rights and liabilities of citizenship where one is born, and become a citizen of another country.,
E as in Expatriation (n.) The act of banishing, or the state of banishment; especially, the forsaking of one's own country with a renunciation of allegiance.,
E as in Expected (imp. & p. p.) of Expect,
E as in Expecting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Expect,
E as in Expect (v. t.) To wait for; to await.,
E as in Expect (v. t.) To look for (mentally); to look forward to, as to something that is believed to be about to happen or come; to have a previous apprehension of, whether of good or evil; to look for with some confidence; to anticipate; -- often followed by an infinitive, sometimes by a clause (with, or without, that); as, I expect to receive wages; I expect that the troops will be defeated.,
E as in Expect (v. t.) To wait; to stay.,
E as in Expect (n.) Expectation.,
E as in Expectable (a.) That may be expected or looked for.,
E as in Expectance (n.) Alt. of Expectancy,
E as in Expectancy (n.) The act of expecting ; expectation.,
E as in Expectancy (n.) That which is expected, or looked or waited for with interest; the object of expectation or hope.,
E as in Expectant (a.) Waiting in expectation; looking for,
E as in Expectant (a.) waiting for the efforts of nature, with little active treatment.,
E as in Expectant (n.) One who waits in expectation; one held in dependence by hope of receiving some good.,
E as in Expectation (n.) The act or state of expecting or looking forward to an event as about to happen.,
E as in Expectation (n.) That which is expected or looked for.,
E as in Expectation (n.) The prospect of the future; grounds upon which something excellent is expected to happen; prospect of anything good to come, esp. of property or rank.,
E as in Expectation (n.) The value of any chance (as the prospect of prize or property) which depends upon some contingent event. Expectations are computed for or against the occurrence of the event.,
E as in Expectation (n.) The leaving of the disease principally to the efforts of nature to effect a cure.,
E as in Expectative (a.) Constituting an object of expectation; contingent.,
E as in Expectative (n.) Something in expectation; esp., an expectative grace.,
E as in Expectedly (adv.) In conformity with expectation.,
E as in Expecter (n.) One who expects.,
E as in Expectingly (adv.) In a state of expectation.,
E as in Expective (a.) Expectative.,
E as in Expectorant (a.) Tending to facilitate expectoration or to promote discharges of mucus, etc., from the lungs or throat.,
E as in Expectorant (n.) An expectorant medicine.,
E as in Expectorated (imp. & p. p.) of Expectorate,
E as in Expectorating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Expectorate,
E as in Expectorate (v. t.) To eject from the trachea or lungs; to discharge, as phlegm or other matter, by coughing, hawking, and spitting; to spit forth.,
E as in Expectorate (v. i.) To discharge matter from the lungs or throat by hawking and spitting; to spit.,
E as in Expectoration (n.) The act of ejecting phlegm or mucus from the throat or lungs, by coughing, hawking, and spitting.,
E as in Expectoration (n.) That which is expectorated, as phlegm or mucus.,
E as in Expectorative (a. & n.) Same as Expectorant.,
E as in Expede (v. t.) To expedite; to hasten.,
E as in Expediate (v. t.) To hasten; to expedite.,
E as in Expedience (n.) Alt. of Expediency,
E as in Expediency (n.) The quality of being expedient or advantageous; fitness or suitableness to effect a purpose intended; adaptedness to self-interest; desirableness; advantage; advisability; -- sometimes contradistinguished from moral rectitude.,
E as in Expediency (n.) Expedition; haste; dispatch.,
E as in Expediency (n.) An expedition; enterprise; adventure.,
E as in Expedient (a.) Hastening or forward; hence, tending to further or promote a proposed object; fit or proper under the circumstances; conducive to self-interest; desirable; advisable; advantageous; -- sometimes contradistinguished from right.,
E as in Expedient (a.) Quick; expeditious.,
E as in Expedient (n.) That which serves to promote or advance; suitable means to accomplish an end.,
E as in Expedient (n.) Means devised in an exigency; shift.,
E as in Expediential () Governed by expediency; seeking advantage; as an expediential policy.,
E as in Expediently (adv.) In an expedient manner; fitly; suitably; conveniently.,
E as in Expediently (adv.) With expedition; quickly.,
E as in Expediment (n.) An expedient.,
E as in Expeditate (v. t.) To deprive of the claws or the balls of the fore feet; as, to expeditate a dog that he may not chase deer.,
E as in Expedite (a.) Free of impediment; unimpeded.,
E as in Expedite (a.) Expeditious; quick; speedily; prompt.,
E as in Expedited (imp. & p. p.) of Expedite,
E as in Expediting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Expedite,
E as in Expedite (v. t.) To relieve of impediments; to facilitate; to accelerate the process or progress of; to hasten; to quicken; as, to expedite the growth of plants.,
E as in Expedite (v. t.) To despatch; to send forth; to issue officially.,
E as in Expeditely (adv.) In expedite manner; expeditiously.,
E as in Expediteness (n.) Quality of being expedite.,
E as in Expedition (n.) The quality of being expedite; efficient promptness; haste; dispatch; speed; quickness; as to carry the mail with expedition.,
E as in Expedition (n.) A sending forth or setting forth the execution of some object of consequence; progress.,
E as in Expedition (n.) An important enterprise, implying a change of place; especially, a warlike enterprise; a march or a voyage with martial intentions; an excursion by a body of persons for a valuable end; as, a military, naval, exploring, or scientific expedition; also, the body of persons making such excursion.,
E as in Expeditionary (a.) Of or pertaining to an expedition; as, an expeditionary force.,
E as in Expeditionist (n.) One who goes upon an expedition. [R].,
E as in Expeditious (a.) Possessed of, or characterized by, expedition, or efficiency and rapidity in action; performed with, or acting with, expedition; quick; having celerity; speedily; as, an expeditious march or messenger.,
E as in Expeditive (a.) Performing with speed.,
E as in Expelled (imp. & p. p.) of Expel,
E as in Expelling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Expel,
E as in Expel (v. t.) To drive or force out from that within which anything is contained, inclosed, or situated; to eject; as to expel air from a bellows.,
E as in Expel (v. t.) To drive away from one's country; to banish.,
E as in Expel (v. t.) To cut off from further connection with an institution of learning, a society, and the like; as, to expel a student or member.,
E as in Expel (v. t.) To keep out, off, or away; to exclude.,
E as in Expel (v. t.) To discharge; to shoot.,
E as in Expellable (a.) Capable of being expelled or driven out.,
E as in Expeller (n.) One who, or that which, expels.,
E as in Expended (imp. & p. p.) of Expend,
E as in Expending (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Expend,
E as in Expend (v. t.) To lay out, apply, or employ in any way; to consume by use; to use up or distribute, either in payment or in donations; to spend; as, they expend money for food or in charity; to expend time labor, and thought; to expend hay in feeding cattle, oil in a lamp, water in mechanical operations.,
E as in Expend (v. i.) To be laid out, used, or consumed.,
E as in Expend (v. i.) To pay out or disburse money.,
E as in Expenitor (n.) A disburser; especially, one of the disbursers of taxes for the repair of sewers.,
E as in Expenditure (n.) The act of expending; a laying out, as of money; disbursement.,
E as in Expenditure (n.) That which is expended or paid out; expense.,
E as in Expense (n.) A spending or consuming; disbursement; expenditure.,
E as in Expense (n.) That which is expended, laid out, or consumed; cost; outlay; charge; -- sometimes with the notion of loss or damage to those on whom the expense falls; as, the expenses of war; an expense of time.,
E as in Expense (n.) Loss.,
E as in Expensefull (a.) Full of expense; costly; chargeable.,
E as in Expenseless (a.) Without cost or expense.,
E as in Expensive (a.) Occasioning expense; calling for liberal outlay; costly; dear; liberal; as, expensive dress; an expensive house or family.,
E as in Expensive (a.) Free in expending; very liberal; especially, in a bad scene; extravagant; lavish.,
E as in Experience (n.) Trial, as a test or experiment.,
E as in Experience (n.) The effect upon the judgment or feelings produced by any event, whether witnessed or participated in; personal and direct impressions as contrasted with description or fancies; personal acquaintance; actual enjoyment or suffering.,
E as in Experience (n.) An act of knowledge, one or more, by which single facts or general truths are ascertained; experimental or inductive knowledge; hence, implying skill, facility, or practical wisdom gained by personal knowledge, feeling or action; as, a king without experience of war.,
E as in Experienced (imp. & p. p.) of Exrerience,
E as in Experiencing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Exrerience,
E as in Exrerience (v. t.) To make practical acquaintance with; to try personally; to prove by use or trial; to have trial of; to have the lot or fortune of; to have befall one; to be affected by; to feel; as, to experience pain or pleasure; to experience poverty; to experience a change of views.,
E as in Exrerience (v. t.) To exercise; to train by practice.,
E as in Experienced (p. p. & a.) Taught by practice or by repeated observations; skillful or wise by means of trials, use, or observation; as, an experienced physician, workman, soldier; an experienced eye.,
E as in Experiencer (n.) One who experiences.,
E as in Experiencer (n.) An experimenter.,
E as in Experient (a.) Experienced.,
E as in Experiential (a.) Derived from, or pertaining to, experience.,
E as in Experientialism (n.) The doctrine that experience, either that ourselves or of others, is the test or criterion of general knowledge; -- opposed to intuitionists.,
E as in Experientiallist (n.) One who accepts the doctrine of experientialism. Also used adjectively.,
E as in Experiment (n.) Atrial or special observation, made to confirm or disprove something doubtful; esp., one under conditions determined by the experimenter; an act or operation undertaken in order to discover some unknown principle or effect, or to test, establish, or illustrate some suggest or known truth; practical test; poof.,
E as in Experiment (n.) Experience.,
E as in Experimented (imp. & p. p.) of Experiment,
E as in Experinenting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Experiment,
E as in Experiment (v. t.) To make experiment; to operate by test or trial; -- often with on, upon, or in, referring to the subject of an experiment; with, referring to the instrument; and by, referring to the means; as, to experiment upon electricity; he experimented in plowing with ponies, or by steam power.,
E as in Experiment (v. t.) To try; to know, perceive, or prove, by trial experience.,
E as in Experimental (a.) Pertaining to experiment; founded on, or derived from, experiment or trial; as, experimental science; given to, or skilled in, experiment; as, an experimental philosopher.,
E as in Experimental (a.) Known by, or derived from, experience; as, experimental religion.,
E as in Experimetalist (n.) One who makes experiments; an experimenter.,
E as in Experimentalize (v. i.) To make experiments (upon); to experiment.,
E as in Experimentally (adv.) By experiment; by experience or trial.,
E as in Experimentarian (a.) Relying on experiment or experience.,
E as in Experimentarian (n.) One who relies on experiment or experience.,
E as in Experimentation (n.) The act of experimenting; practice by experiment.,
E as in Experimentative (a.) Experimental; of the nature of experiment.,
E as in Experimentator (n.) An experimenter.,
E as in Experimenter (n.) One who makes experiments; one skilled in experiments.,
E as in Experimentist (n.) An experimenter.,
E as in Experrection (n.) A waking up or arousing.,
E as in Expert (a.) Taught by use, practice, or experience, experienced; having facility of operation or performance from practice; knowing and ready from much practice; clever; skillful; as, an expert surgeon; expert in chess or archery.,
E as in Expert (n.) An expert or experienced person; one instructed by experience; one who has skill, experience, or extensive knowledge in his calling or in any special branch of learning.,
E as in Expert (n.) A specialist in a particular profession or department of science requiring for its mastery peculiar culture and erudition.,
E as in Expert (n.) A sworn appraiser.,
E as in Expert (v. t.) To experience.,
E as in Expertly (adv.) In a skillful or dexterous manner; adroitly; with readiness and accuracy.,
E as in Expertness (n.) Skill derived from practice; readiness; as, expertness in seamanship, or in reasoning.,
E as in Expetible (a.) Worthy of being wished for; desirable.,
E as in Expiable (a.) Capable of being expiated or atoned for; as, an expiable offense; expiable guilt.,
E as in Expiated (imp. & p. p.) of Expiate,
E as in Expiating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Expiate,
E as in Expiate (v. t.) To extinguish the guilt of by sufferance of penalty or some equivalent; to make complete satisfaction for; to atone for; to make amends for; to make expiation for; as, to expiate a crime, a guilt, or sin.,
E as in Expiate (v. t.) To purify with sacred rites.,
E as in Expiate (a.) Terminated.,
E as in Expiation (n.) The act of making satisfaction or atonement for any crime or fault; the extinguishing of guilt by suffering or penalty.,
E as in Expiation (n.) The means by which reparation or atonement for crimes or sins is made; an expiatory sacrifice or offering; an atonement.,
E as in Expiation (n.) An act by which the treats of prodigies were averted among the ancient heathen.,
E as in Expiatist (n.) An expiator.,
E as in Expiator (n.) One who makes expiation or atonement.,
E as in Expiatorious (a.) Of an expiatory nature; expiatory.,
E as in Expiatory (a.) Having power, or intended, to make expiation; atoning; as, an expiatory sacrifice.,
E as in Expilation (n.) The act of expilating or stripping off; plunder; pillage.,
E as in Expilator (n.) One who pillages; a plunderer; a pillager.,
E as in Expirable (a.) That may expire; capable of being brought to an end.,
E as in Expirant (n.) One who expires or is expiring.,
E as in Expiration (n.) The act of expiring,
E as in Expiration (n.) The act or process of breathing out, or forcing air from the lungs through the nose or mouth; as, respiration consists of inspiration and expiration; -- opposed to inspiration.,
E as in Expiration (n.) Emission of volatile matter; exhalation.,
E as in Expiration (n.) The last emission of breath; death.,
E as in Expiration (n.) A coming to a close; cessation; extinction; termination; end.,
E as in Expiration (n.) That which is expired; matter breathed forth; that which is produced by breathing out, as a sound.,
E as in Expiratory (a.) Pertaining to, or employed in, the expiration or emission of air from the lungs; as, the expiratory muscles.,
E as in Expired (imp. & p. p.) of Expire,
E as in Expiring (p. pr & vb. n.) of Expire,
E as in Expire (v. t.) To breathe out; to emit from the lungs; to throw out from the mouth or nostrils in the process of respiration; -- opposed to inspire.,
E as in Expire (v. t.) To give forth insensibly or gently, as a fluid or vapor; to emit in minute particles; to exhale; as, the earth expires a damp vapor; plants expire odors.,
E as in Expire (v. t.) To emit; to give out.,
E as in Expire (v. t.) To bring to a close; to terminate.,
E as in Expire (v. i.) To emit the breath.,
E as in Expire (v. i.) To emit the last breath; to breathe out the life; to die; as, to expire calmly; to expire in agony.,
E as in Expire (v. i.) To come to an end; to cease; to terminate; to perish; to become extinct; as, the flame expired; his lease expires to-day; the month expired on Saturday.,
E as in Expire (v. i.) To burst forth; to fly out with a blast.,
E as in Expiring (a.) Breathing out air from the lungs; emitting fluid or volatile matter; exhaling; breathing the last breath; dying; ending; terminating.,
E as in Expiring (a.) Pertaining to, or uttered at, the time of dying; as, expiring words; expiring groans.,
E as in Expiry (n.) Expiration.,
E as in Expiscate (v. t.) To fish out; to find out by skill or laborious investigation; to search out.,
E as in Expiscation (n.) The act of expiscating; a fishing.,
E as in Expiscatory (a.) Tending to fish out; searching out,
E as in Explained (imp. & p. p.) of Explain,
E as in Explaining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Explain,
E as in Explain (a.) To flatten; to spread out; to unfold; to expand.,
E as in Explain (a.) To make plain, manifest, or intelligible; to clear of obscurity; to expound; to unfold and illustrate the meaning of; as, to explain a chapter of the Bible.,
E as in Explain (v. i.) To give an explanation.,
E as in Explainable (a.) Capable of being explained or made plain to the understanding; capable of being interpreted.,
E as in Explainer (n.) One who explains; an expounder or expositor; a commentator; an interpreter.,
E as in Explanate (a.) Spreading or extending outwardly in a flat form.,
E as in Explanation (n.) The act of explaining, expounding, or interpreting; the act of clearing from obscurity and making intelligible; as, the explanation of a passage in Scripture, or of a contract or treaty.,
E as in Explanation (n.) That which explains or makes clear; as, a satisfactory explanation.,
E as in Explanation (n.) The meaning attributed to anything by one who explains it; definition; interpretation; sense.,
E as in Explanation (n.) A mutual exposition of terms, meaning, or motives, with a view to adjust a misunderstanding, and reconcile differences; reconciliation; agreement; as, to come to an explanation.,
E as in Explanative (a.) Explanatory.,
E as in Explanatoriness (n.) The quality of being explanatory.,
E as in Explanatory (a.) Serving to explain; containing explanation; as explanatory notes.,
E as in Explat (v. t.) Alt. of Explate,
E as in Explate (v. t.) To explain; to unfold.,
E as in Expletion (n.) Accomplishment; fulfillment.,
E as in Expletive (a.) Filling up; hence, added merely for the purpose of filling up; superfluous.,
E as in Expletive (n.) A word, letter, or syllable not necessary to the sense, but inserted to fill a vacancy; an oath.,
E as in Expletively (adv.) In the manner of an expletive.,
E as in Expletory (a.) Serving to fill up; expletive; superfluous; as, an expletory word.,
E as in Explicable (a.) Capable of being explicated; that may be explained or accounted for; admitting explanation.,
E as in Explicableness (n.) Quality of being explicable.,
E as in Explicate (a.) Evolved; unfolded.,
E as in Explicated (imp. & p. p.) of Explicate,
E as in Explicating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Explicate,
E as in Explicate (v. t.) To unfold; to expand; to lay open.,
E as in Explicate (v. t.) To unfold the meaning or sense of; to explain; to clear of difficulties or obscurity; to interpret.,
E as in Explication (n.) The act of opening, unfolding, or explaining; explanation; exposition; interpretation.,
E as in Explication (n.) The sense given by an expositor.,
E as in Explicative (a.) Serving to unfold or explain; tending to lay open to the understanding; explanatory.,
E as in Explicator (n.) One who unfolds or explains; an expounder; an explainer.,
E as in Explicatory (a.) Explicative.,
E as in Explicit (a.) A word formerly used (as finis is now) at the conclusion of a book to indicate the end.,
E as in Explicit (a.) Not implied merely, or conveyed by implication; distinctly stated; plain in language; open to the understanding; clear; not obscure or ambiguous; express; unequivocal; as, an explicit declaration.,
E as in Explicit (a.) Having no disguised meaning or reservation; unreserved; outspoken; -- applied to persons; as, he was earnest and explicit in his statement.,
E as in Explicitly (adv.) In an explicit manner; clearly; plainly; without disguise or reservation of meaning; not by inference or implication; as, he explicitly avows his intention.,
E as in Explicitness (n.) The quality of being explicit; clearness; directness.,
E as in Exploded (imp. & p. p.) of Explode,
E as in Exploding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Explode,
E as in Explode (v. i.) To become suddenly expanded into a great volume of gas or vapor; to burst violently into flame; as gunpowder explodes.,
E as in Explode (v. i.) To burst with force and a loud report; to detonate, as a shell filled with powder or the like material, or as a boiler from too great pressure of steam.,
E as in Explode (v. i.) To burst forth with sudden violence and noise; as, at this, his wrath exploded.,
E as in Explode (v. t.) To drive from the stage by noisy expressions of disapprobation; to hoot off; to drive away or reject noisily; as, to explode a play.,
E as in Explode (v. t.) To bring into disrepute, and reject; to drive from notice and acceptance; as, to explode a scheme, fashion, or doctrine.,
E as in Explode (v. t.) To cause to explode or burst noisily; to detonate; as, to explode powder by touching it with fire.,
E as in Explode (v. t.) To drive out with violence and noise, as by powder.,
E as in Explodent (n.) An instrument or agent causing explosion; an exploder; also, an explosive.,
E as in Explodent (n.) See Explosive, n., 2.,
E as in Exploder (n.) One who or that which explodes.,
E as in Exploder (n.) One who rejects an opinion or scheme with open contempt.,
E as in Exploit (n.) A deed or act; especially, a heroic act; a deed of renown; an adventurous or noble achievement; as, the exploits of Alexander the Great.,
E as in Exploit (n.) Combat; war.,
E as in Exploit (n.) To utilize; to make available; to get the value or usefulness out of; as, to exploit a mine or agricultural lands; to exploit public opinion.,
E as in Exploit (n.) Hence: To draw an illegitimate profit from; to speculate on; to put upon.,
E as in Exploitation (n.) The act of exploiting or utilizing.,
E as in Exploiture (n.) The act of exploiting or accomplishing; achievement.,
E as in Exploiture (n.) Exploitation.,
E as in Explorable (a.) That may be explored; as, an explorable region.,
E as in Explorate (v. t.) To explore.,
E as in Exploration (n.) The act of exploring, penetrating, or ranging over for purposes of discovery, especially of geographical discovery; examination; as, the exploration of unknown countries,
E as in Exploration (n.) physical examination.,
E as in Explorative (a.) Exploratory.,
E as in Explorator (n.) One who explores; one who examines closely; a searcher.,
E as in Exploratory (a.) Serving or intended to explore; searching; examining; explorative.,
E as in Explored (imp. & p. p.) of Explore,
E as in Exploring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Explore,
E as in Explore (v. t.) To seek for or after; to strive to attain by search; to look wisely and carefully for.,
E as in Explore (v. t.) To search through or into; to penetrate or range over for discovery; to examine thoroughly; as, to explore new countries or seas; to explore the depths of science.,
E as in Explorement (n.) The act of exploring; exploration.,
E as in Explorer (n.) One who explores; also, an apparatus with which one explores, as a diving bell.,
E as in Eploring (a.) Employed in, or designed for, exploration.,
E as in Explosion (n.) The act of exploding; detonation; a chemical action which causes the sudden formation of a great volume of expanded gas; as, the explosion of gunpowder, of fire damp,etc.,
E as in Explosion (n.) A bursting with violence and loud noise, because of internal pressure; as, the explosion of a gun, a bomb, a steam boiler, etc.,
E as in Explosion (n.) A violent outburst of feeling, manifested by excited language, action, etc.; as, an explosion of wrath.,
E as in Explosive (a.) Driving or bursting out with violence and noise; causing explosion; as, the explosive force of gunpowder.,
E as in Explosive (n.) An explosive agent; a compound or mixture susceptible of a rapid chemical reaction, as gunpowder, or nitro-glycerine.,
E as in Explosive (n.) A sound produced by an explosive impulse of the breath; (Phonetics) one of consonants p, b, t, d, k, g, which are sounded with a sort of explosive power of voice. [See Guide to Pronunciation, � 155-7, 184.],
E as in Explosively (adv.) In an explosive manner.,
E as in Expoliation (n.) See Exspoliation.,
E as in Expolish (v. t.) To polish thoroughly.,
E as in Expone (v. t.) To expound; to explain; also, to expose; to imperil.,
E as in Exponent (n.) A number, letter, or any quantity written on the right hand of and above another quantity, and denoting how many times the latter is repeated as a factor to produce the power indicated,
E as in Exponent (n.) One who, or that which, stands as an index or representative; as, the leader of a party is the exponent of its principles.,
E as in Exponential (a.) Pertaining to exponents; involving variable exponents; as, an exponential expression; exponential calculus; an exponential function.,
E as in Exported (imp. & p. p.) of Export,
E as in Exporting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Export,
E as in Export (v. t.) To carry away; to remove.,
E as in Export (v. t.) To carry or send abroad, or out of a country, especially to foreign countries, as merchandise or commodities in the way of commerce; -- the opposite of import; as, to export grain, cotton, cattle, goods, etc.,
E as in Export (n.) The act of exporting; exportation; as, to prohibit the export of wheat or tobacco.,
E as in Export (n.) That which is exported; a commodity conveyed from one country or State to another in the way of traffic; -- used chiefly in the plural, exports.,
E as in Exportability (n.) The quality or state of being suitable for exportation.,
E as in Exportable (a.) Suitable for exportation; as, exportable products.,
E as in Exportation (n.) The act of exporting; the act of conveying or sending commodities abroad or to another country, in the course of commerce.,
E as in Exportation (n.) Commodity exported; an export.,
E as in Exportation (n.) The act of carrying out.,
E as in Exporter (n.) One who exports; the person who sends goods or commodities to a foreign country, in the way of commerce; -- opposed to importer.,
E as in Exposal (n.) Exposure.,
E as in Exposed (imp. & p. p.) of Expose,
E as in Exposing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Expose,
E as in Expose (v. t.) To set forth; to set out to public view; to exhibit; to show; to display; as, to expose goods for sale; to expose pictures to public inspection.,
E as in Expose (v. t.) To lay bare; to lay open to attack, danger, or anything objectionable; to render accessible to anything which may affect, especially detrimentally; to make liable; as, to expose one's self to the heat of the sun, or to cold, insult, danger, or ridicule; to expose an army to destruction or defeat.,
E as in Expose (v. t.) To deprive of concealment; to discover; to lay open to public inspection, or bring to public notice, as a thing that shuns publicity, something criminal, shameful, or the like; as, to expose the faults of a neighbor.,
E as in Expose (v. t.) To disclose the faults or reprehensible practices of; to lay open to general condemnation or contempt by making public the character or arts of; as, to expose a cheat, liar, or hypocrite.,
E as in Expose (v. t.) A formal recital or exposition of facts; exposure, or revelation, of something which some one wished to keep concealed.,
E as in Exposedness (n.) The state of being exposed, laid open, or unprotected; as, an exposedness to sin or temptation.,
E as in Exposer (n.) One who exposes or discloses.,
E as in Exposition (n.) The act of exposing or laying open; a setting out or displaying to public view.,
E as in Exposition (n.) The act of expounding or of laying open the sense or meaning of an author, or a passage; explanation; interpretation; the sense put upon a passage; a law, or the like, by an interpreter; hence, a work containing explanations or interpretations; a commentary.,
E as in Exposition (n.) Situation or position with reference to direction of view or accessibility to influence of sun, wind, etc.; exposure; as, an easterly exposition; an exposition to the sun.,
E as in Exposition (n.) A public exhibition or show, as of industrial and artistic productions; as, the Paris Exposition of 1878.,
E as in Expositive (a.) Serving to explain; expository.,
E as in Expositor (n.) One who, or that which, expounds or explains; an expounder; a commentator.,
E as in Expository (a.) Pertaining to, or containing, exposition; serving to explain; explanatory; illustrative; exegetical.,
E as in Ex post facto () Alt. of Ex postfacto,
E as in Ex postfacto () From or by an after act, or thing done afterward; in consequence of a subsequent act; retrospective.,
E as in Expostulated (imp. & p. p.) of Expostulate,
E as in Expostulating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Expostulate,
E as in Expostulate (v. i.) To reason earnestly with a person on some impropriety of his conduct, representing the wrong he has done or intends, and urging him to make redress or to desist; to remonstrate; -- followed by with.,
E as in Expostulate (v. t.) To discuss; to examine.,
E as in Expostulation (n.) The act of expostulating or reasoning with a person in opposition to some impropriety of conduct; remonstrance; earnest and kindly protest; dissuasion.,
E as in Expostulator (n.) One who expostulates.,
E as in Expostulatory (a.) Containing expostulation or remonstrance; as, an expostulatory discourse or letter.,
E as in Exposture (n.) Exposure.,
E as in Exposure (n.) The act of exposing or laying open, setting forth, laying bare of protection, depriving of care or concealment, or setting out to reprobation or contempt.,
E as in Exposure (n.) The state of being exposed or laid open or bare; openness to danger; accessibility to anything that may affect, especially detrimentally; as, exposure to observation, to cold, to inconvenience.,
E as in Exposure (n.) Position as to points of compass, or to influences of climate, etc.,
E as in Exposure (n.) The exposing of a sensitized plate to the action of light.,
E as in Expounded (imp. & p. p.) of Expound,
E as in Expounding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Expound,
E as in Expound (v. t.) To lay open; to expose to view; to examine.,
E as in Expound (v. t.) To lay open the meaning of; to explain; to clear of obscurity; to interpret; as, to expound a text of Scripture, a law, a word, a meaning, or a riddle.,
E as in Expounder (n.) One who expounds or explains; an interpreter.,
E as in Express (a.) Exactly representing; exact.,
E as in Express (a.) Directly and distinctly stated; declared in terms; not implied or left to inference; made unambiguous by intention and care; clear; not dubious; as, express consent; an express statement.,
E as in Express (a.) Intended for a particular purpose; relating to an express; sent on a particular errand; dispatched with special speed; as, an express messenger or train. Also used adverbially.,
E as in Express (n.) A clear image or representation; an expression; a plain declaration.,
E as in Express (n.) A messenger sent on a special errand; a courier; hence, a regular and fast conveyance; commonly, a company or system for the prompt and safe transportation of merchandise or parcels; also, a railway train for transporting passengers or goods with speed and punctuality.,
E as in Express (n.) An express office.,
E as in Express (n.) That which is sent by an express messenger or message.,
E as in Expressed (imp. & p. p.) of Express,
E as in Expressing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Express,
E as in Express (a.) To press or squeeze out; as, to express the juice of grapes, or of apples; hence, to extort; to elicit.,
E as in Express (a.) To make or offer a representation of; to show by a copy or likeness; to represent; to resemble.,
E as in Express (a.) To give a true impression of; to represent and make known; to manifest plainly; to show in general; to exhibit, as an opinion or feeling, by a look, gesture, and esp. by language; to declare; to utter; to tell.,
E as in Express (a.) To make known the opinions or feelings of; to declare what is in the mind of; to show (one's self); to cause to appear; -- used reflexively.,
E as in Express (a.) To denote; to designate.,
E as in Express (a.) To send by express messenger; to forward by special opportunity, or through the medium of an express; as, to express a package.,
E as in Expressage (n.) The charge for carrying a parcel by express.,
E as in Expressible (a.) Capable of being expressed, squeezed out, shown, represented, or uttered.,
E as in Expression (n.) The act of expressing; the act of forcing out by pressure; as, the expression of juices or oils; also, of extorting or eliciting; as, a forcible expression of truth.,
E as in Expression (n.) The act of declaring or signifying; declaration; utterance; as, an expression of the public will.,
E as in Expression (n.) Lively or vivid representation of meaning, sentiment, or feeling, etc.; significant and impressive indication, whether by language, appearance, or gesture; that manner or style which gives life and suggestive force to ideas and sentiments; as, he reads with expression; her performance on the piano has expression.,
E as in Expression (n.) That which is expressed by a countenance, a posture, a work of art, etc.; look, as indicative of thought or feeling.,
E as in Expression (n.) A form of words in which an idea or sentiment is conveyed; a mode of speech; a phrase; as, a common expression; an odd expression.,
E as in Expression (n.) The representation of any quantity by its appropriate characters or signs.,
E as in Expressional (a.) Of, or relating to, expression; phraseological; also, vividly representing or suggesting an idea or sentiment.,
E as in Expressionless (a.) Destitute of expression.,
E as in Expressive (a.) Serving to express, utter, or represent; indicative; communicative; -- followed by of; as, words expressive of his gratitude.,
E as in Expressive (a.) Full of expression; vividly representing the meaning or feeling meant to be conveyed; significant; emphatic; as, expressive looks or words.,
E as in Expressly (adv.) In an express manner; in direct terms; with distinct purpose; particularly; as, a book written expressly for the young.,
E as in Expressmen (pl. ) of Expressman,
E as in Expressman (n.) A person employed in the express business; also, the driver of a job wagon.,
E as in Expressness (n.) The state or quality of being express; definiteness.,
E as in Expressure (n.) The act of expressing; expression; utterance; representation.,
E as in Exprobrate (v. t.) To charge upon with reproach; to upbraid.,
E as in Exprobration (n.) Reproachful accusation; upbraiding.,
E as in Exprobrative (a.) Alt. of Exprobratory,
E as in Exprobratory (a.) Expressing reproach; upbraiding; reproachful.,
E as in Expropriate (v. t.) To put out of one's possession; to surrender the ownership of; also, to deprive of possession or proprietary rights.,
E as in Expropriation (n.) The act of expropriating; the surrender of a claim to exclusive property; the act of depriving of ownership or proprietary rights.,
E as in Expugn (v. t.) To take by assault; to storm; to overcome; to vanquish; as, to expugn cities; to expugn a person by arguments.,
E as in Expugnable (a.) Capable of being expugned.,
E as in Expugnation (n.) The act of taking by assault; conquest.,
E as in Expugner (n.) One who expugns.,
E as in Expulse (v. t.) To drive out; to expel.,
E as in Expulser (n.) An expeller.,
E as in Expulsion (n.) The act of expelling; a driving or forcing out; summary removal from membership, association, etc.,
E as in Expulsion (n.) The state of being expelled or driven out.,
E as in Expulsive (a.) Having the power of driving out or away; serving to expel.,
E as in Expunction (n.) The act of expunging or erasing; the condition of being expunged.,
E as in Expunged (imp. & p. p.) of Expunge,
E as in Expunging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Expunge,
E as in Expunge (v. t.) To blot out, as with pen; to rub out; to efface designedly; to obliterate; to strike out wholly; as, to expunge words, lines, or sentences.,
E as in Expunge (v. t.) To strike out; to wipe out or destroy; to annihilate; as, to expugne an offense.,
E as in Expurgated (imp. & p. p.) of Expurgate,
E as in Expurgating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Expurgate,
E as in Expurgate (v. t.) To purify; to clear from anything noxious, offensive, or erroneous; to cleanse; to purge; as, to expurgate a book.,
E as in Expurgation (n.) The act of expurgating, purging, or cleansing; purification from anything noxious, offensive, sinful, or erroneous.,
E as in Expurgator (n.) One who expurgates or purifies.,
E as in Expurgatorial (a.) Tending or serving to expurgate; expurgatory.,
E as in Expurgatorious (a.) Expurgatory.,
E as in Expurgatory (a.) Serving to purify from anything noxious or erroneous; cleansing; purifying.,
E as in Expurge (v. t.) To purge away.,
E as in Exquire (v. t.) To search into or out.,
E as in Exquisite (a.) Carefully selected or sought out; hence, of distinguishing and surpassing quality; exceedingly nice; delightfully excellent; giving rare satisfaction; as, exquisite workmanship.,
E as in Exquisite (a.) Exceeding; extreme; keen; -- used in a bad or a good sense; as, exquisite pain or pleasure.,
E as in Exquisite (a.) Of delicate perception or close and accurate discrimination; not easy to satisfy; exact; nice; fastidious; as, exquisite judgment, taste, or discernment.,
E as in Exquisite (n.) One who manifests an exquisite attention to external appearance; one who is overnice in dress or ornament; a fop; a dandy.,
E as in Exquisitely (adv.) In an exquisite manner or degree; as, lace exquisitely wrought.,
E as in Exquisiteness (n.) Quality of being exquisite.,
E as in Exquisitive (a.) Eager to discover or learn; curious.,
E as in Exsanguine (a.) Bloodless.,
E as in Exsanguineous (a.) Destitute of blood; anaemic; exsanguious.,
E as in Exsanguinity (n.) Privation or destitution of blood; -- opposed to plethora.,
E as in Exsanguinous (a.) See Exsanguious.,
E as in Exsanguious (a.) Destitute of blood.,
E as in Exsanguious (a.) Destitute of true, or red, blood, as insects.,
E as in Exscinded (imp. & p. p.) of Exscind,
E as in Exscinding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Exscind,
E as in Exscind (v. t.) To cut off; to separate or expel from union; to extirpate.,
E as in Exscribe (v. t.) To copy; to transcribe.,
E as in Exscript (n.) A copy; a transcript.,
E as in Exscriptural (a.) Not in accordance with the doctrines of Scripture; unscriptural.,
E as in Exscutellate (a.) Without, or apparently without, a scutellum; -- said of certain insects.,
E as in Exsect (v. t.) A cutting out or away.,
E as in Exsect (v. t.) The removal by operation of a portion of a limb; particularly, the removal of a portion of a bone in the vicinity of a joint; the act or process of cutting out.,
E as in Exsert (a.) Alt. of Exserted,
E as in Exserted (a.) Standing out; projecting beyond some other part; as, exsert stamens.,
E as in Exsertile (a.) Capable of being thrust out or protruded.,
E as in Exsiccant (a.) Having the quality of drying up; causing a drying up.,
E as in Exsiccant (n.) An exsiccant medicine.,
E as in Exsiccated (imp. & p. p.) of Exsiccate,
E as in Exsiccating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Exsiccate,
E as in Exsiccate (v. t.) To exhaust or evaporate moisture from; to dry up.,
E as in Exsiccation (n.) The act of operation of drying; evaporation or expulsion of moisture; state of being dried up; dryness.,
E as in Exsiccative (a.) Tending to make dry; having the power of drying.,
E as in Exsiccator (n.) An apparatus for drying substances or preserving them from moisture; a desiccator; also, less frequently, an agent employed to absorb moisture, as calcium chloride, or concentrated sulphuric acid.,
E as in Exsiliency (n.) A leaping out.,
E as in Exsolution (n.) Relaxation.,
E as in Exspoliation (n.) Spoliation.,
E as in Exspuition (n.) A discharge of saliva by spitting.,
E as in Exsputory (a.) Spit out, or as if spit out.,
E as in Exstipulate (a.) Having no stipules.,
E as in Exstrophy (n.) The eversion or turning out of any organ, or of its inner surface; as, exstrophy of the eyelid or of the bladder.,
E as in Exsuccous (a.) Destitute of juice; dry; sapless. Latham.,
E as in Exsuction (n.) The act of sucking out.,
E as in Exsudation (n.) Exudation.,
E as in Exsufflate (v. t.) To exorcise or renounce by blowing.,
E as in Exsufflation (n.) A blast from beneath.,
E as in Exsufflation (n.) A kind of exorcism by blowing with the breath.,
E as in Exsufflation (n.) A strongly forced expiration of air from the lungs.,
E as in Exsufflicate (a.) Empty; frivolous.,
E as in Exsuscitate (v. t.) To rouse; to excite.,
E as in Exsuscitation (n.) A stirring up; a rousing.,
E as in Extacy (n.) See Ecstasy.,
E as in Extance (n.) Outward existence.,
E as in Extancy (n.) The state of rising above others; a projection.,
E as in Extant (a.) Standing out or above any surface; protruded.,
E as in Extant (a.) Still existing; not destroyed or lost; outstanding.,
E as in Extant (a.) Publicly known; conspicuous.,
E as in Extasy (n. & v. t.) See Ecstasy, n. & v. t.,
E as in Extatic (a.) See Ecstatic, a.,
E as in Extemporal (a.) Extemporaneous; unpremeditated.,
E as in Extemporanean (a.) Extemporaneous.,
E as in Extemporaneous (a.) Composed, performed, or uttered on the spur of the moment, or without previous study; unpremeditated; off-hand; extempore; extemporary; as, an extemporaneous address or production.,
E as in Extemporarily (adv.) Extemporaneously.,
E as in Extemporary (a.) Extemporaneous.,
E as in Extemporary (a.) Made for the occasion; for the time being.,
E as in Extempore (adv.) Without previous study or meditation; without preparation; on the spur of the moment; suddenly; extemporaneously; as, to write or speak extempore.,
E as in Extempore (a.) Done or performed extempore.,
E as in Extempore (n.) Speaking or writing done extempore.,
E as in Extemporiness (n.) The quality of being done or devised extempore,
E as in Extemporization (n.) The act of extemporizing; the act of doing anything extempore.,
E as in Extemporized (imp. & p. p.) of Extemporize,
E as in Extemporizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Extemporize,
E as in Extemporize (v. i.) To speak extempore; especially, to discourse without special preparation; to make an offhand address.,
E as in Extemporize (v. t.) To do, make, or utter extempore or off-hand; to prepare in great haste, under urgent necessity, or with scanty or unsuitable materials; as, to extemporize a dinner, a costume, etc.,
E as in Extemporizer (n.) One who extemporizes.,
E as in Extended (imp. & p. p.) of Extend,
E as in Extending (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Extend,
E as in Extend (v. t.) To stretch out; to prolong in space; to carry forward or continue in length; as, to extend a line in surveying; to extend a cord across the street.,
E as in Extend (v. t.) To enlarge, as a surface or volume; to expand; to spread; to amplify; as, to extend metal plates by hammering or rolling them.,
E as in Extend (v. t.) To enlarge; to widen; to carry out further; as, to extend the capacities, the sphere of usefulness, or commerce; to extend power or influence; to continue, as time; to lengthen; to prolong; as, to extend the time of payment or a season of trail.,
E as in Extend (v. t.) To hold out or reach forth, as the arm or hand.,
E as in Extend (v. t.) To bestow; to offer; to impart; to apply; as, to extend sympathy to the suffering.,
E as in Extend (v. t.) To increase in quantity by weakening or adulterating additions; as, to extend liquors.,
E as in Extend (v. t.) To value, as lands taken by a writ of extent in satisfaction of a debt; to assign by writ of extent.,
E as in Extendant (a.) Displaced.,
E as in Extendedly (adv.) In an extended manner.,
E as in Extender (n.) One who, or that which, extends or stretches anything.,
E as in Extendible (a.) Capable of being extended, susceptible of being stretched, extended, enlarged, widened, or expanded.,
E as in Extendible (a.) Liable to be taken by a writ of extent.,
E as in Extendlessness (n.) Unlimited extension.,
E as in Extense (v. t.) Outreaching; expansive; extended, superficially or otherwise.,
E as in Extensibility (n.) The quality of being extensible; the capacity of being extended; as, the extensibility of a fiber, or of a plate of metal.,
E as in Extensible (a.) Capable of being extended, whether in length or breadth; susceptible of enlargement; extensible; extendible; -- the opposite of contractible or compressible.,
E as in Extensibleness (n.) Extensibility.,
E as in Extensile (a.) Suited for, or capable of, extension; extensible.,
E as in Extension (v. t.) The act of extending or the state of being extended; a stretching out; enlargement in breadth or continuation of length; increase; augmentation; expansion.,
E as in Extension (v. t.) That property of a body by which it occupies a portion of space.,
E as in Extension (v. t.) Capacity of a concept or general term to include a greater or smaller number of objects; -- correlative of intension.,
E as in Extension (v. t.) The operation of stretching a broken bone so as to bring the fragments into the same straight line.,
E as in Extension (v. t.) The straightening of a limb, in distinction from flexion.,
E as in Extension (v. t.) A written engagement on the part of a creditor, allowing a debtor further time to pay a debt.,
E as in Extensional (a.) Having great extent.,
E as in Extensionist (n.) One who favors or advocates extension.,
E as in Extensive (a.) Having wide extent; of much superficial extent; expanded; large; broad; wide; comprehensive; as, an extensive farm; an extensive lake; an extensive sphere of operations; extensive benevolence; extensive greatness.,
E as in Extensive (a.) Capable of being extended.,
E as in Extensively (adv.) To a great extent; widely; largely; as, a story is extensively circulated.,
E as in Extensiveness (n.) The state of being extensive; wideness; largeness; extent; diffusiveness.,
E as in Extensometer (n.) An instrument for measuring the extension of a body, especially for measuring the elongation of bars of iron, steel, or other material, when subjected to a tensile force.,
E as in Extensor (n.) A muscle which serves to extend or straighten any part of the body, as an arm or a finger; -- opposed to flexor.,
E as in Extensure (n.) Extension.,
E as in Extent (a.) Extended.,
E as in Extent (n.) Space or degree to which a thing is extended; hence, superficies; compass; bulk; size; length; as, an extent of country or of line; extent of information or of charity.,
E as in Extent (n.) Degree; measure; proportion.,
E as in Extent (n.) A peculiar species of execution upon debts due to the crown, under which the lands and goods of the debtor may be seized to secure payment.,
E as in Extent (n.) A process of execution by which the lands and goods of a debtor are valued and delivered to the creditor.,
E as in Extenuated (imp. & p. p.) of Extenuate,
E as in Extenuating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Extenuate,
E as in Extenuate (v. t.) To make thin or slender; to draw out so as to lessen the thickness.,
E as in Extenuate (v. t.) To lessen; to palliate; to lessen or weaken the force of; to diminish the conception of, as crime, guilt, faults, ills, accusations, etc.; -- opposed to aggravate.,
E as in Extenuate (v. t.) To lower or degrade; to detract from.,
E as in Extenuate (v. i.) To become thinner; to make excuses; to advance palliating considerations.,
E as in Extenuate (a.) Thin; slender.,
E as in Extenuation (n.) The act of axtenuating or the state of being extenuated; the act of making thin, slender, or lean, or of palliating; diminishing, or lessening; palliation, as of a crime; mitigation, as of punishment.,
E as in Extenuator (n.) One who extenuates.,
E as in Extenuatory (a.) Tending to extenuate or palliate.,
E as in Exterior (a.) External; outward; pertaining to that which is external; -- opposed to interior; as, the exterior part of a sphere.,
E as in Exterior (a.) External; on the outside; without the limits of; extrinsic; as, an object exterior to a man, opposed to what is within, or in his mind.,
E as in Exterior (a.) Relating to foreign nations; foreign; as, the exterior relations of a state or kingdom.,
E as in Exterior (n.) The outward surface or part of a thing; that which is external; outside.,
E as in Exterior (n.) Outward or external deportment, form, or ceremony; visible act; as, the exteriors of religion.,
E as in Exteriority (n.) Surface; superficies; externality.,
E as in Exteriorly (adv.) Outwardly; externally; on the exterior.,
E as in Exterminated (imp. & p. p.) of Exterminate,
E as in Exterminating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Exterminate,
E as in Exterminate (v. t.) To drive out or away; to expel.,
E as in Exterminate (v. t.) To destroy utterly; to cut off; to extirpate; to annihilate; to root out; as, to exterminate a colony, a tribe, or a nation; to exterminate error or vice.,
E as in Exterminate (v. t.) To eliminate, as unknown quantities.,
E as in Extermination (n.) The act of exterminating; total destruction; eradication; excision; as, the extermination of inhabitants or tribes, of error or vice, or of weeds from a field.,
E as in Extermination (n.) Elimination.,
E as in Exterminator (n.) One who, or that which, exterminates.,
E as in Exterminatory (a.) Of or pertaining to extermination; tending to exterminate.,
E as in Extermine (v. t.) To exterminate; to destroy.,
E as in Extern (a.) External; outward; not inherent.,
E as in Extern (n.) A pupil in a seminary who lives without its walls; a day scholar.,
E as in Extern (n.) Outward form or part; exterior.,
E as in External (a.) Outward; exterior; relating to the outside, as of a body; being without; acting from without; -- opposed to internal; as, the external form or surface of a body.,
E as in External (a.) Outside of or separate from ourselves; (Metaph.) separate from the perceiving mind.,
E as in External (a.) Outwardly perceptible; visible; physical or corporeal, as distinguished from mental or moral.,
E as in External (a.) Not intrinsic nor essential; accidental; accompanying; superficial.,
E as in External (a.) Foreign; relating to or connected with foreign nations; as, external trade or commerce; the external relations of a state or kingdom.,
E as in External (a.) Away from the mesial plane of the body; lateral.,
E as in External (n.) Something external or without; outward part; that which makes a show, rather than that which is intrinsic; visible form; -- usually in the plural.,
E as in Externalism (n.) The quality of being manifest to the senses; external acts or appearances; regard for externals.,
E as in Externalism (n.) That philosophy or doctrine which recognizes or deals only with externals, or objects of sense perception; positivism; phenomenalism.,
E as in Externalistic (a.) Pertaining to externalism,
E as in Externality (n.) State of being external; exteriority,
E as in Externality (n.) separation from the perceiving mind.,
E as in Externalize (v. t.) To make external; to manifest by outward form.,
E as in Externally (adv.) In an external manner; outwardly; on the outside; in appearance; visibly.,
E as in Externe (n.) An officer in attendance upon a hospital, but not residing in it; esp., one who cares for the out-patients.,
E as in Exterraneous (a.) Foreign; belonging to, or coming from, abroad.,
E as in Exterritorial (a.) Beyond the territorial limits; foreign to, or exempt from, the territorial jurisdiction.,
E as in Exterritoriality (n.) The state of being beyond the limits of a country.,
E as in Exterritoriality (n.) The state of being free from the jurisdiction of a country when within its territorial limits.,
E as in Extersion (n.) The act of wiping or rubbing out.,
E as in Extilled (imp. & p. p.) of Extill,
E as in Extilling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Extill,
E as in Extill (v. i.) To drop or distill.,
E as in Extillation (n.) Distillation.,
E as in Extimulate (v. t.) To stimulate.,
E as in Extimulation (n.) Stimulation.,
E as in Extinct (a.) Extinguished; put out; quenched; as, a fire, a light, or a lamp, is extinct; an extinct volcano.,
E as in Extinct (a.) Without a survivor; without force; dead; as, a family becomes extinct; an extinct feud or law.,
E as in Extinct (v. t.) To cause to be extinct.,
E as in Extinction (n.) The act of extinguishing or making extinct; a putting an end to; the act of putting out or destroying light, fire, life, activity, influence, etc.,
E as in Extinction (n.) State of being extinguished or of ceasing to be; destruction; suppression; as, the extinction of life, of a family, of a quarrel, of claim.,
E as in Extine (n.) The outer membrane of the grains of pollen of flowering plants.,
E as in Extinguished (imp. & p. p.) of Extinguish,
E as in Extinguishing (p pr. & vb. n.) of Extinguish,
E as in Extinguish (v. t.) To quench; to put out, as a light or fire; to stifle; to cause to die out; to put an end to; to destroy; as, to extinguish a flame, or life, or love, or hope, a pretense or a right.,
E as in Extinguish (v. t.) To obscure; to eclipse, as by superior splendor.,
E as in Extinguishable (a.) Capable of being quenched, destroyed, or suppressed.,
E as in Extinguisher (n.) One who, or that which, extinguishes; esp., a hollow cone or other device for extinguishing a flame, as of a torch or candle.,
E as in Extinguishment (n.) The act of extinguishing, putting out, or quenching, or the state of being extinguished; extinction; suppression; destruction; nullification; as, the extinguishment of fire or flame, of discord, enmity, or jealousy, or of love or affection.,
E as in Extinguishment (n.) The annihilation or extinction of a right or obligation.,
E as in Extirp (v. t.) To extirpate.,
E as in Extirpable (a.) Capable of being extirpated or eradicated; as, an extirpable plant.,
E as in Extirpated (imp. & p. p.) of Extirpate,
E as in Extirpating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Extirpate,
E as in Extirpate (v. t.) To pluck up by the stem or root; to root out; to eradicate, literally or figuratively; to destroy wholly; as, to extirpate weeds; to extirpate a tumor; to extirpate a sect; to extirpate error or heresy.,
E as in Extirpation (n.) The act of extirpating or rooting out, or the state of being extirpated; eradication; excision; total destruction; as, the extirpation of weeds from land, of evil from the heart, of a race of men, of heresy.,
E as in Extirpative (a.) Capable of rooting out, or tending to root out.,
E as in Extirpator (n.) One who extirpates or roots out; a destroyer.,
E as in Extirpatory (a.) Extirpative.,
E as in Extirper (n.) Extirpator.,
E as in Extispicious (a.) Relating to the inspection of entrails for prognostication.,
E as in Extogenous (a.) Exogenous.,
E as in Extolled (imp. & p. p.) of Extol,
E as in Extolling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Extol,
E as in Extol (v. t.) To place on high; to lift up; to elevate.,
E as in Extol (v. t.) To elevate by praise; to eulogize; to praise; to magnify; as, to extol virtue; to extol an act or a person.,
E as in Extoller (n.) One who extols; one who praises.,
E as in Extolment (n.) Praise.,
E as in Extorsive (a.) Serving or tending to extort.,
E as in Extorted (imp. & p. p.) of Extort,
E as in Extorting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Extort,
E as in Extort (v. t.) To wrest from an unwilling person by physical force, menace, duress, torture, or any undue or illegal exercise of power or ingenuity; to wrench away (from); to tear away; to wring (from); to exact; as, to extort contributions from the vanquished; to extort confessions of guilt; to extort a promise; to extort payment of a debt.,
E as in Extort (v. t.) To get by the offense of extortion. See Extortion, 2.,
E as in Extort (v. i.) To practice extortion.,
E as in Extort (p. p. & a.) Extorted.,
E as in Extorter (n.) One who practices extortion.,
E as in Extortion (n.) The act of extorting; the act or practice of wresting anything from a person by force, by threats, or by any undue exercise of power; undue exaction; overcharge.,
E as in Extortion (n.) The offense committed by an officer who corruptly claims and takes, as his fee, money, or other thing of value, that is not due, or more than is due, or before it is due.,
E as in Extortion (n.) That which is extorted or exacted by force.,
E as in Extortionary (a.) Extortionate.,
E as in Extortionate (a.) Characterized by extortion; oppressive; hard.,
E as in Extortioner (n.) One who practices extortion.,
E as in Extortious (a.) Extortionate.,
E as in Extra- () A Latin preposition, denoting beyond, outside of; -- often used in composition as a prefix signifying outside of, beyond, besides, or in addition to what is denoted by the word to which it is prefixed.,
E as in Extra (a.) Beyond what is due, usual, expected, or necessary; additional; supernumerary; also, extraordinarily good; superior; as, extra work; extra pay.,
E as in Extras (pl. ) of Extra,
E as in Extra (n.) Something in addition to what is due, expected, or customary; something in addition to the regular charge or compensation, or for which an additional charge is made; as, at European hotels lights are extras.,
E as in Extraarticular (a.) Situated outside of a joint.,
E as in Extraaxillar (a.) Alt. of Extraaxillary,
E as in Extraaxillary (a.) Growing outside of the axils; as, an extra-axillary bud.,
E as in Extrabranchial (a.) Outside of the branchial arches; -- said of the cartilages thus placed in some fishes.,
E as in Extracapsular (a.) Situated outside of a capsule, esp. outside the capsular ligament of a joint.,
E as in Extracted (imp. & p. p.) of Extract,
E as in Extracting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Extract,
E as in Extract (v. t.) To draw out or forth; to pull out; to remove forcibly from a fixed position, as by traction or suction, etc.; as, to extract a tooth from its socket, a stump from the earth, a splinter from the finger.,
E as in Extract (v. t.) To withdraw by expression, distillation, or other mechanical or chemical process; as, to extract an essence. Cf. Abstract, v. t., 6.,
E as in Extract (v. t.) To take by selection; to choose out; to cite or quote, as a passage from a book.,
E as in Extract (n.) That which is extracted or drawn out.,
E as in Extract (n.) A portion of a book or document, separately transcribed; a citation; a quotation.,
E as in Extract (n.) A decoction, solution, or infusion made by drawing out from any substance that which gives it its essential and characteristic virtue; essence; as, extract of beef; extract of dandelion; also, any substance so extracted, and characteristic of that from which it is obtained; as, quinine is the most important extract of Peruvian bark.,
E as in Extract (n.) A solid preparation obtained by evaporating a solution of a drug, etc., or the fresh juice of a plant; -- distinguished from an abstract. See Abstract, n., 4.,
E as in Extract (n.) A peculiar principle once erroneously supposed to form the basis of all vegetable extracts; -- called also the extractive principle.,
E as in Extract (n.) Extraction; descent.,
E as in Extract (n.) A draught or copy of writing; certified copy of the proceedings in an action and the judgement therein, with an order for execution.,
E as in Extractable (a.) Alt. of Extractible,
E as in Extractible (a.) Capable of being extracted.,
E as in Extractiform (a.) Having the form, appearance, or nature, of an extract.,
E as in Extraction (n.) The act of extracting, or drawing out; as, the extraction of a tooth, of a bone or an arrow from the body, of a stump from earth, of a passage from a book, of an essence or tincture.,
E as in Extraction (n.) Derivation from a stock or family; lineage; descent; birth; the stock from which one has descended.,
E as in Extraction (n.) That which is extracted; extract; essence.,
E as in Extractive (a.) Capable of being extracted.,
E as in Extractive (a.) Tending or serving to extract or draw out.,
E as in Extractive (n.) Anything extracted; an extract.,
E as in Extractive (n.) A chemical principle once supposed to exist in all extracts.,
E as in Extractive (n.) Any one of a large class of substances obtained by extraction, and consisting largely of nitrogenous hydrocarbons, such as xanthin, hypoxanthin, and creatin extractives from muscle tissue.,
E as in Extractor (n.) One who, or that which, extracts,
E as in Extractor (n.) A forceps or instrument for extracting substances.,
E as in Extractor (n.) A device for withdrawing a cartridge or spent cartridge shell from the chamber of the barrel.,
E as in Extradictionary (a.) Consisting not in words, but in realities.,
E as in Extraditable (a.) Subject, or liable, to extradition, as a fugitive from justice.,
E as in Extraditable (a.) Making liable to extradition; as, extraditable offenses.,
E as in Extradited (imp. & p. p.) of Extradite,
E as in Extraditing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Extradite,
E as in Extradite (v. t.) To deliver up by one government to another, as a fugitive from justice. See Extradition.,
E as in Extradition (n.) The surrender or delivery of an alleged criminal by one State or sovereignty to another having jurisdiction to try charge.,
E as in Extrados (n.) The exterior curve of an arch; esp., the upper curved face of the whole body of voussoirs. See Intrados.,
E as in Extradotal (a.) Forming no part of the dowry; as, extradotal property.,
E as in Extrafoliaceous (a.) Away from the leaves, or inserted in a different place from them; as, extrafoliaceous prickles.,
E as in Extraforaneous (a.) Pertaining to that which is out of doors.,
E as in Extrageneous (a.) Belonging to another race or kind.,
E as in Extrajudicial (a.) Out of or beyond the proper authority of a court or judge; beyond jurisdiction; not legally required.,
E as in Extralimitary (a.) Being beyond the limit or bounds; as, extraliminary land.,
E as in Extralogical (a.) Lying outside of the domain of logic.,
E as in Extramission (n.) A sending out; emission.,
E as in Extramundane (a.) Beyond the material world.,
E as in Extramural (a.) Outside of the walls, as of a fortified or walled city.,
E as in Extraneity (n.) State of being without or beyond a thing; foreignness.,
E as in Extraneous (a.) Not belonging to, or dependent upon, a thing; without or beyond a thing; not essential or intrinsic; foreign; as, to separate gold from extraneous matter.,
E as in Extra-ocular (a.) Inserted exterior to the eyes; -- said of the antennae of certain insects.,
E as in Extra-official (a.) Not prescribed by official duty.,
E as in Extraordinarily (adv.) In an extraordinary manner or degree.,
E as in Extraordinariness (n.) The quality of being extraordinary.,
E as in Extraordinary (a.) Beyond or out of the common order or method; not usual, customary, regular, or ordinary; as, extraordinary evils; extraordinary remedies.,
E as in Extraordinary (a.) Exceeding the common degree, measure. or condition; hence, remarkable; uncommon; rare; wonderful; as, extraordinary talents or grandeur.,
E as in Extraordinary (a.) Employed or sent upon an unusual or special service; as, an ambassador extraordinary.,
E as in Extraordinaries (pl. ) of Extraordinary,
E as in Extraordinary (n.) That which is extraordinary; -- used especially in the plural; as, extraordinaries excepted, there is nothing to prevent success.,
E as in Extraparochial (a.) Beyond the limits of a parish.,
E as in Extraphysical (a.) Not subject to physical laws or methods.,
E as in Extraprofessional (a.) Foreign to a profession; not within the ordinary limits of professional duty or business.,
E as in Extraprovincial (a.) Not within of pertaining to the same province or jurisdiction.,
E as in Extraregular (a.) Not comprehended within a rule or rules.,
E as in Extrastapedial (a.) Pertaining to a part of the columella of the ear, which, in many animals, projects beyond the connection with the stapes.,
E as in Extrastapedial (n.) The extrastapedial part of columella.,
E as in Extraterritorial (a.) Beyond the limits of a territory or particular jurisdiction; exterritorial.,
E as in Extraterritoriality (n.) The state of being beyond the limits of a particular territory,
E as in Extraterritoriality (n.) A fiction by which a public minister, though actually in a foreign country, is supposed still to remain within the territory of his own sovereign or nation.,
E as in Extratropical (a.) Beyond or outside of the tropics.,
E as in Extraught (p. p.) Extracted; descended.,
E as in Extra-uterine (a.) Outside of the uterus, or womb.,
E as in Extravagance (n.) A wandering beyond proper limits; an excursion or sally from the usual way, course, or limit.,
E as in Extravagance (n.) The state of being extravagant, wild, or prodigal beyond bounds of propriety or duty; want of moderation; excess; especially, undue expenditure of money; vaid and superfluous expense; prodigality; as, extravagance of anger, love, expression, imagination, demands.,
E as in Extravagancies (pl. ) of Extravagancy,
E as in Extravagancy (n.) Extravagance.,
E as in Extravagant (a.) Wandering beyond one's bounds; roving; hence, foreign.,
E as in Extravagant (a.) Exceeding due bounds; wild; excessive; unrestrained; as, extravagant acts, wishes, praise, abuse.,
E as in Extravagant (a.) Profuse in expenditure; prodigal; wasteful; as, an extravagant man.,
E as in Extravagant (n.) One who is confined to no general rule.,
E as in Extravagant (n.) Certain constitutions or decretal epistles, not at first included with others, but subsequently made a part of the canon law.,
E as in Extravagantly (adv.) In an extravagant manner; wildly; excessively; profusely.,
E as in Extravagantness (n.) The state of being extravagant or in excess; excess; extravagance.,
E as in Extravaganza (n.) A composition, as in music, or in the drama, designed to produce effect by its wild irregularity; esp., a musical caricature.,
E as in Extravaganza (n.) An extravagant flight of sentiment or language.,
E as in Extravagate (v. i.) To rove.,
E as in Extravagation (n.) A wandering beyond limits; excess.,
E as in Extravasated (imp. & p. p.) of Extravasate,
E as in Extravasating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Extravasate,
E as in Extravasate (v. t.) To force or let out of the proper vessels or arteries, as blood.,
E as in Extravasation (n.) The act of forcing or letting out of its proper vessels or ducts, as a fluid; effusion; as, an extravasation of blood after a rupture of the vessels.,
E as in Extravascular (a.) Outside the vessels; -- said of the substance of all the tissues.,
E as in Extravascular (a.) Destitute of vessels; non-vascular.,
E as in Extravenate (a.) Let out of the veins.,
E as in Extraversion (n.) The act of throwing out; the state of being turned or thrown out.,
E as in Extreat (n.) Extraction.,
E as in Extreme (a.) At the utmost point, edge, or border; outermost; utmost; farthest; most remote; at the widest limit.,
E as in Extreme (a.) Last; final; conclusive; -- said of time; as, the extreme hour of life.,
E as in Extreme (a.) The best of worst; most urgent; greatest; highest; immoderate; excessive; most violent; as, an extreme case; extreme folly.,
E as in Extreme (a.) Radical; ultra; as, extreme opinions.,
E as in Extreme (a.) Extended or contracted as much as possible; -- said of intervals; as, an extreme sharp second; an extreme flat forth.,
E as in Extreme (n.) The utmost point or verge; that part which terminates a body; extremity.,
E as in Extreme (n.) Utmost limit or degree that is supposable or tolerable; hence, furthest degree; any undue departure from the mean; -- often in the plural: things at an extreme distance from each other, the most widely different states, etc.; as, extremes of heat and cold, of virtue and vice; extremes meet.,
E as in Extreme (n.) An extreme state or condition; hence, calamity, danger, distress, etc.,
E as in Extreme (n.) Either of the extreme terms of a syllogism, the middle term being interposed between them.,
E as in Extreme (n.) The first or the last term of a proportion or series.,
E as in Extremeless (a.) Having no extremes; infinite.,
E as in Extremely (adv.) In an extreme manner or state; in the utmost degree; to the utmost point; exceedingly; as, extremely hot or cold.,
E as in Extremist (n.) A supporter of extreme doctrines or practice; one who holds extreme opinions.,
E as in Extremities (pl. ) of Extremity,
E as in Extremity (n.) The extreme part; the utmost limit; the farthest or remotest point or part; as, the extremities of a country.,
E as in Extremity (n.) One of locomotive appendages of an animal; a limb; a leg or an arm of man.,
E as in Extremity (n.) The utmost point; highest degree; most aggravated or intense form.,
E as in Extremity (n.) The highest degree of inconvenience, pain, or suffering; greatest need or peril; extreme need; necessity.,
E as in Extricable (a.) Capable of being extricated.,
E as in Extricated (imp. & p. p.) of Extricate,
E as in Extricating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Extricate,
E as in Extricate (v. t.) To free, as from difficulties or perplexities; to disentangle; to disembarrass; as, to extricate a person from debt, peril, etc.,
E as in Extricate (v. t.) To cause to be emitted or evolved; as, to extricate heat or moisture.,
E as in Extrication (n.) The act or process of extricating or disentangling; a freeing from perplexities; disentanglement.,
E as in Extrication (n.) The act of sending out or evolving.,
E as in Extrinsic (a.) Not contained in or belonging to a body; external; outward; unessential; -- opposed to intrinsic.,
E as in Extrinsic (a.) Attached partly to an organ or limb and partly to some other part/ -- said of certain groups of muscles. Opposed to intrinsic.,
E as in Extrinsical (a.) Extrinsic.,
E as in Extrinsicality (n.) Alt. of Extrinsicalness,
E as in Extrinsicalness (n.) The state or quality of being extrinsic.,
E as in Extroitive (a.) Seeking or going out after external objects.,
E as in Extrorsal (a.) Extrorse.,
E as in Extrorse (a.) Facing outwards, or away from the axis of growth; -- said esp. of anthers occupying the outer side of the filament.,
E as in Extroversion (n.) The condition of being turned wrong side out; as, extroversion of the bladder.,
E as in Extruct (v. t.) To construct.,
E as in Extruction (n.) A building up; construction.,
E as in Extructive (a.) Constructive.,
E as in Extructor (n.) A builder.,
E as in Extruded (imp. & p. p.) of Extrude,
E as in Extruding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Extrude,
E as in Extrude (v. t.) To thrust out; to force, press, or push out; to expel; to drive off or away.,
E as in Extrusion (n.) The act of thrusting or pushing out; a driving out; expulsion.,
E as in Extuberance (n.) A swelling or rising; protuberance.,
E as in Extuberancy (n.) Extuberance.,
E as in Extuberant (a.) Swollen out; protuberant.,
E as in Extuberate (v. i.) To swell out.,
E as in Extuberation (n.) Protuberance.,
E as in Extumescence (n.) A swelling or rising.,
E as in Exuberance (n.) The state of being exuberant; an overflowing quantity; a copious or excessive production or supply; superabundance; richness; as, an exuberance of joy, of fancy, or of foliage.,
E as in Exuberancy (n.) Exuberance.,
E as in Exuberant (a.) Characterized by abundance or superabundance; plenteous; rich; overflowing; copious or excessive in production; as, exuberant goodness; an exuberant intellect; exuberant foliage.,
E as in Exuberate (n.) To abound; to be in great abundance.,
E as in Exuccous (a.) See Exsuccous.,
E as in Exudate (v. t. & i.) To exude.,
E as in Exudation (n.) The act of exuding; sweating; a discharge of humors, moisture, juice, or gum, as through pores or incisions; also, the substance exuded.,
E as in Exuded (imp. & p. p.) of Exude,
E as in exuding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Exude,
E as in Exude (v. t.) To discharge through pores or incisions, as moisture or other liquid matter; to give out.,
E as in Exude (v. i.) To flow from a body through the pores, or by a natural discharge, as juice.,
E as in Exulcerate (v. t. & i.) To ulcerate.,
E as in Exulcerate (v. t. & i.) To corrode; to fret; to chafe; to inflame.,
E as in Exulcerate (a.) Very sore; ulcerated.,
E as in Exulceration (n.) Ulceration.,
E as in Exulceration (n.) A fretting; a festering; soreness.,
E as in Exulcerative (a.) Tending to cause ulcers; exulceratory.,
E as in Exulceratory (a.) Having a tendency to form ulcers; rendering ulcerous.,
E as in Exulted (imp. & p. p.) of Exult,
E as in Exulting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Exult,
E as in Exult (v. i.) To be in high spirits; figuratively, to leap for joy; to rejoice in triumph or exceedingly; to triumph; as, an exulting heart.,
E as in Exultance (n.) Alt. of Exultancy,
E as in Exultancy (n.) Exultation.,
E as in Exultant (a.) Inclined to exult; characterized by, or expressing, exultation; rejoicing triumphantly.,
E as in Exultation (n.) The act of exulting; lively joy at success or victory, or at any advantage gained; rapturous delight; triumph.,
E as in Exulting (a.) Rejoicing triumphantly or exceedingly; exultant.,
E as in Exundate (v. i.) To overflow; to inundate.,
E as in Exundation (n.) An overflow, or overflowing abundance.,
E as in Exungulated (imp. & p. p.) of Exungulate,
E as in Exungulating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Exungulate,
E as in Exungulate (v. t.) To pare off, as nails, the hoof, etc.,
E as in Exuperable (a.) Surmountable; superable.,
E as in Exuperance (n.) Superiority; superfluity.,
E as in Exuperant (a.) Surpassing; exceeding; surmounting.,
E as in Exuperate (v. t.) To excel; to surmount.,
E as in Exuperation (n.) The act of rising or coming into view.,
E as in Exurgent (a.) Arising; coming to light.,
E as in Exuscitate (v. t.) See Exsuscitate,
E as in Exustion (n.) The act or operation of burning up.,
E as in Exutory (n.) An issue.,
E as in Exuvia () n. sing. of Exuviae.,
E as in Exuviability (n.) Capability of shedding the skin periodically.,
E as in Exuviable (a.) Capable of being cast off in the form of exuviae.,
E as in Exuviae (n. pl.) Cast skins, shells, or coverings of animals; any parts of animals which are shed or cast off, as the skins of snakes, the shells of lobsters, etc.,
E as in Exuviae (n. pl.) The fossil shells and other remains which animals have left in the strata of the earth.,
E as in Exuvial (a.) Of or pertaining to exuviae.,
E as in Exuviated (imp. & p. p.) of Exuviate,
E as in Exuviating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Exuviate,
E as in Exuviate (v. i.) To shed an old covering or condition preliminary to taking on a new one; to molt.,
E as in Exuviation (n.) The rejecting or casting off of some part, more particularly, the outer cuticular layer, as the shells of crustaceans, skins of snakes, etc.; molting; ecdysis.,
E as in Ex-votos (pl. ) of Ex-voto,
E as in Ex-voto (n.) An offering to a church in fulfillment of a vow.,
E as in Ey (n.) An island.,
E as in Eyren (pl. ) of Ey,
E as in Ey (n.) See Egg.,
E as in Ey () An interj. of wonder or inquiry.,
E as in Eyalet (n.) Formerly, one of the administrative divisions or provinces of the Ottoman Empire; -- now called a vilayet.,
E as in Eyas (n.) A nesting or unfledged bird; in falconry, a young hawk from the nest, not able to prey for itself.,
E as in Eyas (a.) Unfledged, or newly fledged.,
E as in Eyasmusket (n.) An unfledged or young male sparrow hawk.,
E as in Eye (n.) A brood; as, an eye of pheasants.,
E as in Eye (n.) The organ of sight or vision. In man, and the vertebrates generally, it is properly the movable ball or globe in the orbit, but the term often includes the adjacent parts. In most invertebrates the years are immovable ocelli, or compound eyes made up of numerous ocelli. See Ocellus.,
E as in Eye (n.) The faculty of seeing; power or range of vision; hence, judgment or taste in the use of the eye, and in judging of objects; as, to have the eye of sailor; an eye for the beautiful or picturesque.,
E as in Eye (n.) The action of the organ of sight; sight, look; view; ocular knowledge; judgment; opinion.,
E as in Eye (n.) The space commanded by the organ of sight; scope of vision; hence, face; front; the presence of an object which is directly opposed or confronted; immediate presence.,
E as in Eye (n.) Observation; oversight; watch; inspection; notice; attention; regard.,
E as in Eye (n.) That which resembles the organ of sight, in form, position, or appearance,
E as in Eye (n.) The spots on a feather, as of peacock.,
E as in Eye (n.) The scar to which the adductor muscle is attached in oysters and other bivalve shells; also, the adductor muscle itself, esp. when used as food, as in the scallop.,
E as in Eye (n.) The bud or sprout of a plant or tuber; as the eye of a potato.,
E as in Eye (n.) The center of a target; the bull's-eye.,
E as in Eye (n.) A small loop to receive a hook; as hooks and eyes on a dress.,
E as in Eye (n.) The hole through the head of a needle.,
E as in Eye (n.) A loop forming part of anything, or a hole through anything, to receive a rope, hook, pin, shaft, etc.; as an eye at the end of a tie bar in a bridge truss; as an eye through a crank; an eye at the end of rope.,
E as in Eye (n.) The hole through the upper millstone.,
E as in Eye (n.) That which resembles the eye in relative importance or beauty.,
E as in Eye (n.) Tinge; shade of color.,
E as in Eyed (imp. & p. p.) of Eye,
E as in Eying / Eyeing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Eye,
E as in Eye (v. t.) To fix the eye on; to look on; to view; to observe; particularly, to observe or watch narrowly, or with fixed attention; to hold in view.,
E as in Eye (v. i.) To appear; to look.,
E as in Eyeball (n.) The ball or globe of the eye.,
E as in Eyebar (n.) A bar with an eye at one or both ends.,
E as in Eyebeam (n.) A glance of the eye.,
E as in Eyebolt (n.) A bolt which a looped head, or an opening in the head.,
E as in Eyebright (n.) A small annual plant (Euphrasia officinalis), formerly much used as a remedy for diseases of the eye.,
E as in Eyebrow (n.) The brow or hairy arch above the eye.,
E as in Eyecup (n.) A small oval porcelain or glass cup, having a rim curved to fit the orbit of the eye. it is used in the application of liquid remedies to eyes; -- called also eyeglass.,
E as in Eyed (a.) Heaving (such or so many) eyes; -- used in composition; as sharp-eyed; dull-eyed; sad-eyed; ox-eyed Juno; myriad-eyed.,
E as in Eyedrop (n.) A tear.,
E as in Eyeflap (n.) A blinder on a horse's bridle.,
E as in Eyeful (a.) Filling or satisfying the eye; visible; remarkable.,
E as in Eyeglance (n.) A glance of eye.,
E as in Eyeglass (n.) A lens of glass to assist the sight. Eyeglasses are used singly or in pairs.,
E as in Eyeglass (n.) Eyepiece of a telescope, microscope, etc.,
E as in Eyeglass (n.) The retina.,
E as in Eyeglass (n.) A glass eyecup. See Eyecup.,
E as in Eyehole (n.) A circular opening to recive a hook, cord, ring, or rope; an eyelet.,
E as in Eyelash (n.) The fringe of hair that edges the eyelid; -- usually in the pl.,
E as in Eyelash (n.) A hair of the fringe on the edge of the eyelid.,
E as in Eyeless (a.) Without eyes; blind.,
E as in Eyelet (n.) A small hole or perforation to receive a cord or fastener, as in garments, sails, etc.,
E as in Eyelet (n.) A metal ring or grommet, or short metallic tube, the ends of which can be bent outward and over to fasten it in place; -- used to line an eyelet hole.,
E as in Eyeleteer (n.) A small, sharp-pointed instrument used in piercing eyelet holes; a stiletto.,
E as in Eyelid (n.) The cover of the eye; that portion of movable skin with which an animal covers or uncovers the eyeball at pleasure.,
E as in Eyen (n. pl.) Eyes.,
E as in Eyepiece (n.) The lens, or combination of lenses, at the eye end of a telescope or other optical instrument, through which the image formed by the mirror or object glass is viewed.,
E as in Eyer (n.) One who eyes another.,
E as in Eyereach (n.) The range or reach of the eye; eyeshot.,
E as in Eye-saint (n.) An object of interest to the eye; one worshiped with the eyes.,
E as in Eyesalve (n.) Ointment for the eye.,
E as in Eyeservant (n.) A servant who attends faithfully to his duty only when watched.,
E as in Eyeservice (n.) Service performed only under inspection, or the eye of an employer.,
E as in Eyeshot (n.) Range, reach, or glance of the eye; view; sight; as, to be out of eyeshot.,
E as in Eyesight (n.) Sight of the eye; the sense of seeing; view; observation.,
E as in Eyesore (n.) Something offensive to the eye or sight; a blemish.,
E as in Eye-splice (n.) A splice formed by bending a rope's end back, and fastening it into the rope, forming a loop or eye. See Illust. under Splice.,
E as in Eye-spot (n.) A simple visual organ found in many invertebrates, consisting of pigment cells covering a sensory nerve termination.,
E as in Eye-spot (n.) An eyelike spot of color.,
E as in Eye-spotted (a.) Marked with spots like eyes.,
E as in Eyestalk (n.) One of the movable peduncles which, in the decapod Crustacea, bear the eyes at the tip.,
E as in Eyestone (n.) A small, lenticular, calcareous body, esp. an operculum of a small marine shell of the family Turbinidae, used to remove a foreign substance from the eye. It is put into the inner corner of the eye under the lid, and allowed to work its way out at the outer corner, bringing with it the substance.,
E as in Eyestone (n.) Eye agate. See under Eye.,
E as in Eyestring (n.) The tendon by which the eye is moved.,
E as in Eyet (n.) An island. See Eyot.,
E as in Eyeteeth (pl. ) of Eyetooth,
E as in Eyetooth (n.) A canine tooth of the upper jaw.,
E as in Eyewash (n.) See Eyewater.,
E as in Eyewater (n.) A wash or lotion for application to the eyes.,
E as in Eyewink (n.) A wink; a token.,
E as in Eyewinker (n.) An eyelash.,
E as in Eyewitness (n.) One who sees a thing done; one who has ocular view of anything.,
E as in Eyghen (n. pl.) Eyes.,
E as in Eyght (n.) An island. See Eyot.,
E as in Eyle (v. t. & i.) To ail.,
E as in Eyliad (n.) See /iliad.,
E as in Eyne (n.) Alt. of Eyen,
E as in Eyen (n.) Plural of eye; -- now obsolete, or used only in poetry.,
E as in Eyot (n.) A little island in a river or lake. See Ait.,
E as in Eyr (n.) Air.,
E as in Eyra (n.) A wild cat (Felis eyra) ranging from southern Brazil to Texas. It is reddish yellow and about the size of the domestic cat, but with a more slender body and shorter legs.,
E as in Eyre (n.) A journey in circuit of certain judges called justices in eyre (or in itinere).,
E as in Eyren (n. pl.) See Ey, an egg.,
E as in Ey"ries (pl. ) of Eyry,
E as in Eyrie (n.) Alt. of Eyry,
E as in Eyry (n.) The nest of a bird of prey or other large bird that builds in a lofty place; aerie.,
E as in Eysell (n.) Same as Eisel.,
