F as in F () F is the sixth letter of the English alphabet, and a nonvocal consonant. Its form and sound are from the Latin. The Latin borrowed the form from the Greek digamma /, which probably had the value of English w consonant. The form and value of Greek letter came from the Phoenician, the ultimate source being probably Egyptian. Etymologically f is most closely related to p, k, v, and b; as in E. five, Gr. pe`nte; E. wolf, L. lupus, Gr. ly`kos; E. fox, vixen ; fragile, break; fruit, brook, v. t.; E. bear, L. ferre. See Guide to Pronunciation, // 178, 179, 188, 198, 230.,
F as in F (v. t.) The name of the fourth tone of the model scale, or scale of C. F sharp (F /) is a tone intermediate between F and G.,
F as in Fa (n.) A syllable applied to the fourth tone of the diatonic scale in solmization.,
F as in Fa (n.) The tone F.,
F as in Fabaceous (a.) Having the nature of a bean; like a bean.,
F as in Fabellae (pl. ) of Fabella,
F as in Fabella (n.) One of the small sesamoid bones situated behind the condyles of the femur, in some mammals.,
F as in Fabian (a.) Of, pertaining to, or in the manner of, the Roman general, Quintus Fabius Maximus Verrucosus; cautious; dilatory; avoiding a decisive contest.,
F as in Fable (n.) A Feigned story or tale, intended to instruct or amuse; a fictitious narration intended to enforce some useful truth or precept; an apologue. See the Note under Apologue.,
F as in Fable (n.) The plot, story, or connected series of events, forming the subject of an epic or dramatic poem.,
F as in Fable (n.) Any story told to excite wonder; common talk; the theme of talk.,
F as in Fable (n.) Fiction; untruth; falsehood.,
F as in Fabled (imp. & p. p.) of Fable,
F as in Fabling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fable,
F as in Fable (v. i.) To compose fables; hence, to write or speak fiction ; to write or utter what is not true.,
F as in Fable (v. t.) To feign; to invent; to devise, and speak of, as true or real; to tell of falsely.,
F as in Fabler (n.) A writer of fables; a fabulist; a dealer in untruths or falsehoods.,
F as in Fabliaux (pl. ) of Fabliau,
F as in Fabliau (n.) One of the metrical tales of the Trouveres, or early poets of the north of France.,
F as in Fabric (n.) The structure of anything; the manner in which the parts of a thing are united; workmanship; texture; make; as cloth of a beautiful fabric.,
F as in Fabric (n.) That which is fabricated,
F as in Fabric (n.) Framework; structure; edifice; building.,
F as in Fabric (n.) Cloth of any kind that is woven or knit from fibers, either vegetable or animal; manufactured cloth; as, silks or other fabrics.,
F as in Fabric (n.) The act of constructing; construction.,
F as in Fabric (n.) Any system or structure consisting of connected parts; as, the fabric of the universe.,
F as in Fabricked (imp. & p. p.) of Fabric,
F as in Fabricking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fabric,
F as in Fabric (v. t.) To frame; to build; to construct.,
F as in Fabricant (n.) One who fabricates; a manufacturer.,
F as in Fabricated (imp. & p. p.) of Fabricate,
F as in Fabricating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fabricate,
F as in Fabricate (v. t.) To form into a whole by uniting its parts; to frame; to construct; to build; as, to fabricate a bridge or ship.,
F as in Fabricate (v. t.) To form by art and labor; to manufacture; to produce; as, to fabricate woolens.,
F as in Fabricate (v. t.) To invent and form; to forge; to devise falsely; as, to fabricate a lie or story.,
F as in Fabrication (n.) The act of fabricating, framing, or constructing; construction; manufacture; as, the fabrication of a bridge, a church, or a government.,
F as in Fabrication (n.) That which is fabricated; a falsehood; as, the story is doubtless a fabrication.,
F as in Fabricator (n.) One who fabricates; one who constructs or makes.,
F as in Fabricatress (n.) A woman who fabricates.,
F as in Fabrile (a.) Pertaining to a workman, or to work in stone, metal, wood etc.; as, fabrile skill.,
F as in Fabulist (n.) One who invents or writes fables.,
F as in Fabulized (imp. & p. p.) of Fabulize,
F as in Fabulizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fabulize,
F as in Fabulize (v. i.) To invent, compose, or relate fables or fictions.,
F as in Fabulosity (n.) Fabulousness.,
F as in Fabulosity (n.) A fabulous or fictitious story.,
F as in Fabulous (a.) Feigned, as a story or fable; related in fable; devised; invented; not real; fictitious; as, a fabulous description; a fabulous hero.,
F as in Fabulous (a.) Passing belief; exceedingly great; as, a fabulous price.,
F as in Faburden (n.) A species of counterpoint with a drone bass.,
F as in Faburden (n.) A succession of chords of the sixth.,
F as in Faburden (n.) A monotonous refrain.,
F as in Fac (n.) A large ornamental letter used, esp. by the early printers, at the commencement of the chapters and other divisions of a book.,
F as in Facade (n.) The front of a building; esp., the principal front, having some architectural pretensions. Thus a church is said to have its facade unfinished, though the interior may be in use.,
F as in Face (n.) The exterior form or appearance of anything; that part which presents itself to the view; especially, the front or upper part or surface; that which particularly offers itself to the view of a spectator.,
F as in Face (n.) That part of a body, having several sides, which may be seen from one point, or which is presented toward a certain direction; one of the bounding planes of a solid; as, a cube has six faces.,
F as in Face (n.) The principal dressed surface of a plate, disk, or pulley; the principal flat surface of a part or object.,
F as in Face (n.) That part of the acting surface of a cog in a cog wheel, which projects beyond the pitch line.,
F as in Face (n.) The width of a pulley, or the length of a cog from end to end; as, a pulley or cog wheel of ten inches face.,
F as in Face (n.) The upper surface, or the character upon the surface, of a type, plate, etc.,
F as in Face (n.) The style or cut of a type or font of type.,
F as in Face (n.) Outside appearance; surface show; look; external aspect, whether natural, assumed, or acquired.,
F as in Face (n.) That part of the head, esp. of man, in which the eyes, cheeks, nose, and mouth are situated; visage; countenance.,
F as in Face (n.) Cast of features; expression of countenance; look; air; appearance.,
F as in Face (n.) Ten degrees in extent of a sign of the zodiac.,
F as in Face (n.) Maintenance of the countenance free from abashment or confusion; confidence; boldness; shamelessness; effrontery.,
F as in Face (n.) Presence; sight; front; as in the phrases, before the face of, in the immediate presence of; in the face of, before, in, or against the front of; as, to fly in the face of danger; to the face of, directly to; from the face of, from the presence of.,
F as in Face (n.) Mode of regard, whether favorable or unfavorable; favor or anger; mostly in Scriptural phrases.,
F as in Face (n.) The end or wall of the tunnel, drift, or excavation, at which work is progressing or was last done.,
F as in Face (n.) The exact amount expressed on a bill, note, bond, or other mercantile paper, without any addition for interest or reduction for discount.,
F as in Faced (imp. & p. p.) of Face,
F as in Facing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Face,
F as in Face (v. t.) To meet in front; to oppose with firmness; to resist, or to meet for the purpose of stopping or opposing; to confront; to encounter; as, to face an enemy in the field of battle.,
F as in Face (v. t.) To Confront impudently; to bully.,
F as in Face (v. t.) To stand opposite to; to stand with the face or front toward; to front upon; as, the apartments of the general faced the park.,
F as in Face (v. t.) To cover in front, for ornament, protection, etc.; to put a facing upon; as, a building faced with marble.,
F as in Face (v. t.) To line near the edge, esp. with a different material; as, to face the front of a coat, or the bottom of a dress.,
F as in Face (v. t.) To cover with better, or better appearing, material than the mass consists of, for purpose of deception, as the surface of a box of tea, a barrel of sugar, etc.,
F as in Face (v. t.) To make the surface of (anything) flat or smooth; to dress the face of (a stone, a casting, etc.); esp., in turning, to shape or smooth the flat surface of, as distinguished from the cylindrical surface.,
F as in Face (v. t.) To cause to turn or present a face or front, as in a particular direction.,
F as in Face (v. i.) To carry a false appearance; to play the hypocrite.,
F as in Face (v. i.) To turn the face; as, to face to the right or left.,
F as in Face (v. i.) To present a face or front.,
F as in Faced (a.) Having (such) a face, or (so many) faces; as, smooth-faced, two-faced.,
F as in Faser (n.) One who faces; one who puts on a false show; a bold-faced person.,
F as in Faser (n.) A blow in the face, as in boxing; hence, any severe or stunning check or defeat, as in controversy.,
F as in Facet (n.) A little face; a small, plane surface; as, the facets of a diamond.,
F as in Facet (n.) A smooth circumscribed surface; as, the articular facet of a bone.,
F as in Facet (n.) The narrow plane surface between flutings of a column.,
F as in Facet (n.) One of the numerous small eyes which make up the compound eyes of insects and crustaceans.,
F as in Faceted (imp. & p. p.) of Facet,
F as in Faceting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Facet,
F as in Facet (v. t.) To cut facets or small faces upon; as, to facet a diamond.,
F as in Facete (a.) Facetious; witty; humorous.,
F as in Faceted (a.) Having facets.,
F as in Facetiae (n. pl.) Witty or humorous writings or saying; witticisms; merry conceits.,
F as in Facetious (a.) Given to wit and good humor; merry; sportive; jocular; as, a facetious companion.,
F as in Facetious (a.) Characterized by wit and pleasantry; exciting laughter; as, a facetious story or reply.,
F as in Facette (n.) See Facet, n.,
F as in Facework (n.) The material of the outside or front side, as of a wall or building; facing.,
F as in Facia (n.) See Fascia.,
F as in Facial (a.) Of or pertaining to the face; as, the facial artery, vein, or nerve.,
F as in Faciend (n.) The multiplicand. See Facient, 2.,
F as in Facient (n.) One who does anything, good or bad; a doer; an agent.,
F as in Facient (n.) One of the variables of a quantic as distinguished from a coefficient.,
F as in Facient (n.) The multiplier.,
F as in Facies (n.) The anterior part of the head; the face.,
F as in Facies (n.) The general aspect or habit of a species, or group of species, esp. with reference to its adaptation to its environment.,
F as in Facies (n.) The face of a bird, or the front of the head, excluding the bill.,
F as in Facile (a.) Easy to be done or performed: not difficult; performable or attainable with little labor.,
F as in Facile (a.) Easy to be surmounted or removed; easily conquerable; readily mastered.,
F as in Facile (a.) Easy of access or converse; mild; courteous; not haughty, austere, or distant; affable; complaisant.,
F as in Facile (a.) Easily persuaded to good or bad; yielding; ductile to a fault; pliant; flexible.,
F as in Facile (a.) Ready; quick; expert; as, he is facile in expedients; he wields a facile pen.,
F as in Facilitated (imp. & p. p.) of Facilitate,
F as in Facilitating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Facilitate,
F as in Facilitate (v. t.) To make easy or less difficult; to free from difficulty or impediment; to lessen the labor of; as, to facilitate the execution of a task.,
F as in Facilitation (n.) The act of facilitating or making easy.,
F as in Facilities (pl. ) of Facility,
F as in Facility (n.) The quality of being easily performed; freedom from difficulty; ease; as, the facility of an operation.,
F as in Facility (n.) Ease in performance; readiness proceeding from skill or use; dexterity; as, practice gives a wonderful facility in executing works of art.,
F as in Facility (n.) Easiness to be persuaded; readiness or compliance; -- usually in a bad sense; pliancy.,
F as in Facility (n.) Easiness of access; complaisance; affability.,
F as in Facility (n.) That which promotes the ease of any action or course of conduct; advantage; aid; assistance; -- usually in the plural; as, special facilities for study.,
F as in Facing (n.) A covering in front, for ornament or other purpose; an exterior covering or sheathing; as, the facing of an earthen slope, sea wall, etc. , to strengthen it or to protect or adorn the exposed surface.,
F as in Facing (n.) A lining placed near the edge of a garment for ornament or protection.,
F as in Facing (n.) The finishing of any face of a wall with material different from that of which it is chiefly composed, or the coating or material so used.,
F as in Facing (n.) A powdered substance, as charcoal, bituminous coal, ect., applied to the face of a mold, or mixed with the sand that forms it, to give a fine smooth surface to the casting.,
F as in Facing (n.) The collar and cuffs of a military coat; -- commonly of a color different from that of the coat.,
F as in Facing (n.) The movement of soldiers by turning on their heels to the right, left, or about; -- chiefly in the pl.,
F as in Facingly (adv.) In a facing manner or position.,
F as in Facinorous (a.) Atrociously wicked.,
F as in Facound (n.) Speech; eloquence.,
F as in Facsimiles (pl. ) of Facsimile,
F as in Facsimile (n.) A copy of anything made, either so as to be deceptive or so as to give every part and detail of the original; an exact copy or likeness.,
F as in Facsimile (v. t.) To make a facsimile of.,
F as in Fact (n.) A doing, making, or preparing.,
F as in Fact (n.) An effect produced or achieved; anything done or that comes to pass; an act; an event; a circumstance.,
F as in Fact (n.) Reality; actuality; truth; as, he, in fact, excelled all the rest; the fact is, he was beaten.,
F as in Fact (n.) The assertion or statement of a thing done or existing; sometimes, even when false, improperly put, by a transfer of meaning, for the thing done, or supposed to be done; a thing supposed or asserted to be done; as, history abounds with false facts.,
F as in Faction (n.) One of the divisions or parties of charioteers (distinguished by their colors) in the games of the circus.,
F as in Faction (n.) A party, in political society, combined or acting in union, in opposition to the government, or state; -- usually applied to a minority, but it may be applied to a majority; a combination or clique of partisans of any kind, acting for their own interests, especially if greedy, clamorous, and reckless of the common good.,
F as in Faction (n.) Tumult; discord; dissension.,
F as in Factionary (a.) Belonging to a faction; being a partisan; taking sides.,
F as in Factioner (n.) One of a faction.,
F as in Factionist (n.) One who promotes faction.,
F as in Factious (a.) Given to faction; addicted to form parties and raise dissensions, in opposition to government or the common good; turbulent; seditious; prone to clamor against public measures or men; -- said of persons.,
F as in Factious (a.) Pertaining to faction; proceeding from faction; indicating, or characterized by, faction; -- said of acts or expressions; as, factious quarrels.,
F as in Factitious (a.) Made by art, in distinction from what is produced by nature; artificial; sham; formed by, or adapted to, an artificial or conventional, in distinction from a natural, standard or rule; not natural; as, factitious cinnabar or jewels; a factitious taste.,
F as in Factitive (a.) Causing; causative.,
F as in Factitive (a.) Pertaining to that relation which is proper when the act, as of a transitive verb, is not merely received by an object, but produces some change in the object, as when we say, He made the water wine.,
F as in Factive (a.) Making; having power to make.,
F as in Facto (adv.) In fact; by the act or fact.,
F as in Factor (n.) One who transacts business for another; an agent; a substitute; especially, a mercantile agent who buys and sells goods and transacts business for others in commission; a commission merchant or consignee. He may be a home factor or a foreign factor. He may buy and sell in his own name, and he is intrusted with the possession and control of the goods; and in these respects he differs from a broker.,
F as in Factor (n.) A steward or bailiff of an estate.,
F as in Factor (n.) One of the elements or quantities which, when multiplied together, from a product.,
F as in Factor (n.) One of the elements, circumstances, or influences which contribute to produce a result; a constituent.,
F as in Factored (imp. & p. p.) of Factor,
F as in Factoring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Factor,
F as in Factor (v. t.) To resolve (a quantity) into its factors.,
F as in Factorage (n.) The allowance given to a factor, as a compensation for his services; -- called also a commission.,
F as in Factoress (n.) A factor who is a woman.,
F as in Factorial (a.) Of or pertaining to a factory.,
F as in Factorial (a.) Related to factorials.,
F as in Factorial (n.) A name given to the factors of a continued product when the former are derivable from one and the same function F(x) by successively imparting a constant increment or decrement h to the independent variable. Thus the product F(x).F(x + h).F(x + 2h) . . . F[x + (n-1)h] is called a factorial term, and its several factors take the name of factorials.,
F as in Factorial (n.) The product of the consecutive numbers from unity up to any given number.,
F as in Factoring (n.) The act of resolving into factors.,
F as in Factorized (imp. & p. p.) of Factorize,
F as in Factorizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Factorize,
F as in Factorize (v. t.) To give warning to; -- said of a person in whose hands the effects of another are attached, the warning being to the effect that he shall not pay the money or deliver the property of the defendant in his hands to him, but appear and answer the suit of the plaintiff.,
F as in Factorize (v. t.) To attach (the effects of a debtor) in the hands of a third person ; to garnish. See Garnish.,
F as in Factorship (n.) The business of a factor.,
F as in Factories (pl. ) of Factory,
F as in Factory (n.) A house or place where factors, or commercial agents, reside, to transact business for their employers.,
F as in Factory (n.) The body of factors in any place; as, a chaplain to a British factory.,
F as in Factory (n.) A building, or collection of buildings, appropriated to the manufacture of goods; the place where workmen are employed in fabricating goods, wares, or utensils; a manufactory; as, a cotton factory.,
F as in Factotums (pl. ) of Factotum,
F as in Factotum (n.) A person employed to do all kinds of work or business.,
F as in Factual (a.) Relating to, or containing, facts.,
F as in Facta (pl. ) of Factum,
F as in Factum (n.) A man's own act and deed,
F as in Factum (n.) Anything stated and made certain.,
F as in Factum (n.) The due execution of a will, including everything necessary to its validity.,
F as in Factum (n.) The product. See Facient, 2.,
F as in Facture (n.) The act or manner of making or doing anything; -- now used of a literary, musical, or pictorial production.,
F as in Facture (n.) An invoice or bill of parcels.,
F as in Faculae (n. pl.) Groups of small shining spots on the surface of the sun which are brighter than the other parts of the photosphere. They are generally seen in the neighborhood of the dark spots, and are supposed to be elevated portions of the photosphere.,
F as in Facular (a.) Of or pertaining to the faculae.,
F as in Faculties (pl. ) of Faculty,
F as in Faculty (n.) Ability to act or perform, whether inborn or cultivated; capacity for any natural function; especially, an original mental power or capacity for any of the well-known classes of mental activity; psychical or soul capacity; capacity for any of the leading kinds of soul activity, as knowledge, feeling, volition; intellectual endowment or gift; power; as, faculties of the mind or the soul.,
F as in Faculty (n.) Special mental endowment; characteristic knack.,
F as in Faculty (n.) Power; prerogative or attribute of office.,
F as in Faculty (n.) Privilege or permission, granted by favor or indulgence, to do a particular thing; authority; license; dispensation.,
F as in Faculty (n.) A body of a men to whom any specific right or privilege is granted; formerly, the graduates in any of the four departments of a university or college (Philosophy, Law, Medicine, or Theology), to whom was granted the right of teaching (profitendi or docendi) in the department in which they had studied; at present, the members of a profession itself; as, the medical faculty; the legal faculty, ect.,
F as in Faculty (n.) The body of person to whom are intrusted the government and instruction of a college or university, or of one of its departments; the president, professors, and tutors in a college.,
F as in Facund (a.) Eloquent.,
F as in Facundious (a.) Eloquement; full of words.,
F as in Facundity (n.) Eloquence; readiness of speech.,
F as in Fad (n.) A hobby ; freak; whim.,
F as in Faddle (v. i.) To trifle; to toy.,
F as in Faddle (v. t. ) To fondle; to dandle.,
F as in Fade (a.) Weak; insipid; tasteless; commonplace.,
F as in Faded (imp. & p. p.) of Fade,
F as in Fading (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fade,
F as in Fade (a.) To become fade; to grow weak; to lose strength; to decay; to perish gradually; to wither, as a plant.,
F as in Fade (a.) To lose freshness, color, or brightness; to become faint in hue or tint; hence, to be wanting in color.,
F as in Fade (a.) To sink away; to disappear gradually; to grow dim; to vanish.,
F as in Fade (v. t.) To cause to wither; to deprive of freshness or vigor; to wear away.,
F as in Faded (a.) That has lost freshness, color, or brightness; grown dim.,
F as in Fadedly (adv.) In a faded manner.,
F as in Fadeless (a.) Not liable to fade; unfading.,
F as in Fader (n.) Father.,
F as in Fadge (a.) To fit; to suit; to agree.,
F as in Fadge (n.) A small flat loaf or thick cake; also, a fagot.,
F as in Fading (a.) Losing freshness, color, brightness, or vigor.,
F as in Fading (n.) Loss of color, freshness, or vigor.,
F as in Fading (n.) An Irish dance; also, the burden of a song.,
F as in Fadme (n.) A fathom.,
F as in Fady (a.) Faded.,
F as in Faecal (a.) See Fecal.,
F as in Faeces (n.pl.) Excrement; ordure; also, settlings; sediment after infusion or distillation.,
F as in Faecula (n.) See Fecula.,
F as in Faery (n. & a.) Fairy.,
F as in Faffle (v. i.) To stammer.,
F as in Fag (n.) A knot or coarse part in cloth.,
F as in Fagged (imp. & p. p.) of Fag,
F as in Fagging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fag,
F as in Fag (v. i.) To become weary; to tire.,
F as in Fag (v. i.) To labor to wearness; to work hard; to drudge.,
F as in Fag (v. i.) To act as a fag, or perform menial services or drudgery, for another, as in some English schools.,
F as in Fag (v. t.) To tire by labor; to exhaust; as, he was almost fagged out.,
F as in Fag (v. t.) Anything that fatigues.,
F as in Fagend (n.) An end of poorer quality, or in a spoiled condition, as the coarser end of a web of cloth, the untwisted end of a rope, ect.,
F as in Fagend (n.) The refuse or meaner part of anything.,
F as in Fagging (n.) Laborious drudgery; esp., the acting as a drudge for another at an English school.,
F as in Fagot (n.) A bundle of sticks, twigs, or small branches of trees, used for fuel, for raising batteries, filling ditches, or other purposes in fortification; a fascine.,
F as in Fagot (n.) A bundle of pieces of wrought iron to be worked over into bars or other shapes by rolling or hammering at a welding heat; a pile.,
F as in Fagot (n.) A bassoon. See Fagotto.,
F as in Fagot (n.) A person hired to take the place of another at the muster of a company.,
F as in Fagot (n.) An old shriveled woman.,
F as in Fagoted (imp. & p. p.) of Fagot,
F as in Fagoting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fagot,
F as in Fagot (v. t.) To make a fagot of; to bind together in a fagot or bundle; also, to collect promiscuously.,
F as in Fagotto (n.) The bassoon; -- so called from being divided into parts for ease of carriage, making, as it were, a small fagot.,
F as in Faham (n.) The leaves of an orchid (Angraecum fragrans), of the islands of Bourbon and Mauritius, used (in France) as a substitute for Chinese tea.,
F as in Fahlband (n.) A stratum in crystalline rock, containing metallic sulphides.,
F as in Fahlerz (n.) Alt. of Fahlband,
F as in Fahlband (n.) Same as Tetrahedrite.,
F as in Fahlunite (n.) A hydration of iolite.,
F as in Fahrenheit (a.) Conforming to the scale used by Gabriel Daniel Fahrenheit in the graduation of his thermometer; of or relating to Fahrenheit's thermometric scale.,
F as in Fahrenheit (n.) The Fahrenheit termometer or scale.,
F as in Faience (n.) Glazed earthenware; esp., that which is decorated in color.,
F as in Failed (imp. & p. p.) of Fail,
F as in Failing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fail,
F as in Fail (v. i.) To be wanting; to fall short; to be or become deficient in any measure or degree up to total absence; to cease to be furnished in the usual or expected manner, or to be altogether cut off from supply; to be lacking; as, streams fail; crops fail.,
F as in Fail (v. i.) To be affected with want; to come short; to lack; to be deficient or unprovided; -- used with of.,
F as in Fail (v. i.) To fall away; to become diminished; to decline; to decay; to sink.,
F as in Fail (v. i.) To deteriorate in respect to vigor, activity, resources, etc.; to become weaker; as, a sick man fails.,
F as in Fail (v. i.) To perish; to die; -- used of a person.,
F as in Fail (v. i.) To be found wanting with respect to an action or a duty to be performed, a result to be secured, etc.; to miss; not to fulfill expectation.,
F as in Fail (v. i.) To come short of a result or object aimed at or desired ; to be baffled or frusrated.,
F as in Fail (v. i.) To err in judgment; to be mistaken.,
F as in Fail (v. i.) To become unable to meet one's engagements; especially, to be unable to pay one's debts or discharge one's business obligation; to become bankrupt or insolvent.,
F as in Fail (v. t.) To be wanting to ; to be insufficient for; to disappoint; to desert.,
F as in Fail (v. t.) To miss of attaining; to lose.,
F as in Fail (v. i.) Miscarriage; failure; deficiency; fault; -- mostly superseded by failure or failing, except in the phrase without fail.,
F as in Fail (v. i.) Death; decease.,
F as in Failance (n.) Fault; failure; omission.,
F as in Failing (n.) A failing short; a becoming deficient; failure; deficiency; imperfection; weakness; lapse; fault; infirmity; as, a mental failing.,
F as in Failing (n.) The act of becoming insolvent of bankrupt.,
F as in Faille (n.) A soft silk, heavier than a foulard and not glossy.,
F as in Failure (n.) Cessation of supply, or total defect; a failing; deficiency; as, failure of rain; failure of crops.,
F as in Failure (n.) Omission; nonperformance; as, the failure to keep a promise.,
F as in Failure (n.) Want of success; the state of having failed.,
F as in Failure (n.) Decay, or defect from decay; deterioration; as, the failure of memory or of sight.,
F as in Failure (n.) A becoming insolvent; bankruptcy; suspension of payment; as, failure in business.,
F as in Failure (n.) A failing; a slight fault.,
F as in Fain (a.) Well-pleased; glad; apt; wont; fond; inclined.,
F as in Fain (a.) Satisfied; contented; also, constrained.,
F as in Fain (adv.) With joy; gladly; -- with wold.,
F as in Fain (v. t. & i.) To be glad ; to wish or desire.,
F as in Faineant (a.) Doing nothing; shiftless.,
F as in Faineant (n.) A do-nothing; an idle fellow; a sluggard.,
F as in Faint (superl.) Lacking strength; weak; languid; inclined to swoon; as, faint with fatigue, hunger, or thirst.,
F as in Faint (superl.) Wanting in courage, spirit, or energy; timorous; cowardly; dejected; depressed; as, "Faint heart ne'er won fair lady.",
F as in Faint (superl.) Lacking distinctness; hardly perceptible; striking the senses feebly; not bright, or loud, or sharp, or forcible; weak; as, a faint color, or sound.,
F as in Faint (superl.) Performed, done, or acted, in a weak or feeble manner; not exhibiting vigor, strength, or energy; slight; as, faint efforts; faint resistance.,
F as in Faint (n.) The act of fainting, or the state of one who has fainted; a swoon. [R.] See Fainting, n.,
F as in Fainted (imp. & p. p.) of Faint,
F as in Fainting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Faint,
F as in Faint (v. i.) To become weak or wanting in vigor; to grow feeble; to lose strength and color, and the control of the bodily or mental functions; to swoon; -- sometimes with away. See Fainting, n.,
F as in Faint (n.) To sink into dejection; to lose courage or spirit; to become depressed or despondent.,
F as in Faint (n.) To decay; to disappear; to vanish.,
F as in Faint (v. t.) To cause to faint or become dispirited; to depress; to weaken.,
F as in Fainthearted (a.) Wanting in courage; depressed by fear; easily discouraged or frightened; cowardly; timorous; dejected.,
F as in Fainting (n.) Syncope, or loss of consciousness owing to a sudden arrest of the blood supply to the brain, the face becoming pallid, the respiration feeble, and the heat's beat weak.,
F as in Faintish (a.) Slightly faint; somewhat faint.,
F as in Faintling (a.) Timorous; feeble-minded.,
F as in Faintly (adv.) In a faint, weak, or timidmanner.,
F as in Faintness (n.) The state of being faint; loss of strength, or of consciousness, and self-control.,
F as in Faintness (n.) Want of vigor or energy.,
F as in Faintness (n.) Feebleness, as of color or light; lack of distinctness; as, faintness of description.,
F as in Faintness (n.) Faint-heartedness; timorousness; dejection.,
F as in Faints (n.pl.) The impure spirit which comes over first and last in the distillation of whisky; -- the former being called the strong faints, and the latter, which is much more abundant, the weak faints. This crude spirit is much impregnated with fusel oil.,
F as in Fainty (a.) Feeble; languid.,
F as in Fair (superl.) Free from spots, specks, dirt, or imperfection; unblemished; clean; pure.,
F as in Fair (superl.) Pleasing to the eye; handsome; beautiful.,
F as in Fair (superl.) Without a dark hue; light; clear; as, a fair skin.,
F as in Fair (superl.) Not overcast; cloudless; clear; pleasant; propitious; favorable; -- said of the sky, weather, or wind, etc.; as, a fair sky; a fair day.,
F as in Fair (superl.) Free from obstacles or hindrances; unobstructed; unincumbered; open; direct; -- said of a road, passage, etc.; as, a fair mark; in fair sight; a fair view.,
F as in Fair (superl.) Without sudden change of direction or curvature; smooth; fowing; -- said of the figure of a vessel, and of surfaces, water lines, and other lines.,
F as in Fair (superl.) Characterized by frankness, honesty, impartiality, or candor; open; upright; free from suspicion or bias; equitable; just; -- said of persons, character, or conduct; as, a fair man; fair dealing; a fair statement.,
F as in Fair (superl.) Pleasing; favorable; inspiring hope and confidence; -- said of words, promises, etc.,
F as in Fair (superl.) Distinct; legible; as, fair handwriting.,
F as in Fair (superl.) Free from any marked characteristic; average; middling; as, a fair specimen.,
F as in Fair (adv.) Clearly; openly; frankly; civilly; honestly; favorably; auspiciously; agreeably.,
F as in Fair (n.) Fairness, beauty.,
F as in Fair (n.) A fair woman; a sweetheart.,
F as in Fair (n.) Good fortune; good luck.,
F as in Fair (v. t.) To make fair or beautiful.,
F as in Fair (v. t.) To make smooth and flowing, as a vessel's lines.,
F as in Fair (n.) A gathering of buyers and sellers, assembled at a particular place with their merchandise at a stated or regular season, or by special appointment, for trade.,
F as in Fair (n.) A festival, and sale of fancy articles. erc., usually for some charitable object; as, a Grand Army fair.,
F as in Fair (n.) A competitive exhibition of wares, farm products, etc., not primarily for purposes of sale; as, the Mechanics' fair; an agricultural fair.,
F as in Fair-haired (a.) Having fair or light-colored hair.,
F as in Fairhood (n.) Fairness; beauty.,
F as in Fairily (adv.) In the manner of a fairy.,
F as in Fairing (n.) A present; originally, one given or purchased at a fair.,
F as in Fairish (a.) Tolerably fair.,
F as in Fair-leader (n.) A block, or ring, serving as a guide for the running rigging or for any rope.,
F as in Fairly (adv.) In a fair manner; clearly; openly; plainly; fully; distinctly; frankly.,
F as in Fairly (adv.) Favorably; auspiciously; commodiously; as, a town fairly situated for foreign traade.,
F as in Fairly (adv.) Honestly; properly.,
F as in Fairly (adv.) Softly; quietly; gently.,
F as in Fair-minded (a.) Unprejudiced; just; judicial; honest.,
F as in Fair-natured (a.) Well-disposed.,
F as in Fairness (n.) The state of being fair, or free form spots or stains, as of the skin; honesty, as of dealing; candor, as of an argument, etc.,
F as in Faair-spoken (a.) Using fair speech, or uttered with fairness; bland; civil; courteous; plausible.,
F as in Fairway (n.) The navigable part of a river, bay, etc., through which vessels enter or depart; the part of a harbor or channel ehich is kept open and unobstructed for the passage of vessels.,
F as in Fair-weather (a.) Made or done in pleasant weather, or in circumstances involving but little exposure or sacrifice; as, a fair-weather voyage.,
F as in Fair-weather (a.) Appearing only when times or circumstances are prosperous; as, a fair-weather friend.,
F as in Fair-world (n.) State of prosperity.,
F as in Fairies (pl. ) of Fairy,
F as in Fairy (n.) Enchantment; illusion.,
F as in Fairy (n.) The country of the fays; land of illusions.,
F as in Fairy (n.) An imaginary supernatural being or spirit, supposed to assume a human form (usually diminutive), either male or female, and to meddle for good or evil in the affairs of mankind; a fay. See Elf, and Demon.,
F as in Fairy (n.) An enchantress.,
F as in Fairy (a.) Of or pertaining to fairies.,
F as in Fairy (a.) Given by fairies; as, fairy money.,
F as in Fairyland (n.) The imaginary land or abode of fairies.,
F as in Fairylike (a.) Resembling a fairy, or what is made or done be fairies; as, fairylike music.,
F as in Faith (n.) Belief; the assent of the mind to the truth of what is declared by another, resting solely and implicitly on his authority and veracity; reliance on testimony.,
F as in Faith (n.) The assent of the mind to the statement or proposition of another, on the ground of the manifest truth of what he utters; firm and earnest belief, on probable evidence of any kind, especially in regard to important moral truth.,
F as in Faith (n.) The belief in the historic truthfulness of the Scripture narrative, and the supernatural origin of its teachings, sometimes called historical and speculative faith.,
F as in Faith (n.) The belief in the facts and truth of the Scriptures, with a practical love of them; especially, that confiding and affectionate belief in the person and work of Christ, which affects the character and life, and makes a man a true Christian, -- called a practical, evangelical, or saving faith.,
F as in Faith (n.) That which is believed on any subject, whether in science, politics, or religion; especially (Theol.), a system of religious belief of any kind; as, the Jewish or Mohammedan faith; and especially, the system of truth taught by Christ; as, the Christian faith; also, the creed or belief of a Christian society or church.,
F as in Faith (n.) Fidelity to one's promises, or allegiance to duty, or to a person honored and beloved; loyalty.,
F as in Faith (n.) Word or honor pledged; promise given; fidelity; as, he violated his faith.,
F as in Faith (n.) Credibility or truth.,
F as in Faith (interj.) By my faith; in truth; verily.,
F as in Faithed (a.) Having faith or a faith; honest; sincere.,
F as in Faithful (a.) Full of faith, or having faith; disposed to believe, especially in the declarations and promises of God.,
F as in Faithful (a.) Firm in adherence to promises, oaths, contracts, treaties, or other engagements.,
F as in Faithful (a.) True and constant in affection or allegiance to a person to whom one is bound by a vow, be ties of love, gratitude, or honor, as to a husband, a prince, a friend; firm in the observance of duty; loyal; of true fidelity; as, a faithful husband or servant.,
F as in Faithful (a.) Worthy of confidence and belief; conformable to truth ot fact; exact; accurate; as, a faithful narrative or representation.,
F as in Faithless (a.) Not believing; not giving credit.,
F as in Faithless (a.) Not believing on God or religion; specifically, not believing in the Christian religion.,
F as in Faithless (a.) Not observant of promises or covenants.,
F as in Faithless (a.) Not true to allegiance, duty, or vows; perfidious; trecherous; disloyal; not of true fidelity; inconstant, as a husband or a wife.,
F as in Faithless (a.) Serving to disappoint or deceive; delusive; unsatisfying.,
F as in Faitour (n.) A doer or actor; particularly, an evil doer; a scoundrel.,
F as in Fake (n.) One of the circles or windings of a cable or hawser, as it lies in a coil; a single turn or coil.,
F as in Fake (v. t.) To coil (a rope, line, or hawser), by winding alternately in opposite directions, in layers usually of zigzag or figure of eight form,, to prevent twisting when running out.,
F as in Fake (v. t.) To cheat; to swindle; to steal; to rob.,
F as in Fake (v. t.) To make; to construct; to do.,
F as in Fake (v. t.) To manipulate fraudulently, so as to make an object appear better or other than it really is; as, to fake a bulldog, by burning his upper lip and thus artificially shortening it.,
F as in Fake (n.) A trick; a swindle.,
F as in Fakir (n.) An Oriental religious ascetic or begging monk.,
F as in Falanaka (n.) A viverrine mammal of Madagascar (Eupleres Goudotii), allied to the civet; -- called also Falanouc.,
F as in Falcade (n.) The action of a horse, when he throws himself on his haunches two or three times, bending himself, as it were, in very quick curvets.,
F as in Falcate (a.) Alt. of Falcated,
F as in Falcated (a.) Hooked or bent like a sickle; as, a falcate leaf; a falcate claw; -- said also of the moon, or a planet, when horned or crescent-formed.,
F as in Falcation (n.) The state of being falcate; a bend in the form of a sickle.,
F as in Falcer (n.) One of the mandibles of a spider.,
F as in Falchion (n.) A broad-bladed sword, slightly curved, shorter and lighter than the ordinary sword; -- used in the Middle Ages.,
F as in Falchion (n.) A name given generally and poetically to a sword, especially to the swords of Oriental and fabled warriors.,
F as in Falcidian (a.) Of or pertaining to Publius Falcidius, a Roman tribune.,
F as in Falciform (a.) Having the shape of a scithe or sickle; resembling a reaping hook; as, the falciform ligatment of the liver.,
F as in Falcon (n.) One of a family (Falconidae) of raptorial birds, characterized by a short, hooked beak, strong claws, and powerful flight.,
F as in Falcon (n.) Any species of the genus Falco, distinguished by having a toothlike lobe on the upper mandible; especially, one of this genus trained to the pursuit of other birds, or game.,
F as in Falcon (n.) An ancient form of cannon.,
F as in Falconer (n.) A person who breeds or trains hawks for taking birds or game; one who follows the sport of fowling with hawks.,
F as in Falconet (n.) One of the smaller cannon used in the 15th century and later.,
F as in Falconet (n.) One of several very small Asiatic falcons of the genus Microhierax.,
F as in Falconet (n.) One of a group of Australian birds of the genus Falcunculus, resembling shrikes and titmice.,
F as in Falcongentil (n.) The female or young of the goshawk (Astur palumbarius).,
F as in Falconine (a.) Like a falcon or hawk; belonging to the Falconidae,
F as in Falconry (n.) The art of training falcons or hawks to pursue and attack wild fowl or game.,
F as in Falconry (n.) The sport of taking wild fowl or game by means of falcons or hawks.,
F as in Falcula (n.) A curved and sharp-pointed claw.,
F as in Falculate (a.) Curved and sharppointed, like a falcula, or claw of a falcon.,
F as in Faldage (n.) A privilege of setting up, and moving about, folds for sheep, in any fields within manors, in order to manure them; -- often reserved to himself by the lord of the manor.,
F as in Faldfee (n.) A fee or rent paid by a tenant for the privilege of faldage on his own ground.,
F as in Falding (n.) A frieze or rough-napped cloth.,
F as in Faldistory (n.) The throne or seat of a bishop within the chancel.,
F as in Faldstool (n.) A folding stool, or portable seat, made to fold up in the manner of a camo stool. It was formerly placed in the choir for a bishop, when he offciated in any but his own cathedral church.,
F as in Falernian (a.) Of or pertaining to Mount Falernus, in Italy; as, Falernianwine.,
F as in Falk (n.) The razorbill.,
F as in Fell (imp.) of Fall,
F as in Fallen (p. p.) of Fall,
F as in Falling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fall,
F as in Fall (v. t.) To Descend, either suddenly or gradually; particularly, to descend by the force of gravity; to drop; to sink; as, the apple falls; the tide falls; the mercury falls in the barometer.,
F as in Fall (v. t.) To cease to be erect; to take suddenly a recumbent posture; to become prostrate; to drop; as, a child totters and falls; a tree falls; a worshiper falls on his knees.,
F as in Fall (v. t.) To find a final outlet; to discharge its waters; to empty; -- with into; as, the river Rhone falls into the Mediterranean.,
F as in Fall (v. t.) To become prostrate and dead; to die; especially, to die by violence, as in battle.,
F as in Fall (v. t.) To cease to be active or strong; to die away; to lose strength; to subside; to become less intense; as, the wind falls.,
F as in Fall (v. t.) To issue forth into life; to be brought forth; -- said of the young of certain animals.,
F as in Fall (v. t.) To decline in power, glory, wealth, or importance; to become insignificant; to lose rank or position; to decline in weight, value, price etc.; to become less; as, the falls; stocks fell two points.,
F as in Fall (v. t.) To be overthrown or captured; to be destroyed.,
F as in Fall (v. t.) To descend in character or reputation; to become degraded; to sink into vice, error, or sin; to depart from the faith; to apostatize; to sin.,
F as in Fall (v. t.) To become insnared or embarrassed; to be entrapped; to be worse off than before; asm to fall into error; to fall into difficulties.,
F as in Fall (v. t.) To assume a look of shame or disappointment; to become or appear dejected; -- said of the countenance.,
F as in Fall (v. t.) To sink; to languish; to become feeble or faint; as, our spirits rise and fall with our fortunes.,
F as in Fall (v. t.) To pass somewhat suddenly, and passively, into a new state of body or mind; to become; as, to fall asleep; to fall into a passion; to fall in love; to fall into temptation.,
F as in Fall (v. t.) To happen; to to come to pass; to light; to befall; to issue; to terminate.,
F as in Fall (v. t.) To come; to occur; to arrive.,
F as in Fall (v. t.) To begin with haste, ardor, or vehemence; to rush or hurry; as, they fell to blows.,
F as in Fall (v. t.) To pass or be transferred by chance, lot, distribution, inheritance, or otherwise; as, the estate fell to his brother; the kingdom fell into the hands of his rivals.,
F as in Fall (v. t.) To belong or appertain.,
F as in Fall (v. t.) To be dropped or uttered carelessly; as, an unguarded expression fell from his lips; not a murmur fell from him.,
F as in Fall (v. t.) To let fall; to drop.,
F as in Fall (v. t.) To sink; to depress; as, to fall the voice.,
F as in Fall (v. t.) To diminish; to lessen or lower.,
F as in Fall (v. t.) To bring forth; as, to fall lambs.,
F as in Fall (v. t.) To fell; to cut down; as, to fall a tree.,
F as in Fall (n.) The act of falling; a dropping or descending be the force of gravity; descent; as, a fall from a horse, or from the yard of ship.,
F as in Fall (n.) The act of dropping or tumbling from an erect posture; as, he was walking on ice, and had a fall.,
F as in Fall (n.) Death; destruction; overthrow; ruin.,
F as in Fall (n.) Downfall; degradation; loss of greatness or office; termination of greatness, power, or dominion; ruin; overthrow; as, the fall of the Roman empire.,
F as in Fall (n.) The surrender of a besieged fortress or town ; as, the fall of Sebastopol.,
F as in Fall (n.) Diminution or decrease in price or value; depreciation; as, the fall of prices; the fall of rents.,
F as in Fall (n.) A sinking of tone; cadence; as, the fall of the voice at the close of a sentence.,
F as in Fall (n.) Declivity; the descent of land or a hill; a slope.,
F as in Fall (n.) Descent of water; a cascade; a cataract; a rush of water down a precipice or steep; -- usually in the plural, sometimes in the singular; as, the falls of Niagara.,
F as in Fall (n.) The discharge of a river or current of water into the ocean, or into a lake or pond; as, the fall of the Po into the Gulf of Venice.,
F as in Fall (n.) Extent of descent; the distance which anything falls; as, the water of a stream has a fall of five feet.,
F as in Fall (n.) The season when leaves fall from trees; autumn.,
F as in Fall (n.) That which falls; a falling; as, a fall of rain; a heavy fall of snow.,
F as in Fall (n.) The act of felling or cutting down.,
F as in Fall (n.) Lapse or declension from innocence or goodness. Specifically: The first apostasy; the act of our first parents in eating the forbidden fruit; also, the apostasy of the rebellious angels.,
F as in Fall (n.) Formerly, a kind of ruff or band for the neck; a falling band; a faule.,
F as in Fall (n.) That part (as one of the ropes) of a tackle to which the power is applied in hoisting.,
F as in Fallacious (a.) Embodying or pertaining to a fallacy; illogical; fitted to deceive; misleading; delusive; as, fallacious arguments or reasoning.,
F as in Fallacies (pl. ) of Fallacy,
F as in Fallacy (n.) Deceptive or false appearance; deceitfulness; that which misleads the eye or the mind; deception.,
F as in Fallacy (n.) An argument, or apparent argument, which professes to be decisive of the matter at issue, while in reality it is not; a sophism.,
F as in Fallals (n.pl.) Gay ornaments; frippery; gewgaws.,
F as in Fallax (n.) Cavillation; a caviling.,
F as in Fallen (a.) Dropped; prostrate; degraded; ruined; decreased; dead.,
F as in Fallency (n.) An exception.,
F as in Faller (n.) One who, or that which, falls.,
F as in Faller (n.) A part which acts by falling, as a stamp in a fulling mill, or the device in a spinning machine to arrest motion when a thread breaks.,
F as in Fallfish (n.) A fresh-water fish of the United States (Semotilus bullaris); -- called also silver chub, and Shiner. The name is also applied to other allied species.,
F as in Fallibility (n.) The state of being fallible; liability to deceive or to be deceived; as, the fallibity of an argument or of an adviser.,
F as in Fallible (a.) Liable to fail, mistake, or err; liable to deceive or to be deceived; as, all men are fallible; our opinions and hopes are fallible.,
F as in Fallibly (adv.) In a fallible manner.,
F as in Falling (a. & n.) from Fall, v. i.,
F as in Fallopian (a.) Pertaining to, or discovered by, Fallopius; as, the Fallopian tubes or oviducts, the ducts or canals which conduct the ova from the ovaries to the uterus.,
F as in Fallow (a.) Pale red or pale yellow; as, a fallow deer or greyhound.,
F as in Fallow (n.) Left untilled or unsowed after plowing; uncultivated; as, fallow ground.,
F as in Fallow (n.) Plowed land.,
F as in Fallow (n.) Land that has lain a year or more untilled or unseeded; land plowed without being sowed for the season.,
F as in Fallow (n.) The plowing or tilling of land, without sowing it for a season; as, summer fallow, properly conducted, has ever been found a sure method of destroying weeds.,
F as in Fallowed (imp. & p. p.) of Fallow,
F as in Fallowing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fallow,
F as in Fallow (n.) To plow, harrow, and break up, as land, without seeding, for the purpose of destroying weeds and insects, and rendering it mellow; as, it is profitable to fallow cold, strong, clayey land.,
F as in Fallow deer () A European species of deer (Cervus dama), much smaller than the red deer. In summer both sexes are spotted with white. It is common in England, where it is often domesticated in the parks.,
F as in Fallowist (n.) One who favors the practice of fallowing land.,
F as in Fallowness (n.) A well or opening, through the successive floors of a warehouse or manufactory, through which goods are raised or lowered.,
F as in Falsary (a.) A falsifier of evidence.,
F as in False (superl.) Uttering falsehood; unveracious; given to deceit; dishnest; as, a false witness.,
F as in False (superl.) Not faithful or loyal, as to obligations, allegiance, vows, etc.; untrue; treacherous; perfidious; as, a false friend, lover, or subject; false to promises.,
F as in False (superl.) Not according with truth or reality; not true; fitted or likely to deceive or disappoint; as, a false statement.,
F as in False (superl.) Not genuine or real; assumed or designed to deceive; counterfeit; hypocritical; as, false tears; false modesty; false colors; false jewelry.,
F as in False (superl.) Not well founded; not firm or trustworthy; erroneous; as, a false claim; a false conclusion; a false construction in grammar.,
F as in False (superl.) Not essential or permanent, as parts of a structure which are temporary or supplemental.,
F as in False (superl.) Not in tune.,
F as in False (adv.) Not truly; not honestly; falsely.,
F as in False (a.) To report falsely; to falsify.,
F as in False (a.) To betray; to falsify.,
F as in False (a.) To mislead by want of truth; to deceive.,
F as in False (a.) To feign; to pretend to make.,
F as in False-faced (a.) Hypocritical.,
F as in False-heart (a.) False-hearted.,
F as in False-hearted (a.) Hollow or unsound at the core; treacherous; deceitful; perfidious.,
F as in Falsehood (n.) Want of truth or accuracy; an untrue assertion or representation; error; misrepresentation; falsity.,
F as in Falsehood (n.) A deliberate intentional assertion of what is known to be untrue; a departure from moral integrity; a lie.,
F as in Falsehood (n.) Treachery; deceit; perfidy; unfaithfulness.,
F as in Falsehood (n.) A counterfeit; a false appearance; an imposture.,
F as in Falsely (adv.) In a false manner; erroneously; not truly; perfidiously or treacherously.,
F as in Falseness (n.) The state of being false; contrariety to the fact; inaccuracy; want of integrity or uprightness; double dealing; unfaithfulness; treachery; perfidy; as, the falseness of a report, a drawing, or a singer's notes; the falseness of a man, or of his word.,
F as in Falser (n.) A deceiver.,
F as in Falsettos (pl. ) of Falsetto,
F as in Falsetto (n.) A false or artificial voice; that voice in a man which lies above his natural voice; the male counter tenor or alto voice. See Head voice, under Voice.,
F as in Falsicrimen () The crime of falsifying.,
F as in Falsifiable (a.) Capable of being falsified, counterfeited, or corrupted.,
F as in Falsification (n.) The act of falsifying, or making false; a counterfeiting; the giving to a thing an appearance of something which it is not.,
F as in Falsification (n.) Willful misstatement or misrepresentation.,
F as in Falsification (n.) The showing an item of charge in an account to be wrong.,
F as in Falsificator (n.) A falsifier.,
F as in Falsifier (n.) One who falsifies, or gives to a thing a deceptive appearance; a liar.,
F as in Falsified (imp. & p. p.) of Falsify,
F as in Falsifying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Falsify,
F as in Falsify (a.) To make false; to represent falsely.,
F as in Falsify (a.) To counterfeit; to forge; as, to falsify coin.,
F as in Falsify (a.) To prove to be false, or untrustworthy; to confute; to disprove; to nullify; to make to appear false.,
F as in Falsify (a.) To violate; to break by falsehood; as, to falsify one's faith or word.,
F as in Falsify (a.) To baffle or escape; as, to falsify a blow.,
F as in Falsify (a.) To avoid or defeat; to prove false, as a judgment.,
F as in Falsify (a.) To show, in accounting, (an inem of charge inserted in an account) to be wrong.,
F as in Falsify (a.) To make false by multilation or addition; to tamper with; as, to falsify a record or document.,
F as in Falsify (v. i.) To tell lies; to violate the truth.,
F as in Falsism (n.) That which is evidently false; an assertion or statement the falsity of which is plainly apparent; -- opposed to truism.,
F as in Falsities (pl. ) of Falsity,
F as in Falsity (a.) The quality of being false; coutrariety or want of conformity to truth.,
F as in Falsity (a.) That which is false; falsehood; a lie; a false assertion.,
F as in Falter (v. t.) To thrash in the chaff; also, to cleanse or sift, as barley.,
F as in Faltered (imp. & p. p.) of Falter,
F as in Faltering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Falter,
F as in Falter (v. & n.) To hesitate; to speak brokenly or weakly; to stammer; as, his tongue falters.,
F as in Falter (v. & n.) To tremble; to totter; to be unsteady.,
F as in Falter (v. & n.) To hesitate in purpose or action.,
F as in Falter (v. & n.) To fail in distinctness or regularity of exercise; -- said of the mind or of thought.,
F as in Falter (v. t.) To utter with hesitation, or in a broken, trembling, or weak manner.,
F as in Falter (v. i.) Hesitation; trembling; feebleness; an uncertain or broken sound; as, a slight falter in her voice.,
F as in Faltering (a.) Hesitating; trembling.,
F as in Faltering (n.) Falter; halting; hesitation.,
F as in Faluns (n.) A series of strata, of the Middle Tertiary period, of France, abounding in shells, and used by Lyell as the type of his Miocene subdivision.,
F as in Falwe (a. & n.) Fallow.,
F as in Falx (n.) A curved fold or process of the dura mater or the peritoneum; esp., one of the partitionlike folds of the dura mater which extend into the great fissures of the brain.,
F as in Famble (v. i.) To stammer.,
F as in Famble (v.) A hand.,
F as in Fame (n.) Public report or rumor.,
F as in Fame (n.) Report or opinion generally diffused; renown; public estimation; celebrity, either favorable or unfavorable; as, the fame of Washington.,
F as in Famed (imp. & p. p.) of Fame,
F as in Faming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fame,
F as in Fame (v. t.) To report widely or honorably.,
F as in Fame (v. t.) To make famous or renowned.,
F as in Fameless (a.) Without fame or renown.,
F as in Familiar (a.) Of or pertaining to a family; domestic.,
F as in Familiar (a.) Closely acquainted or intimate, as a friend or companion; well versed in, as any subject of study; as, familiar with the Scriptures.,
F as in Familiar (a.) Characterized by, or exhibiting, the manner of an intimate friend; not formal; unconstrained; easy; accessible.,
F as in Familiar (a.) Well known; well understood; common; frequent; as, a familiar illustration.,
F as in Familiar (a.) Improperly acquainted; wrongly intimate.,
F as in Familiar (n.) An intimate; a companion.,
F as in Familiar (n.) An attendant demon or evil spirit.,
F as in Familiar (n.) A confidential officer employed in the service of the tribunal, especially in apprehending and imprisoning the accused.,
F as in Familiarities (pl. ) of Familiarity,
F as in Familiarity (n.) The state of being familiar; intimate and frequent converse, or association; unconstrained intercourse; freedom from ceremony and constraint; intimacy; as, to live in remarkable familiarity.,
F as in Familiarity (n.) Anything said or done by one person to another unceremoniously and without constraint; esp., in the pl., such actions and words as propriety and courtesy do not warrant; liberties.,
F as in Familiarization (n.) The act or process of making familiar; the result of becoming familiar; as, familiarization with scenes of blood.,
F as in Familiarized (imp. & p. p.) of Familiarize,
F as in Familiarizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Familiarize,
F as in Familiarize (v. t.) To make familiar or intimate; to habituate; to accustom; to make well known by practice or converse; as, to familiarize one's self with scenes of distress.,
F as in Familiarize (v. t.) To make acquainted, or skilled, by practice or study; as, to familiarize one's self with a business, a book, or a science.,
F as in Familiarly (adv.) In a familiar manner.,
F as in Familiarness (n.) Familiarity.,
F as in Familiary (a.) Of or pertaining to a family or household; domestic.,
F as in Familism (n.) The tenets of the Familists.,
F as in Familist (n.) One of afanatical Antinomian sect originating in Holland, and existing in England about 1580, called the Family of Love, who held that religion consists wholly in love.,
F as in Familisteries (pl. ) of Familistery,
F as in Familistery (n.) A community in which many persons unite as in one family, and are regulated by certain communistic laws and customs.,
F as in Familistic (a.) Alt. of Familistical,
F as in Familistical (a.) Pertaining to Familists.,
F as in Families (pl. ) of Family,
F as in Family (v. t.) The collective body of persons who live in one house, and under one head or manager; a household, including parents, children, and servants, and, as the case may be, lodgers or boarders.,
F as in Family (v. t.) The group comprising a husband and wife and their dependent children, constituting a fundamental unit in the organization of society.,
F as in Family (v. t.) Those who descend from one common progenitor; a tribe, clan, or race; kindred; house; as, the human family; the family of Abraham; the father of a family.,
F as in Family (v. t.) Course of descent; genealogy; line of ancestors; lineage.,
F as in Family (v. t.) Honorable descent; noble or respectable stock; as, a man of family.,
F as in Family (v. t.) A group of kindred or closely related individuals; as, a family of languages; a family of States; the chlorine family.,
F as in Family (v. t.) A group of organisms, either animal or vegetable, related by certain points of resemblance in structure or development, more comprehensive than a genus, because it is usually based on fewer or less pronounced points of likeness. In zoology a family is less comprehesive than an order; in botany it is often considered the same thing as an order.,
F as in Famine (n.) General scarcity of food; dearth; a want of provisions; destitution.,
F as in Famished (imp. & p. p.) of Famish,
F as in Famishing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Famish,
F as in Famish (v. t.) To starve, kill, or destroy with hunger.,
F as in Famish (v. t.) To exhaust the strength or endurance of, by hunger; to distress with hanger.,
F as in Famish (v. t.) To kill, or to cause to suffer extremity, by deprivation or denial of anything necessary.,
F as in Famish (v. t.) To force or constrain by famine.,
F as in Famish (v. i.) To die of hunger; to starve.,
F as in Famish (v. i.) To suffer extreme hunger or thirst, so as to be exhausted in strength, or to come near to perish.,
F as in Famish (v. i.) To suffer extremity from deprivation of anything essential or necessary.,
F as in Famishment (n.) State of being famished.,
F as in Famosity (n.) The state or quality of being famous.,
F as in Famous (a.) Celebrated in fame or public report; renowned; mach talked of; distinguished in story; -- used in either a good or a bad sense, chiefly the former; often followed by for; as, famous for erudition, for eloquence, for military skill; a famous pirate.,
F as in Famoused (a.) Renowned.,
F as in Famously (adv.) In a famous manner; in a distinguished degree; greatly; splendidly.,
F as in Famousness (n.) The state of being famous.,
F as in Famular (n.) Domestic; familiar.,
F as in Famulate (v. i.) To serve.,
F as in Famulist (n.) A collegian of inferior rank or position, corresponding to the sizar at Cambridge.,
F as in Fan (n.) An instrument used for producing artificial currents of air, by the wafting or revolving motion of a broad surface,
F as in Fan (n.) An instrument for cooling the person, made of feathers, paper, silk, etc., and often mounted on sticks all turning about the same pivot, so as when opened to radiate from the center and assume the figure of a section of a circle.,
F as in Fan (n.) Any revolving vane or vanes used for producing currents of air, in winnowing grain, blowing a fire, ventilation, etc., or for checking rapid motion by the resistance of the air; a fan blower; a fan wheel.,
F as in Fan (n.) An instrument for winnowing grain, by moving which the grain is tossed and agitated, and the chaff is separated and blown away.,
F as in Fan (n.) Something in the form of a fan when spread, as a peacock's tail, a window, etc.,
F as in Fan (n.) A small vane or sail, used to keep the large sails of a smock windmill always in the direction of the wind.,
F as in Fan (n.) That which produces effects analogous to those of a fan, as in exciting a flame, etc.; that which inflames, heightens, or strengthens; as, it served as a fan to the flame of his passion.,
F as in Fan (n.) A quintain; -- from its form.,
F as in Fanned (imp. & p. p.) of Fan,
F as in Fanning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fan,
F as in Fan (n.) To move as with a fan.,
F as in Fan (n.) To cool and refresh, by moving the air with a fan; to blow the air on the face of with a fan.,
F as in Fan (n.) To ventilate; to blow on; to affect by air put in motion.,
F as in Fan (n.) To winnow; to separate chaff from, and drive it away by a current of air; as, to fan wheat.,
F as in Fan (n.) To excite or stir up to activity, as a fan axcites a flame; to stimulate; as, this conduct fanned the excitement of the populace.,
F as in Fanal (n.) A lighthouse, or the apparatus placed in it for giving light.,
F as in Fanatic (a.) Pertaining to, or indicating, fanaticism; extravagant in opinions; ultra; unreasonable; excessively enthusiastic, especially on religious subjects; as, fanatic zeal; fanatic notions.,
F as in Fanatic (n.) A person affected by excessive enthusiasm, particularly on religious subjects; one who indulges wild and extravagant notions of religion.,
F as in Fanatical (a.) Characteristic of, or relating to, fanaticism; fanatic.,
F as in Fanaticism (n.) Excessive enthusiasm, unreasoning zeal, or wild and extravagant notions, on any subject, especially religion; religious frenzy.,
F as in Fanaticized (imp. & p. p.) of Fanaticize,
F as in Fanaticizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fanaticize,
F as in Fanaticize (v. t.) To cause to become a fanatic.,
F as in Fanatism (n.) Fanaticism.,
F as in Fancied (v. t.) Formed or conceived by the fancy; unreal; as, a fancied wrong.,
F as in Fancier (n.) One who is governed by fancy.,
F as in Fancier (n.) One who fancies or has a special liking for, or interest in, a particular object or class or objects; hence, one who breeds and keeps for sale birds and animals; as, bird fancier, dog fancier, etc.,
F as in Fanciful (a.) Full of fancy; guided by fancy, rather than by reason and experience; whimsical; as, a fanciful man forms visionary projects.,
F as in Fanciful (a.) Conceived in the fancy; not consistent with facts or reason; abounding in ideal qualities or figures; as, a fanciful scheme; a fanciful theory.,
F as in Fanciful (a.) Curiously shaped or constructed; as, she wore a fanciful headdress.,
F as in Fanciless (a.) Having no fancy; without ideas or imagination.,
F as in Fancies (pl. ) of Fancy,
F as in Fancy (n.) The faculty by which the mind forms an image or a representation of anything perceived before; the power of combining and modifying such objects into new pictures or images; the power of readily and happily creating and recalling such objects for the purpose of amusement, wit, or embellishment; imagination.,
F as in Fancy (n.) An image or representation of anything formed in the mind; conception; thought; idea; conceit.,
F as in Fancy (n.) An opinion or notion formed without much reflection; caprice; whim; impression.,
F as in Fancy (n.) Inclination; liking, formed by caprice rather than reason; as, to strike one's fancy; hence, the object of inclination or liking.,
F as in Fancy (n.) That which pleases or entertains the taste or caprice without much use or value.,
F as in Fancy (n.) A sort of love song or light impromptu ballad.,
F as in Fancied (imp. & p. p.) of Fancy,
F as in Fancying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fancy,
F as in Fancy (v. i.) To figure to one's self; to believe or imagine something without proof.,
F as in Fancy (v. i.) To love.,
F as in Fancy (v. t.) To form a conception of; to portray in the mind; to imagine.,
F as in Fancy (v. t.) To have a fancy for; to like; to be pleased with, particularly on account of external appearance or manners.,
F as in Fancy (v. t.) To believe without sufficient evidence; to imagine (something which is unreal).,
F as in Fancy (a.) Adapted to please the fancy or taste; ornamental; as, fancy goods.,
F as in Fancy (a.) Extravagant; above real value.,
F as in Fancy-free (a.) Free from the power of love.,
F as in Fancymonger (n.) A lovemonger; a whimsical lover.,
F as in Fancy-sick (a.) Love-sick.,
F as in Fancywork (n.) Ornamental work with a needle or hook, as embroidery, crocheting, netting, etc.,
F as in Fand () imp. of Find.,
F as in Fandangoes (pl. ) of Fandango,
F as in Fandango (n.) A lively dance, in 3-8 or 6-8 time, much practiced in Spain and Spanish America. Also, the tune to which it is danced.,
F as in Fandango (n.) A ball or general dance, as in Mexico.,
F as in Fane (n.) A temple; a place consecrated to religion; a church.,
F as in Fane (n.) A weathercock.,
F as in Fanega (n.) A dry measure in Spain and Spanish America, varying from 1/ to 2/ bushels; also, a measure of land.,
F as in Fanfare (n.) A flourish of trumpets, as in coming into the lists, etc.; also, a short and lively air performed on hunting horns during the chase.,
F as in Fanfaron (n.) A bully; a hector; a swaggerer; an empty boaster.,
F as in Fanfaronade (n.) A swaggering; vain boasting; ostentation; a bluster.,
F as in Fanfoot (n.) A species of gecko having the toes expanded into large lobes for adhesion. The Egyptian fanfoot (Phyodactylus gecko) is believed, by the natives, to have venomous toes.,
F as in Fanfoot (n.) Any moth of the genus Polypogon.,
F as in Fang (a.) To catch; to seize, as with the teeth; to lay hold of; to gripe; to clutch.,
F as in Fang (a.) To enable to catch or tear; to furnish with fangs.,
F as in Fang (v. t.) The tusk of an animal, by which the prey is seized and held or torn; a long pointed tooth; esp., one of the usually erectile, venomous teeth of serpents. Also, one of the falcers of a spider.,
F as in Fang (v. t.) Any shoot or other thing by which hold is taken.,
F as in Fang (v. t.) The root, or one of the branches of the root, of a tooth. See Tooth.,
F as in Fang (v. t.) A niche in the side of an adit or shaft, for an air course.,
F as in Fang (v. t.) A projecting tooth or prong, as in a part of a lock, or the plate of a belt clamp, or the end of a tool, as a chisel, where it enters the handle.,
F as in Fang (v. t.) The valve of a pump box.,
F as in Fang (v. t.) A bend or loop of a rope.,
F as in Fanged (a.) Having fangs or tusks; as, a fanged adder. Also used figuratively.,
F as in Fangle (v. t.) Something new-fashioned; a foolish innovation; a gewgaw; a trifling ornament.,
F as in Fangle (v. t.) To fashion.,
F as in Fangled (a.) New made; hence, gaudy; showy; vainly decorated. [Obs., except with the prefix new.] See Newfangled.,
F as in Fangleness (n.) Quality of being fangled.,
F as in Fangless (a.) Destitute of fangs or tusks.,
F as in Fangot (n.) A quantity of wares, as raw silk, etc., from one hundred weight.,
F as in Fanion (n.) A small flag sometimes carried at the head of the baggage of a brigade.,
F as in Fanion (n.) A small flag for marking the stations in surveying.,
F as in Fanlike (a.) Resembling a fan;,
F as in Fanlike (a.) folded up like a fan, as certain leaves; plicate.,
F as in Fannel (n.) Same as Fanon.,
F as in Fanner (n.) One who fans.,
F as in Fanner (n.) A fan wheel; a fan blower. See under Fan.,
F as in Fan-nerved (a.) Having the nerves or veins arranged in a radiating manner; -- said of certain leaves, and of the wings of some insects.,
F as in Fanon (n.) A term applied to various articles, as: (a) A peculiar striped scarf worn by the pope at mass, and by eastern bishops. (b) A maniple.,
F as in Fan palm () Any palm tree having fan-shaped or radiate leaves; as the Chamaerops humilis of Southern Europe; the species of Sabal and Thrinax in the West Indies, Florida, etc.; and especially the great talipot tree (Corypha umbraculifera) of Ceylon and Malaya. The leaves of the latter are often eighteen feet long and fourteen wide, and are used for umbrellas, tents, and roofs. When cut up, they are used for books and manuscripts.,
F as in Fantail (n.) A variety of the domestic pigeon, so called from the shape of the tail.,
F as in Fantail (n.) Any bird of the Australian genus Rhipidura, in which the tail is spread in the form of a fan during flight. They belong to the family of flycatchers.,
F as in Fan-tailed (a.) Having an expanded, or fan-shaped, tail; as, the fan-tailed pigeon.,
F as in Fantasia (n.) A continuous composition, not divided into what are called movements, or governed by the ordinary rules of musical design, but in which the author's fancy roves unrestricted by set form.,
F as in Fantasied (a.) Filled with fancies or imaginations.,
F as in Fantasm (n.) Same as Phantasm.,
F as in Fantast (n.) One whose manners or ideas are fantastic.,
F as in Fantastic (a.) Existing only in imagination; fanciful; imaginary; not real; chimerical.,
F as in Fantastic (a.) Having the nature of a phantom; unreal.,
F as in Fantastic (a.) Indulging the vagaries of imagination; whimsical; full of absurd fancies; capricious; as, fantastic minds; a fantastic mistress.,
F as in Fantastic (a.) Resembling fantasies in irregularity, caprice, or eccentricity; irregular; oddly shaped; grotesque.,
F as in Fantastic (n.) A person given to fantastic dress, manners, etc.; an eccentric person; a fop.,
F as in Fantastical (a.) Fanciful; unreal; whimsical; capricious; fantastic.,
F as in Fantasticality (n.) Fantastically.,
F as in Fantastically (adv.) In a fantastic manner.,
F as in Fantastic-alness (n.) The quality of being fantastic.,
F as in Fantasticism (n.) The quality of being fantastical; fancifulness; whimsicality.,
F as in Fantasticly (adv.) Fantastically.,
F as in Fantasticness (n.) Fantasticalness.,
F as in Fantasticco (n.) A fantastic.,
F as in Fantasies (pl. ) of Fantasy,
F as in Fantasy (n.) Fancy; imagination; especially, a whimsical or fanciful conception; a vagary of the imagination; whim; caprice; humor.,
F as in Fantasy (n.) Fantastic designs.,
F as in Fantasy (v. t.) To have a fancy for; to be pleased with; to like; to fancy.,
F as in Fantoccini (n. pl.) Puppets caused to perform evolutions or dramatic scenes by means of machinery; also, the representations in which they are used.,
F as in Fantom (n.) See Phantom.,
F as in Fap (a.) Fuddled.,
F as in Faquir (n.) See Fakir.,
F as in Far (n.) A young pig, or a litter of pigs.,
F as in Far (a.) Distant in any direction; not near; remote; mutually separated by a wide space or extent.,
F as in Far (a.) Remote from purpose; contrary to design or wishes; as, far be it from me to justify cruelty.,
F as in Far (a.) Remote in affection or obedience; at a distance, morally or spiritually; t enmity with; alienated.,
F as in Far (a.) Widely different in nature or quality; opposite in character.,
F as in Far (a.) The more distant of two; as, the far side (called also off side) of a horse, that is, the right side, or the one opposite to the rider when he mounts.,
F as in Far (adv.) To a great extent or distance of space; widely; as, we are separated far from each other.,
F as in Far (adv.) To a great distance in time from any point; remotely; as, he pushed his researches far into antiquity.,
F as in Far (adv.) In great part; as, the day is far spent.,
F as in Far (adv.) In a great proportion; by many degrees; very much; deeply; greatly.,
F as in Farabout (n.) A going out of the way; a digression.,
F as in Farad (n.) The standard unit of electrical capacity; the capacity of a condenser whose charge, having an electro-motive force of one volt, is equal to the amount of electricity which, with the same electromotive force, passes through one ohm in one second; the capacity, which, charged with one coulomb, gives an electro-motive force of one volt.,
F as in Faradic (a.) Of or pertaining to Michael Faraday, the distinguished electrician; -- applied especially to induced currents of electricity, as produced by certain forms of inductive apparatus, on account of Faraday's investigations of their laws.,
F as in Faradism (n.) Alt. of Faradization,
F as in Faradization (n.) The treatment with faradic or induced currents of electricity for remedial purposes.,
F as in Farand (n.) See Farrand, n.,
F as in Farandams (n.) A fabrik made of silk and wool or hair.,
F as in Farantly (a.) Orderly; comely; respectable.,
F as in Farced (imp. & p. p.) of Farce,
F as in Farcing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Farce,
F as in Farce (v. t.) To stuff with forcemeat; hence, to fill with mingled ingredients; to fill full; to stuff.,
F as in Farce (v. t.) To render fat.,
F as in Farce (v. t.) To swell out; to render pompous.,
F as in Farce (v. t.) Stuffing, or mixture of viands, like that used on dressing a fowl; forcemeat.,
F as in Farce (v. t.) A low style of comedy; a dramatic composition marked by low humor, generally written with little regard to regularity or method, and abounding with ludicrous incidents and expressions.,
F as in Farce (v. t.) Ridiculous or empty show; as, a mere farce.,
F as in Farcement (n.) Stuffing; forcemeat.,
F as in Farcical (a.) Pertaining to farce; appropriated to farce; ludicrous; unnatural; unreal.,
F as in Farcical (a.) Of or pertaining to the disease called farcy. See Farcy, n.,
F as in Farcilite (n.) Pudding stone.,
F as in Farcimen (n.) Alt. of Farcin,
F as in Farcin (n.) Same as Farcy.,
F as in Farcing (n.) Stuffing; forcemeat.,
F as in Farctate (v. t.) Stuffed; filled solid; as, a farctate leaf, stem, or pericarp; -- opposed to tubular or hollow.,
F as in Farcy (n.) A contagious disease of horses, associated with painful ulcerating enlargements, esp. upon the head and limbs. It is of the same nature as glanders, and is often fatal. Called also farcin, and farcimen.,
F as in Fard (n.) Paint used on the face.,
F as in Fard (v. t.) To paint; -- said esp. of one's face.,
F as in Fardage (n.) See Dunnage.,
F as in Fardel (n.) A bundle or little pack; hence, a burden.,
F as in Fardel (v. t.) To make up in fardels.,
F as in Farding-bag (n.) The upper stomach of a cow, or other ruminant animal; the rumen.,
F as in Fardingdale (n.) A farthingale.,
F as in Fardingdeal (n.) The fourth part of an acre of land.,
F as in Fared (imp. & p. p.) of Fare,
F as in Faring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fare,
F as in Fare (n.) To go; to pass; to journey; to travel.,
F as in Fare (n.) To be in any state, or pass through any experience, good or bad; to be attended with any circummstances or train of events, fortunate or unfortunate; as, he fared well, or ill.,
F as in Fare (n.) To be treated or entertained at table, or with bodily or social comforts; to live.,
F as in Fare (n.) To happen well, or ill; -- used impersonally; as, we shall see how it will fare with him.,
F as in Fare (n.) To behave; to conduct one's self.,
F as in Fare (v.) A journey; a passage.,
F as in Fare (v.) The price of passage or going; the sum paid or due for conveying a person by land or water; as, the fare for crossing a river; the fare in a coach or by railway.,
F as in Fare (v.) Ado; bustle; business.,
F as in Fare (v.) Condition or state of things; fortune; hap; cheer.,
F as in Fare (v.) Food; provisions for the table; entertainment; as, coarse fare; delicious fare.,
F as in Fare (v.) The person or persons conveyed in a vehicle; as, a full fare of passengers.,
F as in Fare (v.) The catch of fish on a fishing vessel.,
F as in Faren () p. p. of Fare, v. i.,
F as in Farewell (interj.) Go well; good-by; adieu; -- originally applied to a person departing, but by custom now applied both to those who depart and those who remain. It is often separated by the pronoun; as, fare you well; and is sometimes used as an expression of separation only; as, farewell the year; farewell, ye sweet groves; that is, I bid you farewell.,
F as in Farewell (n.) A wish of happiness or welfare at parting; the parting compliment; a good-by; adieu.,
F as in Farewell (n.) Act of departure; leave-taking; a last look at, or reference to something.,
F as in Farewell (a.) Parting; valedictory; final; as, a farewell discourse; his farewell bow.,
F as in Farfet (p. p.) Farfetched.,
F as in Farfetch (v. t.) To bring from far; to seek out studiously.,
F as in Farfetch (n.) Anything brought from far, or brought about with studious care; a deep strategem.,
F as in Farfetched (a.) Brought from far, or from a remote place.,
F as in Farfetched (a.) Studiously sought; not easily or naturally deduced or introduced; forced; strained.,
F as in Farina (n.) A fine flour or meal made from cereal grains or from the starch or fecula of vegetables, extracted by various processes, and used in cookery.,
F as in Farina (n.) Pollen.,
F as in Farinaceous (a.) Consisting or made of meal or flour; as, a farinaceous diet.,
F as in Farinaceous (a.) Yielding farina or flour; as, ffarinaceous seeds.,
F as in Farinaceous (a.) Like meal; mealy; pertainiing to meal; as, a farinaceous taste, smell, or appearance.,
F as in Farinose (a.) Yielding farinaa; as, farinose substances.,
F as in Farinose (a.) Civered with a sort of white, mealy powder, as the leaves of some poplars, and the body of certain insects; mealy.,
F as in Farl (v. t.) Same as Furl.,
F as in Farlie (n.) An unusual or unexpected thing; a wonder. See Fearly.,
F as in Farm (a. & n.) The rent of land, -- originally paid by reservation of part of its products.,
F as in Farm (a. & n.) The term or tenure of a lease of land for cultivation; a leasehold.,
F as in Farm (a. & n.) The land held under lease and by payment of rent for the purpose of cultivation.,
F as in Farm (a. & n.) Any tract of land devoted to agricultural purposes, under the management of a tenant or the owner.,
F as in Farm (a. & n.) A district of country leased (or farmed) out for the collection of the revenues of government.,
F as in Farm (a. & n.) A lease of the imposts on particular goods; as, the sugar farm, the silk farm.,
F as in Farmed (imp. & p. p.) of Farm,
F as in Farming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Farm,
F as in Farm (v. t.) To lease or let for an equivalent, as land for a rent; to yield the use of to proceeds.,
F as in Farm (v. t.) To give up to another, as an estate, a business, the revenue, etc., on condition of receiving in return a percentage of what it yields; as, to farm the taxes.,
F as in Farm (v. t.) To take at a certain rent or rate.,
F as in Farm (v. t.) To devote (land) to agriculture; to cultivate, as land; to till, as a farm.,
F as in Farm (v. i.) To engage in the business of tilling the soil; to labor as a farmer.,
F as in Farmable (a.) Capable of being farmed.,
F as in Farmer (n.) One who farms,
F as in Farmer (n.) One who hires and cultivates a farm; a cultivator of leased ground; a tenant.,
F as in Farmer (n.) One who is devoted to the tillage of the soil; one who cultivates a farm; an agriculturist; a husbandman.,
F as in Farmer (n.) One who takes taxes, customs, excise, or other duties, to collect, either paying a fixed annuual rent for the privilege; as, a farmer of the revenues.,
F as in Farmer (n.) The lord of the field, or one who farms the lot and cope of the crown.,
F as in Farmeress (n.) A woman who farms.,
F as in Farmership (n.) Skill in farming.,
F as in Farmery (n.) The buildings and yards necessary for the business of a farm; a homestead.,
F as in Farmhouse (n.) A dwelling house on a farm; a farmer's residence.,
F as in Farming (a.) Pertaining to agriculture; devoted to, adapted to, or engaged in, farming; as, farming tools; farming land; a farming community.,
F as in Farming (n.) The business of cultivating land.,
F as in Farmost (a.) Most distant; farthest.,
F as in Farmstead (n.) A farm with the building upon it; a homestead on a farm.,
F as in Farmsteading (n.) A farmstead.,
F as in Farmyard (n.) The yard or inclosure attached to a barn, or the space inclosed by the farm buildings.,
F as in Farness (a.) The state of being far off; distance; remoteness.,
F as in Faro (n.) A gambling game at cardds, in whiich all the other players play against the dealer or banker, staking their money upon the order in which the cards will lie and be dealt from the pack.,
F as in Faroese (n. sing. & pl.) An inhabitant, or, collectively, inhabitants, of the Faroe islands.,
F as in Far-off (a.) Remote; as, the far-off distance. Cf. Far-off, under Far, adv.,
F as in Farraginous (a.) Formed of various materials; mixed; as, a farraginous mountain.,
F as in Farrago (n.) A mass composed of various materials confusedly mixed; a medley; a mixture.,
F as in Farrand (n.) Manner; custom; fashion; humor.,
F as in Farreation (n.) Same as Confarreation.,
F as in Farrier (n.) A shoer of horses; a veterinary surgeon.,
F as in Farrier (v. i.) To practice as a farrier; to carry on the trade of a farrier.,
F as in Farriery (n.) The art of shoeing horses.,
F as in Farriery (n.) The art of preventing, curing, or mitigating diseases of horses and cattle; the veterinary art.,
F as in Farriery (n.) The place where a smith shoes horses.,
F as in Farrow (n.) A little of pigs.,
F as in Farrowed (imp. & p. p.) of Farfow,
F as in Farrowing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Farfow,
F as in Farfow (v. t. & i.) To bring forth (young); -- said only of swine.,
F as in Farrow (a.) Not producing young in a given season or year; -- said only of cows.,
F as in Farry (n.) A farrow.,
F as in Farse (n.) An addition to, or a paraphrase of, some part of the Latin service in the vernacular; -- common in English before the Reformation.,
F as in Farseeing (a.) Able to see to a great distance; farsighted.,
F as in Farseeing (a.) Having foresight as regards the future.,
F as in Farsighted (a.) Seeing to great distance; hence, of good judgment regarding the remote effects of actions; sagacious.,
F as in Farsighted (a.) Hypermetropic.,
F as in Farsightedness (n.) Quality of bbeing farsighted.,
F as in Farsightedness (n.) Hypermetropia.,
F as in Farstretched (a.) Streatched beyond ordinary limits.,
F as in Farther (superl.) More remote; more distant than something else.,
F as in Farther (superl.) Tending to a greater distance; beyond a certain point; additional; further.,
F as in Farther (adv.) At or to a greater distance; more remotely; beyond; as, let us rest with what we have, without looking farther.,
F as in Farther (adv.) Moreover; by way of progress in treating a subject; as, farther, let us consider the probable event.,
F as in Farther (v. t.) To help onward. [R.] See Further.,
F as in Fartherance (n.) See Furtherance.,
F as in Farthermore (adv.) See Furthermore.,
F as in Farthermost (a.) Most remote; farthest.,
F as in Farthest (Superl.) Most distant or remote; as, the farthest degree. See Furthest.,
F as in Farthest (adv.) At or to the greatest distance. See Furthest.,
F as in Farthing (n.) The fourth of a penny; a small copper coin of Great Britain, being a cent in United States currency.,
F as in Farthing (n.) A very small quantity or value.,
F as in Farthing (n.) A division of land.,
F as in Farthingale (n.) A hoop skirt or hoop petticoat, or other light, elastic material, used to extend the petticoat.,
F as in Fasces (pl.) A bundle of rods, having among them an ax with the blade projecting, borne before the Roman magistrates as a badge of their authority.,
F as in Fascet (n.) A wire basket on the end of a rod to carry glass bottles, etc., to the annealing furnace; also, an iron rod to be thrust into the mouths of bottles, and used for the same purpose; -- called also pontee and punty.,
F as in Fasciae (pl. ) of Fascia,
F as in Fascia (n.) A band, sash, or fillet; especially, in surgery, a bandage or roller.,
F as in Fascia (n.) A flat member of an order or building, like a flat band or broad fillet; especially, one of the three bands which make up the architrave, in the Ionic order. See Illust. of Column.,
F as in Fascia (n.) The layer of loose tissue, often containing fat, immediately beneath the skin; the stronger layer of connective tissue covering and investing all muscles; an aponeurosis.,
F as in Fascia (n.) A broad well-defined band of color.,
F as in Fascial (a.) Pertaining to the fasces.,
F as in Fascial (a.) Relating to a fascia.,
F as in Fasciate (a.) Alt. of Fasciated,
F as in Fasciated (a.) Bound with a fillet, sash, or bandage.,
F as in Fasciated (a.) Banded or compacted together.,
F as in Fasciated (a.) Flattened and laterally widened, as are often the stems of the garden cockscomb.,
F as in Fasciated (a.) Broadly banded with color.,
F as in Fasciation (n.) The act or manner of binding up; bandage; also, the condition of being fasciated.,
F as in Fascicle (n.) A small bundle or collection; a compact cluster; as, a fascicle of fibers; a fascicle of flowers or roots.,
F as in Fascicled (a.) Growing in a bundle, tuft, or close cluster; as, the fascicled leaves of the pine or larch; the fascicled roots of the dahlia; fascicled muscle fibers; fascicled tufts of hair.,
F as in Fascicular (a.) Pertaining to a fascicle; fascicled; as, a fascicular root.,
F as in Fascicularly (adv.) In a fascicled manner.,
F as in Fasciculate (a.) Alt. of Fasciculated,
F as in Fasciculated (a.) Grouped in a fascicle; fascicled.,
F as in Fasciculi (pl. ) of Fasciculus,
F as in Fasciculus (n.) A little bundle; a fascicle.,
F as in Fasciculus (n.) A division of a book.,
F as in Fascinated (imp. & p. p.) of Fascinate,
F as in Fascinating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fascinate,
F as in Fascinate (v. t.) To influence in an uncontrollable manner; to operate on by some powerful or irresistible charm; to bewitch; to enchant.,
F as in Fascinate (v. t.) To excite and allure irresistibly or powerfully; to charm; to captivate, as by physical or mental charms.,
F as in Fascination (n.) The act of fascinating, bewhiching, or enchanting; enchantment; witchcraft; the exercise of a powerful or irresistible influence on the affections or passions; unseen, inexplicable influence.,
F as in Fascination (n.) The state or condition of being fascinated.,
F as in Fascination (n.) That which fascinates; a charm; a spell.,
F as in Fascine (n.) A cylindrical bundle of small sticks of wood, bound together, used in raising batteries, filling ditches, strengthening ramparts, and making parapets; also in revetments for river banks, and in mats for dams, jetties, etc.,
F as in Fascinous (a.) Caused or acting by witchcraft.,
F as in Fasciolae (pl. ) of Fasciola,
F as in Fasciola (n.) A band of gray matter bordering the fimbria in the brain; the dentate convolution.,
F as in Fasciole (n.) A band of minute tubercles, bearing modified spines, on the shells of spatangoid sea urchins. See Spatangoidea.,
F as in Fashed (imp. & p. p.) of Fash,
F as in Fashing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fash,
F as in Fash (v. t.) To vex; to tease; to trouble.,
F as in Fash (n.) Vexation; anxiety; care.,
F as in Fashion (n.) The make or form of anything; the style, shape, appearance, or mode of structure; pattern, model; as, the fashion of the ark, of a coat, of a house, of an altar, etc.; workmanship; execution.,
F as in Fashion (n.) The prevailing mode or style, especially of dress; custom or conventional usage in respect of dress, behavior, etiquette, etc.; particularly, the mode or style usual among persons of good breeding; as, to dress, dance, sing, ride, etc., in the fashion.,
F as in Fashion (n.) Polite, fashionable, or genteel life; social position; good breeding; as, men of fashion.,
F as in Fashion (n.) Mode of action; method of conduct; manner; custom; sort; way.,
F as in Fashioned (imp. & p. p.) of Fashion,
F as in Fashioning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fashion,
F as in Fashion (v. t.) To form; to give shape or figure to; to mold.,
F as in Fashion (v. t.) To fit; to adapt; to accommodate; -- with to.,
F as in Fashion (v. t.) To make according to the rule prescribed by custom.,
F as in Fashion (v. t.) To forge or counterfeit.,
F as in Fashionable (a.) Conforming to the fashion or established mode; according with the prevailing form or style; as, a fashionable dress.,
F as in Fashionable (a.) Established or favored by custom or use; current; prevailing at a particular time; as, the fashionable philosophy; fashionable opinions.,
F as in Fashionable (a.) Observant of the fashion or customary mode; dressing or behaving according to the prevailing fashion; as, a fashionable man.,
F as in Fashionable (a.) Genteel; well-bred; as, fashionable society.,
F as in Fashionable (n.) A person who conforms to the fashions; -- used chiefly in the plural.,
F as in Fashionableness (n.) State of being fashionable.,
F as in Fashionably (adv.) In a fashionable manner.,
F as in Fashioned (a.) Having a certain style or fashion; as old-fashioned; new-fashioned.,
F as in Fashioner (n.) One who fashions, forms, ar gives shape to anything.,
F as in Fashionist (n.) An obsequious follower of the modes and fashions.,
F as in Fashionless (a.) Having no fashion.,
F as in Fashion-monger (n.) One who studies the fashions; a fop; a dandy.,
F as in Fashion-mongering (a.) Behaving like a fashion-monger.,
F as in Fassaite (n.) A variety of pyroxene, from the valley of Fassa, in the Tyrol.,
F as in Fasted (imp. & p. p.) of Fast,
F as in Fasting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fast,
F as in Fast (v. i.) To abstain from food; to omit to take nourishment in whole or in part; to go hungry.,
F as in Fast (v. i.) To practice abstinence as a religious exercise or duty; to abstain from food voluntarily for a time, for the mortification of the body or appetites, or as a token of grief, or humiliation and penitence.,
F as in Fast (v. i.) Abstinence from food; omission to take nourishment.,
F as in Fast (v. i.) Voluntary abstinence from food, for a space of time, as a spiritual discipline, or as a token of religious humiliation.,
F as in Fast (v. i.) A time of fasting, whether a day, week, or longer time; a period of abstinence from food or certain kinds of food; as, an annual fast.,
F as in Fast (v.) Firmly fixed; closely adhering; made firm; not loose, unstable, or easily moved; immovable; as, to make fast the door.,
F as in Fast (v.) Firm against attack; fortified by nature or art; impregnable; strong.,
F as in Fast (v.) Firm in adherence; steadfast; not easily separated or alienated; faithful; as, a fast friend.,
F as in Fast (v.) Permanent; not liable to fade by exposure to air or by washing; durable; lasting; as, fast colors.,
F as in Fast (v.) Tenacious; retentive.,
F as in Fast (v.) Not easily disturbed or broken; deep; sound.,
F as in Fast (v.) Moving rapidly; quick in mition; rapid; swift; as, a fast horse.,
F as in Fast (v.) Given to pleasure seeking; disregardful of restraint; reckless; wild; dissipated; dissolute; as, a fast man; a fast liver.,
F as in Fast (a.) In a fast, fixed, or firmly established manner; fixedly; firmly; immovably.,
F as in Fast (a.) In a fast or rapid manner; quickly; swiftly; extravagantly; wildly; as, to run fast; to live fast.,
F as in Fast (n.) That which fastens or holds; especially, (Naut.) a mooring rope, hawser, or chain; -- called, according to its position, a bow, head, quarter, breast, or stern fast; also, a post on a pier around which hawsers are passed in mooring.,
F as in Fastened (imp. & p. p.) of Fasten,
F as in Fastening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fasten,
F as in Fasten (a.) To fix firmly; to make fast; to secure, as by a knot, lock, bolt, etc.; as, to fasten a chain to the feet; to fasten a door or window.,
F as in Fasten (a.) To cause to hold together or to something else; to attach or unite firmly; to cause to cleave to something , or to cleave together, by any means; as, to fasten boards together with nails or cords; to fasten anything in our thoughts.,
F as in Fasten (a.) To cause to take close effect; to make to tell; to lay on; as, to fasten a blow.,
F as in Fasten (v. i.) To fix one's self; to take firm hold; to clinch; to cling.,
F as in Fastener (n.) One who, or that which, makes fast or firm.,
F as in Fastening (n.) Anything that binds and makes fast, as a lock, catch, bolt, bar, buckle, etc.,
F as in Faster (n.) One who abstains from food.,
F as in Fast-handed (a.) Close-handed; close-fisted; covetous; avaricious.,
F as in Fasti (n.pl.) The Roman calendar, which gave the days for festivals, courts, etc., corresponding to a modern almanac.,
F as in Fasti (n.pl.) Records or registers of important events.,
F as in Fastidiosity (n.) Fastidiousness; squeamishness.,
F as in Fastidious (a.) Difficult to please; delicate to a fault; suited with difficulty; squeamish; as, a fastidious mind or ear; a fastidious appetite.,
F as in Fastigiate (a.) Alt. of Fastigiated,
F as in Fastigiated (a.) Narrowing towards the top.,
F as in Fastigiated (a.) Clustered, parallel, and upright, as the branches of the Lombardy poplar; pointed.,
F as in Fastigiated (a.) United into a conical bundle, or into a bundle with an enlarged head, like a sheaf of wheat.,
F as in Fastish (a.) Rather fast; also, somewhat dissipated.,
F as in Fastly (adv.) Firmly; surely.,
F as in Fastness (a.) The state of being fast and firm; firmness; fixedness; security; faithfulness.,
F as in Fastness (a.) A fast place; a stronghold; a fortress or fort; a secure retreat; a castle; as, the enemy retired to their fastnesses in the mountains.,
F as in Fastness (a.) Conciseness of style.,
F as in Fastness (a.) The state of being fast or swift.,
F as in Fastuous (a.) Proud; haughty; disdainful.,
F as in Fat (n.) A large tub, cistern, or vessel; a vat.,
F as in Fat (n.) A measure of quantity, differing for different commodities.,
F as in Fat (superl.) Abounding with fat,
F as in Fat (superl.) Fleshy; characterized by fatness; plump; corpulent; not lean; as, a fat man; a fat ox.,
F as in Fat (superl.) Oily; greasy; unctuous; rich; -- said of food.,
F as in Fat (superl.) Exhibiting the qualities of a fat animal; coarse; heavy; gross; dull; stupid.,
F as in Fat (superl.) Fertile; productive; as, a fat soil; a fat pasture.,
F as in Fat (superl.) Rich; producing a large income; desirable; as, a fat benefice; a fat office; a fat job.,
F as in Fat (superl.) Abounding in riches; affluent; fortunate.,
F as in Fat (superl.) Of a character which enables the compositor to make large wages; -- said of matter containing blank, cuts, or many leads, etc.; as, a fat take; a fat page.,
F as in Fat (n.) An oily liquid or greasy substance making up the main bulk of the adipose tissue of animals, and widely distributed in the seeds of plants. See Adipose tissue, under Adipose.,
F as in Fat (n.) The best or richest productions; the best part; as, to live on the fat of the land.,
F as in Fat (n.) Work. containing much blank, or its equivalent, and, therefore, profitable to the compositor.,
F as in Fatted (imp. & p. p.) of Fat,
F as in atting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fat,
F as in Fat (a.) To make fat; to fatten; to make plump and fleshy with abundant food; as, to fat fowls or sheep.,
F as in Fat (v. i.) To grow fat, plump, and fleshy.,
F as in Fatal (a.) Proceeding from, or appointed by, fate or destiny; necessary; inevitable.,
F as in Fatal (a.) Foreboding death or great disaster.,
F as in Fatal (a.) Causing death or destruction; deadly; mortal; destructive; calamitous; as, a fatal wound; a fatal disease; a fatal day; a fatal error.,
F as in Fatalism (n.) The doctrine that all things are subject to fate, or that they take place by inevitable necessity.,
F as in Fatalist (n.) One who maintains that all things happen by inevitable necessity.,
F as in Fatalistic (a.) Implying, or partaking of the nature of, fatalism.,
F as in Fatalities (pl. ) of Fatality,
F as in Fatality (n.) The state of being fatal, or proceeding from destiny; invincible necessity, superior to, and independent of, free and rational control.,
F as in Fatality (n.) The state of being fatal; tendency to destruction or danger, as if by decree of fate; mortaility.,
F as in Fatality (n.) That which is decreed by fate or which is fatal; a fatal event.,
F as in Fatally (adv.) In a manner proceeding from, or determined by, fate.,
F as in Fatally (adv.) In a manner issuing in death or ruin; mortally; destructively; as, fatally deceived or wounded.,
F as in Fatalness (n.) Quality of being fatal.,
F as in Fata Morgana () A kind of mirage by which distant objects appear inverted, distorted, displaced, or multiplied. It is noticed particularly at the Straits of Messina, between Calabria and Sicily.,
F as in Fatback (n.) The menhaden.,
F as in Fat-brained (a.) Dull of apprehension.,
F as in Fate (n.) A fixed decree by which the order of things is prescribed; the immutable law of the universe; inevitable necessity; the force by which all existence is determined and conditioned.,
F as in Fate (n.) Appointed lot; allotted life; arranged or predetermined event; destiny; especially, the final lot; doom; ruin; death.,
F as in Fate (n.) The element of chance in the affairs of life; the unforeseen and unestimated conitions considered as a force shaping events; fortune; esp., opposing circumstances against which it is useless to struggle; as, fate was, or the fates were, against him.,
F as in Fate (n.) The three goddesses, Clotho, Lachesis, and Atropos, sometimes called the Destinies, or Parcaewho were supposed to determine the course of human life. They are represented, one as holding the distaff, a second as spinning, and the third as cutting off the thread.,
F as in Fated (p. p. & a.) Decreed by fate; destined; doomed; as, he was fated to rule a factious people.,
F as in Fated (p. p. & a.) Invested with the power of determining destiny.,
F as in Fated (p. p. & a.) Exempted by fate.,
F as in Fateful (a. .) Having the power of serving or accomplishing fate.,
F as in Fateful (a. .) Significant of fate; ominous.,
F as in Fathead (n.) A cyprinoid fish of the Mississippi valley (Pimephales promelas); -- called also black-headed minnow.,
F as in Fathead (n.) A labroid food fish of California; the redfish.,
F as in Father (n.) One who has begotten a child, whether son or daughter; a generator; a male parent.,
F as in Father (n.) A male ancestor more remote than a parent; a progenitor; especially, a first ancestor; a founder of a race or family; -- in the plural, fathers, ancestors.,
F as in Father (n.) One who performs the offices of a parent by maintenance, affetionate care, counsel, or protection.,
F as in Father (n.) A respectful mode of address to an old man.,
F as in Father (n.) A senator of ancient Rome.,
F as in Father (n.) A dignitary of the church, a superior of a convent, a confessor (called also father confessor), or a priest; also, the eldest member of a profession, or of a legislative assembly, etc.,
F as in Father (n.) One of the chief esslesiastical authorities of the first centuries after Christ; -- often spoken of collectively as the Fathers; as, the Latin, Greek, or apostolic Fathers.,
F as in Father (n.) One who, or that which, gives origin; an originator; a producer, author, or contriver; the first to practice any art, profession, or occupation; a distinguished example or teacher.,
F as in Father (n.) The Supreme Being and Creator; God; in theology, the first person in the Trinity.,
F as in Fathered (imp. & p. p.) of Father,
F as in Fathering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Father,
F as in Father (v. t.) To make one's self the father of; to beget.,
F as in Father (v. t.) To take as one's own child; to adopt; hence, to assume as one's own work; to acknowledge one's self author of or responsible for (a statement, policy, etc.).,
F as in Father (v. t.) To provide with a father.,
F as in Fatherhood (n.) The state of being a father; the character or authority of a father; paternity.,
F as in Fathers-in-law (pl. ) of Father-in-law,
F as in Father-in-law (n.) The father of one's husband or wife; -- correlative to son-in-law and daughter-in-law.,
F as in Fatherland (n.) One's native land; the native land of one's fathers or ancestors.,
F as in Father-lasher (n.) A European marine fish (Cottus bubalis), allied to the sculpin; -- called also lucky proach.,
F as in Fatherless (a.) Destitute of a living father; as, a fatherless child.,
F as in Fatherless (a.) Without a known author.,
F as in Fatherlessness (n.) The state of being without a father.,
F as in Fatherliness (n.) The qualities of a father; parantal kindness, care, etc.,
F as in Father longlegs () See Daddy longlegs, 2.,
F as in Fatherly (a.) Like a father in affection and care; paternal; tender; protecting; careful.,
F as in Fatherly (a.) Of or pertaining to a father.,
F as in Fathership (n.) The state of being a father; fatherhood; paternity.,
F as in Fathom (n.) A measure of length, containing six feet; the space to which a man can extend his arms; -- used chiefly in measuring cables, cordage, and the depth of navigable water by soundings.,
F as in Fathom (n.) The measure or extant of one's capacity; depth, as of intellect; profundity; reach; penetration.,
F as in Fathomed (imp. & p. p.) of Fathom,
F as in Fathoming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fathom,
F as in Fathom (v. t.) To encompass with the arms extended or encircling; to measure by throwing the arms about; to span.,
F as in Fathom (v. t.) The measure by a sounding line; especially, to sound the depth of; to penetrate, measure, and comprehend; to get to the bottom of.,
F as in Fathomable (a.) Capable of being fathomed.,
F as in Fathomer (n.) One who fathoms.,
F as in Fathomless (a.) Incapable of being fathomed; immeasurable; that can not be sounded.,
F as in Fathomless (a.) Incomprehensible.,
F as in Fatidical (a.) Having power to foretell future events; prophetic; fatiloquent; as, the fatidical oak.,
F as in Fatiferous (a.) Fate-bringing; deadly; mortal; destructive.,
F as in Fatigable (a.) Easily tired.,
F as in Fatigate (a.) Wearied; tired; fatigued.,
F as in Fatigate (v. t.) To weary; to tire; to fatigue.,
F as in Fatigation (n.) Weariness.,
F as in Fatigue (n.) Weariness from bodily labor or mental exertion; lassitude or exhaustion of strength.,
F as in Fatigue (n.) The cause of weariness; labor; toil; as, the fatigues of war.,
F as in Fatigue (n.) The weakening of a metal when subjected to repeated vibrations or strains.,
F as in Fatigued (imp. & p. p.) of Fatigue,
F as in Fatiguing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fatigue,
F as in Fatigue (n.) To weary with labor or any bodily or mental exertion; to harass with toil; to exhaust the strength or endurance of; to tire.,
F as in Fatiloquent (a.) Prophetic; fatidical.,
F as in Fatiloquist (n.) A fortune teller.,
F as in Fatimite (a.) Alt. of Fatimide,
F as in Fatimide (a.) Descended from Fatima, the daughter and only child of Mohammed.,
F as in Fatimide (n.) A descendant of Fatima.,
F as in Fatiscence (n.) A gaping or opening; state of being chinky, or having apertures.,
F as in Fat-kidneyed (a.) Gross; lubberly.,
F as in Fatling (n.) A calf, lamb, kid, or other young animal fattened for slaughter; a fat animal; -- said of such animals as are used for food.,
F as in Fatly (adv.) Grossly; greasily.,
F as in Fatner (n.) One who fattens. [R.] See Fattener.,
F as in Fatness (n.) The quality or state of being fat, plump, or full-fed; corpulency; fullness of flesh.,
F as in Fatness (n.) Hence; Richness; fertility; fruitfulness.,
F as in Fatness (n.) That which makes fat or fertile.,
F as in Fattened (imp. & p. p.) of Fatten,
F as in Fattining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fatten,
F as in Fatten (v. t.) To make fat; to feed for slaughter; to make fleshy or plump with fat; to fill full; to fat.,
F as in Fatten (v. t.) To make fertile and fruitful; to enrich; as, to fatten land; to fatten fields with blood.,
F as in Fatten (v. i.) To grow fat or corpulent; to grow plump, thick, or fleshy; to be pampered.,
F as in Fattener (n.) One who, or that which, fattens; that which gives fatness or fertility.,
F as in Fattiness (n.) State or quality of being fatty.,
F as in Fattish (a.) Somewhat fat; inclined to fatness.,
F as in Fatty (a.) Containing fat, or having the qualities of fat; greasy; gross; as, a fatty substance.,
F as in Fatuitous (a.) Stupid; fatuous.,
F as in Fatuity (n.) Weakness or imbecility of mind; stupidity.,
F as in Fatuous (a.) Feeble in mind; weak; silly; stupid; foolish; fatuitous.,
F as in Fatuous (a.) Without reality; illusory, like the ignis fatuus.,
F as in Fat-wited (a.) Dull; stupid.,
F as in Faubourg (n.) A suburb of French city; also, a district now within a city, but formerly without its walls.,
F as in Faucal (a.) Pertaining to the fauces, or opening of the throat; faucial; esp., (Phon.) produced in the fauces, as certain deep guttural sounds found in the Semitic and some other languages.,
F as in Fauces (n.pl.) The narrow passage from the mouth to the pharynx, situated between the soft palate and the base of the tongue; -- called also the isthmus of the fauces. On either side of the passage two membranous folds, called the pillars of the fauces, inclose the tonsils.,
F as in Fauces (n.pl.) The throat of a calyx, corolla, etc.,
F as in Fauces (n.pl.) That portion of the interior of a spiral shell which can be seen by looking into the aperture.,
F as in Faucet (n.) A fixture for drawing a liquid, as water, molasses, oil, etc., from a pipe, cask, or other vessel, in such quantities as may be desired; -- called also tap, and cock. It consists of a tubular spout, stopped with a movable plug, spigot, valve, or slide.,
F as in Faucet (n.) The enlarged end of a section of pipe which receives the spigot end of the next section.,
F as in Fauchion (n.) See Falchion.,
F as in Faucial (a.) Pertaining to the fauces; pharyngeal.,
F as in Faugh (interj.) An exclamation of contempt, disgust, or abhorrence.,
F as in Faulchion (n.) See Falchion.,
F as in Faulcon (n.) See Falcon.,
F as in Fauld (n.) The arch over the dam of a blast furnace; the tymp arch.,
F as in Faule (n.) A fall or falling band.,
F as in Fault (n.) Defect; want; lack; default.,
F as in Fault (n.) Anything that fails, that is wanting, or that impairs excellence; a failing; a defect; a blemish.,
F as in Fault (n.) A moral failing; a defect or dereliction from duty; a deviation from propriety; an offense less serious than a crime.,
F as in Fault (n.) A dislocation of the strata of the vein.,
F as in Fault (n.) In coal seams, coal rendered worthless by impurities in the seam; as, slate fault, dirt fault, etc.,
F as in Fault (n.) A lost scent; act of losing the scent.,
F as in Fault (n.) Failure to serve the ball into the proper court.,
F as in Faulted (imp. & p. p.) of Fault,
F as in Faulting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fault,
F as in Fault (v. t.) To charge with a fault; to accuse; to find fault with; to blame.,
F as in Fault (v. t.) To interrupt the continuity of (rock strata) by displacement along a plane of fracture; -- chiefly used in the p. p.; as, the coal beds are badly faulted.,
F as in Fault (v. i.) To err; to blunder, to commit a fault; to do wrong.,
F as in Faulter (n.) One who commits a fault.,
F as in Fault-finder (n.) One who makes a practice of discovering others' faults and censuring them; a scold.,
F as in Fault-finding (n.) The act of finding fault or blaming; -- used derogatively. Also Adj.,
F as in Faultful (a.) Full of faults or sins.,
F as in Faultily (adv.) In a faulty manner.,
F as in Faultiness (n.) Quality or state of being faulty.,
F as in Faulting (n.) The state or condition of being faulted; the process by which a fault is produced.,
F as in Faultless (a.) Without fault; not defective or imperfect; free from blemish; free from incorrectness, vice, or offense; perfect; as, a faultless poem.,
F as in Faulty (a.) Containing faults, blemishes, or defects; imperfect; not fit for the use intended.,
F as in Faulty (a.) Guilty of a fault, or of faults; hence, blamable; worthy of censure.,
F as in Faun (n.) A god of fields and shipherds, diddering little from the satyr. The fauns are usually represented as half goat and half man.,
F as in Fauna (n.) The animals of any given area or epoch; as, the fauna of America; fossil fauna; recent fauna.,
F as in Faunal (a.) Relating to fauna.,
F as in Faunist (n.) One who describes the fauna of country; a naturalist.,
F as in Fauni (pl. ) of Faunus,
F as in Faunus (n.) See Faun.,
F as in Fausen (n.) A young eel.,
F as in Fausse-braye (n.) A second raampart, exterior to, and parallel to, the main rampart, and considerably below its level.,
F as in Fauteuil (n.) An armchair; hence (because the members sit in fauteuils or armchairs), membership in the French Academy.,
F as in Fauteuil (n.) Chair of a presiding officer.,
F as in Fautor (n.) A favorer; a patron; one who gives countenance or support; an abettor.,
F as in Fautress (n.) A patroness.,
F as in Fauvette (n.) A small singing bird, as the nightingale and warblers.,
F as in Fauces (pl. ) of Faux,
F as in Faux (n.) See Fauces.,
F as in faux pas () A false step; a mistake or wrong measure.,
F as in Favaginous (a.) Formed like, or resembling, a honeycomb.,
F as in Favas (n.) See Favus, n., 2.,
F as in Favel (a.) Yellow; fal/ow; dun.,
F as in Favel (n.) A horse of a favel or dun color.,
F as in Favel (n.) Flattery; cajolery; deceit.,
F as in Favella (n.) A group of spores arranged without order and covered with a thin gelatinous envelope, as in certain delicate red algae.,
F as in Faveolate (a.) Honeycomb; having cavities or cells, somewhat resembling those of a honeycomb; alveolate; favose.,
F as in Favillous (a.) Of or pertaining to ashes.,
F as in Favonian (a.) Pertaining to the west wind; soft; mild; gentle.,
F as in Favor (n.) Kind regard; propitious aspect; countenance; friendly disposition; kindness; good will.,
F as in Favor (n.) The act of countenancing, or the condition of being countenanced, or regarded propitiously; support; promotion; befriending.,
F as in Favor (n.) A kind act or office; kindness done or granted; benevolence shown by word or deed; an act of grace or good will, as distinct from justice or remuneration.,
F as in Favor (n.) Mildness or mitigation of punishment; lenity.,
F as in Favor (n.) The object of regard; person or thing favored.,
F as in Favor (n.) A gift or represent; something bestowed as an evidence of good will; a token of love; a knot of ribbons; something worn as a token of affection; as, a marriage favor is a bunch or knot of white ribbons or white flowers worn at a wedding.,
F as in Favor (n.) Appearance; look; countenance; face.,
F as in Favor (n.) Partiality; bias.,
F as in Favor (n.) A letter or epistle; -- so called in civility or compliment; as, your favor of yesterday is received.,
F as in Favor (n.) Love locks.,
F as in Favored (imp. & p. p.) of Favor,
F as in Favoring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Favor,
F as in Favor (n.) To regard with kindness; to support; to aid, or to have the disposition to aid, or to wish success to; to be propitious to; to countenance; to treat with consideration or tenderness; to show partiality or unfair bias towards.,
F as in Favor (n.) To afford advantages for success to; to facilitate; as, a weak place favored the entrance of the enemy.,
F as in Favor (n.) To resemble in features; to have the aspect or looks of; as, the child favors his father.,
F as in Favorable (n.) Full of favor; favoring; manifesting partiality; kind; propitious; friendly.,
F as in Favorable (n.) Conducive; contributing; tending to promote or facilitate; advantageous; convenient.,
F as in Favorable (n.) Beautiful; well-favored.,
F as in Favored (a.) Countenanced; aided; regarded with kidness; as, a favored friend.,
F as in Favored (a.) Having a certain favor or appearance; featured; as, well-favored; hard-favored, etc.,
F as in Favoredly (adv.) In a favored or a favorable manner; favorably.,
F as in Favoredness (n.) Appearance.,
F as in Favorer (n.) One who favors; one who regards with kindness or friendship; a well-wisher; one who assists or promotes success or prosperity.,
F as in Favoress (n.) A woman who favors or gives countenance.,
F as in Favoring (a.) That favors.,
F as in Favorite (n.) A person or thing regarded with peculiar favor; one treated with partiality; one preferred above others; especially, one unduly loved, trusted, and enriched with favors by a person of high rank or authority.,
F as in Favorite (n.) Short curls dangling over the temples; -- fashionable in the reign of Charles II.,
F as in Favorite (n.) The competitor (as a horse in a race) that is judged most likely to win; the competitor standing highest in the betting.,
F as in Favorite (a.) Regarded with particular affection, esteem, or preference; as, a favorite walk; a favorite child.,
F as in Favoritism (n.) The disposition to favor and promote the interest of one person or family, or of one class of men, to the neglect of others having equal claims; partiality.,
F as in Favorless (a.) Unfavored; not regarded with favor; having no countenance or support.,
F as in Favorless (a.) Unpropitious; unfavorable.,
F as in Favose (a.) Honeycombed. See Faveolate.,
F as in Favose (a.) Of or pertaining to the disease called favus.,
F as in Favosite (a.) Like or pertaining to the genus Favosites.,
F as in Favosites (n.) A genus of fossil corals abundant in the Silurian and Devonian rocks, having polygonal cells with perforated walls.,
F as in Favus (n.) A disease of the scalp, produced by a vegetable parasite.,
F as in Favus (n.) A tile or flagstone cut into an hexagonal shape to produce a honeycomb pattern, as in a pavement; -- called also favas and sectila.,
F as in Fawe (a.) Fain; glad; delighted.,
F as in Fawkner (n.) A falconer.,
F as in Fawn (n.) A young deer; a buck or doe of the first year. See Buck.,
F as in Fawn (n.) The young of an animal; a whelp.,
F as in Fawn (n.) A fawn color.,
F as in Fawn (a.) Of the color of a fawn; fawn-colored.,
F as in Fawn (v. i.) To bring forth a fawn.,
F as in Fawned (imp. & p. p.) of Fawn,
F as in Fawning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fawn,
F as in Fawn (v. i.) To court favor by low cringing, frisking, etc., as a dog; to flatter meanly; -- often followed by on or upon.,
F as in Fawn (n.) A servile cringe or bow; mean flattery; sycophancy.,
F as in Fawn-colored (a.) Of the color of a fawn; light yellowish brown.,
F as in Fawner (n.) One who fawns; a sycophant.,
F as in Fawningly (adv.) In a fawning manner.,
F as in Faxed (a.) Hairy.,
F as in Fay (n.) A fairy; an elf.,
F as in Fay (n.) Faith; as, by my fay.,
F as in fayed (imp. & p. p.) of Fay,
F as in Faying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fay,
F as in Fay (v. t.) To fit; to join; to unite closely, as two pieces of wood, so as to make the surface fit together.,
F as in Fay (v. i.) To lie close together; to fit; to fadge; -- often with in, into, with, or together.,
F as in Fayalite (n.) A black, greenish, or brownish mineral of the chrysolite group. It is a silicate of iron.,
F as in Fayence (n.) See Fa/ence.,
F as in Faytour (n.) See Faitour.,
F as in Faze (v. t.) See Feeze.,
F as in Fazzolet (n.) A handkerchief.,
F as in Feaberry (n.) A gooseberry.,
F as in Feague (v. t.) To beat or whip; to drive.,
F as in Feal (a.) Faithful; loyal.,
F as in Fealty (n.) Fidelity to one's lord; the feudal obligation by which the tenant or vassal was bound to be faithful to his lord; the special oath by which this obligation was assumed; fidelity to a superior power, or to a government; loyality. It is no longer the practice to exact the performance of fealty, as a feudal obligation.,
F as in Fealty (n.) Fidelity; constancy; faithfulness, as of a friend to a friend, or of a wife to her husband.,
F as in Fear (n.) A variant of Fere, a mate, a companion.,
F as in Fear (n.) A painful emotion or passion excited by the expectation of evil, or the apprehension of impending danger; apprehension; anxiety; solicitude; alarm; dread.,
F as in Fear (n.) Apprehension of incurring, or solicitude to avoid, God's wrath; the trembling and awful reverence felt toward the Supreme Belng.,
F as in Fear (n.) Respectful reverence for men of authority or worth.,
F as in Fear (n.) That which causes, or which is the object of, apprehension or alarm; source or occasion of terror; danger; dreadfulness.,
F as in Feared (imp. & p. p.) of Fear,
F as in Fearing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fear,
F as in Fear (n.) To feel a painful apprehension of; to be afraid of; to consider or expect with emotion of alarm or solicitude.,
F as in Fear (n.) To have a reverential awe of; to solicitous to avoid the displeasure of.,
F as in Fear (n.) To be anxious or solicitous for.,
F as in Fear (n.) To suspect; to doubt.,
F as in Fear (n.) To affright; to terrify; to drive away or prevent approach of by fear.,
F as in Fear (v. i.) To be in apprehension of evil; to be afraid; to feel anxiety on account of some expected evil.,
F as in Fearer (n.) One who fars.,
F as in Fearful (a.) Full of fear, apprehension, or alarm; afraid; frightened.,
F as in Fearful (a.) inclined to fear; easily frightened; without courage; timid.,
F as in Fearful (a.) Indicating, or caused by, fear.,
F as in Fearful (a.) Inspiring fear or awe; exciting apprehension or terror; terrible; frightful; dreadful.,
F as in Fearfully (adv.) In a fearful manner.,
F as in Fearfulness (n.) The state of being fearful.,
F as in Fearless (a.) Free from fear.,
F as in Fearnaught (n.) A fearless person.,
F as in Fearnaught (n.) A stout woolen cloth of great thickness; dreadnaught; also, a warm garment.,
F as in Fearsome (a.) Frightful; causing fear.,
F as in Fearsome (a.) Easily frightened; timid; timorous.,
F as in Feasibilities (pl. ) of Feasibility,
F as in Feasibility (n.) The quality of being feasible; practicability; also, that which is feasible; as, before we adopt a plan, let us consider its feasibility.,
F as in Feasible (a.) Capable of being done, executed, or effected; practicable.,
F as in Feasible (a.) Fit to be used or tailed, as land.,
F as in Feast (n.) A festival; a holiday; a solemn, or more commonly, a joyous, anniversary.,
F as in Feast (n.) A festive or joyous meal; a grand, ceremonious, or sumptuous entertainment, of which many guests partake; a banquet characterized by tempting variety and abundance of food.,
F as in Feast (n.) That which is partaken of, or shared in, with delight; something highly agreeable; entertainment.,
F as in Feasted (imp. & p. p.) of Feast,
F as in Feasting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Feast,
F as in Feast (n.) To eat sumptuously; to dine or sup on rich provisions, particularly in large companies, and on public festivals.,
F as in Feast (n.) To be highly gratified or delighted.,
F as in Feast (v. t.) To entertain with sumptuous provisions; to treat at the table bountifully; as, he was feasted by the king.,
F as in Feast (v. t.) To delight; to gratify; as, to feast the soul.,
F as in Feaster (n.) One who fares deliciously.,
F as in Feaster (n.) One who entertains magnificently.,
F as in Feastful (a.) Festive; festal; joyful; sumptuous; luxurious.,
F as in Feat (n.) An act; a deed; an exploit.,
F as in Feat (n.) A striking act of strength, skill, or cunning; a trick; as, feats of horsemanship, or of dexterity.,
F as in Feat (v. t.) To form; to fashion.,
F as in Feat (n.) Dexterous in movements or service; skillful; neat; nice; pretty.,
F as in Feat-bodied (a.) Having a feat or trim body.,
F as in Feateous (a.) Dexterous; neat.,
F as in Feather (n.) One of the peculiar dermal appendages, of several kinds, belonging to birds, as contour feathers, quills, and down.,
F as in Feather (n.) Kind; nature; species; -- from the proverbial phrase, "Birds of a feather," that is, of the same species.,
F as in Feather (n.) The fringe of long hair on the legs of the setter and some other dogs.,
F as in Feather (n.) A tuft of peculiar, long, frizzly hair on a horse.,
F as in Feather (n.) One of the fins or wings on the shaft of an arrow.,
F as in Feather (n.) A longitudinal strip projecting as a fin from an object, to strengthen it, or to enter a channel in another object and thereby prevent displacement sidwise but permit motion lengthwise; a spline.,
F as in Feather (n.) A thin wedge driven between the two semicylindrical parts of a divided plug in a hole bored in a stone, to rend the stone.,
F as in Feather (n.) The angular adjustment of an oar or paddle-wheel float, with reference to a horizontal axis, as it leaves or enters the water.,
F as in Feathered (imp. & p. p.) of Feather,
F as in Feathering. (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Feather,
F as in Feather (v. t.) To furnish with a feather or feathers, as an arrow or a cap.,
F as in Feather (v. t.) To adorn, as with feathers; to fringe.,
F as in Feather (v. t.) To render light as a feather; to give wings to.,
F as in Feather (v. t.) To enrich; to exalt; to benefit.,
F as in Feather (v. t.) To tread, as a cock.,
F as in Feather (v. i.) To grow or form feathers; to become feathered; -- often with out; as, the birds are feathering out.,
F as in Feather (v. i.) To curdle when poured into another liquid, and float about in little flakes or "feathers;" as, the cream feathers,
F as in Feather (v. i.) To turn to a horizontal plane; -- said of oars.,
F as in Feather (v. i.) To have the appearance of a feather or of feathers; to be or to appear in feathery form.,
F as in Feather-brained/ (a.) Giddy; frivolous; feather-headed.,
F as in Feathered (a.) Clothed, covered, or fitted with (or as with) feathers or wings; as, a feathered animal; a feathered arrow.,
F as in Feathered (a.) Furnished with anything featherlike; ornamented; fringed; as, land feathered with trees.,
F as in Feathered (a.) Having a fringe of feathers, as the legs of certian birds; or of hairs, as the legs of a setter dog.,
F as in Feathered (a.) Having feathers; -- said of an arrow, when the feathers are of a tincture different from that of the shaft.,
F as in Feather-edge/ (n.) The thin, new growth around the edge of a shell, of an oyster.,
F as in Feather-edge/ (n.) Any thin, as on a board or a razor.,
F as in Feather-edged/ (a.) Having a feather-edge; also, having one edge thinner than the other, as a board; -- in the United States, said only of stuff one edge of which is made as thin as practicable.,
F as in Feather-few/ (n.) Feverfew.,
F as in Feather-foil (n.) An aquatic plant (Hottonia palustris), having finely divided leaves.,
F as in Feather-head (n.) A frivolous or featherbrained person.,
F as in Feather-headed (a.) Giddy; frivolous; foolish.,
F as in Feather-heeled (a.) Light-heeled; gay; frisky; frolicsome.,
F as in Featherness (n.) The state or condition of being feathery.,
F as in Feathering (n.) Same as Foliation.,
F as in Feathering (n.) The act of turning the blade of the oar, as it rises from the water in rowing, from a vertical to a horizontal position. See To feather an oar, under Feather, v. t.,
F as in Feathering (v. t.) A covering of feathers.,
F as in Featherless (a.) Destitute of feathers.,
F as in Featherly (a.) Like feathers.,
F as in Feather-pated (a.) Feather-headed; frivolous.,
F as in Feather-veined (a.) Having the veins (of a leaf) diverging from the two sides of a midrib.,
F as in Feathery (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, feathers; covered with, or as with, feathers; as, feathery spray or snow.,
F as in Featly (a.) Neatly; dexterously; nimbly.,
F as in Featness (n.) Skill; adroitness.,
F as in Feature (n.) The make, form, or outward appearance of a person; the whole turn or style of the body; esp., good appearance.,
F as in Feature (n.) The make, cast, or appearance of the human face, and especially of any single part of the face; a lineament. (pl.) The face, the countenance.,
F as in Feature (n.) The cast or structure of anything, or of any part of a thing, as of a landscape, a picture, a treaty, or an essay; any marked peculiarity or characteristic; as, one of the features of the landscape.,
F as in Feature (n.) A form; a shape.,
F as in Featured (a.) Shaped; fashioned.,
F as in Featured (a.) Having features; formed into features.,
F as in Featureless (a.) Having no distinct or distinctive features.,
F as in Featurely (a.) Having features; showing marked peculiarities; handsome.,
F as in Feazed (imp. & p. p.) of Feaze,
F as in Feazing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Feaze,
F as in Feaze (v. t.) To untwist; to unravel, as the end of a rope.,
F as in Feaze (v. t.) To beat; to chastise; also, to humble; to harass; to worry.,
F as in Feaze (n.) A state of anxious or fretful excitement; worry; vexation.,
F as in Feazings (v. t.) The unlaid or ragged end of a rope.,
F as in Febricitate (v. i.) To have a fever.,
F as in Febriculose (a.) Somewhat feverish.,
F as in Febrifacient (a.) Febrific.,
F as in Febrifacient (n.) That which causes fever.,
F as in Febriferous (a.) Causing fever; as, a febriferous locality.,
F as in Febrific (a.) Producing fever.,
F as in Febrifugal (a.) Having the quality of mitigating or curing fever.,
F as in Febrifuge (n.) A medicine serving to mitigate or remove fever.,
F as in Febrifuge (a.) Antifebrile.,
F as in Febrile (a.) Pertaining to fever; indicating fever, or derived from it; as, febrile symptoms; febrile action.,
F as in February (n.) The second month in the year, said to have been introduced into the Roman calendar by Numa. In common years this month contains twenty-eight days; in the bissextile, or leap year, it has twenty-nine days.,
F as in Februation (n.) Purification; a sacrifice.,
F as in Fecal (a.) relating to, or containing, dregs, feces, or ordeure; faecal.,
F as in Fecche (v. t.) To fetch.,
F as in Feces (n. pl.) dregs; sediment; excrement. See FAeces.,
F as in Fecial (a.) Pertaining to heralds, declarations of war, and treaties of peace; as, fecial law.,
F as in Fecifork (n.) The anal fork on which the larvae of certain insects carry their faeces.,
F as in Feckless (a.) Spiritless; weak; worthless.,
F as in Fecks (n.) A corruption of the word faith.,
F as in FeculAe (pl. ) of Fecula,
F as in Fecula (n.) Any pulverulent matter obtained from plants by simply breaking down the texture, washing with water, and subsidence.,
F as in Fecula (n.) The nutritious part of wheat; starch or farina; -- called also amylaceous fecula.,
F as in Fecula (n.) The green matter of plants; chlorophyll.,
F as in Feculence (n.) The state or quality of being feculent; muddiness; foulness.,
F as in Feculence (n.) That which is feculent; sediment; lees; dregs.,
F as in Feculency (n.) Feculence.,
F as in Feculent (a.) Foul with extraneous or impure substances; abounding with sediment or excrementitious matter; muddy; thick; turbid.,
F as in Fecund (a.) Fruitful in children; prolific.,
F as in Fecundated (imp. & p. p.) of Fecundate,
F as in Fecundating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fecundate,
F as in Fecundate (v. t.) To make fruitful or prolific.,
F as in Fecundate (v. t.) To render fruitful or prolific; to impregnate; as, in flowers the pollen fecundates the ovum through the stigma.,
F as in Fecundation (n.) The act by which, either in animals or plants, material prepared by the generative organs the female organism is brought in contact with matter from the organs of the male, so that a new organism results; impregnation; fertilization.,
F as in Fecundify (v. t.) To make fruitful; to fecundate.,
F as in Fecundity (n.) The quality or power of producing fruit; fruitfulness; especially (Biol.), the quality in female organisms of reproducing rapidly and in great numbers.,
F as in Fecundity (n.) The power of germinating; as in seeds.,
F as in Fecundity (n.) The power of bringing forth in abundance; fertility; richness of invention; as, the fecundity of God's creative power.,
F as in Fed () imp. & p. p. of Feed.,
F as in Fedary (n.) A feodary.,
F as in Federal (a.) Pertaining to a league or treaty; derived from an agreement or covenant between parties, especially between nations; constituted by a compact between parties, usually governments or their representatives.,
F as in Federal (a.) Composed of states or districts which retain only a subordinate and limited sovereignty, as the Union of the United States, or the Sonderbund of Switzerland.,
F as in Federal (a.) Consisting or pertaining to such a government; as, the Federal Constitution; a Federal officer.,
F as in Federal (a.) Friendly or devoted to such a government; as, the Federal party. see Federalist.,
F as in Federal (n.) See Federalist.,
F as in Federalism (n.) the principles of Federalists or of federal union.,
F as in Federalist (n.) An advocate of confederation; specifically (Amer. Hist.), a friend of the Constitution of the United States at its formation and adoption; a member of the political party which favored the administration of president Washington.,
F as in Federalized (imp. & p. p.) of Federalize,
F as in Federalizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Federalize,
F as in Federalize (v. t.) To unite in compact, as different States; to confederate for political purposes; to unite by or under the Federal Constitution.,
F as in Federary (n.) A partner; a confederate; an accomplice.,
F as in Federate (a.) United by compact, as sovereignties, states, or nations; joined in confederacy; leagued; confederate; as, federate nations.,
F as in Federation (n.) The act of uniting in a league; confederation.,
F as in Federation (n.) A league; a confederacy; a federal or confederated government.,
F as in Federative (a.) Uniting in a league; forming a confederacy; federal.,
F as in Fedity (n.) Turpitude; vileness.,
F as in Fee (n.) property; possession; tenure.,
F as in Fee (n.) Reward or compensation for services rendered or to be rendered; especially, payment for professional services, of optional amount, or fixed by custom or laws; charge; pay; perquisite; as, the fees of lawyers and physicians; the fees of office; clerk's fees; sheriff's fees; marriage fees, etc.,
F as in Fee (n.) A right to the use of a superior's land, as a stipend for services to be performed; also, the land so held; a fief.,
F as in Fee (n.) An estate of inheritance supposed to be held either mediately or immediately from the sovereign, and absolutely vested in the owner.,
F as in Fee (n.) An estate of inheritance belonging to the owner, and transmissible to his heirs, absolutely and simply, without condition attached to the tenure.,
F as in Feed (imp. & p. p.) of Fee,
F as in Feeing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fee,
F as in Fee (v. t.) To reward for services performed, or to be performed; to recompense; to hire or keep in hire; hence, to bribe.,
F as in Feeble (superl.) Deficient in physical strength; weak; infirm; debilitated.,
F as in Feeble (superl.) Wanting force, vigor, or efficiency in action or expression; not full, loud, bright, strong, rapid, etc.; faint; as, a feeble color; feeble motion.,
F as in Feeble (v. t.) To make feble; to enfeeble.,
F as in Feeble-minded (a.) Weak in intellectual power; wanting firmness or constancy; irresolute; vacilating; imbecile.,
F as in Feebleness (n.) The quality or condition of being feeble; debility; infirmity.,
F as in Feebly (adv.) In a feeble manner.,
F as in Fed (imp. & p. p.) of Feed,
F as in Feeding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Feed,
F as in Feed (v. t.) To give food to; to supply with nourishment; to satisfy the physical huger of.,
F as in Feed (v. t.) To satisfy; grafity or minister to, as any sense, talent, taste, or desire.,
F as in Feed (v. t.) To fill the wants of; to supply with that which is used or wasted; as, springs feed ponds; the hopper feeds the mill; to feed a furnace with coal.,
F as in Feed (v. t.) To nourish, in a general sense; to foster, strengthen, develop, and guard.,
F as in Feed (v. t.) To graze; to cause to be cropped by feeding, as herbage by cattle; as, if grain is too forward in autumn, feed it with sheep.,
F as in Feed (v. t.) To give for food, especially to animals; to furnish for consumption; as, to feed out turnips to the cows; to feed water to a steam boiler.,
F as in Feed (v. t.) To supply (the material to be operated upon) to a machine; as, to feed paper to a printing press.,
F as in Feed (v. t.) To produce progressive operation upon or with (as in wood and metal working machines, so that the work moves to the cutting tool, or the tool to the work).,
F as in Feed (v. i.) To take food; to eat.,
F as in Feed (v. i.) To subject by eating; to satisfy the appetite; to feed one's self (upon something); to prey; -- with on or upon.,
F as in Feed (v. i.) To be nourished, strengthened, or satisfied, as if by food.,
F as in Feed (v. i.) To place cattle to feed; to pasture; to graze.,
F as in Feed (n.) That which is eaten; esp., food for beasts; fodder; pasture; hay; grain, ground or whole; as, the best feed for sheep.,
F as in Feed (n.) A grazing or pasture ground.,
F as in Feed (n.) An allowance of provender given to a horse, cow, etc.; a meal; as, a feed of corn or oats.,
F as in Feed (n.) A meal, or the act of eating.,
F as in Feed (n.) The water supplied to steam boilers.,
F as in Feed (n.) The motion, or act, of carrying forward the stuff to be operated upon, as cloth to the needle in a sewing machine; or of producing progressive operation upon any material or object in a machine, as, in a turning lathe, by moving the cutting tool along or in the work.,
F as in Feed (n.) The supply of material to a machine, as water to a steam boiler, coal to a furnace, or grain to a run of stones.,
F as in Feed (n.) The mechanism by which the action of feeding is produced; a feed motion.,
F as in Feeder (n.) One who, or that which, gives food or supplies nourishment; steward.,
F as in Feeder (n.) One who furnishes incentives; an encourager.,
F as in Feeder (n.) One who eats or feeds; specifically, an animal to be fed or fattened.,
F as in Feeder (n.) One who fattens cattle for slaughter.,
F as in Feeder (n.) A stream that flows into another body of water; a tributary; specifically (Hydraulic Engin.), a water course which supplies a canal or reservoir by gravitation or natural flow.,
F as in Feeder (n.) A branch railroad, stage line, or the like; a side line which increases the business of the main line.,
F as in Feeder (n.) A small lateral lode falling into the main lode or mineral vein.,
F as in Feeder (n.) A strong discharge of gas from a fissure; a blower.,
F as in Feeder (n.) An auxiliary part of a machine which supplies or leads along the material operated upon.,
F as in Feeder (n.) A device for supplying steam boilers with water as needed.,
F as in Feeding (n.) the act of eating, or of supplying with food; the process of fattening.,
F as in Feeding (n.) That which is eaten; food.,
F as in Feeding (n.) That which furnishes or affords food, especially for animals; pasture land.,
F as in Fee-faw-fum (n.) A nonsensical exclamation attributed to giants and ogres; hence, any expression calculated to impose upon the timid and ignorant.,
F as in Feejee (a. & n.) See Fijian.,
F as in Felt (imp. & p. p.) of Feel,
F as in Feeling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Feel,
F as in Feel (v. t.) To perceive by the touch; to take cognizance of by means of the nerves of sensation distributed all over the body, especially by those of the skin; to have sensation excited by contact of (a thing) with the body or limbs.,
F as in Feel (v. t.) To touch; to handle; to examine by touching; as, feel this piece of silk; hence, to make trial of; to test; often with out.,
F as in Feel (v. t.) To perceive by the mind; to have a sense of; to experience; to be affected by; to be sensible of, or sensetive to; as, to feel pleasure; to feel pain.,
F as in Feel (v. t.) To take internal cognizance of; to be conscious of; to have an inward persuasion of.,
F as in Feel (v. t.) To perceive; to observe.,
F as in Feel (v. i.) To have perception by the touch, or by contact of anything with the nerves of sensation, especially those upon the surface of the body.,
F as in Feel (v. i.) To have the sensibilities moved or affected.,
F as in Feel (v. i.) To be conscious of an inward impression, state of mind, persuasion, physical condition, etc.; to perceive one's self to be; -- followed by an adjective describing the state, etc.; as, to feel assured, grieved, persuaded.,
F as in Feel (v. i.) To know with feeling; to be conscious; hence, to know certainly or without misgiving.,
F as in Feel (v. i.) To appear to the touch; to give a perception; to produce an impression by the nerves of sensation; -- followed by an adjective describing the kind of sensation.,
F as in Feel (n.) Feeling; perception.,
F as in Feel (n.) A sensation communicated by touching; impression made upon one who touches or handles; as, this leather has a greasy feel.,
F as in Feeler (n.) One who, or that which, feels.,
F as in Feeler (n.) One of the sense organs or certain animals (as insects), which are used in testing objects by touch and in searching for food; an antenna; a palp.,
F as in Feeler (n.) Anything, as a proposal, observation, etc., put forth or thrown out in order to ascertain the views of others; something tentative.,
F as in Feeling (a.) Possessing great sensibility; easily affected or moved; as, a feeling heart.,
F as in Feeling (a.) Expressive of great sensibility; attended by, or evincing, sensibility; as, he made a feeling representation of his wrongs.,
F as in Feeling (n.) The sense by which the mind, through certain nerves of the body, perceives external objects, or certain states of the body itself; that one of the five senses which resides in the general nerves of sensation distributed over the body, especially in its surface; the sense of touch; nervous sensibility to external objects.,
F as in Feeling (n.) An act or state of perception by the sense above described; an act of apprehending any object whatever; an act or state of apprehending the state of the soul itself; consciousness.,
F as in Feeling (n.) The capacity of the soul for emotional states; a high degree of susceptibility to emotions or states of the sensibility not dependent on the body; as, a man of feeling; a man destitute of feeling.,
F as in Feeling (n.) Any state or condition of emotion; the exercise of the capacity for emotion; any mental state whatever; as, a right or a wrong feeling in the heart; our angry or kindly feelings; a feeling of pride or of humility.,
F as in Feeling (n.) That quality of a work of art which embodies the mental emotion of the artist, and is calculated to affect similarly the spectator.,
F as in Feelingly (adv.) In a feeling manner; pathetically; sympathetically.,
F as in Feere (n.) A consort, husband or wife; a companion; a fere.,
F as in Feese (n.) the short run before a leap.,
F as in Feet (n. pl.) See Foot.,
F as in Feet (n.) Fact; performance.,
F as in Feetless (a.) Destitute of feet; as, feetless birds.,
F as in Feeze (v. t.) To turn, as a screw.,
F as in Feeze (v. t.) To beat; to chastise; to humble; to worry.,
F as in Feeze (n.) Fretful excitement. [Obs.] See Feaze.,
F as in Fehling (n.) See Fehling's solution, under Solution.,
F as in Fehmic (a.) See Vehmic.,
F as in Feigned (imp. & p. p.) of Feign,
F as in Feigning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Feign,
F as in Feign (v. t.) To give a mental existence to, as to something not real or actual; to imagine; to invent; hence, to pretend; to form and relate as if true.,
F as in Feign (v. t.) To represent by a false appearance of; to pretend; to counterfeit; as, to feign a sickness.,
F as in Feign (v. t.) To dissemble; to conceal.,
F as in Feigned (a.) Not real or genuine; pretended; counterfeit; insincere; false.,
F as in Feigner (n.) One who feigns or pretends.,
F as in Feigning (a.) That feigns; insincere; not genuine; false.,
F as in Feine (v. t. & i.) To feign.,
F as in Feint (a.) Feigned; counterfeit.,
F as in Feint (a.) That which is feigned; an assumed or false appearance; a pretense; a stratagem; a fetch.,
F as in Feint (a.) A mock blow or attack on one part when another part is intended to be struck; -- said of certain movements in fencing, boxing, war, etc.,
F as in Feint (v. i.) To make a feint, or mock attack.,
F as in Feitsui (n.) The Chinese name for a highly prized variety of pale green jade. See Jade.,
F as in Feize (v. t.) See Feeze, v. t.,
F as in Felanders (n. pl.) See Filanders.,
F as in Feldspar (n.) Alt. of Feldspath,
F as in Feldspath (n.) A name given to a group of minerals, closely related in crystalline form, and all silicates of alumina with either potash, soda, lime, or, in one case, baryta. They occur in crystals and crystalline masses, vitreous in luster, and breaking rather easily in two directions at right angles to each other, or nearly so. The colors are usually white or nearly white, flesh-red, bluish, or greenish.,
F as in Feldspathic (a.) Alt. of Feldspathose,
F as in Feldspathose (a.) Pertaining to, or consisting of, feldspar.,
F as in Fele (a.) Many.,
F as in Fe-licify (v. t.) To make happy; to felicitate.,
F as in Felicitate (a.) Made very happy.,
F as in Felicitated (imp. & p. p.) of Felicitate,
F as in felicitating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Felicitate,
F as in Felicitate (v. t.) To make very happy; to delight.,
F as in Felicitate (v. t.) To express joy or pleasure to; to wish felicity to; to call or consider (one's self) happy; to congratulate.,
F as in Felicitation (n.) The act of felicitating; a wishing of joy or happiness; congratulation.,
F as in Felicitous (a.) Characterized by felicity; happy; prosperous; delightful; skilful; successful; happily applied or expressed; appropriate.,
F as in Felicities (pl. ) of Felicity,
F as in Felicity (n.) The state of being happy; blessedness; blissfulness; enjoyment of good.,
F as in Felicity (n.) That which promotes happiness; a successful or gratifying event; prosperity; blessing.,
F as in Felicity (n.) A pleasing faculty or accomplishment; as, felicity in painting portraits, or in writing or talking.,
F as in Feline (a.) Catlike; of or pertaining to the genus Felis, or family Felidae; as, the feline race; feline voracity.,
F as in Feline (a.) Characteristic of cats; sly; stealthy; treacherous; as, a feline nature; feline manners.,
F as in Felis (n.) A genus of carnivorous mammals, including the domestic cat, the lion, tiger, panther, and similar animals.,
F as in Fell () imp. of Fall.,
F as in Fell (a.) Cruel; barbarous; inhuman; fierce; savage; ravenous.,
F as in Fell (a.) Eager; earnest; intent.,
F as in Fell (a.) Gall; anger; melancholy.,
F as in Fell (n.) A skin or hide of a beast with the wool or hair on; a pelt; -- used chiefly in composition, as woolfell.,
F as in Fell (n.) A barren or rocky hill.,
F as in Fell (n.) A wild field; a moor.,
F as in Felled (imp. & p. p.) of Fell,
F as in Felling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fell,
F as in Fell (v. i.) To cause to fall; to prostrate; to bring down or to the ground; to cut down.,
F as in Fell (n.) The finer portions of ore which go through the meshes, when the ore is sorted by sifting.,
F as in Fell (v. t.) To sew or hem; -- said of seams.,
F as in Fell (n.) A form of seam joining two pieces of cloth, the edges being folded together and the stitches taken through both thicknesses.,
F as in Fell (n.) The end of a web, formed by the last thread of the weft.,
F as in Fellable (a.) Fit to be felled.,
F as in Fellahin (pl. ) of Fellah,
F as in Fellahs (pl. ) of Fellah,
F as in Fellah (n.) A peasant or cultivator of the soil among the Egyptians, Syrians, etc.,
F as in Feller (n.) One who, or that which, fells, knocks or cuts down; a machine for felling trees.,
F as in Feller (n.) An appliance to a sewing machine for felling a seam.,
F as in Felltare (n.) The fieldfare.,
F as in Felliflu-ous (a.) Flowing with gall.,
F as in Fellinic (a.) Of, relating to, or derived from, bile or gall; as, fellinic acid.,
F as in Fellmonger (n.) A dealer in fells or sheepskins, who separates the wool from the pelts.,
F as in Fellness (n.) The quality or state of being fell or cruel; fierce barbarity.,
F as in Felloe (n.) See Felly.,
F as in Fellon (n.) Variant of Felon.,
F as in Fellow (n.) A companion; a comrade; an associate; a partner; a sharer.,
F as in Fellow (n.) A man without good breeding or worth; an ignoble or mean man.,
F as in Fellow (n.) An equal in power, rank, character, etc.,
F as in Fellow (n.) One of a pair, or of two things used together or suited to each other; a mate; the male.,
F as in Fellow (n.) A person; an individual.,
F as in Fellow (n.) In the English universities, a scholar who is appointed to a foundation called a fellowship, which gives a title to certain perquisites and privileges.,
F as in Fellow (n.) In an American college or university, a member of the corporation which manages its business interests; also, a graduate appointed to a fellowship, who receives the income of the foundation.,
F as in Fellow (n.) A member of a literary or scientific society; as, a Fellow of the Royal Society.,
F as in Fellow (v. t.) To suit with; to pair with; to match.,
F as in Fellow-commoner (n.) A student at Cambridge University, England, who commons, or dines, at the Fellow's table.,
F as in Fellow-creature (n.) One of the same race or kind; one made by the same Creator.,
F as in Fellowfeel (v. t.) To share through sympathy; to participate in.,
F as in Fellow-feeling (n.) Sympathy; a like feeling.,
F as in Fellow-feeling (n.) Joint interest.,
F as in Fellowless (a.) Without fellow or equal; peerless.,
F as in Fellowlike (a.) Like a companion; companionable; on equal terms; sympathetic.,
F as in Fellowly (a.) Fellowlike.,
F as in Fellowship (n.) The state or relation of being or associate.,
F as in Fellowship (n.) Companionship of persons on equal and friendly terms; frequent and familiar intercourse.,
F as in Fellowship (n.) A state of being together; companionship; partnership; association; hence, confederation; joint interest.,
F as in Fellowship (n.) Those associated with one, as in a family, or a society; a company.,
F as in Fellowship (n.) A foundation for the maintenance, on certain conditions, of a scholar called a fellow, who usually resides at the university.,
F as in Fellowship (n.) The rule for dividing profit and loss among partners; -- called also partnership, company, and distributive proportion.,
F as in Fellowshiped (imp. & p. p.) of Fellowship,
F as in Fellowshiping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fellowship,
F as in Fellowship (v. t.) To acknowledge as of good standing, or in communion according to standards of faith and practice; to admit to Christian fellowship.,
F as in Felly (adv.) In a fell or cruel manner; fiercely; barbarously; savagely.,
F as in Fellies (pl. ) of Felly,
F as in Felly (n.) The exterior wooden rim, or a segment of the rim, of a wheel, supported by the spokes.,
F as in Felos-de-se (pl. ) of Felo-de-se,
F as in Felo-de-se (n.) One who deliberately puts an end to his own existence, or loses his life while engaged in the commission of an unlawful or malicious act; a suicide.,
F as in Felon (a.) A person who has committed a felony.,
F as in Felon (a.) A person guilty or capable of heinous crime.,
F as in Felon (a.) A kind of whitlow; a painful imflammation of the periosteum of a finger, usually of the last joint.,
F as in Felon (a.) Characteristic of a felon; malignant; fierce; malicious; cruel; traitorous; disloyal.,
F as in Felonious (a.) Having the quality of felony; malignant; malicious; villainous; traitorous; perfidious; in a legal sense, done with intent to commit a crime; as, felonious homicide.,
F as in Felonous (a.) Wicked; felonious.,
F as in Felonry (n.) A body of felons; specifically, the convict population of a penal colony.,
F as in Felonwort (n.) The bittersweet nightshade (Solanum Dulcamara). See Bittersweet.,
F as in Felonies (pl. ) of Felony,
F as in Felony (n.) An act on the part of the vassal which cost him his fee by forfeiture.,
F as in Felony (n.) An offense which occasions a total forfeiture either lands or goods, or both, at the common law, and to which capital or other punishment may be added, according to the degree of guilt.,
F as in Felony (n.) A heinous crime; especially, a crime punishable by death or imprisonment.,
F as in To compound a felony () See under Compound, v. t.,
F as in Felsite (n.) A finegrained rock, flintlike in fracture, consisting essentially of orthoclase feldspar with occasional grains of quartz.,
F as in Felsitic (a.) relating to, composed of, or containing, felsite.,
F as in Felspar (n.) Alt. of Felspath,
F as in Felspath (n.) See Feldspar.,
F as in Felspathic (a.) See Feldspathic.,
F as in Felstone (n.) See Felsite.,
F as in Felt () imp. & p. p. / a. from Feel.,
F as in Felt (n.) A cloth or stuff made of matted fibers of wool, or wool and fur, fulled or wrought into a compact substance by rolling and pressure, with lees or size, without spinning or weaving.,
F as in Felt (n.) A hat made of felt.,
F as in Felt (n.) A skin or hide; a fell; a pelt.,
F as in Felted (imp. & p. p.) of Felt,
F as in Felting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Felt,
F as in Felt (v. t.) To make into felt, or a feltike substance; to cause to adhere and mat together.,
F as in Felt (v. t.) To cover with, or as with, felt; as, to felt the cylinder of a steam emgine.,
F as in Felter (v. t.) To clot or mat together like felt.,
F as in Felting (n.) The material of which felt is made; also, felted cloth; also, the process by which it is made.,
F as in Felting (n.) The act of splitting timber by the felt grain.,
F as in Feltry (n.) See Felt, n.,
F as in Felucca (n.) A small, swift-sailing vessel, propelled by oars and lateen sails, -- once common in the Mediterranean.,
F as in Felwort (n.) A European herb (Swertia perennis) of the Gentian family.,
F as in Female (n.) An individual of the sex which conceives and brings forth young, or (in a wider sense) which has an ovary and produces ova.,
F as in Female (n.) A plant which produces only that kind of reproductive organs which are capable of developing into fruit after impregnation or fertilization; a pistillate plant.,
F as in Female (a.) Belonging to the sex which conceives and gives birth to young, or (in a wider sense) which produces ova; not male.,
F as in Female (a.) Belonging to an individual of the female sex; characteristic of woman; feminine; as, female tenderness.,
F as in Female (a.) Having pistils and no stamens; pistillate; or, in cryptogamous plants, capable of receiving fertilization.,
F as in Female rhymes () double rhymes, or rhymes (called in French feminine rhymes because they end in e weak, or feminine) in which two syllables, an accented and an unaccented one, correspond at the end of each line.,
F as in Female fern () a common species of fern with large decompound fronds (Asplenium Filixfaemina), growing in many countries; lady fern.,
F as in Femalist (n.) A gallant.,
F as in Femalize (v. t.) To make, or to describe as, female or feminine.,
F as in Feme (n.) A woman.,
F as in Femeral (n.) See Femerell.,
F as in Femerell (n.) A lantern, or louver covering, placed on a roof, for ventilation or escape of smoke.,
F as in Feminal (a.) Feminine.,
F as in Feminality (n.) Feminity.,
F as in Feminate (a.) Feminine.,
F as in Femineity (n.) Womanliness; femininity.,
F as in Feminine (a.) Of or pertaining to a woman, or to women; characteristic of a woman; womanish; womanly.,
F as in Feminine (a.) Having the qualities of a woman; becoming or appropriate to the female sex; as, in a good sense, modest, graceful, affectionate, confiding; or, in a bad sense, weak, nerveless, timid, pleasure-loving, effeminate.,
F as in Feminine rhyme () See Female rhyme, under Female, a.,
F as in Feminine (n.) A woman.,
F as in Feminine (n.) Any one of those words which are the appellations of females, or which have the terminations usually found in such words; as, actress, songstress, abbess, executrix.,
F as in Femininely (adv.) In a feminine manner.,
F as in Feminineness (n.) The quality of being feminine; womanliness; womanishness.,
F as in Femininity (n.) The quality or nature of the female sex; womanliness.,
F as in Femininity (n.) The female form.,
F as in Feminity (n.) Womanliness; femininity.,
F as in Feminization (n.) The act of feminizing, or the state of being feminized.,
F as in Feminize (v. t.) To make womanish or effeminate.,
F as in Feminye (n.) The people called Amazons.,
F as in Femme (n.) A woman. See Feme, n.,
F as in Femoral (a.) Pertaining to the femur or thigh; as, the femoral artery.,
F as in Femora (pl. ) of Femur,
F as in Femur (n.) The thigh bone.,
F as in Femur (n.) The proximal segment of the hind limb containing the thigh bone; the thigh. See Coxa.,
F as in Fen (n.) Low land overflowed, or covered wholly or partially with water, but producing sedge, coarse grasses, or other aquatic plants; boggy land; moor; marsh.,
F as in Fence (n.) That which fends off attack or danger; a defense; a protection; a cover; security; shield.,
F as in Fence (n.) An inclosure about a field or other space, or about any object; especially, an inclosing structure of wood, iron, or other material, intended to prevent intrusion from without or straying from within.,
F as in Fence (n.) A projection on the bolt, which passes through the tumbler gates in locking and unlocking.,
F as in Fence (n.) Self-defense by the use of the sword; the art and practice of fencing and sword play; hence, skill in debate and repartee. See Fencing.,
F as in Fence (n.) A receiver of stolen goods, or a place where they are received.,
F as in Fencing (imp. & p. p. Fenced (/); p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fence,
F as in Fence (v. t.) To fend off danger from; to give security to; to protect; to guard.,
F as in Fence (v. t.) To inclose with a fence or other protection; to secure by an inclosure.,
F as in Fence (v. i.) To make a defense; to guard one's self of anything, as against an attack; to give protection or security, as by a fence.,
F as in Fence (v. i.) To practice the art of attack and defense with the sword or with the foil, esp. with the smallsword, using the point only.,
F as in Fence (v. i.) Hence, to fight or dispute in the manner of fencers, that is, by thrusting, guarding, parrying, etc.,
F as in Fenceful (a.) Affording defense; defensive.,
F as in Fenceless (a.) Without a fence; uninclosed; open; unguarded; defenseless.,
F as in Fencer (n.) One who fences; one who teaches or practices the art of fencing with sword or foil.,
F as in Fenci-ble (a.) Capable of being defended, or of making or affording defense.,
F as in Fencible (n.) A soldier enlisted for home service only; -- usually in the pl.,
F as in Fencing (n.) The art or practice of attack and defense with the sword, esp. with the smallsword. See Fence, v. i., 2.,
F as in Fencing (v. i.) Disputing or debating in a manner resembling the art of fencers.,
F as in Fencing (v. i.) The materials used for building fences.,
F as in Fencing (v. i.) The act of building a fence.,
F as in Fencing (v. i.) The aggregate of the fences put up for inclosure or protection; as, the fencing of a farm.,
F as in Fen cricket () The mole cricket.,
F as in Fend (n.) A fiend.,
F as in Fended (imp. & p. p.) of Fend,
F as in Fending (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fend,
F as in Fend (v. t.) To keep off; to prevent from entering or hitting; to ward off; to shut out; -- often with off; as, to fend off blows.,
F as in Fend (v. i.) To act on the defensive, or in opposition; to resist; to parry; to shift off.,
F as in Fender (v. t. & i.) One who or that which defends or protects by warding off harm,
F as in Fender (v. t. & i.) A screen to prevent coals or sparks of an open fire from escaping to the floor.,
F as in Fender (v. t. & i.) Anything serving as a cushion to lessen the shock when a vessel comes in contact with another vessel or a wharf.,
F as in Fender (v. t. & i.) A screen to protect a carriage from mud thrown off the wheels: also, a splashboard.,
F as in Fender (v. t. & i.) Anything set up to protect an exposed angle, as of a house, from damage by carriage wheels.,
F as in Fendliche (a.) Fiendlike.,
F as in Fenerate (v. i.) To put money to usury; to lend on interest.,
F as in Feneration (n.) The act of fenerating; interest.,
F as in Fenes-tella (n.) Any small windowlike opening or recess, esp. one to show the relics within an altar, or the like.,
F as in Fenestrae (pl. ) of Fenestra,
F as in Fenestra (n.) A small opening; esp., one of the apertures, closed by membranes, between the tympanum and internal ear.,
F as in Fenestral (a.) Pertaining to a window or to windows.,
F as in Fenestral (a.) Of or pertaining to a fenestra.,
F as in Fenestral (n.) A casement or window sash, closed with cloth or paper instead of glass.,
F as in Fenestrate (a.) Having numerous openings; irregularly reticulated; as, fenestrate membranes; fenestrate fronds.,
F as in Fenestrate (a.) Having transparent spots, as the wings of certain butterflies.,
F as in Fenestrated (a.) Having windows; characterized by windows.,
F as in Fenestrated (a.) Same as Fenestrate.,
F as in Fenestration (n.) The arrangement and proportioning of windows; -- used by modern writers for the decorating of an architectural composition by means of the window (and door) openings, their ornaments, and proportions.,
F as in Fenestration (n.) The state or condition of being fenestrated.,
F as in Fenestrule (n.) One of the openings in a fenestrated structure.,
F as in Fengite (n.) A kind of marble or alabaster, sometimes used for windows on account of its transparency.,
F as in Fenian (n.) A member of a secret organization, consisting mainly of Irishment, having for its aim the overthrow of English rule in ireland.,
F as in Fenian (a.) Pertaining to Fenians or to Fenianism.,
F as in Fenianism (n.) The principles, purposes, and methods of the Fenians.,
F as in Fenks (n.) The refuse whale blubber, used as a manure, and in the manufacture of Prussian blue.,
F as in Fennec (n.) A small, African, foxlike animal (Vulpes zerda) of a pale fawn color, remarkable for the large size of its ears.,
F as in Fennel (n.) A perennial plant of the genus Faeniculum (F. vulgare), having very finely divided leaves. It is cultivated in gardens for the agreeable aromatic flavor of its seeds.,
F as in Fennish (a.) Abounding in fens; fenny.,
F as in Fenny (a.) Pertaining to, or inhabiting, a fen; abounding in fens; swampy; boggy.,
F as in Fenowed (a.) Corrupted; decayed; moldy. See Vinnewed.,
F as in Fensi-ble (a.) Fencible.,
F as in Fen-sucked (a.) Sucked out of marches.,
F as in Fenugreek (n.) A plant (trigonella Foenum Graecum) cultivated for its strong-smelling seeds, which are,
F as in Feod (n.) A feud. See 2d Feud.,
F as in Feodal (a.) Feudal. See Feudal.,
F as in Feodality (n.) Feudal tenure; the feudal system. See Feudality.,
F as in Feodary (n.) An accomplice.,
F as in Feodary (n.) An ancient officer of the court of wards.,
F as in Feodatory (n.) See Feudatory.,
F as in Feoffed (imp. & p. p.) of Feoff,
F as in Feoffing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Feoff,
F as in Feoff (v. t.) To invest with a fee or feud; to give or grant a corporeal hereditament to; to enfeoff.,
F as in Feoff (n.) A fief. See Fief.,
F as in Feoffee (n.) The person to whom a feoffment is made; the person enfeoffed.,
F as in Feoffment (n.) The grant of a feud or fee.,
F as in Feoffment (n.) A gift or conveyance in fee of land or other corporeal hereditaments, accompanied by actual delivery of possession.,
F as in Feoffment (n.) The instrument or deed by which corporeal hereditaments are conveyed.,
F as in Feofor (n.) Alt. of Feoffer,
F as in Feoffer (n.) One who enfeoffs or grants a fee.,
F as in Fer (a. & adv.) Far.,
F as in Feracious (a.) Fruitful; producing abundantly.,
F as in Feracity (n.) The state of being feracious or fruitful.,
F as in Ferae (n. pl.) A group of mammals which formerly included the Carnivora, Insectivora, Marsupialia, and lemurs, but is now often restricted to the Carnivora.,
F as in Ferae naturae () Of a wild nature; -- applied to animals, as foxes, wild ducks, etc., in which no one can claim property.,
F as in Feral (a.) Wild; untamed; ferine; not domesticated; -- said of beasts, birds, and plants.,
F as in Feral (a.) Funereal; deadly; fatal; dangerous.,
F as in Ferde () imp. of Fare.,
F as in Fer-de-lance (n.) A large, venomous serpent (Trigonocephalus lanceolatus) of Brazil and the West Indies. It is allied to the rattlesnake, but has no rattle.,
F as in Ferding (n.) A measure of land mentioned in Domesday Book. It is supposed to have consisted of a few acres only.,
F as in Ferdness (n.) Fearfulness.,
F as in Fere (n.) A mate or companion; -- often used of a wife.,
F as in Fere (a.) Fierce.,
F as in Fere (n.) Fire.,
F as in Fere (n.) Fear.,
F as in Fere (v. t. & i.) To fear.,
F as in Feretory (n.) A portable bier or shrine, variously adorned, used for containing relics of saints.,
F as in Ferforth (adv.) Far forth.,
F as in Ferforthly (adv.) Ferforth.,
F as in Fergusonite (n.) A mineral of a brownish black color, essentially a tantalo-niobate of yttrium, erbium, and cerium; -- so called after Robert Ferguson.,
F as in Feriae (pl. ) of Feria,
F as in Feria (n.) A week day, esp. a day which is neither a festival nor a fast.,
F as in Ferial (n.) Same as Feria.,
F as in Ferial (a.) Of or pertaining to holidays.,
F as in Ferial (a.) Belonging to any week day, esp. to a day that is neither a festival nor a fast.,
F as in Feriation (n.) The act of keeping holiday; cessation from work.,
F as in Ferie (n.) A holiday.,
F as in Ferier (a.) compar. of Fere, fierce.,
F as in Ferine (a.) Wild; untamed; savage; as, lions, tigers, wolves, and bears are ferine beasts.,
F as in Ferine (n.) A wild beast; a beast of prey.,
F as in Feringee (n.) The name given to Europeans by the Hindos.,
F as in Ferity (n.) Wildness; savageness; fierceness.,
F as in Ferly (n.) Singular; wonderful; extraordinary.,
F as in Ferly (n.) A wonder; a marvel.,
F as in Fermacy (n.) Medicine; pharmacy.,
F as in Ferm (n.) Alt. of Ferme,
F as in Ferme (n.) Rent for a farm; a farm; also, an abode; a place of residence; as, he let his land to ferm.,
F as in Ferment (n.) That which causes fermentation, as yeast, barm, or fermenting beer.,
F as in Ferment (n.) Intestine motion; heat; tumult; agitation.,
F as in Ferment (n.) A gentle internal motion of the constituent parts of a fluid; fermentation.,
F as in Fermented (imp. & p. p.) of Ferment,
F as in Fermenting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ferment,
F as in Ferment (n.) To cause ferment of fermentation in; to set in motion; to excite internal emotion in; to heat.,
F as in Ferment (v. i.) To undergo fermentation; to be in motion, or to be excited into sensible internal motion, as the constituent oarticles of an animal or vegetable fluid; to work; to effervesce.,
F as in Ferment (v. i.) To be agitated or excited by violent emotions.,
F as in Fermentability (n.) Capability of fermentation.,
F as in Fermentable (a.) Capable of fermentation; as, cider and other vegetable liquors are fermentable.,
F as in Fermental (a.) Fermentative.,
F as in Fermentation (n.) The process of undergoing an effervescent change, as by the action of yeast; in a wider sense (Physiol. Chem.), the transformation of an organic substance into new compounds by the action of a ferment, either formed or unorganized. It differs in kind according to the nature of the ferment which causes it.,
F as in Fermentation (n.) A state of agitation or excitement, as of the intellect or the feelings.,
F as in Fermentative (a.) Causing, or having power to cause, fermentation; produced by fermentation; fermenting; as, a fermentative process.,
F as in Fermerere (n.) The officer in a religious house who had the care of the infirmary.,
F as in Fermillet (n.) A buckle or clasp.,
F as in Fern (adv.) Long ago.,
F as in Fern (a.) Ancient; old. [Obs.] "Pilgrimages to . . . ferne halwes." [saints].,
F as in Fern (n.) An order of cryptogamous plants, the Filices, which have their fructification on the back of the fronds or leaves. They are usually found in humid soil, sometimes grow epiphytically on trees, and in tropical climates often attain a gigantic size.,
F as in Fernery (n.) A place for rearing ferns.,
F as in Fernticle (n.) A freckle on the skin, resembling the seed of fern.,
F as in Ferny (a.) Abounding in ferns.,
F as in Ferocious (a.) Fierce; savage; wild; indicating cruelty; ravenous; rapacious; as, ferocious look or features; a ferocious lion.,
F as in Ferocity (n.) Savage wildness or fierceness; fury; cruelty; as, ferocity of countenance.,
F as in Feroher (n.) A symbol of the solar deity, found on monuments exhumed in Babylon, Nineveh, etc.,
F as in Ferous (a.) Wild; savage.,
F as in -ferous () A suffix signifying bearing, producing, yielding; as, auriferous, yielding gold; chyliferous, producing chyle.,
F as in Ferrandine (n.) A stuff made of silk and wool.,
F as in Ferrara (n.) A sword bearing the mark of one of the Ferrara family of Italy. These swords were highly esteemed in England and Scotland in the 16th and 17th centuries.,
F as in Ferrarese (a.) Pertaining to Ferrara, in Italy.,
F as in Ferrarese (n., sing. & pl.) A citizen of Ferrara; collectively, the inhabitants of Ferrara.,
F as in Ferrary (n.) The art of working in iron.,
F as in Ferrate (n.) A salt of ferric acid.,
F as in Ferre (a. & adv.) Alt. of Ferrer,
F as in Ferrer (a. & adv.) compar. of Fer.,
F as in Ferreous (a.) Partaking of, made of, or pertaining to, iron; like iron.,
F as in Ferrest (a. & adv.) superl. of Fer.,
F as in Ferret (n.) An animal of the Weasel family (Mustela / Putorius furo), about fourteen inches in length, of a pale yellow or white color, with red eyes. It is a native of Africa, but has been domesticated in Europe. Ferrets are used to drive rabbits and rats out of their holes.,
F as in Ferreted (imp. & p. p.) of Ferret,
F as in Ferreting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ferret,
F as in Ferret (n.) To drive or hunt out of a lurking place, as a ferret does the cony; to search out by patient and sagacious efforts; -- often used with out; as, to ferret out a secret.,
F as in Ferret (n.) A kind of narrow tape, usually made of woolen; sometimes of cotton or silk; -- called also ferreting.,
F as in Ferret (n.) The iron used for trying the melted glass to see if is fit to work, and for shaping the rings at the mouths of bottles.,
F as in Ferreter (n.) One who ferrets.,
F as in Ferret-eye (n.) The spur-winged goose; -- so called from the red circle around the eyes.,
F as in Ferretto (n.) Copper sulphide, used to color glass.,
F as in Ferri- () A combining form indicating ferric iron as an ingredient; as, ferricyanide.,
F as in Ferriage (n.) The price or fare to be paid for passage at a ferry.,
F as in Ferric (a.) Pertaining to, derived from, or containing iron. Specifically (Chem.), denoting those compounds in which iron has a higher valence than in the ferrous compounds; as, ferric oxide; ferric acid.,
F as in Ferricyanate (n.) A salt of ferricyanic acid; a ferricyanide.,
F as in Ferricyanic (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, a ferricyanide.,
F as in Ferricyanide (n.) One of a complex series of double cyanides of ferric iron and some other base.,
F as in Ferrier (n.) A ferryman.,
F as in Ferriferous (a.) Producing or yielding iron.,
F as in Ferriprussiate (n.) A ferricyanate; a ferricyanide.,
F as in Ferriprussic (a.) Ferricyanic.,
F as in Ferro- () A prefix, or combining form, indicating ferrous iron as an ingredient; as, ferrocyanide.,
F as in Ferrocalcite (n.) Limestone containing a large percentage of iron carbonate, and hence turning brown on exposure.,
F as in Ferrocyanate (n.) A salt of ferrocyanic acid; a ferrocyanide.,
F as in Ferrocyanic (a.) Pertaining to, derived from, or designating, a ferrocyanide.,
F as in Ferrocyanide (n.) One of a series of complex double cyanides of ferrous iron and some other base.,
F as in Ferroprussiate (n.) A ferrocyanate; a ferocyanide.,
F as in Ferroprussic (a.) Ferrocyanic.,
F as in Ferroso- () See Ferro-.,
F as in Ferrotype (n.) A photographic picture taken on an iron plate by a collodion process; -- familiarly called tintype.,
F as in Ferrous (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, iron; -- especially used of compounds of iron in which the iron has its lower valence; as, ferrous sulphate.,
F as in Ferruginated (a.) Having the color or properties of the rust of iron.,
F as in Ferrugineous (a.) Ferruginous.,
F as in Ferruginous (a.) Partaking of iron; containing particles of iron.,
F as in Ferruginous (a.) Resembling iron rust in appearance or color; brownish red, or yellowish red.,
F as in Ferrugo (n.) A disease of plants caused by fungi, commonly called the rust, from its resemblance to iron rust in color.,
F as in Ferrule (n.) A ring or cap of metal put round a cane, tool, handle, or other similar object, to strengthen it, or prevent splitting and wearing.,
F as in Ferrule (n.) A bushing for expanding the end of a flue to fasten it tightly in the tube plate, or for partly filling up its mouth.,
F as in Ferruminate (v. t.) To solder or unite, as metals.,
F as in Ferrumination (n.) The soldering ir uniting of me/ als.,
F as in Ferried (imp. & p. p.) of Ferry,
F as in Ferrying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ferry,
F as in Ferry (v. t.) To carry or transport over a river, strait, or other narrow water, in a boat.,
F as in Ferry (v. i.) To pass over water in a boat or by a ferry.,
F as in Ferries (pl. ) of Ferry,
F as in Ferry (v. t.) A place where persons or things are carried across a river, arm of the sea, etc., in a ferryboat.,
F as in Ferry (v. t.) A vessel in which passengers and goods are conveyed over narrow waters; a ferryboat; a wherry.,
F as in Ferry (v. t.) A franchise or right to maintain a vessel for carrying passengers and freight across a river, bay, etc., charging tolls.,
F as in Ferryboat (n.) A vessel for conveying passengers, merchandise, etc., across streams and other narrow waters.,
F as in Ferrymen (pl. ) of Ferryman,
F as in Ferryman (n.) One who maintains or attends a ferry.,
F as in Fers (a.) Fierce.,
F as in Ferthe (a.) Fourth.,
F as in Fertile (a.) Producing fruit or vegetation in abundance; fruitful; able to produce abundantly; prolific; fecund; productive; rich; inventive; as, fertile land or fields; a fertile mind or imagination.,
F as in Fertile (a.) Capable of producing fruit; fruit-bearing; as, fertile flowers.,
F as in Fertile (a.) Containing pollen; -- said of anthers.,
F as in Fertile (a.) produced in abundance; plenteous; ample.,
F as in Fertilely (adv.) In a fertile or fruitful manner.,
F as in fertileness (n.) Fertility.,
F as in Fertilitate (v. t.) To fertilize; to fecundate.,
F as in Fertility (n.) The state or quality of being fertile or fruitful; fruitfulness; productiveness; fecundity; richness; abundance of resources; fertile invention; quickness; readiness; as, the fertility of soil, or of imagination.,
F as in Fertilization (n.) The act or process of rendering fertile.,
F as in Fertilization (n.) The act of fecundating or impregnating animal or vegetable germs; esp., the process by which in flowers the pollen renders the ovule fertile, or an analogous process in flowerless plants; fecundation; impregnation.,
F as in Fertilized (imp. & p. p.) of Fertilize,
F as in Fertilizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fertilize,
F as in Fertilize (v. t.) To make fertile or enrich; to supply with nourishment for plants; to make fruitful or productive; as, to fertilize land, soil, ground, and meadows.,
F as in Fertilize (v. t.) To fecundate; as, to fertilize flower.,
F as in Fertilizer (n.) One who fertilizes; the agent that carries the fertilizing principle, as a moth to an orchid.,
F as in Fertilizer (n.) That which renders fertile; a general name for commercial manures, as guano, phosphate of lime, etc.,
F as in Ferula (n.) A ferule.,
F as in Ferula (n.) The imperial scepter in the Byzantine or Eastern Empire.,
F as in Ferulaceous (a.) Pertaining to reeds and canes; having a stalk like a reed; as, ferulaceous plants.,
F as in Ferular (n.) A ferule.,
F as in Ferule (n.) A flat piece of wood, used for striking, children, esp. on the hand, in punishment.,
F as in Feruled (imp. & p. p.) of Ferule,
F as in Feruling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ferule,
F as in Ferule (v. t.) To punish with a ferule.,
F as in Ferulic (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, asafetida (Ferula asafoetida); as, ferulic acid.,
F as in Fervence (n.) Heat; fervency.,
F as in Fervency (n.) The state of being fervent or warm; ardor; warmth of feeling or devotion; eagerness.,
F as in Fervent (a.) Hot; glowing; boiling; burning; as, a fervent summer.,
F as in Fervent (a.) Warm in feeling; ardent in temperament; earnest; full of fervor; zealous; glowing.,
F as in Fervescent (a.) Growing hot.,
F as in Fervid (a.) Very hot; burning; boiling.,
F as in Fervid (a.) Ardent; vehement; zealous.,
F as in Fervor (n.) Heat; excessive warmth.,
F as in Fervor (n.) Intensity of feeling or expression; glowing ardor; passion; holy zeal; earnestness.,
F as in Fescennine (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, the Fescennines.,
F as in Fescennine (n.) A style of low, scurrilous, obscene poetry originating in fescennia.,
F as in Fescue (n.) A straw, wire, stick, etc., used chiefly to point out letters to children when learning to read.,
F as in Fescue (n.) An instrument for playing on the harp; a plectrum.,
F as in Fescue (n.) The style of a dial.,
F as in Fescue (n.) A grass of the genus Festuca.,
F as in Fescued (imp. & p. p.) of Fescue,
F as in Fescuing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fescue,
F as in Fescue (v. i. & t.) To use a fescue, or teach with a fescue.,
F as in Fesels (n. pl.) See Phasel.,
F as in Fess (n.) Alt. of Fesse,
F as in Fesse (n.) A band drawn horizontally across the center of an escutcheon, and containing in breadth the third part of it; one of the nine honorable ordinaries.,
F as in Fessitude (n.) Weariness.,
F as in Fesswise (adv.) In the manner of fess.,
F as in Fest (n.) The fist.,
F as in Fest (n.) Alt. of Feste,
F as in Feste (n.) A feast.,
F as in Festal (a.) Of or pertaining to a holiday or a feast; joyous; festive.,
F as in Festally (adv.) Joyously; festively; mirthfully.,
F as in Festennine (n.) A fescennine.,
F as in Festered (imp. & p. p.) of Fester,
F as in Festering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fester,
F as in Fester (n.) To generate pus; to become imflamed and suppurate; as, a sore or a wound festers.,
F as in Fester (n.) To be inflamed; to grow virulent, or malignant; to grow in intensity; to rankle.,
F as in Fester (v. t.) To cause to fester or rankle.,
F as in Fester (n.) A small sore which becomes inflamed and discharges corrupt matter; a pustule.,
F as in Fester (n.) A festering or rankling.,
F as in Festerment (n.) A festering.,
F as in Festeye (v. t.) To feast; to entertain.,
F as in Festinate (a.) Hasty; hurried.,
F as in Festination (n.) Haste; hurry.,
F as in Festival (a.) Pertaining to a fest; festive; festal; appropriate to a festival; joyous; mirthful.,
F as in Festi-val (n.) A time of feasting or celebration; an anniversary day of joy, civil or religious.,
F as in Festive (a.) Pertaining to, or becoming, a feast; festal; joyous; gay; mirthful; sportive.,
F as in Festivities (pl. ) of Festivity,
F as in Festivity (n.) The condition of being festive; social joy or exhilaration of spirits at an entertaintment; joyfulness; gayety.,
F as in Festivity (n.) A festival; a festive celebration.,
F as in Festivous (a.) Pertaining to a feast; festive.,
F as in Festlich (n.) Festive; fond of festive occasions.,
F as in Festoon (n.) A garland or wreath hanging in a depending curve, used in decoration for festivals, etc.; anything arranged in this way.,
F as in Festoon (n.) A carved ornament consisting of flowers, and leaves, intermixed or twisted together, wound with a ribbon, and hanging or depending in a natural curve. See Illust. of Bucranium.,
F as in Festooned (imp. & p. p.) of Festoon,
F as in Festooning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Festoon,
F as in Festoon (v. t.) To form in festoons, or to adorn with festoons.,
F as in Festoony (a.) Pertaining to, consisting of, or resembling, festoons.,
F as in Festucine (a.) Of a straw color; greenish yellow.,
F as in Festucous (a.) Formed or consisting of straw.,
F as in Festue (n.) A straw; a fescue.,
F as in Fet (n.) A piece.,
F as in Fet (v. t.) To fetch.,
F as in Fet (p. p.) Fetched.,
F as in Fetal (a.) Pertaining to, or connected with, a fetus; as, fetal circulation; fetal membranes.,
F as in Fetation (n.) The formation of a fetus in the womb; pregnancy.,
F as in Fetched (imp. & p. p.) of Fetch,
F as in Fetching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fetch,
F as in Fetch (v. t.) To bear toward the person speaking, or the person or thing from whose point of view the action is contemplated; to go and bring; to get.,
F as in Fetch (v. t.) To obtain as price or equivalent; to sell for.,
F as in Fetch (v. t.) To recall from a swoon; to revive; -- sometimes with to; as, to fetch a man to.,
F as in Fetch (v. t.) To reduce; to throw.,
F as in Fetch (v. t.) To bring to accomplishment; to achieve; to make; to perform, with certain objects; as, to fetch a compass; to fetch a leap; to fetch a sigh.,
F as in Fetch (v. t.) To bring or get within reach by going; to reach; to arrive at; to attain; to reach by sailing.,
F as in Fetch (v. t.) To cause to come; to bring to a particular state.,
F as in fetch (v. i.) To bring one's self; to make headway; to veer; as, to fetch about; to fetch to windward.,
F as in Fetch (n.) A stratagem by which a thing is indirectly brought to pass, or by which one thing seems intended and another is done; a trick; an artifice.,
F as in Fetch (n.) The apparation of a living person; a wraith.,
F as in Fethcer (n.) One wo fetches or brings.,
F as in Fete (n.) A feat.,
F as in Fete (n. pl.) Feet.,
F as in Fete (n.) A festival.,
F as in Feted (imp. & p. p.) of Fete,
F as in Feting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fete,
F as in Fete (v. t.) To feast; to honor with a festival.,
F as in Fetich (n.) Alt. of Fetish,
F as in Fetish (n.) A material object supposed among certain African tribes to represent in such a way, or to be so connected with, a supernatural being, that the possession of it gives to the possessor power to control that being.,
F as in Fetish (n.) Any object to which one is excessively devoted.,
F as in fetichism (n.) Alt. of Fetishism,
F as in Fetishism (n.) The doctrine or practice of belief in fetiches.,
F as in Fetishism (n.) Excessive devotion to one object or one idea; abject superstition; blind adoration.,
F as in Fetichist (n.) Alt. of Fetishist,
F as in Fetishist (n.) A believer in fetiches.,
F as in Fetichistic (a.) Alt. of Fetishistic,
F as in Fetishistic (a.) Pertaining to, or involving, fetichism.,
F as in Feticide (n.) The act of killing the fetus in the womb; the offense of procuring an abortion.,
F as in Feticism (n.) See Fetichism.,
F as in Fetid (a.) Having an offensive smell; stinking.,
F as in Fetidity (n.) Fetidness.,
F as in Fetidness (n.) The quality or state of being fetid.,
F as in Fetiferous (a.) Producing young, as animals.,
F as in Fetis (a.) Neat; pretty; well made; graceful.,
F as in Fetisely (adv.) Neatly; gracefully; properly.,
F as in Fetish (a.) Alt. of Fetishistic,
F as in Fetishism (a.) Alt. of Fetishistic,
F as in Fetishistic (a.) See Fetich, n., Fetichism, n., Fetichistic, a.,
F as in Fetlock (n.) The cushionlike projection, bearing a tuft of long hair, on the back side of the leg above the hoof of the horse and similar animals. Also, the joint of the limb at this point (between the great pastern bone and the metacarpus), or the tuft of hair.,
F as in Fetor (n.) A strong, offensive smell; stench; fetidness.,
F as in Fette (imp.) of Fette,
F as in Fet (p. p.) of Fette,
F as in Fette (v. t.) To fetch.,
F as in fetters (pl. ) of Fetter,
F as in Fetter (n.) A chain or shackle for the feet; a chain by which an animal is confined by the foot, either made fast or disabled from free and rapid motion; a bond; a shackle.,
F as in Fetter (n.) Anything that confines or restrains; a restraint.,
F as in Fetter (p. pr. & vb. n.) To put fetters upon; to shackle or confine the feet of with a chain; to bind.,
F as in Fetter (p. pr. & vb. n.) To restrain from motion; to impose restraints on; to confine; to enchain; as, fettered by obligations.,
F as in Fettered (a.) Seeming as if fettered, as the feet of certain animals which bend backward, and appear unfit for walking.,
F as in Fetterer (n.) One who fetters.,
F as in Fetterless (a.) Free from fetters.,
F as in Fettle (a.) To repair; to prepare; to put in order.,
F as in Fettle (a.) To cover or line with a mixture of ore, cinders, etc., as the hearth of a puddling furnace.,
F as in Fettle (v. i.) To make preparations; to put things in order; to do trifling business.,
F as in Fettle (n.) The act of fettling.,
F as in Fettling (n.) A mixture of ore, cinders, etc., used to line the hearth of a puddling furnace.,
F as in Fettling (n.) The operation of shaving or smoothing the surface of undried clay ware.,
F as in Fetuous (a.) Neat; feat.,
F as in Fetuses (pl. ) of Fetus,
F as in Fetus (n.) The young or embryo of an animal in the womb, or in the egg; often restricted to the later stages in the development of viviparous and oviparous animals, embryo being applied to the earlier stages.,
F as in Fetwah (n.) A written decision of a Turkish mufti on some point of law.,
F as in Feu (n.) A free and gratuitous right to lands made to one for service to be performed by him; a tenure where the vassal, in place of military services, makes a return in grain or in money.,
F as in Feuar (n.) One who holds a feu.,
F as in Feud (n.) A combination of kindred to avenge injuries or affronts, done or offered to any of their blood, on the offender and all his race.,
F as in Feud (n.) A contention or quarrel; especially, an inveterate strife between families, clans, or parties; deadly hatred; contention satisfied only by bloodshed.,
F as in Feud (n.) A stipendiary estate in land, held of superior, by service; the right which a vassal or tenant had to the lands or other immovable thing of his lord, to use the same and take the profists thereof hereditarily, rendering to his superior such duties and services as belong to military tenure, etc., the property of the soil always remaining in the lord or superior; a fief; a fee.,
F as in Feudal (a.) Of or pertaining to feuds, fiefs, or feels; as, feudal rights or services; feudal tenures.,
F as in Feudal (a.) Consisting of, or founded upon, feuds or fiefs; embracing tenures by military services; as, the feudal system.,
F as in Feudalism (n.) The feudal system; a system by which the holding of estates in land is made dependent upon an obligation to render military service to the kind or feudal superior; feudal principles and usages.,
F as in Feudalist (n.) An upholder of feudalism.,
F as in Feudality (n.) The state or quality of being feudal; feudal form or constitution.,
F as in Fedaliza/tion (n.) The act of reducing to feudal tenure.,
F as in Feudalized (imp. & p. p.) of Feudalize,
F as in Feudalizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Feudalize,
F as in Feudalize (v. t.) To reduce toa feudal tenure; to conform to feudalism.,
F as in Feudally (adv.) In a feudal manner.,
F as in Feudary (a.) Held by, or pertaining to, feudal tenure.,
F as in Feudary (n.) A tenant who holds his lands by feudal service; a feudatory.,
F as in Feudary (n.) A feodary. See Feodary.,
F as in Feudataty (a. & n.) See Feudatory.,
F as in Feudatories (pl. ) of Feudatory,
F as in Feudatory (n.) A tenant or vassal who held his lands of a superior on condition of feudal service; the tenant of a feud or fief.,
F as in Feudtory (a.) Held from another on some conditional tenure; as, a feudatory title.,
F as in Feu de joie () A fire kindled in a public place in token of joy; a bonfire; a firing of guns in token of joy.,
F as in Feudist (n.) A writer on feuds; a person versed in feudal law.,
F as in Feuillants (n. pl.) A reformed branch of the Bernardines, founded in 1577 at Feuillans, near Toulouse, in France.,
F as in Feuillemort (a.) Having the color of a faded leaf.,
F as in Feuilleton (n.) A part of a French newspaper (usually the bottom of the page), devoted to light literature, criticism, etc.; also, the article or tale itself, thus printed.,
F as in Feuilltonist (n.) A writer of feuilletons.,
F as in feuter (v. t.) To set close; to fix in rest, as a spear.,
F as in Feuterer (n.) A dog keeper.,
F as in Fever (n.) A diseased state of the system, marked by increased heat, acceleration of the pulse, and a general derangement of the functions, including usually, thirst and loss of appetite. Many diseases, of which fever is the most prominent symptom, are denominated fevers; as, typhoid fever; yellow fever.,
F as in Fever (n.) Excessive excitement of the passions in consequence of strong emotion; a condition of great excitement; as, this quarrel has set my blood in a fever.,
F as in Fevered (imp. & p. p.) of Fever,
F as in Fevering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fever,
F as in Fever (v. t.) To put into a fever; to affect with fever; as, a fevered lip.,
F as in Feveret (n.) A slight fever.,
F as in Feverfew (n.) A perennial plant (Pyrethrum, / Chrysanthemum, Parthenium) allied to camomile, having finely divided leaves and white blossoms; -- so named from its supposed febrifugal qualities.,
F as in Feverish (a.) Having a fever; suffering from, or affected with, a moderate degree of fever; showing increased heat and thirst; as, the patient is feverish.,
F as in Feverish (a.) Indicating, or pertaining to, fever; characteristic of a fever; as, feverish symptoms.,
F as in Feverish (a.) Hot; sultry.,
F as in Feverish (a.) Disordered as by fever; excited; restless; as, the feverish condition of the commercial world.,
F as in Feverous (a.) Affected with fever or ague; feverish.,
F as in Feverous (a.) Pertaining to, or having the nature of, fever; as, a feverous pulse.,
F as in Feverous (a.) Having the tendency to produce fever; as, a feverous disposition of the year.,
F as in Feverously (adv.) Feverishly.,
F as in Feverwort (n.) See Fever root, under Fever.,
F as in Fevery (a.) Feverish.,
F as in Few (superl.) Not many; small, limited, or confined in number; -- indicating a small portion of units or individuals constituing a whole; often, by ellipsis of a noun, a few people.,
F as in Fewel (n.) Fuel.,
F as in Fewmet (n.) See Fumet.,
F as in Fewness (n.) The state of being few; smallness of number; paucity.,
F as in Fewness (n.) Brevity; conciseness.,
F as in Fey (a.) Fated; doomed.,
F as in Fey (n.) Faith.,
F as in Fey (v. t.) To cleanse; to clean out.,
F as in Feyne (v. t.) To feign.,
F as in Feyre (n.) A fair or market.,
F as in Fez (n.) A felt or cloth cap, usually red and having a tassel, -- a variety of the tarboosh. See Tarboosh.,
F as in Fiacre (n.) A kind of French hackney coach.,
F as in Fiance (v. t.) To betroth; to affiance.,
F as in Fiance (n.) A betrothed man.,
F as in Fiancee (n.) A betrothed woman.,
F as in Fiants (n.) The dung of the fox, wolf, boar, or badger.,
F as in Fiar (n.) One in whom the property of an estate is vested, subject to the estate of a life renter.,
F as in Fiar (n.) The price of grain, as legally fixed, in the counties of Scotland, for the current year.,
F as in Fiascoes (pl. ) of Fiasco,
F as in Fiasco (n.) A complete or ridiculous failure, esp. of a musical performance, or of any pretentious undertaking.,
F as in Fiat (n.) An authoritative command or order to do something; an effectual decree.,
F as in Fiat (n.) A warrant of a judge for certain processes.,
F as in Fiat (n.) An authority for certain proceedings given by the Lord Chancellor's signature.,
F as in Fiaunt (n.) Commission; fiat; order; decree.,
F as in Fib (n.) A falsehood; a lie; -- used euphemistically.,
F as in Fibbed (imp. & p. p.) of Fib,
F as in Fibbing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fib,
F as in Fib (v. i.) To speak falsely.,
F as in Fib (v. t.) To tell a fib to.,
F as in Fibber (n.) One who tells fibs.,
F as in Fiber (n.) Alt. of Fibre,
F as in Fibre (n.) One of the delicate, threadlike portions of which the tissues of plants and animals are in part constituted; as, the fiber of flax or of muscle.,
F as in Fibre (n.) Any fine, slender thread, or threadlike substance; as, a fiber of spun glass; especially, one of the slender rootlets of a plant.,
F as in Fibre (n.) Sinew; strength; toughness; as, a man of real fiber.,
F as in Fibre (n.) A general name for the raw material, such as cotton, flax, hemp, etc., used in textile manufactures.,
F as in Fibered (a.) Alt. of Fibred,
F as in Fibred (a.) Having fibers; made up of fibers.,
F as in Fiber-faced (a.) Alt. of Fibre-faced,
F as in Fibre-faced (a.) Having a visible fiber embodied in the surface of; -- applied esp. to a kind of paper for checks, drafts, etc.,
F as in Fiberless (a.) Alt. of Fibreless,
F as in Fibreless (a.) Having no fibers; destitute of fibers or fiber.,
F as in Fibriform (a.) Having the form of a fiber or fibers; resembling a fiber.,
F as in Fibril (n.) A small fiber; the branch of a fiber; a very slender thread; a fibrilla.,
F as in FibrillAe (pl. ) of Fibrilla,
F as in Fibrilla (n.) A minute thread of fiber, as one of the fibrous elements of a muscular fiber; a fibril.,
F as in Fibrillar (a.) Of or pertaining to fibrils or fibers; as, fibrillar twitchings.,
F as in Fibrillary (a.) Of of pertaining to fibrils.,
F as in Fibrillated (a.) Furnished with fibrils; fringed.,
F as in Fibrillation (n.) The state of being reduced to fibers.,
F as in Fibrillose (a.) Covered with hairlike appendages, as the under surface of some lichens; also, composed of little strings or fibers; as, fibrillose appendages.,
F as in Fibrillous (a.) Pertaining to, or composed of, fibers.,
F as in Fibrin (n.) A white, albuminous, fibrous substance, formed in the coagulation of the blood either by decomposition of fibrinogen, or from the union of fibrinogen and paraglobulin which exist separately in the blood. It is insoluble in water, but is readily digestible in gastric and pancreatic juice.,
F as in Fibrin (n.) The white, albuminous mass remaining after washing lean beef or other meat with water until all coloring matter is removed; the fibrous portion of the muscle tissue; flesh fibrin.,
F as in Fibrin (n.) An albuminous body, resembling animal fibrin in composition, found in cereal grains and similar seeds; vegetable fibrin.,
F as in Fibrination (n.) The state of acquiring or having an excess of fibrin.,
F as in Fibrine (a.) Belonging to the fibers of plants.,
F as in Fibrinogen (n.) An albuminous substance existing in the blood, and in other animal fluids, which either alone or with fibrinoplastin or paraglobulin forms fibrin, and thus causes coagulation.,
F as in Fibrinogenous (a.) Possessed of properties similar to fibrinogen; capable of forming fibrin.,
F as in Fibrinoplastic (a.) Like fibrinoplastin; capable of forming fibrin when brought in contact with fibrinogen.,
F as in Fibrinoplastin (n.) An albuminous substance, existing in the blood, which in combination with fibrinogen forms fibrin; -- called also paraglobulin.,
F as in Fibrinous (a.) Having, or partaking of the properties of, fibrin; as, fibrious exudation.,
F as in Fibrocartilage (n.) A kind of cartilage with a fibrous matrix and approaching fibrous connective tissue in structure.,
F as in Fibrochondrosteal (a.) Partly fibrous, partly cartilaginous, and partly osseous.,
F as in Fibroid (a.) Resembling or forming fibrous tissue; made up of fibers; as, fibroid tumors.,
F as in Fibroid (n.) A fibroid tumor; a fibroma.,
F as in Fibroin (n.) A variety of gelatin; the chief ingredient of raw silk, extracted as a white amorphous mass.,
F as in Fibrolite (n.) A silicate of alumina, of fibrous or columnar structure. It is like andalusite in composition; -- called also sillimanite, and bucholizite.,
F as in Fibroma (n.) A tumor consisting mainly of fibrous tissue, or of same modification of such tissue.,
F as in Fibrospongiae (n. pl.) An order of sponges having a fibrous skeleton, including the commercial sponges.,
F as in Fibrous (a.) Containing, or consisting of, fibers; as, the fibrous coat of the cocoanut; the fibrous roots of grasses.,
F as in Fibrovascular (a.) Containing woody fiber and ducts, as the stems of all flowering plants and ferns; -- opposed to cellular.,
F as in Fibster (n.) One who tells fibs.,
F as in FibulAe (pl. ) of Fibula,
F as in Fibula (n.) A brooch, clasp, or buckle.,
F as in Fibula (n.) The outer and usually the smaller of the two bones of the leg, or hind limb, below the knee.,
F as in Fibula (n.) A needle for sewing up wounds.,
F as in Fibu-lar (a.) Pertaining to the fibula.,
F as in Fibularia (pl. ) of Fibulare,
F as in Fibulare (n.) The bone or cartilage of the tarsus, which articulates with the fibula, and corresponds to the calcaneum in man and most mammals.,
F as in Fice (n.) A small dog; -- written also fise, fyce, fiste, etc.,
F as in Fiche (a.) See FitchE.,
F as in Ficttelite (n.) A white crystallized mineral resin from the Fichtelgebirge, Bavaria.,
F as in Fichu (n.) A light cape, usually of lace, worn by women, to cover the neck and throat, and extending to the shoulders.,
F as in Fickle (a.) Not fixed or firm; liable to change; unstable; of a changeable mind; not firm in opinion or purpose; inconstant; capricious; as, Fortune's fickle wheel.,
F as in Fickleness (n.) The quality of being fickle; instability; inconsonancy.,
F as in Fickly (adv.) In a fickle manner.,
F as in Ficoes (pl. ) of Fico,
F as in Fico (n.) A fig; an insignificant trifle, no more than the snap of one's thumb; a sign of contempt made by the fingers, expressing. A fig for you.,
F as in Fictile (a.) Molded, or capable of being molded, into form by art; relating to pottery or to molding in any soft material.,
F as in Fiction (n.) The act of feigning, inventing, or imagining; as, by a mere fiction of the mind.,
F as in Fiction (n.) That which is feigned, invented, or imagined; especially, a feigned or invented story, whether oral or written. Hence: A story told in order to deceive; a fabrication; -- opposed to fact, or reality.,
F as in Fiction (n.) Fictitious literature; comprehensively, all works of imagination; specifically, novels and romances.,
F as in Fiction (n.) An assumption of a possible thing as a fact, irrespective of the question of its truth.,
F as in Fiction (n.) Any like assumption made for convenience, as for passing more rapidly over what is not disputed, and arriving at points really at issue.,
F as in Fictional (a.) Pertaining to, or characterized by, fiction; fictitious; romantic.,
F as in Fictionist (n.) A writer of fiction.,
F as in Fictious (a.) Fictitious.,
F as in Fictitious (a.) Feigned; imaginary; not real; fabulous; counterfeit; false; not genuine; as, fictitious fame.,
F as in Fictive (a.) Feigned; counterfeit.,
F as in Fictor (n.) An artist who models or forms statues and reliefs in any plastic material.,
F as in Ficus (n.) A genus of trees or shrubs, one species of which (F. Carica) produces the figs of commerce; the fig tree.,
F as in Fid (n.) A square bar of wood or iron, used to support the topmast, being passed through a hole or mortise at its heel, and resting on the trestle trees.,
F as in Fid (n.) A wooden or metal bar or pin, used to support or steady anything.,
F as in Fid (n.) A pin of hard wood, tapering to a point, used to open the strands of a rope in splicing.,
F as in Fid (n.) A block of wood used in mounting and dismounting heavy guns.,
F as in Fidalgo (n.) The lowest title of nobility in Portugal, corresponding to that of Hidalgo in Spain.,
F as in Fiddle (n.) A stringed instrument of music played with a bow; a violin; a kit.,
F as in Fiddle (n.) A kind of dock (Rumex pulcher) with fiddle-shaped leaves; -- called also fiddle dock.,
F as in Fiddle (n.) A rack or frame of bars connected by strings, to keep table furniture in place on the cabin table in bad weather.,
F as in Fiddled (imp. & p. p.) of Fiddle,
F as in Fiddling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fiddle,
F as in Fiddle (v. i.) To play on a fiddle.,
F as in Fiddle (v. i.) To keep the hands and fingers actively moving as a fiddler does; to move the hands and fingers restlessy or in busy idleness; to trifle.,
F as in Fiddle (v. t.) To play (a tune) on a fiddle.,
F as in Fiddledeedee (interj.) An exclamatory word or phrase, equivalent to nonsense!,
F as in Foddle-faddle (n.) A trifle; trifling talk; nonsense.,
F as in Fiddle-faddle (v. i.) To talk nonsense.,
F as in Fiddler (n.) One who plays on a fiddle or violin.,
F as in Fiddler (n.) A burrowing crab of the genus Gelasimus, of many species. The male has one claw very much enlarged, and often holds it in a position similar to that in which a musician holds a fiddle, hence the name; -- called also calling crab, soldier crab, and fighting crab.,
F as in Fiddler (n.) The common European sandpiper (Tringoides hypoleucus); -- so called because it continually oscillates its body.,
F as in Fiddle-shaped (a.) Inversely ovate, with a deep hollow on each side.,
F as in Fiddlestick (n.) The bow, strung with horsehair, used in playing the fiddle; a fiddle bow.,
F as in Fiddlestring (n.) One of the catgut strings of a fiddle.,
F as in Fiddlewood (n.) The wood of several West Indian trees, mostly of the genus Citharexylum.,
F as in Fidejussion (n.) The act or state of being bound as surety for another; suretyship.,
F as in Fidejussor (n.) A surety; one bound for another, conjointly with him; a guarantor.,
F as in Fidelity (n.) Faithfulness; adherence to right; careful and exact observance of duty, or discharge of obligations.,
F as in Fidelity (n.) Adherence to a person or party to which one is bound; loyalty.,
F as in Fidelity (n.) Adherence to the marriage contract.,
F as in Fidelity (n.) Adherence to truth; veracity; honesty.,
F as in Fides (n.) Faith personified as a goddess; the goddess of faith.,
F as in Fidge (n. & i.) See Fidget.,
F as in Fidgeted (imp. & p. p.) of Fidget,
F as in Fodgeting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fidget,
F as in Fidget (v. i.) To move uneasily one way and the other; to move irregularly, or by fits and starts.,
F as in Fidget (n.) Uneasiness; restlessness.,
F as in Fidget (n.) A general nervous restlessness, manifested by incessant changes of position; dysphoria.,
F as in Fidgetiness (n.) Quality of being fidgety.,
F as in Fidgety (a.) Restless; uneasy.,
F as in Fidia (n.) A genus of small beetles, of which one species (the grapevine Fidia, F. longipes) is very injurious to vines in America.,
F as in Fidicinal (a.) Of or pertaining to a stringed instrument.,
F as in Fiducial (a.) Having faith or trust; confident; undoubting; firm.,
F as in Fiducial (a.) Having the nature of a trust; fiduciary; as, fiducial power.,
F as in Fiducially (adv.) With confidence.,
F as in Fidiciary (a.) Involving confidence or trust; confident; undoubting; faithful; firm; as, in a fiduciary capacity.,
F as in Fidiciary (a.) Holding, held, or founded, in trust.,
F as in Fiduciary (n.) One who holds a thing in trust for another; a trustee.,
F as in Fiduciary (n.) One who depends for salvation on faith, without works; an Antinomian.,
F as in Fie (interj.) An exclamation denoting contempt or dislike. See Fy.,
F as in Fief (n.) An estate held of a superior on condition of military service; a fee; a feud. See under Benefice, n., 2.,
F as in Field (n.) Cleared land; land suitable for tillage or pasture; cultivated ground; the open country.,
F as in Field (n.) A piece of land of considerable size; esp., a piece inclosed for tillage or pasture.,
F as in Field (n.) A place where a battle is fought; also, the battle itself.,
F as in Field (n.) An open space; an extent; an expanse.,
F as in Field (n.) Any blank space or ground on which figures are drawn or projected.,
F as in Field (n.) The space covered by an optical instrument at one view.,
F as in Field (n.) The whole surface of an escutcheon; also, so much of it is shown unconcealed by the different bearings upon it. See Illust. of Fess, where the field is represented as gules (red), while the fess is argent (silver).,
F as in Field (n.) An unresticted or favorable opportunity for action, operation, or achievement; province; room.,
F as in Field (n.) A collective term for all the competitors in any outdoor contest or trial, or for all except the favorites in the betting.,
F as in Field (n.) That part of the grounds reserved for the players which is outside of the diamond; -- called also outfield.,
F as in Fielded (imp. & p. p.) of Field,
F as in Fielding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Field,
F as in Field (v. i.) To take the field.,
F as in Field (v. i.) To stand out in the field, ready to catch, stop, or throw the ball.,
F as in Field (v. t.) To catch, stop, throw, etc. (the ball), as a fielder.,
F as in Fielded (a.) Engaged in the field; encamped.,
F as in Fielden (a.) Consisting of fields.,
F as in Fielder (n.) A ball payer who stands out in the field to catch or stop balls.,
F as in Fieldfare (n.) a small thrush (Turdus pilaris) which breeds in northern Europe and winters in Great Britain. The head, nape, and lower part of the back are ash-colored; the upper part of the back and wing coverts, chestnut; -- called also fellfare.,
F as in Fielding (n.) The act of playing as a fielder.,
F as in Fieldpiece (n.) A cannon mounted on wheels, for the use of a marching army; a piece of field artillery; -- called also field gun.,
F as in Fieldwork (n.) Any temporary fortification thrown up by an army in the field; -- commonly in the plural.,
F as in Fieldy (a.) Open, like a field.,
F as in Fiend (n.) An implacable or malicious foe; one who is diabolically wicked or cruel; an infernal being; -- applied specifically to the devil or a demon.,
F as in Fiendful (a.) Full of fiendish spirit or arts.,
F as in Fiendish (a.) Like a fiend; diabolically wicked or cruel; infernal; malignant; devilish; hellish.,
F as in Fiendlike (a.) Fiendish; diabolical.,
F as in Fiendly (a.) Fiendlike; monstrous; devilish.,
F as in Fierasfer (n.) A genus of small, slender fishes, remarkable for their habit of living as commensals in other animals. One species inhabits the gill cavity of the pearl oyster near Panama; another lives within an East Indian holothurian.,
F as in Fierce (superl.) Furious; violent; unrestrained; impetuous; as, a fierce wind.,
F as in Fierce (superl.) Vehement in anger or cruelty; ready or eager to kill or injure; of a nature to inspire terror; ferocious.,
F as in Fierce (superl.) Excessively earnest, eager, or ardent.,
F as in Fieri facias () A judicial writ that lies for one who has recovered in debt or damages, commanding the sheriff that he cause to be made of the goods, chattels, or real estate of the defendant, the sum claimed.,
F as in Fieriness (n.) The quality of being fiery; heat; acrimony; irritability; as, a fieriness of temper.,
F as in Fiery (a.) Consisting of, containing, or resembling, fire; as, the fiery gulf of Etna; a fiery appearance.,
F as in Fiery (a.) Vehement; ardent; very active; impetuous.,
F as in Fiery (a.) Passionate; easily provoked; irritable.,
F as in Fiery (a.) Unrestrained; fierce; mettlesome; spirited.,
F as in Fiery (a.) heated by fire, or as if by fire; burning hot; parched; feverish.,
F as in Fife (n.) A small shrill pipe, resembling the piccolo flute, used chiefly to accompany the drum in military music.,
F as in Fifed (imp. & p. p.) of Fife,
F as in fifing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fife,
F as in Fife (v. i.) To play on a fife.,
F as in Fifer (n.) One who plays on a fife.,
F as in Fifteen (a.) Five and ten; one more than fourteen.,
F as in Fifteen (n.) The sum of five and ten; fifteen units or objects.,
F as in Fifteen (n.) A symbol representing fifteen units, as 15, or xv.,
F as in Fifteenth (a.) Next in order after the fourteenth; -- the ordinal of fifteen.,
F as in Fifteenth (a.) Consisting of one of fifteen equal parts or divisions of a thing.,
F as in Fifteenth (n.) One of fifteen equal parts or divisions; the quotient of a unit divided by fifteen.,
F as in Fifteenth (n.) A species of tax upon personal property formerly laid on towns, boroughs, etc., in England, being one fifteenth part of what the personal property in each town, etc., had been valued at.,
F as in Fifteenth (n.) A stop in an organ tuned two octaves above the diaposon.,
F as in Fifteenth (n.) An interval consisting of two octaves.,
F as in Fifth (a.) Next in order after the fourth; -- the ordinal of five.,
F as in Fifth (a.) Consisting of one of five equal divisions of a thing.,
F as in Fifth (n.) The quotient of a unit divided by five; one of five equal parts; a fifth part.,
F as in Fifth (n.) The interval of three tones and a semitone, embracing five diatonic degrees of the scale; the dominant of any key.,
F as in Fifthly (adv.) In the fifth place; as the fifth in order.,
F as in Fiftieth (a.) Next in order after the forty-ninth; -- the ordinal of fifty.,
F as in Fiftieth (a.) Consisting of one of fifty equal parts or divisions.,
F as in Fiftieth (n.) One of fifty equal parts; the quotient of a unit divided by fifty.,
F as in Fifty (a.) Five times ten; as, fifty men.,
F as in Fifties (pl. ) of Fifty,
F as in Fifty (n.) The sum of five tens; fifty units or objects.,
F as in Fifty (n.) A symbol representing fifty units, as 50, or l.,
F as in Fig (n.) A small fruit tree (Ficus Carica) with large leaves, known from the remotest antiquity. It was probably native from Syria westward to the Canary Islands.,
F as in Fig (n.) The fruit of a fig tree, which is of round or oblong shape, and of various colors.,
F as in Fig (n.) A small piece of tobacco.,
F as in Fig (n.) The value of a fig, practically nothing; a fico; -- used in scorn or contempt.,
F as in Fig (n.) To insult with a fico, or contemptuous motion. See Fico.,
F as in Fig (n.) To put into the head of, as something useless o/ contemptible.,
F as in Fig (n.) Figure; dress; array.,
F as in Figaro (n.) An adroit and unscrupulous intriguer.,
F as in Figary (n.) A frolic; a vagary; a whim.,
F as in Figeater (n.) A large beetle (Allorhina nitida) which in the Southern United States destroys figs. The elytra are velvety green with pale borders.,
F as in Figeater (n.) A bird. See Figpecker.,
F as in Figent (a.) Fidgety; restless.,
F as in Figgum (n.) A juggler's trick; conjuring.,
F as in Fought (imp. & p. p.) of Fight,
F as in Fighting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fight,
F as in Fight (v. i.) To strive or contend for victory, with armies or in single combat; to attempt to defeat, subdue, or destroy an enemy, either by blows or weapons; to contend in arms; -- followed by with or against.,
F as in Fight (v. i.) To act in opposition to anything; to struggle against; to contend; to strive; to make resistance.,
F as in Fight (v. t.) To carry on, or wage, as a conflict, or battle; to win or gain by struggle, as one's way; to sustain by fighting, as a cause.,
F as in Fight (v. t.) To contend with in battle; to war against; as, they fought the enemy in two pitched battles; the sloop fought the frigate for three hours.,
F as in Fight (v. t.) To cause to fight; to manage or maneuver in a fight; as, to fight cocks; to fight one's ship.,
F as in Fight (v. i.) A battle; an engagement; a contest in arms; a combat; a violent conflict or struggle for victory, between individuals or between armies, ships, or navies, etc.,
F as in Fight (v. i.) A struggle or contest of any kind.,
F as in Fight (v. i.) Strength or disposition for fighting; pugnacity; as, he has a great deal of fight in him.,
F as in Fight (v. i.) A screen for the combatants in ships.,
F as in Fighter (n.) One who fights; a combatant; a warrior.,
F as in Fighting (a.) Qualified for war; fit for battle.,
F as in Fighting (a.) Occupied in war; being the scene of a battle; as, a fighting field.,
F as in Fightingly (adv.) Pugnaciously.,
F as in Fightwite (n.) A mulct or fine imposed on a person for making a fight or quarrel to the disturbance of the peace.,
F as in Figment (n.) An invention; a fiction; something feigned or imagined.,
F as in Pigpecker (n.) The European garden warbler (Sylvia, / Currica, hortensis); -- called also beccafico and greater pettychaps.,
F as in Fig-shell (n.) A marine univalve shell of the genus Pyrula, or Ficula, resembling a fig in form.,
F as in Figulate (a.) Alt. of Figulated,
F as in Figulated (a.) Made of potter's clay; molded; shaped.,
F as in Figuline (n.) A piece of pottery ornamented with representations of natural objects.,
F as in Figurability (n.) The quality of being figurable.,
F as in Figurable (a.) Capable of being brought to a fixed form or shape.,
F as in Figural (a.) Represented by figure or delineation; consisting of figures; as, figural ornaments.,
F as in Figural (a.) Figurate. See Figurate.,
F as in Figurant (n. masc.) One who dances at the opera, not singly, but in groups or figures; an accessory character on the stage, who figures in its scenes, but has nothing to say; hence, one who figures in any scene, without taking a prominent part.,
F as in Figurante (n. fem.) A female figurant; esp., a ballet girl.,
F as in Figurate (a.) Of a definite form or figure.,
F as in Figurate (a.) Figurative; metaphorical.,
F as in Figurate (a.) Florid; figurative; involving passing discords by the freer melodic movement of one or more parts or voices in the harmony; as, figurate counterpoint or descant.,
F as in Figurated (a.) Having a determinate form.,
F as in Figurately (adv.) In a figurate manner.,
F as in Figuration (n.) The act of giving figure or determinate form; determination to a certain form.,
F as in Figuration (n.) Mixture of concords and discords.,
F as in Figurative (a.) Representing by a figure, or by resemblance; typical; representative.,
F as in Figurative (a.) Used in a sense that is tropical, as a metaphor; not literal; -- applied to words and expressions.,
F as in Figurative (a.) Abounding in figures of speech; flowery; florid; as, a highly figurative description.,
F as in Figurative (a.) Relating to the representation of form or figure by drawing, carving, etc. See Figure, n., 2.,
F as in Figure (n.) The form of anything; shape; outline; appearance.,
F as in Figure (n.) The representation of any form, as by drawing, painting, modeling, carving, embroidering, etc.; especially, a representation of the human body; as, a figure in bronze; a figure cut in marble.,
F as in Figure (n.) A pattern in cloth, paper, or other manufactured article; a design wrought out in a fabric; as, the muslin was of a pretty figure.,
F as in Figure (n.) A diagram or drawing; made to represent a magnitude or the relation of two or more magnitudes; a surface or space inclosed on all sides; -- called superficial when inclosed by lines, and solid when inclosed by surface; any arrangement made up of points, lines, angles, surfaces, etc.,
F as in Figure (n.) The appearance or impression made by the conduct or carrer of a person; as, a sorry figure.,
F as in Figure (n.) Distinguished appearance; magnificence; conspicuous representation; splendor; show.,
F as in Figure (n.) A character or symbol representing a number; a numeral; a digit; as, 1, 2,3, etc.,
F as in Figure (n.) Value, as expressed in numbers; price; as, the goods are estimated or sold at a low figure.,
F as in Figure (n.) A person, thing, or action, conceived of as analogous to another person, thing, or action, of which it thus becomes a type or representative.,
F as in Figure (n.) A mode of expressing abstract or immaterial ideas by words which suggest pictures or images from the physical world; pictorial language; a trope; hence, any deviation from the plainest form of statement.,
F as in Figure (n.) The form of a syllogism with respect to the relative position of the middle term.,
F as in Figure (n.) Any one of the several regular steps or movements made by a dancer.,
F as in Figure (n.) A horoscope; the diagram of the aspects of the astrological houses.,
F as in Figure (n.) Any short succession of notes, either as melody or as a group of chords, which produce a single complete and distinct impression.,
F as in Figure (n.) A form of melody or accompaniment kept up through a strain or passage; a musical or motive; a florid embellishment.,
F as in Figured (imp. & p. p.) of Figure,
F as in Figuring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Figure,
F as in Figure (n.) To represent by a figure, as to form or mold; to make an image of, either palpable or ideal; also, to fashion into a determinate form; to shape.,
F as in Figure (n.) To embellish with design; to adorn with figures.,
F as in Figure (n.) To indicate by numerals; also, to compute.,
F as in Figure (n.) To represent by a metaphor; to signify or symbolize.,
F as in Figure (n.) To prefigure; to foreshow.,
F as in Figure (n.) To write over or under the bass, as figures or other characters, in order to indicate the accompanying chords.,
F as in Figure (n.) To embellish.,
F as in Figure (v. t.) To make a figure; to be distinguished or conspicious; as, the envoy figured at court.,
F as in Figure (v. t.) To calculate; to contrive; to scheme; as, he is figuring to secure the nomination.,
F as in Figured (a.) Adorned with figures; marked with figures; as, figured muslin.,
F as in Figured (a.) Not literal; figurative.,
F as in Figured (a.) Free and florid; as, a figured descant. See Figurate, 3.,
F as in Figured (a.) Indicated or noted by figures.,
F as in Figurehead (n.) The figure, statue, or bust, on the prow of a ship.,
F as in Figurehead (n.) A person who allows his name to be used to give standing to enterprises in which he has no responsible interest or duties; a nominal, but not real, head or chief.,
F as in Figurial (a.) Represented by figure or delineation.,
F as in Figurine (n.) A very small figure, whether human or of an animal; especially, one in terra cotta or the like; -- distinguished from statuette, which is applied to small figures in bronze, marble, etc.,
F as in Figurist (n.) One who uses or interprets figurative expressions.,
F as in Figwort (n.) A genus of herbaceous plants (Scrophularia), mostly found in the north temperate zones. See Brownwort.,
F as in Fijian (a.) Of or pertaining to the Fiji islands or their inhabitants.,
F as in Fijian (n.) A native of the Fiji islands.,
F as in Fike (n.) See Fyke.,
F as in Fil () imp. of Fall, v. i. Fell.,
F as in Filaceous (a.) Composed of threads.,
F as in Filacer (n.) A former officer in the English Court of Common Pleas; -- so called because he filed the writs on which he made out process.,
F as in Filament (n.) A thread or threadlike object or appendage; a fiber; esp. (Bot.), the threadlike part of the stamen supporting the anther.,
F as in Filamentary (a.) Having the character of, or formed by, a filament.,
F as in Filametoid (a.) Like a filament.,
F as in Filamentous (a.) Like a thread; consisting of threads or filaments.,
F as in Filander (n.) A species of kangaroo (Macropus Brunii), inhabiting New Guinea.,
F as in Filanders (n. pl.) A disease in hawks, characterized by the presence of small threadlike worms, also of filaments of coagulated blood, from the rupture of a vein; -- called also backworm.,
F as in Filar (a.) Of or pertaining to a thread or line; characterized by threads stretched across the field of view; as, a filar microscope; a filar micrometer.,
F as in Filaria (n.) A genus of slender, nematode worms of many species, parasitic in various animals. See Guinea worm.,
F as in Filatory (n.) A machine for forming threads.,
F as in Filature (n.) A drawing out into threads; hence, the reeling of silk from cocoons.,
F as in Filature (n.) A reel for drawing off silk from cocoons; also, an establishment for reeling silk.,
F as in Filbert (n.) The fruit of the Corylus Avellana or hazel. It is an oval nut, containing a kernel that has a mild, farinaceous, oily taste, agreeable to the palate.,
F as in Filched (imp. & p. p.) of Filch,
F as in Filching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Filch,
F as in Filch (v. t.) To steal or take privily (commonly, that which is of little value); to pilfer.,
F as in Filcher (n.) One who filches; a thief.,
F as in Filchingly (adv.) By pilfering or petty stealing.,
F as in File (n.) An orderly succession; a line; a row,
F as in File (n.) A row of soldiers ranged one behind another; -- in contradistinction to rank, which designates a row of soldiers standing abreast; a number consisting the depth of a body of troops, which, in the ordinary modern formation, consists of two men, the battalion standing two deep, or in two ranks.,
F as in File (n.) An orderly collection of papers, arranged in sequence or classified for preservation and reference; as, files of letters or of newspapers; this mail brings English files to the 15th instant.,
F as in File (n.) The line, wire, or other contrivance, by which papers are put and kept in order.,
F as in File (n.) A roll or list.,
F as in File (n.) Course of thought; thread of narration.,
F as in Filed (imp. & p. p.) of File,
F as in Filing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of File,
F as in File (v. t.) To set in order; to arrange, or lay away, esp. as papers in a methodical manner for preservation and reverence; to place on file; to insert in its proper place in an arranged body of papers.,
F as in File (v. t.) To bring before a court or legislative body by presenting proper papers in a regular way; as, to file a petition or bill.,
F as in File (v. t.) To put upon the files or among the records of a court; to note on (a paper) the fact date of its reception in court.,
F as in File (v. i.) To march in a file or line, as soldiers, not abreast, but one after another; -- generally with off.,
F as in File (n.) A steel instrument, having cutting ridges or teeth, made by indentation with a chisel, used for abrading or smoothing other substances, as metals, wood, etc.,
F as in File (n.) Anything employed to smooth, polish, or rasp, literally or figuratively.,
F as in File (n.) A shrewd or artful person.,
F as in File (v. t.) To rub, smooth, or cut away, with a file; to sharpen with a file; as, to file a saw or a tooth.,
F as in File (v. t.) To smooth or polish as with a file.,
F as in File (v. t.) To make foul; to defile.,
F as in Filefish (n.) Any plectognath fish of the genera Monacanthus, Alutera, balistes, and allied genera; -- so called on account of the roughly granulated skin, which is sometimes used in place of sandpaper.,
F as in Filemot (n.) See Feullemort.,
F as in Filer (n.) One who works with a file.,
F as in Filial (a.) Of or pertaining to a son or daughter; becoming to a child in relation to his parents; as, filial obedience.,
F as in Filial (a.) Bearing the relation of a child.,
F as in Filially (adv.) In a filial manner.,
F as in Filiate (v. t.) To adopt as son or daughter; to establish filiation between.,
F as in Filiation (n.) The relationship of a son or child to a parent, esp. to a father.,
F as in Filiation (n.) The assignment of a bastard child to some one as its father; affiliation.,
F as in Filibeg (n.) Same as Kilt.,
F as in Filibuster (n.) A lawless military adventurer, especially one in quest of plunder; a freebooter; -- originally applied to buccaneers infesting the Spanish American coasts, but introduced into common English to designate the followers of Lopez in his expedition to Cuba in 1851, and those of Walker in his expedition to Nicaragua, in 1855.,
F as in Fillibustered (imp. & p. p.) of Filibuster,
F as in Filibustering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Filibuster,
F as in Filibuster (v. i.) To act as a filibuster, or military freebooter.,
F as in Filibuster (v. i.) To delay legislation, by dilatory motions or other artifices.,
F as in Filibusterism (n.) The characteristics or practices of a filibuster.,
F as in Filical (a.) Belonging to the Filices, r ferns.,
F as in Filicic (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, ferns; as, filicic acid.,
F as in Filicide (n.) The act of murdering a son or a daughter; also, parent who commits such a murder.,
F as in Filiciform (a.) Shaped like a fern or like the parts of a fern leaf.,
F as in Filicoid (a.) Fernlike, either in form or in the nature of the method of reproduction.,
F as in Filicoid (n.) A fernlike plant.,
F as in Filiety (n.) The relation of a son to a father; sonship; -- the correlative of paternity.,
F as in Filiferous (a.) Producing threads.,
F as in Filiform (a.) Having the shape of a thread or filament; as, the filiform papillae of the tongue; a filiform style or peduncle. See Illust. of AntennAe.,
F as in Filigrain (n.) Alt. of Filigrane,
F as in Filigrane (n.) Filigree.,
F as in Filigraned (a.) See Filigreed.,
F as in Filigree (n.) Ornamental work, formerly with grains or breads, but now composed of fine wire and used chiefly in decorating gold and silver to which the wire is soldered, being arranged in designs frequently of a delicate and intricate arabesque pattern.,
F as in Filigree (a.) Relating to, composed of, or resembling, work in filigree; as, a filigree basket. Hence: Fanciful; unsubstantial; merely decorative.,
F as in Filigreed (a.) Adorned with filigree.,
F as in Filing (n.) A fragment or particle rubbed off by the act of filing; as, iron filings.,
F as in Filipendulous (a.) Suspended by, or strung upon, a thread; -- said of tuberous swellings in the middle or at the extremities of slender, threadlike rootlets.,
F as in Fill (n.) One of the thills or shafts of a carriage.,
F as in Filled (imp. & p. p.) of Fill,
F as in Filling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fill,
F as in Fill (a.) To make full; to supply with as much as can be held or contained; to put or pour into, till no more can be received; to occupy the whole capacity of.,
F as in Fill (a.) To furnish an abudant supply to; to furnish with as mush as is desired or desirable; to occupy the whole of; to swarm in or overrun.,
F as in Fill (a.) To fill or supply fully with food; to feed; to satisfy.,
F as in Fill (a.) To possess and perform the duties of; to officiate in, as an incumbent; to occupy; to hold; as, a king fills a throne; the president fills the office of chief magistrate; the speaker of the House fills the chair.,
F as in Fill (a.) To supply with an incumbent; as, to fill an office or a vacancy.,
F as in Fill (a.) To press and dilate, as a sail; as, the wind filled the sails.,
F as in Fill (a.) To trim (a yard) so that the wind shall blow on the after side of the sails.,
F as in Fill (a.) To make an embankment in, or raise the level of (a low place), with earth or gravel.,
F as in Fill (v. i.) To become full; to have the whole capacity occupied; to have an abundant supply; to be satiated; as, corn fills well in a warm season; the sail fills with the wind.,
F as in Fill (v. i.) To fill a cup or glass for drinking.,
F as in Fill (v. t.) A full supply, as much as supplies want; as much as gives complete satisfaction.,
F as in Filler (n.) One who, or that which, fills; something used for filling.,
F as in Filler (n.) A thill horse.,
F as in Fillet (n.) A little band, especially one intended to encircle the hair of the head.,
F as in Fillet (n.) A piece of lean meat without bone; sometimes, a long strip rolled together and tied.,
F as in Fillet (n.) A thin strip or ribbon; esp.: (a) A strip of metal from which coins are punched. (b) A strip of card clothing. (c) A thin projecting band or strip.,
F as in Fillet (n.) A concave filling in of a reentrant angle where two surfaces meet, forming a rounded corner.,
F as in Fillet (n.) A narrow flat member; especially, a flat molding separating other moldings; a reglet; also, the space between two flutings in a shaft. See Illust. of Base, and Column.,
F as in Fillet (n.) An ordinary equaling in breadth one fourth of the chief, to the lowest portion of which it corresponds in position.,
F as in Fillet (n.) The thread of a screw.,
F as in Fillet (n.) A border of broad or narrow lines of color or gilt.,
F as in Fillet (n.) The raised molding about the muzzle of a gun.,
F as in Fillet (n.) Any scantling smaller than a batten.,
F as in Fillet (n.) A fascia; a band of fibers; applied esp. to certain bands of white matter in the brain.,
F as in Fillet (n.) The loins of a horse, beginning at the place where the hinder part of the saddle rests.,
F as in Filleted (imp. & p. p.) of Fillet,
F as in Filleting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fillet,
F as in Fillet (v. t.) To bind, furnish, or adorn with a fillet.,
F as in Filleting (n.) The protecting of a joint, as between roof and parapet wall, with mortar, or cement, where flashing is employed in better work.,
F as in Filleting (n.) The material of which fillets are made; also, fillets, collectively.,
F as in Fillibeg (n.) A kilt. See Filibeg.,
F as in Fillibuster (n.) See Filibuster.,
F as in Filling (n.) That which is used to fill a cavity or any empty space, or to supply a deficiency; as, filling for a cavity in a tooth, a depression in a roadbed, the space between exterior and interior walls of masonry, the pores of open-grained wood, the space between the outer and inner planks of a vessel, etc.,
F as in Filling (n.) The woof in woven fabrics.,
F as in Filling (n.) Prepared wort added to ale to cleanse it.,
F as in Filliped (imp. & p. p.) of Fillip,
F as in Filliping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fillip,
F as in Fillip (v. t.) To strike with the nail of the finger, first placed against the ball of the thumb, and forced from that position with a sudden spring; to snap with the finger.,
F as in Fillip (v. t.) To snap; to project quickly.,
F as in Fillip (n.) A jerk of the finger forced suddenly from the thumb; a smart blow.,
F as in Fillip (n.) Something serving to rouse or excite.,
F as in Fillipeen (n.) See Philopena.,
F as in Fillister (n.) The rabbet on the outer edge of a sash bar to hold the glass and the putty.,
F as in Fillister (n.) A plane for making a rabbet.,
F as in Fillies (pl. ) of Filly,
F as in Filly (n.) A female foal or colt; a young mare. Cf. Colt, Foal.,
F as in Filly (n.) A lively, spirited young girl.,
F as in Film (n.) A thin skin; a pellicle; a membranous covering, causing opacity; hence, any thin, slight covering.,
F as in Film (n.) A slender thread, as that of a cobweb.,
F as in Film (v. t.) To cover with a thin skin or pellicle.,
F as in Filminess (n.) State of being filmy.,
F as in Filmy (a.) Composed of film or films.,
F as in Filoplumaceous (a.) Having the structure of a filoplume.,
F as in Filoplume (n.) A hairlike feather; a father with a slender scape and without a web in most or all of its length.,
F as in Filose (a.) Terminating in a threadlike process.,
F as in Filter (n.) Any porous substance, as cloth, paper, sand, or charcoal, through which water or other liquid may passed to cleanse it from the solid or impure matter held in suspension; a chamber or device containing such substance; a strainer; also, a similar device for purifying air.,
F as in Filtered (imp. & p. p.) of Filter,
F as in Filtering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Filter,
F as in Filter (n.) To purify or defecate, as water or other liquid, by causing it to pass through a filter.,
F as in Filter (v. i.) To pass through a filter; to percolate.,
F as in Filter (n.) Same as Philter.,
F as in Filth (n.) Foul matter; anything that soils or defiles; dirt; nastiness.,
F as in Filth (n.) Anything that sullies or defiles the moral character; corruption; pollution.,
F as in Filthily (adv.) In a filthy manner; foully.,
F as in Filthiness (n.) The state of being filthy.,
F as in Filthiness (n.) That which is filthy, or makes filthy; foulness; nastiness; corruption; pollution; impurity.,
F as in Filthy (superl.) Defiled with filth, whether material or moral; nasty; dirty; polluted; foul; impure; obscene.,
F as in Filtrated (imp. & p. p.) of Filtrate,
F as in Filtrating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Filtrate,
F as in Filtrate (v. t.) To filter; to defecate; as liquid, by straining or percolation.,
F as in Filtrate (n.) That which has been filtered; the liquid which has passed through the filter in the process of filtration.,
F as in Filtration (n.) The act or process of filtering; the mechanical separation of a liquid from the undissolved particles floating in it.,
F as in Finble () Alt. of Fimble hemp,
F as in Fimble hemp () Light summer hemp, that bears no seed.,
F as in Fimbriae (pl. ) of Fimbria,
F as in Fimbria (n.) A fringe, or fringed border.,
F as in Fimbria (n.) A band of white matter bordering the hippocampus in the brain.,
F as in Fimbriate (a.) Having the edge or extremity bordered by filiform processes thicker than hairs; fringed; as, the fimbriate petals of the pink; the fimbriate end of the Fallopian tube.,
F as in Fimbriated (imp. & p. p.) of Fimbriate,
F as in Fimbriating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fimbriate,
F as in Fimbriate (v. t.) To hem; to fringe.,
F as in Fimbriated (a.) Having a fringed border; fimbriate.,
F as in Fimbriated (a.) Having a very narrow border of another tincture; -- said esp. of an ordinary or subordinary.,
F as in Fimbricate (a.) Fringed; jagged; fimbriate.,
F as in Fimbricate (a.) fringed, on one side only, by long, straight hairs, as the antennae of certain insects.,
F as in Finned (imp. & p. p.) of Fin,
F as in Finning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fin,
F as in Fin (v. t.) To carve or cut up, as a chub.,
F as in Fin (n.) End; conclusion; object.,
F as in Fin (n.) An organ of a fish, consisting of a membrane supported by rays, or little bony or cartilaginous ossicles, and serving to balance and propel it in the water.,
F as in Fin (n.) A membranous, finlike, swimming organ, as in pteropod and heteropod mollusks.,
F as in Fin (n.) A finlike organ or attachment; a part of an object or product which protrudes like a fin,
F as in Fin (n.) The hand.,
F as in Fin (n.) A blade of whalebone.,
F as in Fin (n.) A mark or ridge left on a casting at the junction of the parts of a mold.,
F as in Fin (n.) The thin sheet of metal squeezed out between the collars of the rolls in the process of rolling.,
F as in Fin (n.) A feather; a spline.,
F as in Fin (n.) A finlike appendage, as to submarine boats.,
F as in Finable (a.) Liable or subject to a fine; as, a finable person or offense.,
F as in Final (a.) Pertaining to the end or conclusion; last; terminating; ultimate; as, the final day of a school term.,
F as in Final (a.) Conclusive; decisive; as, a final judgment; the battle of Waterloo brought the contest to a final issue.,
F as in Final (a.) Respecting an end or object to be gained; respecting the purpose or ultimate end in view.,
F as in Finale (n.) Close; termination,
F as in Finale (n.) The last movement of a symphony, sonata, concerto, or any instrumental composition.,
F as in Finale (n.) The last composition performed in any act of an opera.,
F as in Finale (n.) The closing part, piece, or scene in any public performance or exhibition.,
F as in Finalities (pl. ) of Finality,
F as in Finality (n.) The state of being final, finished, or complete; a final or conclusive arrangement; a settlement.,
F as in Finality (n.) The relation of end or purpose to its means.,
F as in Finally (adv.) At the end or conclusion; ultimately; lastly; as, the contest was long, but the Romans finally conquered.,
F as in Finally (adv.) Completely; beyond recovery.,
F as in Finance (n.) The income of a ruler or of a state; revennue; public money; sometimes, the income of an individual; often used in the plural for funds; available money; resources.,
F as in Finance (n.) The science of raising and expending the public revenue.,
F as in Financial (a.) Pertaining to finance.,
F as in Financialist (n.) A financier.,
F as in Financially (adv.) In a dfinancial manner.,
F as in Financier (n.) One charged with the administration of finance; an officer who administers the public revenue; a treasurer.,
F as in Financier (n.) One skilled in financial operations; one acquainted with money matters.,
F as in Financiered (imp. & p. p.) of Financier,
F as in Financiering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Financier,
F as in Financier (v. i.) To conduct financial operations.,
F as in Finary (n.) See Finery.,
F as in Finative (a.) Conclusive; decisive; definitive; final.,
F as in Finback (n.) Any whale of the genera Sibbaldius, Balaenoptera, and allied genera, of the family Balaenopteridae, characterized by a prominent fin on the back. The common finbacks of the New England coast are Sibbaldius tectirostris and S. tuberosus.,
F as in Fishes (pl. ) of Finch,
F as in Finch (n.) A small singing bird of many genera and species, belonging to the family Fringillidae.,
F as in Finchbacked (a.) Streaked or spotted on the back; -- said of cattle.,
F as in Finched (a.) Same as Finchbacked.,
F as in Found (imp. & p. p.) of Find,
F as in Finding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Find,
F as in Find (v. t.) To meet with, or light upon, accidentally; to gain the first sight or knowledge of, as of something new, or unknown; hence, to fall in with, as a person.,
F as in Find (v. t.) To learn by experience or trial; to perceive; to experience; to discover by the intellect or the feelings; to detect; to feel.,
F as in Find (v. t.) To come upon by seeking; as, to find something lost.,
F as in Find (v. t.) To discover by sounding; as, to find bottom.,
F as in Find (v. t.) To discover by study or experiment direct to an object or end; as, water is found to be a compound substance.,
F as in Find (v. t.) To gain, as the object of desire or effort; as, to find leisure; to find means.,
F as in Find (v. t.) To attain to; to arrive at; to acquire.,
F as in Find (v. t.) To provide for; to supply; to furnish; as, to find food for workemen; he finds his nephew in money.,
F as in Find (v. t.) To arrive at, as a conclusion; to determine as true; to establish; as, to find a verdict; to find a true bill (of indictment) against an accused person.,
F as in Find (v. i.) To determine an issue of fact, and to declare such a determination to a court; as, the jury find for the plaintiff.,
F as in Find (n.) Anything found; a discovery of anything valuable; especially, a deposit, discovered by archaeologists, of objects of prehistoric or unknown origin.,
F as in Findable (a.) Capable of beong found; discoverable.,
F as in Finder (n.) One who, or that which, finds; specifically (Astron.), a small telescope of low power and large field of view, attached to a larger telescope, for the purpose of finding an object more readily.,
F as in Findfault (n.) A censurer or caviler.,
F as in Findfaulting (a.) Apt to censure or cavil; faultfinding; captious.,
F as in Finding (n.) That which is found, come upon, or provided; esp. (pl.), that which a journeyman artisan finds or provides for himself; as tools, trimmings, etc.,
F as in Finding (n.) Support; maintenance; that which is provided for one; expence; provision.,
F as in Finding (n.) The result of a judicial examination or inquiry, especially into some matter of fact; a verdict; as, the finding of a jury.,
F as in Findy (a.) Full; heavy; firm; solid; substemtial.,
F as in Fine (superl.) Finished; brought to perfection; refined; hence, free from impurity; excellent; superior; elegant; worthy of admiration; accomplished; beautiful.,
F as in Fine (superl.) Aiming at show or effect; loaded with ornament; overdressed or overdecorated; showy.,
F as in Fine (superl.) Nice; delicate; subtle; exquisite; artful; skillful; dexterous.,
F as in Fine (superl.) Not coarse, gross, or heavy,
F as in Fine (superl.) Not gross; subtile; thin; tenous.,
F as in Fine (superl.) Not coarse; comminuted; in small particles; as, fine sand or flour.,
F as in Fine (superl.) Not thick or heavy; slender; filmy; as, a fine thread.,
F as in Fine (superl.) Thin; attenuate; keen; as, a fine edge.,
F as in Fine (superl.) Made of fine materials; light; delicate; as, fine linen or silk.,
F as in Fine (superl.) Having (such) a proportion of pure metal in its composition; as, coins nine tenths fine.,
F as in Fine (superl.) (Used ironically.),
F as in Fined (imp. & p. p.) of Fine,
F as in Fining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fine,
F as in Fine (a.) To make fine; to refine; to purify, to clarify; as, to fine gold.,
F as in Fine (a.) To make finer, or less coarse, as in bulk, texture, etc.; as. to fine the soil.,
F as in Fine (a.) To change by fine gradations; as (Naut.), to fine down a ship's lines, to diminish her lines gradually.,
F as in Fine (n.) End; conclusion; termination; extinction.,
F as in Fine (n.) A sum of money paid as the settlement of a claim, or by way of terminating a matter in dispute; especially, a payment of money imposed upon a party as a punishment for an offense; a mulct.,
F as in Fine (n.) A final agreement concerning lands or rents between persons, as the lord and his vassal.,
F as in Fine (n.) A sum of money or price paid for obtaining a benefit, favor, or privilege, as for admission to a copyhold, or for obtaining or renewing a lease.,
F as in Fine (n.) To impose a pecuniary penalty upon for an offense or breach of law; to set a fine on by judgment of a court; to punish by fine; to mulct; as, the trespassers were fined ten dollars.,
F as in Fine (v. i.) To pay a fine. See Fine, n., 3 (b).,
F as in Fine (v. t.) To finish; to cease; or to cause to cease.,
F as in Finedrawn (imp. & p. p.) of Finedraw,
F as in Finedrawing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Finedraw,
F as in Finedraw (v. t.) To sew up, so nicely that the seam is not perceived; to renter.,
F as in Finedrawer (n.) One who finedraws.,
F as in Finedrawn (a.) Drawn out with too much subtilty; overnice; as, finedrawn speculations.,
F as in Fineer (v. i.) To run in dept by getting goods made up in a way unsuitable for the use of others, and then threatening not to take them except on credit.,
F as in Fineer (v. t.) To veneer.,
F as in Fineless (a.) Endless; boundless.,
F as in Finely (adv.) In a fine or finished manner.,
F as in Fineness (a.) The quality or condition of being fine.,
F as in Fineness (a.) Freedom from foreign matter or alloy; clearness; purity; as, the fineness of liquor.,
F as in Fineness (a.) The proportion of pure silver or gold in jewelry, bullion, or coins.,
F as in Fineness (a.) Keenness or sharpness; as, the fineness of a needle's point, or of the edge of a blade.,
F as in Finer (n.) One who fines or purifies.,
F as in Finery (n.) Fineness; beauty.,
F as in Finery (n.) Ornament; decoration; especially, excecially decoration; showy clothes; jewels.,
F as in Finery (n.) A charcoal hearth or furnace for the conversion of cast iron into wrought iron, or into iron suitable for puddling.,
F as in Finespun (a.) Spun so as to be fine; drawn to a fine thread; attenuated; hence, unsubstantial; visionary; as, finespun theories.,
F as in Finesse (a.) Subtilty of contrivance to gain a point; artifice; stratagem.,
F as in Finesse (a.) The act of finessing. See Finesse, v. i., 2.,
F as in Finessed (imp. & p. p.) of Finesse,
F as in Finessing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Finesse,
F as in Finesse (v. i.) To use artifice or stratagem.,
F as in Finesse (v. i.) To attempt, when second or third player, to make a lower card answer the purpose of a higher, when an intermediate card is out, risking the chance of its being held by the opponent yet to play.,
F as in Finestill (v. t.) To distill, as spirit from molasses or some saccharine preparation.,
F as in Finestiller (n.) One who finestills.,
F as in Finew (n.) Moldiness.,
F as in Finfish (n.) A finback whale.,
F as in Finfish (n.) True fish, as distinguished from shellfish.,
F as in Finfoot (n.) A South American bird (heliornis fulica) allied to the grebes. The name is also applied to several related species of the genus Podica.,
F as in Fin-footed (a.) Having palmate feet.,
F as in Fin-footed (a.) Having lobate toes, as the coot and grebe.,
F as in Finger (n.) One of the five terminating members of the hand; a digit; esp., one of the four extermities of the hand, other than the thumb.,
F as in Finger (n.) Anything that does work of a finger; as, the pointer of a clock, watch, or other registering machine; especially (Mech.) a small projecting rod, wire, or piece, which is brought into contact with an object to effect, direct, or restrain a motion.,
F as in Finger (n.) The breadth of a finger, or the fourth part of the hand; a measure of nearly an inch; also, the length of finger, a measure in domestic use in the United States, of about four and a half inches or one eighth of a yard.,
F as in Finger (n.) Skill in the use of the fingers, as in playing upon a musical instrument.,
F as in Fingered (imp. & p. p.) of Finger,
F as in Fingering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Finger,
F as in Finger (v. t.) To touch with the fingers; to handle; to meddle with.,
F as in Finger (v. t.) To touch lightly; to toy with.,
F as in Finger (v. t.) To perform on an instrument of music.,
F as in Finger (v. t.) To mark the notes of (a piece of music) so as to guide the fingers in playing.,
F as in Finger (v. t.) To take thievishly; to pilfer; to purloin.,
F as in Finger (v. t.) To execute, as any delicate work.,
F as in Finger (v. i.) To use the fingers in playing on an instrument.,
F as in Fingered (a.) Having fingers.,
F as in Fingered (a.) Having leaflets like fingers; digitate.,
F as in Fingered (a.) Marked with figures designating which finger should be used for each note.,
F as in Fingerer (n.) One who fingers; a pilferer.,
F as in Fingering (n.) The act or process of handling or touching with the fingers.,
F as in Fingering (n.) The manner of using the fingers in playing or striking the keys of an instrument of music; movement or management of the fingers in playing on a musical instrument, in typewriting, etc.,
F as in Fingering (n.) The marking of the notes of a piece of music to guide or regulate the action or use of the fingers.,
F as in Fingering (n.) Delicate work made with the fingers.,
F as in Fingerling (n.) A young salmon. See Parr.,
F as in Fingle-fangle (n.) A trifle.,
F as in Fingrigos (pl. ) of Fingrigo,
F as in Fingrigo (n.) A prickly, climbing shrub of the genus Pisonia. The fruit is a kind of berry.,
F as in Finial (n.) The knot or bunch of foliage, or foliated ornament, that forms the upper extremity of a pinnacle in Gothic architecture; sometimes, the pinnacle itself.,
F as in Finical (a.) Affectedly fine; overnice; unduly particular; fastidious.,
F as in Finicality (n.) The quality of being finical; finicalness.,
F as in Finicking (a.) Alt. of Finicky,
F as in Finicky (a.) Finical; unduly particular.,
F as in Finific (n.) A limiting element or quality.,
F as in Finify (a.) To make fine; to dress finically.,
F as in Finikin (a.) Precise in trifles; idly busy.,
F as in Fining (n.) The act of imposing a fin/.,
F as in Fining (n.) The process of fining or refining; clarification; also (Metal.), the conversion of cast iron into suitable for puddling, in a hearth or charcoal fire.,
F as in Fining (n.) That which is used to refine; especially, a preparation of isinglass, gelatin, etc., for clarifying beer.,
F as in Finis (n.) An end; conclusion. It is often placed at the end of a book.,
F as in Finished (imp. & p. p.) of Finish,
F as in Finishing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Finish,
F as in Finish (v. t.) To arrive at the end of; to bring to an end; to put an end to; to make an end of; to terminate.,
F as in Finish (v. t.) To bestow the last required labor upon; to complete; to bestow the utmost possible labor upon; to perfect; to accomplish; to polish.,
F as in Finish (v. i.) To come to an end; to terminate.,
F as in Finish (v. i.) To end; to die.,
F as in Finish (n.) That which finishes, puts an end to/ or perfects.,
F as in Finish (n.) The joiner work and other finer work required for the completion of a building, especially of the interior. See Inside finish, and Outside finish.,
F as in Finish (n.) The labor required to give final completion to any work; hence, minute detail, careful elaboration, or the like.,
F as in Finish (n.) See Finishing coat, under Finishing.,
F as in Finish (n.) The result of completed labor, as on the surface of an object; manner or style of finishing; as, a rough, dead, or glossy finish given to cloth, stone, metal, etc.,
F as in Finish (n.) Completion; -- opposed to start, or beginning.,
F as in Finished (a.) Polished to the highest degree of excellence; complete; perfect; as, a finished poem; a finished education.,
F as in Finisher (n.) One who finishes, puts an end to, completes, or perfects; esp. used in the trades, as in hatting, weaving, etc., for the workman who gives a finishing touch to the work, or any part of it, and brings it to perfection.,
F as in Finisher (n.) Something that gives the finishing touch to, or settles, anything.,
F as in Finishing (n.) The act or process of completing or perfecting; the final work upon or ornamentation of a thing.,
F as in Finishing (a.) Tending to complete or to render fit for the market or for use.,
F as in Finite (a.) Having a limit; limited in quantity, degree, or capacity; bounded; -- opposed to infinite; as, finite number; finite existence; a finite being; a finite mind; finite duration.,
F as in Finiteless (a.) Infinite.,
F as in Finitely (adv.) In a finite manner or degree.,
F as in Finiteness (n.) The state of being finite.,
F as in Finitude (n.) Limitation.,
F as in Finlander (n.) A native or inhabitant of Finland.,
F as in Finless (a.) destitute of fins.,
F as in Finlet (n.) A little fin; one of the parts of a divided fin.,
F as in Finlike (a.) Resembling a fin.,
F as in Finn (a.) A native of Finland; one of the Finn/ in the ethnological sense. See Finns.,
F as in Finnan haddie () Haddock cured in peat smoke, originally at Findon (pron. fin"an), Scotland. the name is also applied to other kinds of smoked haddock.,
F as in Finned (a.) Having a fin, or fins, or anything resembling a fin.,
F as in Finner (n.) A finback whale.,
F as in Finnic (a.) Of or pertaining to the Finns.,
F as in Finnikin (n.) A variety of pigeon, with a crest somewhat resembling the mane of a horse.,
F as in Finnish (a.) Of or pertaining to Finland, to the Finns, or to their language.,
F as in Finnish (n.) A Northern Turanian group of languages; the language of the Finns.,
F as in Finns (n. pl.) Natives of Finland; Finlanders.,
F as in Finns (n. pl.) A branch of the Mongolian race, inhabiting Northern and Eastern Europe, including the Magyars, Bulgarians, Permians, Lapps, and Finlanders.,
F as in Finny (a.) Having, or abounding in, fins, as fishes; pertaining to fishes.,
F as in Finny (a.) Abounding in fishes.,
F as in Finochio (n.) An umbelliferous plant (Foeniculum dulce) having a somewhat tuberous stem; sweet fennel. The blanched stems are used in France and Italy as a culinary vegetable.,
F as in Finos (n. pl.) Second best wool from Merino sheep.,
F as in Finpike (n.) The bichir. See Crossopterygii.,
F as in Fint () 3d pers. sing. pr. of Find, for findeth.,
F as in Fin-toed (a.) Having toes connected by a membrane; palmiped; palmated; also, lobate.,
F as in Fiord (n.) A narrow inlet of the sea, penetrating between high banks or rocks, as on the coasts of Norway and Alaska.,
F as in Fiorin (n.) A species of creeping bent grass (Agrostis alba); -- called also fiorin grass.,
F as in Fiorite (n.) A variety of opal occuring in the cavities of volcanic tufa, in smooth and shining globular and botryoidal masses, having a pearly luster; -- so called from Fiora, in Ischia.,
F as in Fioriture (n. pl.) Little flowers of ornament introduced into a melody by a singer or player.,
F as in Fippenny bit () The Spanish half real, or one sixteenth of a dollar, -- so called in Pennsylvania and the adjacent States.,
F as in Fipple (n.) A stopper, as in a wind instrument of music.,
F as in Fir (n.) A genus (Abies) of coniferous trees, often of large size and elegant shape, some of them valued for their timber and others for their resin. The species are distinguished as the balsam fir, the silver fir, the red fir, etc. The Scotch fir is a Pinus.,
F as in Fire (n.) The evolution of light and heat in the combustion of bodies; combustion; state of ignition.,
F as in Fire (n.) Fuel in a state of combustion, as on a hearth, or in a stove or a furnace.,
F as in Fire (n.) The burning of a house or town; a conflagration.,
F as in Fire (n.) Anything which destroys or affects like fire.,
F as in Fire (n.) Ardor of passion, whether love or hate; excessive warmth; consuming violence of temper.,
F as in Fire (n.) Liveliness of imagination or fancy; intellectual and moral enthusiasm; capacity for ardor and zeal.,
F as in Fire (n.) Splendor; brilliancy; luster; hence, a star.,
F as in Fire (n.) Torture by burning; severe trial or affliction.,
F as in Fire (n.) The discharge of firearms; firing; as, the troops were exposed to a heavy fire.,
F as in Fired (imp. & p. p.) of Fire,
F as in Fring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fire,
F as in Fire (v. t.) To set on fire; to kindle; as, to fire a house or chimney; to fire a pile.,
F as in Fire (v. t.) To subject to intense heat; to bake; to burn in a kiln; as, to fire pottery.,
F as in Fire (v. t.) To inflame; to irritate, as the passions; as, to fire the soul with anger, pride, or revenge.,
F as in Fire (v. t.) To animate; to give life or spirit to; as, to fire the genius of a young man.,
F as in Fire (v. t.) To feed or serve the fire of; as, to fire a boiler.,
F as in Fire (v. t.) To light up as if by fire; to illuminate.,
F as in Fire (v. t.) To cause to explode; as, to fire a torpedo; to disharge; as, to fire a musket or cannon; to fire cannon balls, rockets, etc.,
F as in Fire (v. t.) To drive by fire.,
F as in Fire (v. t.) To cauterize.,
F as in Fire (v. i.) To take fire; to be kindled; to kindle.,
F as in Fire (v. i.) To be irritated or inflamed with passion.,
F as in Fire (v. i.) To discharge artillery or firearms; as, they fired on the town.,
F as in Firearm (n.) A gun, pistol, or any weapon from a shot is discharged by the force of an explosive substance, as gunpowder.,
F as in Fireback (n.) One of several species of pheasants of the genus Euplocamus, having the lower back a bright, fiery red. They inhabit Southern Asia and the East Indies.,
F as in Fireball (n.) A ball filled with powder or other combustibles, intended to be thrown among enemies, and to injure by explosion; also, to set fire to their works and light them up, so that movements may be seen.,
F as in Fireball (n.) A luminous meteor, resembling a ball of fire passing rapidly through the air, and sometimes exploding.,
F as in Firebare (n.) A beacon.,
F as in Fire beetle () A very brilliantly luminous beetle (Pyrophorus noctilucus), one of the elaters, found in Central and South America; -- called also cucujo. The name is also applied to other species. See Firefly.,
F as in Firebird (n.) The Baltimore oriole.,
F as in Fireboard (n.) A chimney board or screen to close a fireplace when not in use.,
F as in Firebote (n.) An allowance of fuel. See Bote.,
F as in Firebrand (n.) A piece of burning wood.,
F as in Firebrand (n.) One who inflames factions, or causes contention and mischief; an incendiary.,
F as in Firecracker (n.) See Cracker., n., 3.,
F as in Firecrest (n.) A small European kinglet (Regulus ignicapillus), having a bright red crest; -- called also fire-crested wren.,
F as in Firedog (n.) A support for wood in a fireplace; an andiron.,
F as in Firedrake (n.) A fiery dragon.,
F as in Firedrake (n.) A fiery meteor; an ignis fatuus; a rocket.,
F as in Firedrake (n.) A worker at a furnace or fire.,
F as in Fire-fanged (a.) Injured as by fire; burned; -- said of manure which has lost its goodness and acquired an ashy hue in consequence of heat generated by decomposition.,
F as in Firefish (n.) A singular marine fish of the genus Pterois, family Scorpaenidae, of several species, inhabiting the Indo-Pacific region. They are usually red, and have very large spinose pectoral and dorsal fins.,
F as in Fireflaire (n.) A European sting ray of the genus Trygon (T. pastinaca); -- called also fireflare and fiery flaw.,
F as in Fireflame (n.) The European band fish (Cepola rubescens).,
F as in Fireflies (pl. ) of Firefly,
F as in Firefly (n.) Any luminous winged insect, esp. luminous beetles of the family Lampyridae.,
F as in Fireless (a.) Destitute of fire.,
F as in Firelock (n.) An old form of gunlock, as the flintlock, which ignites the priming by a spark; perhaps originally, a matchlock. Hence, a gun having such a lock.,
F as in Firemen (pl. ) of Fireman,
F as in Fireman (n.) A man whose business is to extinguish fires in towns; a member of a fire company.,
F as in Fireman (n.) A man who tends the fires, as of a steam engine; a stocker.,
F as in Fire-new (a.) Fresh from the forge; bright; quite new; brand-new.,
F as in Fireplace (n.) The part a chimney appropriated to the fire; a hearth; -- usually an open recess in a wall, in which a fire may be built.,
F as in Fireproof (a.) Proof against fire; incombustible.,
F as in Fireprrofing (n.) The act or process of rendering anything incombustible; also, the materials used in the process.,
F as in Firer (n.) One who fires or sets fire to anything; an incendiary.,
F as in Fire-set (n.) A set of fire irons, including, commonly, tongs, shovel, and poker.,
F as in Fireside (n.) A place near the fire or hearth; home; domestic life or retirement.,
F as in Firestone (n.) Iron pyrites, formerly used for striking fire; also, a flint.,
F as in Firestone (n.) A stone which will bear the heat of a furnace without injury; -- especially applied to the sandstone at the top of the upper greensand in the south of England, used for lining kilns and furnaces.,
F as in Firetail (n.) The European redstart; -- called also fireflirt.,
F as in Firewarden (n.) An officer who has authority to direct in the extinguishing of fires, or to order what precautions shall be taken against fires; -- called also fireward.,
F as in Fireweed (n.) An American plant (Erechthites hiercifolia), very troublesome in spots where brushwood has been burned.,
F as in Fireweed (n.) The great willow-herb (Epilobium spicatum).,
F as in Firewood (n.) Wood for fuel.,
F as in Firework (n.) A device for producing a striking display of light, or a figure or figures in plain or colored fire, by the combustion of materials that burn in some peculiar manner, as gunpowder, sulphur, metallic filings, and various salts. The most common feature of fireworks is a paper or pasteboard tube filled with the combustible material. A number of these tubes or cases are often combined so as to make, when kindled, a great variety of figures in fire, often variously colored. The skyrocket is a common form of firework. The name is also given to various combustible preparations used in war.,
F as in Firework (n.) A pyrotechnic exhibition.,
F as in Fireworm (n.) The larva of a small tortricid moth which eats the leaves of the cranberry, so that the vines look as if burned; -- called also cranberry worm.,
F as in Firing (n.) The act of disharging firearms.,
F as in Firing (n.) The mode of introducing fuel into the furnace and working it.,
F as in Firing (n.) The application of fire, or of a cautery.,
F as in Firing (n.) The process of partly vitrifying pottery by exposing it to intense heat in a kiln.,
F as in Firing (n.) Fuel; firewood or coal.,
F as in Firk (v. t.) To beat; to strike; to chastise.,
F as in Firk (v. i.) To fly out; to turn out; to go off.,
F as in Firk (n.) A freak; trick; quirk.,
F as in Firkin (n.) A varying measure of capacity, usually being the fourth part of a barrel; specifically, a measure equal to nine imperial gallons.,
F as in Firkin (n.) A small wooden vessel or cask of indeterminate size, -- used for butter, lard, etc.,
F as in Firlot (n.) A dry measure formerly used in Scotland; the fourth part of a boll of grain or meal. The Linlithgow wheat firlot was to the imperial bushel as 998 to 1000; the barley firlot as 1456 to 1000.,
F as in Firm (superl.) Fixed; hence, closely compressed; compact; substantial; hard; solid; -- applied to the matter of bodies; as, firm flesh; firm muscles, firm wood.,
F as in Firm (superl.) Not easily excited or disturbed; unchanging in purpose; fixed; steady; constant; stable; unshaken; not easily changed in feelings or will; strong; as, a firm believer; a firm friend; a firm adherent.,
F as in Firm (superl.) Solid; -- opposed to fluid; as, firm land.,
F as in Firm (superl.) Indicating firmness; as, a firm tread; a firm countenance.,
F as in Firm (a.) The name, title, or style, under which a company transacts business; a partnership of two or more persons; a commercial house; as, the firm of Hope & Co.,
F as in Firm (a.) To fix; to settle; to confirm; to establish.,
F as in Firm (a.) To fix or direct with firmness.,
F as in Firmament (v. & a.) Fixed foundation; established basis.,
F as in Firmament (v. & a.) The region of the air; the sky or heavens.,
F as in Firmament (v. & a.) The orb of the fixed stars; the most rmote of the celestial spheres.,
F as in Firmamental (a.) Pertaining to the firmament; celestial; being of the upper regions.,
F as in Firmans (pl. ) of Firman,
F as in Firman (n.) In Turkey and some other Oriental countries, a decree or mandate issued by the sovereign; a royal order or grant; -- generally given for special objects, as to a traveler to insure him protection and assistance.,
F as in Firmer-chisel (n.) A chisel, thin in proportion to its width. It has a tang to enter the handle instead of a socket for receiving it.,
F as in Firmitude (n.) Strength; stability.,
F as in Firmity (n.) Strength; firmness; stability.,
F as in Firmless (a.) Detached from substance.,
F as in Firmless (a.) Infirm; unstable.,
F as in Firmly (adv.) In a firm manner.,
F as in Firmness (n.) The state or quality of being firm.,
F as in Firms (a.) The principal rafters of a roof, especially a pair of rafters taken together.,
F as in Firring (n.) See Furring.,
F as in Firry (a.) Made of fir; abounding in firs.,
F as in First (a.) Preceding all others of a series or kind; the ordinal of one; earliest; as, the first day of a month; the first year of a reign.,
F as in First (a.) Foremost; in front of, or in advance of, all others.,
F as in First (a.) Most eminent or exalted; most excellent; chief; highest; as, Demosthenes was the first orator of Greece.,
F as in First (adv.) Before any other person or thing in time, space, rank, etc.; -- much used in composition with adjectives and participles.,
F as in First (n.) The upper part of a duet, trio, etc., either vocal or instrumental; -- so called because it generally expresses the air, and has a preeminence in the combined effect.,
F as in Firstborn (a.) First brought forth; first in the order of nativity; eldest; hence, most excellent; most distinguished or exalted.,
F as in First-class (a.) Of the best class; of the highest rank; in the first division; of the best quality; first-rate; as, a first-class telescope.,
F as in First-hand (a.) Obtained directly from the first or original source; hence, without the intervention of an agent.,
F as in Firstling (n.) The first produce or offspring; -- said of animals, especially domestic animals; as, the firstlings of his flock.,
F as in Firstling (n.) The thing first thought or done.,
F as in Firstling (a.) Firstborn.,
F as in Firstly (adv.) In the first place; before anything else; -- sometimes improperly used for first.,
F as in First-rate (a.) Of the highest excellence; preeminent in quality, size, or estimation.,
F as in First-rate (n.) A war vessel of the highest grade or the most powerful class.,
F as in Firth (n.) An arm of the sea; a frith.,
F as in Fir tree () See Fir.,
F as in Fisc (n.) A public or state treasury.,
F as in Fiscal (a.) Pertaining to the public treasury or revenue.,
F as in Fiscal (n.) The income of a prince or a state; revenue; exhequer.,
F as in Fiscal (n.) A treasurer.,
F as in Fiscal (n.) A public officer in Scotland who prosecutes in petty criminal cases; -- called also procurator fiscal.,
F as in Fiscal (n.) The solicitor in Spain and Portugal; the attorney-general.,
F as in Fisetic (a.) Pertaining to fustet or fisetin.,
F as in Fisetin (n.) A yellow crystalline substance extracted from fustet, and regarded as its essential coloring principle; -- called also fisetic acid.,
F as in Fish (n.) A counter, used in various games.,
F as in Fishes (pl. ) of Fish,
F as in Fish (pl. ) of Fish,
F as in Fish (n.) A name loosely applied in popular usage to many animals of diverse characteristics, living in the water.,
F as in Fish (n.) An oviparous, vertebrate animal usually having fins and a covering scales or plates. It breathes by means of gills, and lives almost entirely in the water. See Pisces.,
F as in Fish (n.) The twelfth sign of the zodiac; Pisces.,
F as in Fish (n.) The flesh of fish, used as food.,
F as in Fish (n.) A purchase used to fish the anchor.,
F as in Fish (n.) A piece of timber, somewhat in the form of a fish, used to strengthen a mast or yard.,
F as in Fished (imp. & p. p.) of Fish,
F as in Fishing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fish,
F as in Fish (v. i.) To attempt to catch fish; to be employed in taking fish, by any means, as by angling or drawing a net.,
F as in Fish (v. i.) To seek to obtain by artifice, or indirectly to seek to draw forth; as, to fish for compliments.,
F as in Fish (v. t.) To catch; to draw out or up; as, to fish up an anchor.,
F as in Fish (v. t.) To search by raking or sweeping.,
F as in Fish (v. t.) To try with a fishing rod; to catch fish in; as, to fish a stream.,
F as in Fish (v. t.) To strengthen (a beam, mast, etc.), or unite end to end (two timbers, railroad rails, etc.) by bolting a plank, timber, or plate to the beam, mast, or timbers, lengthwise on one or both sides. See Fish joint, under Fish, n.,
F as in Fish-bellied (a.) Bellying or swelling out on the under side; as, a fish-bellied rail.,
F as in Fish-block (n.) See Fish-tackle.,
F as in Fisher (n.) One who fishes.,
F as in Fisher (n.) A carnivorous animal of the Weasel family (Mustela Canadensis); the pekan; the "black cat.",
F as in Fishermen (pl. ) of Fisherman,
F as in Fisherman (n.) One whose occupation is to catch fish.,
F as in Fisherman (n.) A ship or vessel employed in the business of taking fish, as in the cod fishery.,
F as in Fisheries (pl. ) of Fishery,
F as in Fishery (n.) The business or practice of catching fish; fishing.,
F as in Fishery (n.) A place for catching fish.,
F as in Fishery (n.) The right to take fish at a certain place, or in particular waters.,
F as in Fishful (a.) Abounding with fish.,
F as in Fishgig (n.) A spear with barbed prongs used for harpooning fish.,
F as in Fishhawk (n.) The osprey (Pandion haliaetus), found both in Europe and America; -- so called because it plunges into the water and seizes fishes in its talons. Called also fishing eagle, and bald buzzard.,
F as in Fishhook (n.) A hook for catching fish.,
F as in Fishhook (n.) A hook with a pendant, to the end of which the fish-tackle is hooked.,
F as in Fishify (v. t.) To change to fish.,
F as in Fishiness (n.) The state or quality of being fishy or fishlike.,
F as in Fishing (n.) The act, practice, or art of one who fishes.,
F as in Fishing (n.) A fishery.,
F as in Fishing (n.) Pertaining to fishing; used in fishery; engaged in fishing; as, fishing boat; fishing tackle; fishing village.,
F as in Fishlike (a.) Like fish; suggestive of fish; having some of the qualities of fish.,
F as in Fishmonger (n.) A dealer in fish.,
F as in Fishskin (n.) The skin of a fish (dog fish, shark, etc.),
F as in Fishskin (n.) See Ichthyosis.,
F as in Fish-tackle (n.) A tackle or purchase used to raise the flukes of the anchor up to the gunwale. The block used is called the fish-block.,
F as in Fish-tail (a.) Like the of a fish; acting, or producing something, like the tail of a fish.,
F as in Fishwife (n.) A fishwoman.,
F as in Fishwomen (pl. ) of Fishwoman,
F as in Fishwoman (n.) A woman who retails fish.,
F as in Fishy (a.) Consisting of fish; fishlike; having the qualities or taste of fish; abounding in fish.,
F as in Fishy (a.) Extravagant, like some stories about catching fish; improbable; also, rank or foul.,
F as in Fisk (v. i.) To run about; to frisk; to whisk.,
F as in Fissigemmation (n.) A process of reproduction intermediate between fission and gemmation.,
F as in Fissile (a.) Capable of being split, cleft, or divided in the direction of the grain, like wood, or along natural planes of cleavage, like crystals.,
F as in Fissilingual (a.) Having the tongue forked.,
F as in Fissilinguia (n. pl.) A group of Lacertilia having the tongue forked, including the common lizards.,
F as in Fissility (n.) Quality of being fissile.,
F as in Fission (n.) A cleaving, splitting, or breaking up into parts.,
F as in Fission (n.) A method of asexual reproduction among the lowest (unicellular) organisms by means of a process of self-division, consisting of gradual division or cleavage of the into two parts, each of which then becomes a separate and independent organisms; as when a cell in an animal or plant, or its germ, undergoes a spontaneous division, and the parts again subdivide. See Segmentation, and Cell division, under Division.,
F as in Fission (n.) A process by which certain coral polyps, echinoderms, annelids, etc., spontaneously subdivide, each individual thus forming two or more new ones. See Strobilation.,
F as in Fissipalmate (a.) Semipalmate and loboped, as a grebe's foot. See Illust. under Aves.,
F as in Fissipara (n. pl.) Animals which reproduce by fission.,
F as in Fissiparism (n.) Reproduction by spontaneous fission.,
F as in Fissiparity (n.) Quality of being fissiparous; fissiparism.,
F as in Fissiparous (a.) Reproducing by spontaneous fission. See Fission.,
F as in Fissipation (n.) Reproduction by fission; fissiparism.,
F as in Fissiped (a.) Alt. of Fissipedal,
F as in Fissipedal (a.) Having the toes separated to the base. [See Aves.],
F as in Fissiped (n.) One of the Fissipedia.,
F as in Fissipedia (n. pl.) A division of the Carnivora, including the dogs, cats, and bears, in which the feet are not webbed; -- opposed to Pinnipedia.,
F as in Fissirostral (a.) Having the bill cleft beyond the horny part, as in the case of swallows and goatsuckers.,
F as in Fissirostres (n. pl.) A group of birds having the bill deeply cleft.,
F as in Fissural (a.) Pertaining to a fissure or fissures; as, the fissural pattern of a brain.,
F as in Fissuration (n.) The act of dividing or opening; the state of being fissured.,
F as in Fissure (n.) A narrow opening, made by the parting of any substance; a cleft; as, the fissure of a rock.,
F as in Fissure (v. t.) To cleave; to divide; to crack or fracture.,
F as in Fissurella (n.) A genus of marine gastropod mollusks, having a conical or limpetlike shell, with an opening at the apex; -- called also keyhole limpet.,
F as in Fist (n.) The hand with the fingers doubled into the palm; the closed hand, especially as clinched tightly for the purpose of striking a blow.,
F as in Fist (n.) The talons of a bird of prey.,
F as in Fist (n.) the index mark [/], used to direct special attention to the passage which follows.,
F as in Fisted (imp. & p. p.) of Fist,
F as in Fisting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fist,
F as in Fist (v. t.) To strike with the fist.,
F as in Fist (v. t.) To gripe with the fist.,
F as in Fistic (a.) Pertaining to boxing, or to encounters with the fists; puglistic; as, fistic exploits; fistic heroes.,
F as in Fisticuff (n.) A cuff or blow with the fist or hand,
F as in Fisticuff (n.) a fight with the fists; boxing.,
F as in Fistinut (n.) A pistachio nut.,
F as in Fistuca (n.) An instrument used by the ancients in driving piles.,
F as in Fistulae (pl. ) of Fistula,
F as in Fistula (n.) A reed; a pipe.,
F as in Fistula (n.) A pipe for convejing water.,
F as in Fistula (n.) A permanent abnormal opening into the soft parts with a constant discharge; a deep, narrow, chronic abscess; an abnormal opening between an internal cavity and another cavity or the surface; as, a salivary fistula; an anal fistula; a recto-vaginal fistula.,
F as in Fistular (a.) Hollow and cylindrical, like a pipe or reed.,
F as in Fistularia (n.) A genus of fishes, having the head prolonged into a tube, with the mouth at the extremity.,
F as in Fistularioid (a.) Like or pertaining to the genus Fistularia.,
F as in Fistulate (v. t. & i.) To make hollow or become hollow like a fistula, or pipe.,
F as in Fistule (n.) A fistula.,
F as in Fistuliform (a.) Of a fistular form; tubular; pipe-shaped.,
F as in Fistulose (a.) Formed like a fistula; hollow; reedlike.,
F as in Fistulous (a.) Having the form or nature of a fistula; as, a fistulous ulcer.,
F as in Fistulous (a.) Hollow, like a pipe or reed; fistulose.,
F as in Fit () imp. & p. p. of Fight.,
F as in Fit (n.) In Old English, a song; a strain; a canto or portion of a ballad; a passus.,
F as in Fit (superl.) Adapted to an end, object, or design; suitable by nature or by art; suited by character, qualitties, circumstances, education, etc.; qualified; competent; worthy.,
F as in Fit (superl.) Prepared; ready.,
F as in Fit (superl.) Conformed to a standart of duty, properiety, or taste; convenient; meet; becoming; proper.,
F as in Fitted (imp. & p. p.) of Fit,
F as in Fitting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fit,
F as in Fit (v. t.) To make fit or suitable; to adapt to the purpose intended; to qualify; to put into a condition of readiness or preparation.,
F as in Fit (v. t.) To bring to a required form and size; to shape aright; to adapt to a model; to adjust; -- said especially of the work of a carpenter, machinist, tailor, etc.,
F as in Fit (v. t.) To supply with something that is suitable or fit, or that is shaped and adjusted to the use required.,
F as in Fit (v. t.) To be suitable to; to answer the requirements of; to be correctly shaped and adjusted to; as, if the coat fits you, put it on.,
F as in Fit (v. i.) To be proper or becoming.,
F as in Fit (v. i.) To be adjusted to a particular shape or size; to suit; to be adapted; as, his coat fits very well.,
F as in Fit (n.) The quality of being fit; adjustment; adaptedness; as of dress to the person of the wearer.,
F as in Fit (n.) The coincidence of parts that come in contact.,
F as in Fit (n.) The part of an object upon which anything fits tightly.,
F as in Fit (n.) A stroke or blow.,
F as in Fit (n.) A sudden and violent attack of a disorder; a stroke of disease, as of epilepsy or apoplexy, which produces convulsions or unconsciousness; a convulsion; a paroxysm; hence, a period of exacerbation of a disease; in general, an attack of disease; as, a fit of sickness.,
F as in Fit (n.) A mood of any kind which masters or possesses one for a time; a temporary, absorbing affection; a paroxysm; as, a fit melancholy, of passion, or of laughter.,
F as in Fit (n.) A passing humor; a caprice; a sudden and unusual effort, activity, or motion, followed by relaxation or insction; an impulse and irregular action.,
F as in Fit (n.) A darting point; a sudden emission.,
F as in Fitches (pl. ) of Fitch,
F as in Fitch (n.) A vetch.,
F as in Fitch (n.) A word found in the Authorized Version of the Bible, representing different Hebrew originals. In Isaiah xxviii. 25, 27, it means the black aromatic seeds of Nigella sativa, still used as a flavoring in the East. In Ezekiel iv. 9, the Revised Version now reads spelt.,
F as in Fitch (n.) The European polecat; also, its fur.,
F as in Fitche (a.) Sharpened to a point; pointed.,
F as in Fitched (a.) Fitche.,
F as in Fitchet (n.) Alt. of Fitchew,
F as in Fitchew (n.) The European polecat (Putorius foetidus). See Polecat.,
F as in Fitchy (a.) Having fitches or vetches.,
F as in Fitchy (a.) Fitche.,
F as in Fitful (a.) Full of fits; irregularly variable; impulsive and unstable.,
F as in Fithel (n.) Alt. of Fithul,
F as in Fithul (n.) A fiddle.,
F as in Fitly (adv.) In a fit manner; suitably; properly; conveniently; as, a maxim fitly applied.,
F as in Fitment (n.) The act of fitting; that which is proper or becoming; equipment.,
F as in Fitness (n.) The state or quality of being fit; as, the fitness of measures or laws; a person's fitness for office.,
F as in Fitt (n.) See 2d Fit.,
F as in Fittable (a.) Suitable; fit.,
F as in Fittedness (n.) The state or quality of being fitted; adaptation.,
F as in Fitter (n.) One who fits or makes to fit;,
F as in Fitter (n.) One who tries on, and adjusts, articles of dress.,
F as in Fitter (n.) One who fits or adjusts the different parts of machinery to each other.,
F as in Fitter (n.) A coal broker who conducts the sales between the owner of a coal pit and the shipper.,
F as in Fitter (n.) A little piece; a flitter; a flinder.,
F as in Fitting (n.) Anything used in fitting up,
F as in Fitting (n.) necessary fixtures or apparatus; as, the fittings of a church or study; gas fittings.,
F as in Fitting (a.) Fit; appropriate; suitable; proper.,
F as in Fitweed (n.) A plant (Eryngium foetidum) supposed to be a remedy for fits.,
F as in Fitz (n.) A son; -- used in compound names, to indicate paternity, esp. of the illegitimate sons of kings and princes of the blood; as, Fitzroy, the son of the king; Fitzclarence, the son of the duke of Clarence.,
F as in Five (a.) Four and one added; one more than four.,
F as in Five (n.) The number next greater than four, and less than six; five units or objects.,
F as in Five (n.) A symbol representing this number, as 5, or V.,
F as in Five-finger (n.) See Cinquefoil.,
F as in Five-finger (n.) A starfish with five rays, esp. Asterias rubens.,
F as in Fivefold (a. & adv.) In fives; consisting of five in one; five repeated; quintuple.,
F as in Five-leaf (n.) Cinquefoil; five-finger.,
F as in Five-leafed (a.) Alt. of Five-leaved,
F as in Five-leaved (a.) Having five leaflets, as the Virginia creeper.,
F as in Fiveling (n.) A compound or twin crystal consisting of five individuals.,
F as in Fives (n. pl.) A kind of play with a ball against a wall, resembling tennis; -- so named because three fives, or fifteen, are counted to the game.,
F as in Fives (n.) A disease of the glands under the ear in horses; the vives.,
F as in Five-twenties (n. pl.) Five-twenty bonds of the United States (bearing six per cent interest), issued in 1862, '64, and '65, redeemable after five and payable in twenty years.,
F as in Fix (a.) Fixed; solidified.,
F as in Fixed (imp. & p. p.) of Fix,
F as in Fixing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fix,
F as in Fix (v. t.) To make firm, stable, or fast; to set or place permanently; to fasten immovably; to establish; to implant; to secure; to make definite.,
F as in Fix (v. t.) To hold steadily; to direct unwaveringly; to fasten, as the eye on an object, the attention on a speaker.,
F as in Fix (v. t.) To transfix; to pierce.,
F as in Fix (v. t.) To render (an impression) permanent by treating with such applications as will make it insensible to the action of light.,
F as in Fix (v. t.) To put in order; to arrange; to dispose of; to adjust; to set to rights; to set or place in the manner desired or most suitable; hence, to repair; as, to fix the clothes; to fix the furniture of a room.,
F as in Fix (v. t.) To line the hearth of (a puddling furnace) with fettling.,
F as in Fix (v. i.) To become fixed; to settle or remain permanently; to cease from wandering; to rest.,
F as in Fix (v. i.) To become firm, so as to resist volatilization; to cease to flow or be fluid; to congeal; to become hard and malleable, as a metallic substance.,
F as in Fix (n.) A position of difficulty or embarassment; predicament; dilemma.,
F as in Fix (n.) fettling.,
F as in Fixable (a.) Capable of being fixed.,
F as in Fixation (n.) The act of fixing, or the state of being fixed.,
F as in Fixation (n.) The act of uniting chemically with a solid substance or in a solid form; reduction to a non-volatile condition; -- said of gaseous elements.,
F as in Fixation (n.) The act or process of ceasing to be fluid and becoming firm.,
F as in Fixation (n.) A state of resistance to evaporation or volatilization by heat; -- said of metals.,
F as in Fixative (n.) That which serves to set or fix colors or drawings, as a mordant.,
F as in Fixed (a.) Securely placed or fastened; settled; established; firm; imovable; unalterable.,
F as in Fixed (a.) Stable; non-volatile.,
F as in Fixedly (adv.) In a fixed, stable, or constant manner.,
F as in Fixedness (n.) The state or quality of being fixed; stability; steadfastness.,
F as in Fixedness (n.) The quality of a body which resists evaporation or volatilization by heat; solidity; cohesion of parts; as, the fixedness of gold.,
F as in Fixidity (n.) Fixedness.,
F as in Fixing (n.) The act or process of making fixed.,
F as in Fixing (n.) That which is fixed; a fixture.,
F as in Fixing (n.) Arrangements; embellishments; trimmings; accompaniments.,
F as in Fixity (n.) Fixedness; as, fixity of tenure; also, that which is fixed.,
F as in Fixity (n.) Coherence of parts.,
F as in Fixture (n.) That which is fixed or attached to something as a permanent appendage; as, the fixtures of a pump; the fixtures of a farm or of a dwelling, that is, the articles which a tenant may not take away.,
F as in Fixture (n.) State of being fixed; fixedness.,
F as in Fixture (n.) Anything of an accessory character annexed to houses and lands, so as to constitute a part of them. This term is, however, quite frequently used in the peculiar sense of personal chattels annexed to lands and tenements, but removable by the person annexing them, or his personal representatives. In this latter sense, the same things may be fixtures under some circumstances, and not fixtures under others.,
F as in Fixure (n.) Fixed position; stable condition; firmness.,
F as in Fizgig (n.) A fishgig.,
F as in Fizgig (n.) A firework, made of damp powder, which makes a fizzing or hissing noise when it explodes.,
F as in Fizgig (n.) A gadding, flirting girl.,
F as in Fizzed (imp. & p. p.) of Fizz,
F as in Fizzing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fizz,
F as in Fizz (v. i.) To make a hissing sound, as a burning fuse.,
F as in Fizz (n.) A hissing sound; as, the fizz of a fly.,
F as in Fizzled (imp. & p. p.) of Fizzle,
F as in Fizzling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fizzle,
F as in Fizzle (v. i.) To make a hissing sound.,
F as in Fizzle (v. i.) To make a ridiculous failure in an undertaking.,
F as in Fizzle (n.) A failure or abortive effort.,
F as in Fjord (n.) See Fiord.,
F as in Flabbergast (v. t.) To astonish; to strike with wonder, esp. by extraordinary statements.,
F as in Flabbergastation (n.) The state of being flabbergasted.,
F as in Flabbily (adv.) In a flabby manner.,
F as in Flabbiness (n.) Quality or state of being flabby.,
F as in Flabby (a.) Yielding to the touch, and easily moved or shaken; hanging loose by its own weight; wanting firmness; flaccid; as, flabby flesh.,
F as in Flabel (n.) A fan.,
F as in Flabellate (a.) Flabelliform.,
F as in Flabellation (n.) The act of keeping fractured limbs cool by the use of a fan or some other contrivance.,
F as in Flabelliform (a.) Having the form of a fan; fan-shaped; flabellate.,
F as in Flabellinerved (a.) Having many nerves diverging radiately from the base; -- said of a leaf.,
F as in Flabellum (n.) A fan; especially, the fan carried before the pope on state occasions, made in ostrich and peacock feathers.,
F as in Flabile (a.) Liable to be blown about.,
F as in Flaccid (a.) Yielding to pressure for want of firmness and stiffness; soft and weak; limber; lax; drooping; flabby; as, a flaccid muscle; flaccid flesh.,
F as in Flaccidity (n.) The state of being flaccid.,
F as in Flacker (v. i.) To flutter, as a bird.,
F as in Flacket (n.) A barrel-shaped bottle; a flagon.,
F as in Flagged (imp. & p. p.) of Flag,
F as in Flagging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Flag,
F as in Flag (v. i.) To hang loose without stiffness; to bend down, as flexible bodies; to be loose, yielding, limp.,
F as in Flag (v. i.) To droop; to grow spiritless; to lose vigor; to languish; as, the spirits flag; the streugth flags.,
F as in Flag (v. t.) To let droop; to suffer to fall, or let fall, into feebleness; as, to flag the wings.,
F as in Flag (v. t.) To enervate; to exhaust the vigor or elasticity of.,
F as in Flag (n.) That which flags or hangs down loosely.,
F as in Flag (n.) A cloth usually bearing a device or devices and used to indicate nationality, party, etc., or to give or ask information; -- commonly attached to a staff to be waved by the wind; a standard; a banner; an ensign; the colors; as, the national flag; a military or a naval flag.,
F as in Flag (n.) A group of feathers on the lower part of the legs of certain hawks, owls, etc.,
F as in Flag (n.) A group of elongated wing feathers in certain hawks.,
F as in Flag (n.) The bushy tail of a dog, as of a setter.,
F as in Flag (v. t.) To signal to with a flag; as, to flag a train.,
F as in Flag (v. t.) To convey, as a message, by means of flag signals; as, to flag an order to troops or vessels at a distance.,
F as in Flag (n.) An aquatic plant, with long, ensiform leaves, belonging to either of the genera Iris and Acorus.,
F as in Flag (v. t.) To furnish or deck out with flags.,
F as in Flag (n.) A flat stone used for paving.,
F as in Flag (n.) Any hard, evenly stratified sandstone, which splits into layers suitable for flagstones.,
F as in Flag (v. t.) To lay with flags of flat stones.,
F as in Flagellant (n.) One of a fanatical sect which flourished in Europe in the 13th and 14th centuries, and maintained that flagellation was of equal virtue with baptism and the sacrament; -- called also disciplinant.,
F as in Flagellata (v. t.) An order of Infusoria, having one or two long, whiplike cilia, at the anterior end. It includes monads. See Infusoria, and Monad.,
F as in Flagellated (imp. & p. p.) of Flagellate,
F as in Flagellating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Flagellate,
F as in Flagellate (v. t.) To whip; to scourge; to flog.,
F as in Flagellate (a.) Flagelliform.,
F as in Flagellate (a.) Of or pertaining to the Flagellata.,
F as in Flagellation (n.) A beating or flogging; a whipping; a scourging.,
F as in Flagellator (n.) One who practices flagellation; one who whips or scourges.,
F as in Flagelliform (a.) Shaped like a whiplash; long, slender, round, flexible, and (comming) tapering.,
F as in Flagellums (pl. ) of Flagellum,
F as in Flagella (pl. ) of Flagellum,
F as in Flagellum (v. t.) A young, flexible shoot of a plant; esp., the long trailing branch of a vine, or a slender branch in certain mosses.,
F as in Flagellum (v. t.) A long, whiplike cilium. See Flagellata.,
F as in Flagellum (v. t.) An appendage of the reproductive apparatus of the snail.,
F as in Flagellum (v. t.) A lashlike appendage of a crustacean, esp. the terminal ortion of the antennae and the epipodite of the maxilipeds. See Maxilliped.,
F as in Flageolet (n.) A small wooden pipe, having six or more holes, and a mouthpiece inserted at one end. It produces a shrill sound, softer than of the piccolo flute, and is said to have superseded the old recorder.,
F as in Flagginess (n.) The condition of being flaggy; laxity; limberness.,
F as in Flagging (n.) A pavement or sidewalk of flagstones; flagstones, collectively.,
F as in Flagging (a.) Growing languid, weak, or spiritless; weakening; delaying.,
F as in Flaggy (a.) Weak; flexible; limber.,
F as in Flaggy (a.) Tasteless; insipid; as, a flaggy apple.,
F as in Flaggy (a.) Abounding with the plant called flag; as, a flaggy marsh.,
F as in Flagitate (v. t.) To importune; to demand fiercely or with passion.,
F as in Flagitation (n.) Importunity; urgent demand.,
F as in Flagitious (a.) Disgracefully or shamefully criminal; grossly wicked; scandalous; shameful; -- said of acts, crimes, etc.,
F as in Flagitious (a.) Guilty of enormous crimes; corrupt; profligate; -- said of persons.,
F as in Flagitious (a.) Characterized by scandalous crimes or vices; as, flagitious times.,
F as in Flagmen (pl. ) of Flagman,
F as in Flagman (n.) One who makes signals with a flag.,
F as in Flagon (n.) A vessel with a narrow mouth, used for holding and conveying liquors. It is generally larger than a bottle, and of leather or stoneware rather than of glass.,
F as in Flagrance (n.) Flagrancy.,
F as in Flagrancies (pl. ) of Flagrancy,
F as in Flagrancy (n.) A burning; great heat; inflammation.,
F as in Flagrancy (n.) The condition or quality of being flagrant; atrocity; heiniousness; enormity; excess.,
F as in Flagrant (a.) Flaming; inflamed; glowing; burning; ardent.,
F as in Flagrant (a.) Actually in preparation, execution, or performance; carried on hotly; raging.,
F as in Flagrant (a.) Flaming into notice; notorious; enormous; heinous; glaringly wicked.,
F as in Flagrantly (adv.) In a flagrant manner.,
F as in Flagrate (v. t.) To burn.,
F as in Flagration (n.) A conflagration.,
F as in Flagship (n.) The vessel which carries the commanding officer of a fleet or squadron and flies his distinctive flag or pennant.,
F as in -staves (pl. ) of Flagstaff,
F as in -staffs (pl. ) of Flagstaff,
F as in Flagstaff (n.) A staff on which a flag is hoisted.,
F as in Flagstone (n.) A flat stone used in paving, or any rock which will split into such stones. See Flag, a stone.,
F as in Flagworm (n.) A worm or grub found among flags and sedge.,
F as in Flail (n.) An instrument for threshing or beating grain from the ear by hand, consisting of a wooden staff or handle, at the end of which a stouter and shorter pole or club, called a swipe, is so hung as to swing freely.,
F as in Flail (n.) An ancient military weapon, like the common flail, often having the striking part armed with rows of spikes, or loaded.,
F as in Flaily (a.) Acting like a flail.,
F as in Flain () p. p. of Flay.,
F as in Flake (n.) A paling; a hurdle.,
F as in Flake (n.) A platform of hurdles, or small sticks made fast or interwoven, supported by stanchions, for drying codfish and other things.,
F as in Flake (n.) A small stage hung over a vessel's side, for workmen to stand on in calking, etc.,
F as in Flake (n.) A loose filmy mass or a thin chiplike layer of anything; a film; flock; lamina; layer; scale; as, a flake of snow, tallow, or fish.,
F as in Flake (n.) A little particle of lighted or incandescent matter, darted from a fire; a flash.,
F as in Flake (n.) A sort of carnation with only two colors in the flower, the petals having large stripes.,
F as in Flaked (imp. & p. p.) of Flake,
F as in Flaking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Flake,
F as in Flake (v. t.) To form into flakes.,
F as in Flake (v. i.) To separate in flakes; to peel or scale off.,
F as in Flakiness (n.) The state of being flaky.,
F as in Flaky (a.) Consisting of flakes or of small, loose masses; lying, or cleaving off, in flakes or layers; flakelike.,
F as in Flam (n.) A freak or whim; also, a falsehood; a lie; an illusory pretext; deception; delusion.,
F as in Flammed (imp. & p. p.) of Flam,
F as in Flamming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Flam,
F as in Flam (v. t.) To deceive with a falsehood.,
F as in Flambeaux (pl. ) of Flambeau,
F as in Flambeaus (pl. ) of Flambeau,
F as in Flambeau (n.) A flaming torch, esp. one made by combining together a number of thick wicks invested with a quick-burning substance (anciently, perhaps, wax; in modern times, pitch or the like); hence, any torch.,
F as in Flamboyant (a.) Characterized by waving or flamelike curves, as in the tracery of windows, etc.; -- said of the later (15th century) French Gothic style.,
F as in Flamboyer (n.) A name given in the East and West Indies to certain trees with brilliant blossoms, probably species of Caesalpinia.,
F as in Flame (n.) A stream of burning vapor or gas, emitting light and heat; darting or streaming fire; a blaze; a fire.,
F as in Flame (n.) Burning zeal or passion; elevated and noble enthusiasm; glowing imagination; passionate excitement or anger.,
F as in Flame (n.) Ardor of affection; the passion of love.,
F as in Flame (n.) A person beloved; a sweetheart.,
F as in Flamed (imp. & p. p.) of Flame,
F as in Flaming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Flame,
F as in Flame (n.) To burn with a flame or blaze; to burn as gas emitted from bodies in combustion; to blaze.,
F as in Flame (n.) To burst forth like flame; to break out in violence of passion; to be kindled with zeal or ardor.,
F as in Flame (v. t.) To kindle; to inflame; to excite.,
F as in Flame-colored (a.) Of the color of flame; of a bright orange yellow color.,
F as in Flameless (a.) Destitute of flame.,
F as in Flamelet (n.) A small flame.,
F as in Flammens (pl. ) of Flamen,
F as in Flamines (pl. ) of Flamen,
F as in Flamen (n.) A priest devoted to the service of a particular god, from whom he received a distinguishing epithet. The most honored were those of Jupiter, Mars, and Quirinus, called respectively Flamen Dialis, Flamen Martialis, and Flamen Quirinalis.,
F as in Flamineous (a.) Pertaining to a flamen; flaminical.,
F as in Flaming (a.) Emitting flames; afire; blazing; consuming; illuminating.,
F as in Flaming (a.) Of the color of flame; high-colored; brilliant; dazzling.,
F as in Flaming (a.) Ardent; passionate; burning with zeal; irrepressibly earnest; as, a flaming proclomation or harangue.,
F as in Flamingly (adv.) In a flaming manner.,
F as in Flamingoes (pl. ) of Flamingo,
F as in Flamingo (n.) Any bird of the genus Phoenicopterus. The flamingoes have webbed feet, very long legs, and a beak bent down as if broken. Their color is usually red or pink. The American flamingo is P. ruber; the European is P. antiquorum.,
F as in Flaminical (a.) Pertaining to a flamen.,
F as in Flammability (n.) The quality of being flammable; inflammability.,
F as in Flammable (a.) Inflammable.,
F as in Flammation (n.) The act of setting in a flame or blaze.,
F as in Flammeous (a.) Pertaining to, consisting of, or resembling, flame.,
F as in Flammiferous (a.) Producing flame.,
F as in Flammivomous (a.) Vomiting flames, as a volcano.,
F as in Flammulated (a.) Of a reddish color.,
F as in Flamy (a.) Flaming; blazing; flamelike; flame-colored; composed of flame.,
F as in Flanches (pl. ) of Flanch,
F as in Flanch (n.) A flange.,
F as in Flanch (n.) A bearing consisting of a segment of a circle encroaching on the field from the side.,
F as in Flanched (a.) Having flanches; -- said of an escutcheon with those bearings.,
F as in Flanconade (n.) A thrust in the side.,
F as in Flaneur (n.) One who strolls about aimlessly; a lounger; a loafer.,
F as in Flang (n.) A miner's two-pointed pick.,
F as in Flange (n.) An external or internal rib, or rim, for strength, as the flange of an iron beam; or for a guide, as the flange of a car wheel (see Car wheel.); or for attachment to another object, as the flange on the end of a pipe, steam cylinder, etc.,
F as in Flange (n.) A plate or ring to form a rim at the end of a pipe when fastened to the pipe.,
F as in Flanged (imp. & p. p.) of Flange,
F as in Flanging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Flange,
F as in Flange (v. t.) To make a flange on; to furnish with a flange.,
F as in Flange (v. i.) To be bent into a flange.,
F as in Flanged (a.) Having a flange or flanges; as, a flanged wheel.,
F as in Flank (n.) The fleshy or muscular part of the side of an animal, between the ribs and the hip. See Illust. of Beef.,
F as in Flank (n.) The side of an army, or of any division of an army, as of a brigade, regiment, or battalion; the extreme right or left; as, to attack an enemy in flank is to attack him on the side.,
F as in Flank (n.) That part of a bastion which reaches from the curtain to the face, and defends the curtain, the flank and face of the opposite bastion; any part of a work defending another by a fire along the outside of its parapet.,
F as in Flank (n.) The side of any building.,
F as in Flank (n.) That part of the acting surface of a gear wheel tooth that lies within the pitch line.,
F as in Flanked (imp. & p. p.) of Flank,
F as in Flanking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Flank,
F as in Flank (v. t.) To stand at the flank or side of; to border upon.,
F as in Flank (v. t.) To overlook or command the flank of; to secure or guard the flank of; to pass around or turn the flank of; to attack, or threaten to attack; the flank of.,
F as in Flank (v. i.) To border; to touch.,
F as in Flank (v. i.) To be posted on the side.,
F as in Flanker (n.) One who, or that which, flanks, as a skirmisher or a body of troops sent out upon the flanks of an army toguard a line of march, or a fort projecting so as to command the side of an assailing body.,
F as in Flankered (imp. & p. p.) of Flanker,
F as in Flankering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Flanker,
F as in Flanker (v. t.) To defend by lateral fortifications.,
F as in Flanker (v. t.) To attack sideways.,
F as in Flannel (n.) A soft, nappy, woolen cloth, of loose texture.,
F as in Flanneled (a.) Covered or wrapped in flannel.,
F as in Flannen (a.) Made or consisting of flannel.,
F as in Flap (v.) Anything broad and limber that hangs loose, or that is attached by one side or end and is easily moved; as, the flap of a garment.,
F as in Flap (v.) A hinged leaf, as of a table or shutter.,
F as in Flap (v.) The motion of anything broad and loose, or a stroke or sound made with it; as, the flap of a sail or of a wing.,
F as in Flap (v.) A disease in the lips of horses.,
F as in Flapped (imp. & p. p.) of Flap,
F as in Flapping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Flap,
F as in Flap (n.) To beat with a flap; to strike.,
F as in Flap (n.) To move, as something broad and flaplike; as, to flap the wings; to let fall, as the brim of a hat.,
F as in Flap (v. i.) To move as do wings, or as something broad or loose; to fly with wings beating the air.,
F as in Flap (v. i.) To fall and hang like a flap, as the brim of a hat, or other broad thing.,
F as in Flapdragon (n.) A game in which the players catch raisins out burning brandy, and swallow them blazing.,
F as in Flapdragon (n.) The thing thus caught and eaten.,
F as in Flapdragon (v. t.) To swallow whole, as a flapdragon; to devour.,
F as in Flap-eared (a.) Having broad, loose, dependent ears.,
F as in Flapjack (n.) A fklat cake turned on the griddle while cooking; a griddlecake or pacake.,
F as in Flapjack (n.) A fried dough cake containing fruit; a turnover.,
F as in Flap-mouthed (a.) Having broad, hangling lips.,
F as in Flapper (n.) One who, or that which, flaps.,
F as in Flapper (n.) See Flipper.,
F as in Flared (imp. & p. p.) of Flare,
F as in Flaring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Flare,
F as in Flare (v. i.) To burn with an unsteady or waving flame; as, the candle flares.,
F as in Flare (v. i.) To shine out with a sudden and unsteady light; to emit a dazzling or painfully bright light.,
F as in Flare (v. i.) To shine out with gaudy colors; to flaunt; to be offensively bright or showy.,
F as in Flare (v. i.) To be exposed to too much light.,
F as in Flare (v. i.) To open or spread outwards; to project beyond the perpendicular; as, the sides of a bowl flare; the bows of a ship flare.,
F as in Flare (n.) An unsteady, broad, offensive light.,
F as in Flare (n.) A spreading outward; as, the flare of a fireplace.,
F as in Flare (n.) Leaf of lard.,
F as in Flare-up (n.) A sudden burst of anger or passion; an angry dispute.,
F as in Flaring (a.) That flares; flaming or blazing unsteadily; shining out with a dazzling light.,
F as in Flaring (a.) Opening or speading outwards.,
F as in Flaringly (adv.) In a flaring manner.,
F as in Flashed (imp. & p. p.) of Flash,
F as in Flashing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Flash,
F as in Flash (v. i.) To burst or break forth with a sudden and transient flood of flame and light; as, the lighting flashes vividly; the powder flashed.,
F as in Flash (v. i.) To break forth, as a sudden flood of light; to burst instantly and brightly on the sight; to show a momentary brilliancy; to come or pass like a flash.,
F as in Flash (v. i.) To burst forth like a sudden flame; to break out violently; to rush hastily.,
F as in Flash (v. t.) To send out in flashes; to cause to burst forth with sudden flame or light.,
F as in Flash (v. t.) To convey as by a flash; to light up, as by a sudden flame or light; as, to flash a message along the wires; to flash conviction on the mind.,
F as in Flash (v. t.) To cover with a thin layer, as objects of glass with glass of a different color. See Flashing, n., 3 (b).,
F as in Flash (n.) To trick up in a showy manner.,
F as in Flash (n.) To strike and throw up large bodies of water from the surface; to splash.,
F as in Flashes (pl. ) of Flash,
F as in Flash (n.) A sudden burst of light; a flood of light instantaneously appearing and disappearing; a momentary blaze; as, a flash of lightning.,
F as in Flash (n.) A sudden and brilliant burst, as of wit or genius; a momentary brightness or show.,
F as in Flash (n.) The time during which a flash is visible; an instant; a very brief period.,
F as in Flash (n.) A preparation of capsicum, burnt sugar, etc., for coloring and giving a fictious strength to liquors.,
F as in Flash (a.) Showy, but counterfeit; cheap, pretentious, and vulgar; as, flash jewelry; flash finery.,
F as in Flash (a.) Wearing showy, counterfeit ornaments; vulgarly pretentious; as, flash people; flash men or women; -- applied especially to thieves, gamblers, and prostitutes that dress in a showy way and wear much cheap jewelry.,
F as in Flash (n.) Slang or cant of thieves and prostitutes.,
F as in Flash (n.) A pool.,
F as in Flash (n.) A reservoir and sluiceway beside a navigable stream, just above a shoal, so that the stream may pour in water as boats pass, and thus bear them over the shoal.,
F as in Flashboard (n.) A board placed temporarily upon a milldam, to raise the water in the pond above its usual level; a flushboard.,
F as in Flasher (n.) One who, or that which, flashes.,
F as in Flasher (n.) A man of more appearance of wit than reality.,
F as in Flasher (n.) A large sparoid fish of the Atlantic coast and all tropical seas (Lobotes Surinamensis).,
F as in Flasher (n.) The European red-backed shrike (Lanius collurio); -- called also flusher.,
F as in Flashily (adv.) In a flashy manner; with empty show.,
F as in Flashiness (n.) The quality of being flashy.,
F as in Flashing (n.) The creation of an artifical flood by the sudden letting in of a body of water; -- called also flushing.,
F as in Flashing (n.) Pieces of metal, built into the joints of a wall, so as to lap over the edge of the gutters or to cover the edge of the roofing; also, similar pieces used to cover the valleys of roofs of slate, shingles, or the like. By extension, the metal covering of ridges and hips of roofs; also, in the United States, the protecting of angles and breaks in walls of frame houses with waterproof material, tarred paper, or the like. Cf. Filleting.,
F as in Flashing (n.) The reheating of an article at the furnace aperture during manufacture to restore its plastic condition; esp., the reheating of a globe of crown glass to allow it to assume a flat shape as it is rotated.,
F as in Flashing (n.) A mode of covering transparent white glass with a film of colored glass.,
F as in Flashy (a.) Dazzling for a moment; making a momentary show of brilliancy; transitorily bright.,
F as in Flashy (a.) Fiery; vehement; impetuous.,
F as in Flashy (a.) Showy; gay; gaudy; as, a flashy dress.,
F as in Flashy (a.) Without taste or spirit.,
F as in Flask (n.) A small bottle-shaped vessel for holding fluids; as, a flask of oil or wine.,
F as in Flask (n.) A narrow-necked vessel of metal or glass, used for various purposes; as of sheet metal, to carry gunpowder in; or of wrought iron, to contain quicksilver; or of glass, to heat water in, etc.,
F as in Flask (n.) A bed in a gun carriage.,
F as in Flask (n.) The wooden or iron frame which holds the sand, etc., forming the mold used in a foundry; it consists of two or more parts; viz., the cope or top; sometimes, the cheeks, or middle part; and the drag, or bottom part. When there are one or more cheeks, the flask is called a three part flask, four part flask, etc.,
F as in Flasket (n.) A long, shallow basket, with two handles.,
F as in Flasket (n.) A small flask.,
F as in Flasket (n.) A vessel in which viands are served.,
F as in Flat (superl.) Having an even and horizontal surface, or nearly so, without prominences or depressions; level without inclination; plane.,
F as in Flat (superl.) Lying at full length, or spread out, upon the ground; level with the ground or earth; prostrate; as, to lie flat on the ground; hence, fallen; laid low; ruined; destroyed.,
F as in Flat (superl.) Wanting relief; destitute of variety; without points of prominence and striking interest.,
F as in Flat (superl.) Tasteless; stale; vapid; insipid; dead; as, fruit or drink flat to the taste.,
F as in Flat (superl.) Unanimated; dull; uninteresting; without point or spirit; monotonous; as, a flat speech or composition.,
F as in Flat (superl.) Lacking liveliness of commercial exchange and dealings; depressed; dull; as, the market is flat.,
F as in Flat (superl.) Clear; unmistakable; peremptory; absolute; positive; downright.,
F as in Flat (superl.) Below the true pitch; hence, as applied to intervals, minor, or lower by a half step; as, a flat seventh; A flat.,
F as in Flat (superl.) Not sharp or shrill; not acute; as, a flat sound.,
F as in Flat (superl.) Sonant; vocal; -- applied to any one of the sonant or vocal consonants, as distinguished from a nonsonant (or sharp) consonant.,
F as in Flat (adv.) In a flat manner; directly; flatly.,
F as in Flat (adv.) Without allowance for accrued interest.,
F as in Flat (n.) A level surface, without elevation, relief, or prominences; an extended plain; specifically, in the United States, a level tract along the along the banks of a river; as, the Mohawk Flats.,
F as in Flat (n.) A level tract lying at little depth below the surface of water, or alternately covered and left bare by the tide; a shoal; a shallow; a strand.,
F as in Flat (n.) Something broad and flat in form,
F as in Flat (n.) A flat-bottomed boat, without keel, and of small draught.,
F as in Flat (n.) A straw hat, broad-brimmed and low-crowned.,
F as in Flat (n.) A car without a roof, the body of which is a platform without sides; a platform car.,
F as in Flat (n.) A platform on wheel, upon which emblematic designs, etc., are carried in processions.,
F as in Flat (n.) The flat part, or side, of anything; as, the broad side of a blade, as distinguished from its edge.,
F as in Flat (n.) A floor, loft, or story in a building; especially, a floor of a house, which forms a complete residence in itself.,
F as in Flat (n.) A horizontal vein or ore deposit auxiliary to a main vein; also, any horizontal portion of a vein not elsewhere horizontal.,
F as in Flat (n.) A dull fellow; a simpleton; a numskull.,
F as in Flat (n.) A character [/] before a note, indicating a tone which is a half step or semitone lower.,
F as in Flat (n.) A homaloid space or extension.,
F as in Flatted (imp. & p. p.) of Flat,
F as in Flatting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Flat,
F as in Flat (v. t.) To make flat; to flatten; to level.,
F as in Flat (v. t.) To render dull, insipid, or spiritless; to depress.,
F as in Flat (v. t.) To depress in tone, as a musical note; especially, to lower in pitch by half a tone.,
F as in Flat (v. i.) To become flat, or flattened; to sink or fall to an even surface.,
F as in Flat (v. i.) To fall form the pitch.,
F as in Flatbill (n.) Any bird of the genus Flatyrynchus. They belong to the family of flycatchers.,
F as in Flatboat (n.) A boat with a flat bottom and square ends; -- used for the transportation of bulky freight, especially in shallow waters.,
F as in Flat-bottomed (a.) Having an even lower surface or bottom; as, a flat-bottomed boat.,
F as in Flat-cap (n.) A kind of low-crowned cap formerly worn by all classes in England, and continued in London after disuse elsewhere; -- hence, a citizen of London.,
F as in Flatfish (n.) Any fish of the family Pleuronectidae; esp., the winter flounder (Pleuronectes Americanus). The flatfishes have the body flattened, swim on the side, and have eyes on one side, as the flounder, turbot, and halibut. See Flounder.,
F as in Flat foot () A foot in which the arch of the instep is flattened so that the entire sole of the foot rests upon the ground; also, the deformity, usually congential, exhibited by such a foot; splayfoot.,
F as in Flat-footed (a.) Having a flat foot, with little or no arch of the instep.,
F as in Flat-footed (a.) Firm-footed; determined.,
F as in Flathead (a.) Characterized by flatness of head, especially that produced by artificial means, as a certain tribe of American Indians.,
F as in Flathead (n.) A Chinook Indian. See Chinook, n., 1.,
F as in Flat-headed (a.) Having a head with a flattened top; as, a flat-headed nail.,
F as in Flatiron (n.) An iron with a flat, smooth surface for ironing clothes.,
F as in Flative (a.) Producing wind; flatulent.,
F as in Flating (a.) With the flat side, as of a sword; flatlong; in a prostrate position.,
F as in Flatlong (adv.) With the flat side downward; not edgewise.,
F as in Flatly (adv.) In a flat manner; evenly; horizontally; without spirit; dully; frigidly; peremptorily; positively, plainly.,
F as in Flatness (n.) The quality or state of being flat.,
F as in Flatness (n.) Eveness of surface; want of relief or prominence; the state of being plane or level.,
F as in Flatness (n.) Want of vivacity or spirit; prostration; dejection; depression.,
F as in Flatness (n.) Want of variety or flavor; dullness; insipidity.,
F as in Flatness (n.) Depression of tone; the state of being below the true pitch; -- opposed to sharpness or acuteness.,
F as in Flatour (n.) A flatterer.,
F as in Flattened (imp. & p. p.) of Flatten,
F as in Flattening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Flatten,
F as in Flatten (a.) To reduce to an even surface or one approaching evenness; to make flat; to level; to make plane.,
F as in Flatten (a.) To throw down; to bring to the ground; to prostrate; hence, to depress; to deject; to dispirit.,
F as in Flatten (a.) To make vapid or insipid; to render stale.,
F as in Flatten (a.) To lower the pitch of; to cause to sound less sharp; to let fall from the pitch.,
F as in Flatten (v. i.) To become or grow flat, even, depressed dull, vapid, spiritless, or depressed below pitch.,
F as in Flatter (n.) One who, or that which, makes flat or flattens.,
F as in Flatter (n.) A flat-faced fulling hammer.,
F as in Flatter (n.) A drawplate with a narrow, rectangular orifice, for drawing flat strips, as watch springs, etc.,
F as in Flattered (imp. & p. p.) of Flatter,
F as in Flattering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Flatter,
F as in Flatter (v. t.) To treat with praise or blandishments; to gratify or attempt to gratify the self-love or vanity of, esp. by artful and interested commendation or attentions; to blandish; to cajole; to wheedle.,
F as in Flatter (v. t.) To raise hopes in; to encourage or favorable, but sometimes unfounded or deceitful, representations.,
F as in Flatter (v. t.) To portray too favorably; to give a too favorable idea of; as, his portrait flatters him.,
F as in Flatter (v. i.) To use flattery or insincere praise.,
F as in Flatterer (n.) One who flatters.,
F as in Flattering (a.) That flatters (in the various senses of the verb); as, a flattering speech.,
F as in Flatteringly (adv.) With flattery.,
F as in Flatteries (pl. ) of Flattery,
F as in Flattery (v. t.) The act or practice of flattering; the act of pleasing by artiful commendation or compliments; adulation; false, insincere, or excessive praise.,
F as in Flatting (n.) The process or operation of making flat, as a cylinder of glass by opening it out.,
F as in Flatting (n.) A mode of painting,in which the paint, being mixed with turpentine, leaves the work without gloss.,
F as in Flatting (n.) A method of preserving gilding unburnished, by touching with size.,
F as in Flatting (n.) The process of forming metal into sheets by passing it between rolls.,
F as in Flattish (a.) Somewhat flat.,
F as in Flatulence (n.) Alt. of Flatlency,
F as in Flatlency (n.) The state or quality of being flatulent.,
F as in Flatulent (a.) Affected with flatus or gases generated in the alimentary canal; windy.,
F as in Flatulent (a.) Generating, or tending to generate, wind in the stomach.,
F as in Flatulent (a.) Turgid with flatus; as, a flatulent tumor.,
F as in Flatulent (a.) Pretentious without substance or reality; puffy; empty; vain; as, a flatulent vanity.,
F as in Flatulently (adv.) In a flatulent manner; with flatulence.,
F as in Flatuosity (n.) Flatulence.,
F as in Flatuous (a.) Windy; generating wind.,
F as in Flatuses (pl. ) of Flatus,
F as in Flatus (pl. ) of Flatus,
F as in Flatus (n.) A breath; a puff of wind.,
F as in Flatus (n.) Wind or gas generated in the stomach or other cavities of the body.,
F as in Flatware (n.) Articles for the table, as china or silverware, that are more or less flat, as distinguished from hollow ware.,
F as in Flatwise (a. / adv.) With the flat side downward, or next to another object; not edgewise.,
F as in Flatworm (n.) Any worm belonging to the Plathelminthes; also, sometimes applied to the planarians.,
F as in Flaundrish (a.) Flemish.,
F as in Flaunted (imp. & p. p.) of Flaunt,
F as in Flaunting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Flaunt,
F as in Flaunt (v. i.) To throw or spread out; to flutter; to move ostentatiously; as, a flaunting show.,
F as in Flaunt (v. t.) To display ostentatiously; to make an impudent show of.,
F as in Flaunt (n.) Anything displayed for show.,
F as in Flauntingly (adv.) In a flaunting way.,
F as in Flautist (n.) A player on the flute; a flutist.,
F as in Flauto (n.) A flute.,
F as in Flavaniline (n.) A yellow, crystalline, organic dyestuff, C16H14N2, of artifical production. It is a strong base, and is a complex derivative of aniline and quinoline.,
F as in Flavescent (a.) Turning yellow; yellowish.,
F as in Flavicomous (a.) Having yellow hair.,
F as in Flavin (n.) A yellow, vegetable dyestuff, resembling quercitron.,
F as in Flavine (n.) A yellow, crystalline, organic base, C13H12N2O, obtained artificially.,
F as in Flavol (n.) A yellow, crystalline substance, obtained from anthraquinone, and regarded as a hydroxyl derivative of it.,
F as in Flavor (n.) That quality of anything which affects the smell; odor; fragrances; as, the flavor of a rose.,
F as in Flavor (n.) That quality of anything which affects the taste; that quality which gratifies the palate; relish; zest; savor; as, the flavor of food or drink.,
F as in Flavor (n.) That which imparts to anything a peculiar odor or taste, gratifying to the sense of smell, or the nicer perceptions of the palate; a substance which flavors.,
F as in Flavor (n.) That quality which gives character to any of the productions of literature or the fine arts.,
F as in Flavored (imp. & p. p.) of Flavor,
F as in Flavoring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Flavor,
F as in Flavor (v. t.) To give flavor to; to add something (as salt or a spice) to, to give character or zest.,
F as in Flavored (a.) Having a distinct flavor; as, high-flavored wine.,
F as in Flavorles (a.) Without flavor; tasteless.,
F as in Flavorous (a.) Imparting flavor; pleasant to the taste or smell; sapid.,
F as in Flavous (a.) Yellow.,
F as in Flaw (n.) A crack or breach; a gap or fissure; a defect of continuity or cohesion; as, a flaw in a knife or a vase.,
F as in Flaw (n.) A defect; a fault; as, a flaw in reputation; a flaw in a will, in a deed, or in a statute.,
F as in Flaw (n.) A sudden burst of noise and disorder; a tumult; uproar; a quarrel.,
F as in Flaw (n.) A sudden burst or gust of wind of short duration.,
F as in Flawed (imp. & p. p.) of Flaw,
F as in Flawing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Flaw,
F as in Flaw (v. t.) To crack; to make flaws in.,
F as in Flaw (v. t.) To break; to violate; to make of no effect.,
F as in Flawless (a.) Free from flaws.,
F as in Flawn (n.) A sort of flat custard or pie.,
F as in Flawter (v. t.) To scrape o/ pare, as a skin.,
F as in Flawy (a.) Full of flaws or cracks; broken; defective; faulty.,
F as in Flawy (a.) Subject to sudden flaws or gusts of wind.,
F as in Flax (n.) A plant of the genus Linum, esp. the L. usitatissimum, which has a single, slender stalk, about a foot and a half high, with blue flowers. The fiber of the bark is used for making thread and cloth, called linen, cambric, lawn, lace, etc. Linseed oil is expressed from the seed.,
F as in Flax (n.) The skin or fibrous part of the flax plant, when broken and cleaned by hatcheling or combing.,
F as in Flaxen (a.) Made of flax; resembling flax or its fibers; of the color of flax; of a light soft straw color; fair and flowing, like flax or tow; as, flaxen thread; flaxen hair.,
F as in Flax-plant (n.) A plant in new Zealand (Phormium tenax), allied to the lilies and aloes. The leaves are two inches wide and several feet long, and furnish a fiber which is used for making ropes, mats, and coarse cloth.,
F as in Flaxseed (n.) The seed of the flax; linseed.,
F as in Flaxweed (n.) See Toadflax.,
F as in Flaxy (a.) Like flax; flaxen.,
F as in Flayed (imp. & p. p.) of Flay,
F as in Flaying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Flay,
F as in Flay (v. t.) To skin; to strip off the skin or surface of; as, to flay an ox; to flay the green earth.,
F as in Flayer (n.) One who strips off the skin.,
F as in Flea (v. t.) To flay.,
F as in Flea (n.) An insect belonging to the genus Pulex, of the order Aphaniptera. Fleas are destitute of wings, but have the power of leaping energetically. The bite is poisonous to most persons. The human flea (Pulex irritans), abundant in Europe, is rare in America, where the dog flea (P. canis) takes its place. See Aphaniptera, and Dog flea. See Illustration in Appendix.,
F as in Fleabane (n.) One of various plants, supposed to have efficacy in driving away fleas. They belong, for the most part, to the genera Conyza, Erigeron, and Pulicaria.,
F as in Flea-beetle (n.) A small beetle of the family Halticidae, of many species. They have strong posterior legs and leap like fleas. The turnip flea-beetle (Phyllotreta vittata) and that of the grapevine (Graptodera chalybea) are common injurious species.,
F as in Flea-bite (n.) The bite of a flea, or the red spot caused by the bite.,
F as in Flea-bite (n.) A trifling wound or pain, like that of the bite of a flea.,
F as in Flea-bitten (a.) Bitten by a flea; as, a flea-bitten face.,
F as in Flea-bitten (a.) White, flecked with minute dots of bay or sorrel; -- said of the color of a horse.,
F as in Fleagh () imp. of Fly.,
F as in Fleak (n.) A flake; a thread or twist.,
F as in Fleaking (n.) A light covering of reeds, over which the main covering is laid, in thatching houses.,
F as in Flea-louse (n.) A jumping plant louse of the family Psyllidae, of many species. That of the pear tree is Psylla pyri.,
F as in Fleam (n.) A sharp instrument used for opening veins, lancing gums, etc.; a kind of lancet.,
F as in Fleamy (a.) Bloody; clotted.,
F as in Flear (v. t. & i.) See Fleer.,
F as in Fleawort (n.) An herb used in medicine (Plantago Psyllium), named from the shape of its seeds.,
F as in Fleche (n.) A simple fieldwork, consisting of two faces forming a salient angle pointing outward and open at the gorge.,
F as in Fleck (n.) A flake; also, a lock, as of wool.,
F as in Fleck (n.) A spot; a streak; a speckle.,
F as in Flecked (imp. & p. p.) of Fleck,
F as in Flecking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fleck,
F as in Fleck (n.) To spot; to streak or stripe; to variegate; to dapple.,
F as in Flecker (v. t.) To fleck.,
F as in Fleckless (a.) Without spot or blame.,
F as in Flection (n.) The act of bending, or state of being bent.,
F as in Flection (n.) The variation of words by declension, comparison, or conjugation; inflection.,
F as in Flectional (a.) Capable of, or pertaining to, flection or inflection.,
F as in Flector (n.) A flexor.,
F as in Fled () imp. & p. p. of Flee.,
F as in Fledge (v. i.) Feathered; furnished with feathers or wings; able to fly.,
F as in Fledged (imp. & p. p.) of Fledge,
F as in Fledging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fledge,
F as in Fledge (v. t. & i.) To furnish with feathers; to supply with the feathers necessary for flight.,
F as in Fledge (v. t. & i.) To furnish or adorn with any soft covering.,
F as in Fledgeling (n.) A young bird just fledged.,
F as in Fled (imp. & p. p.) of Flee,
F as in Fleeing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Flee,
F as in Flee (v. i.) To run away, as from danger or evil; to avoid in an alarmed or cowardly manner; to hasten off; -- usually with from. This is sometimes omitted, making the verb transitive.,
F as in Fleece (n.) The entire coat of wood that covers a sheep or other similar animal; also, the quantity shorn from a sheep, or animal, at one time.,
F as in Fleece (n.) Any soft woolly covering resembling a fleece.,
F as in Fleece (n.) The fine web of cotton or wool removed by the doffing knife from the cylinder of a carding machine.,
F as in Fleeced (imp. & p. p.) of Fleece,
F as in Fleecing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fleece,
F as in Fleece (v. t.) To deprive of a fleece, or natural covering of wool.,
F as in Fleece (v. t.) To strip of money or other property unjustly, especially by trickery or fraud; to bring to straits by oppressions and exactions.,
F as in Fleece (v. t.) To spread over as with wool.,
F as in Fleeced (a.) Furnished with a fleece; as, a sheep is well fleeced.,
F as in Fleeced (a.) Stripped of a fleece; plundered; robbed.,
F as in Fleeceless (a.) Without a fleece.,
F as in Fleecer (n.) One who fleeces or strips unjustly, especially by trickery or fraund.,
F as in Fleecy (a.) Covered with, made of, or resembling, a fleece.,
F as in Fleen (n. pl.) Obs. pl. of Flea.,
F as in Fleer (n.) One who flees.,
F as in Fleered (imp. & p. p.) of Fleer,
F as in Fleering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fleer,
F as in Fleer () To make a wry face in contempt, or to grin in scorn; to deride; to sneer; to mock; to gibe; as, to fleer and flout.,
F as in Fleer () To grin with an air of civility; to leer.,
F as in Fleer (v. t.) To mock; to flout at.,
F as in Flear (n.) A word or look of derision or mockery.,
F as in Flear (n.) A grin of civility; a leer.,
F as in Fleerer (n.) One who fleers.,
F as in Fleeringly (adv.) In a fleering manner.,
F as in Fleeted (imp. & p. p.) of Fleet,
F as in Fleeting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fleet,
F as in Fleet (n. & a.) To sail; to float.,
F as in Fleet (n. & a.) To fly swiftly; to pass over quickly; to hasten; to flit as a light substance.,
F as in Fleet (n. & a.) To slip on the whelps or the barrel of a capstan or windlass; -- said of a cable or hawser.,
F as in Fleet (v. t.) To pass over rapidly; to skin the surface of; as, a ship that fleets the gulf.,
F as in Fleet (v. t.) To hasten over; to cause to pass away lighty, or in mirth and joy.,
F as in Fleet (v. t.) To draw apart the blocks of; -- said of a tackle.,
F as in Fleet (v. t.) To cause to slip down the barrel of a capstan or windlass, as a rope or chain.,
F as in Fleet (v. i.) Swift in motion; moving with velocity; light and quick in going from place to place; nimble.,
F as in Fleet (v. i.) Light; superficially thin; not penetrating deep, as soil.,
F as in Fleet (v. i.) A number of vessels in company, especially war vessels; also, the collective naval force of a country, etc.,
F as in Fleet (v. i.) A flood; a creek or inlet; a bay or estuary; a river; -- obsolete, except as a place name, -- as Fleet Street in London.,
F as in Fleet (v. i.) A former prison in London, which originally stood near a stream, the Fleet (now filled up).,
F as in Fleet (v. i.) To take the cream from; to skim.,
F as in Fleeten (n.) Fleeted or skimmed milk.,
F as in Fleet-foot (a.) Swift of foot.,
F as in Fleeting (a.) Passing swiftly away; not durable; transient; transitory; as, the fleeting hours or moments.,
F as in Fleetingly (adv.) In a fleeting manner; swiftly.,
F as in Fleetings (n. pl.) A mixture of buttermilk and boiling whey; curds.,
F as in Fleetly (adv.) In a fleet manner; rapidly.,
F as in Fleetness (n.) Swiftness; rapidity; velocity; celerity; speed; as, the fleetness of a horse or of time.,
F as in Fleigh () imp. of Fly.,
F as in Fleme (v. t.) To banish; to drive out; to expel.,
F as in Flemer (n.) One who, or that which, banishes or expels.,
F as in Fleming (n.) A native or inhabitant of Flanders.,
F as in Flemish (a.) Pertaining to Flanders, or the Flemings.,
F as in Flemish (n.) The language or dialect spoken by the Flemings; also, collectively, the people of Flanders.,
F as in Flench (v. t.) Same as Flence.,
F as in Flense (v. t.) To strip the blubber or skin from, as from a whale, seal, etc.,
F as in Flesh (n.) The aggregate of the muscles, fat, and other tissues which cover the framework of bones in man and other animals; especially, the muscles.,
F as in Flesh (n.) Animal food, in distinction from vegetable; meat; especially, the body of beasts and birds used as food, as distinguished from fish.,
F as in Flesh (n.) The human body, as distinguished from the soul; the corporeal person.,
F as in Flesh (n.) The human eace; mankind; humanity.,
F as in Flesh (n.) Human nature,
F as in Flesh (n.) In a good sense, tenderness of feeling; gentleness.,
F as in Flesh (n.) In a bad sense, tendency to transient or physical pleasure; desire for sensual gratification; carnality.,
F as in Flesh (n.) The character under the influence of animal propensities or selfish passions; the soul unmoved by spiritual influences.,
F as in Flesh (n.) Kindred; stock; race.,
F as in Flesh (n.) The soft, pulpy substance of fruit; also, that part of a root, fruit, and the like, which is fit to be eaten.,
F as in Fleshed (imp. & p. p.) of Flesh,
F as in Fleshing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Flesh,
F as in Flesh (v. t.) To feed with flesh, as an incitement to further exertion; to initiate; -- from the practice of training hawks and dogs by feeding them with the first game they take, or other flesh. Hence, to use upon flesh (as a murderous weapon) so as to draw blood, especially for the first time.,
F as in Flesh (v. t.) To glut; to satiate; hence, to harden, to accustom.,
F as in Flesh (v. t.) To remove flesh, membrance, etc., from, as from hides.,
F as in Fleshed (a.) Corpulent; fat; having flesh.,
F as in Fleshed (a.) Glutted; satiated; initiated.,
F as in Flesher (n.) A butcher.,
F as in Flesher (n.) A two-handled, convex, blunt-edged knife, for scraping hides; a fleshing knife.,
F as in Fleshhood (n.) The state or condition of having a form of flesh; incarnation.,
F as in Fleshiness (n.) The state of being fleshy; plumpness; corpulence; grossness.,
F as in Fleshings (n. pl.) Flesh-colored tights, worn by actors dancers.,
F as in Fleshless (a.) Destitute of flesh; lean.,
F as in Fleshliness (n.) The state of being fleshly; carnal passions and appetites.,
F as in Fleshing (n.) A person devoted to fleshly things.,
F as in Fleshly (a.) Of or pertaining to the flesh; corporeal.,
F as in Fleshly (a.) Animal; not/vegetable.,
F as in Fleshly (a.) Human; not celestial; not spiritual or divine.,
F as in Fleshly (a.) Carnal; wordly; lascivious.,
F as in Fleshly (adv.) In a fleshly manner; carnally; lasciviously.,
F as in Fleshment (n.) The act of fleshing, or the excitement attending a successful beginning.,
F as in Fleshmonger (n.) One who deals in flesh; hence, a pimp; a procurer; a pander.,
F as in Fleshpot (n.) A pot or vessel in which flesh is cooked,
F as in Fleshpot (n.) plenty; high living.,
F as in Fleshquake (n.) A quaking or trembling of the flesh; a quiver.,
F as in Fleshy (superl.) Full of, or composed of, flesh; plump; corpulent; fat; gross.,
F as in Fleshy (superl.) Human.,
F as in Fleshy (superl.) Composed of firm pulp; succulent; as, the houseleek, cactus, and agave are fleshy plants.,
F as in Flet (p. p.) Skimmed.,
F as in Fletched (imp. & p. p.) of Fletch,
F as in Fletching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fletch,
F as in Fletch (v. t.) To feather, as an arrow.,
F as in Fletcher (n.) One who fletches of feathers arrows; a manufacturer of bows and arrows.,
F as in Flete (v. i.) To float; to swim.,
F as in Fletiferous (a.) Producing tears.,
F as in Fleurs-de-lis (pl. ) of Fleur-de-lis,
F as in Fleur-de-lis (n.) The iris. See Flower-de-luce.,
F as in Fleur-de-lis (n.) A conventional flower suggested by the iris, and having a form which fits it for the terminal decoration of a scepter, the ornaments of a crown, etc. It is also a heraldic bearing, and is identified with the royal arms and adornments of France.,
F as in Fleury (a.) Finished at the ends with fleurs-de-lis; -- said esp. of a cross so decorated.,
F as in Flew () imp. of Fly.,
F as in Flewed (a.) Having large flews.,
F as in Flews (n. pl.) The pendulous or overhanging lateral parts of the upper lip of dogs, especially prominent in hounds; -- called also chaps. See Illust. of Bloodhound.,
F as in Flexed (imp. & p. p.) of Flex,
F as in Flexing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Flex,
F as in Flex (v. t.) To bend; as, to flex the arm.,
F as in Flex (n.) Flax.,
F as in Flexanimous (a.) Having power to change the mind.,
F as in Flexibility (n.) The state or quality of being flexible; flexibleness; pliancy; pliability; as, the flexibility of strips of hemlock, hickory, whalebone or metal, or of rays of light.,
F as in Flexible (a.) Capable of being flexed or bent; admitting of being turned, bowed, or twisted, without breaking; pliable; yielding to pressure; not stiff or brittle.,
F as in Flexible (a.) Willing or ready to yield to the influence of others; not invincibly rigid or obstinate; tractable; manageable; ductile; easy and compliant; wavering.,
F as in Flexible (a.) Capable or being adapted or molded; plastic,; as, a flexible language.,
F as in Flexicostate (a.) Having bent or curved ribs.,
F as in Flexile (a.) Flexible; pliant; pliable; easily bent; plastic; tractable.,
F as in Flexion (n.) The act of flexing or bending; a turning.,
F as in Flexion (n.) A bending; a part bent; a fold.,
F as in Flexion (n.) Syntactical change of form of words, as by declension or conjugation; inflection.,
F as in Flexion (n.) The bending of a limb or joint; that motion of a joint which gives the distal member a continually decreasing angle with the axis of the proximal part; -- distinguished from extension.,
F as in Flexor (n.) A muscle which bends or flexes any part; as, the flexors of the arm or the hand; -- opposed to extensor.,
F as in Flexuose (a.) Flexuous.,
F as in Flexuous (a.) Having turns, windings, or flexures.,
F as in Flexuous (a.) Having alternate curvatures in opposite directions; bent in a zigzag manner.,
F as in Flexuous (a.) Wavering; not steady; flickering.,
F as in Flexural (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resulting from, flexure; of the nature of, or characterized by, flexure; as, flexural elasticity.,
F as in Flexure (n.) The act of flexing or bending; a turning or curving; flexion; hence, obsequious bowing or bending.,
F as in Flexure (n.) A turn; a bend; a fold; a curve.,
F as in Flexure (n.) The last joint, or bend, of the wing of a bird.,
F as in Flexure (n.) The small distortion of an astronomical instrument caused by the weight of its parts; the amount to be added or substracted from the observed readings of the instrument to correct them for this distortion.,
F as in Flibbergib (n.) A sycophant.,
F as in Flibbertigibbet (n.) An imp.,
F as in Flibustier (n.) A buccaneer; an American pirate. See Flibuster.,
F as in Flicked (imp. & p. p.) of Flick,
F as in Flicking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Flick,
F as in Flick (v. t.) To whip lightly or with a quick jerk; to flap; as, to flick a horse; to flick the dirt from boots.,
F as in Flick (n.) A flitch; as, a flick of bacon.,
F as in Flickered (imp. & p. p.) of Flicker,
F as in Flickering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Flicker,
F as in Flicker (v. i.) To flutter; to flap the wings without flying.,
F as in Flicker (v. i.) To waver unsteadily, like a flame in a current of air, or when about to expire; as, the flickering light.,
F as in Flicker (n.) The act of wavering or of fluttering; flucuation; sudden and brief increase of brightness; as, the last flicker of the dying flame.,
F as in Flicker (n.) The golden-winged woodpecker (Colaptes aurutus); -- so called from its spring note. Called also yellow-hammer, high-holder, pigeon woodpecker, and yucca.,
F as in Flickeringly (adv.) In a flickering manner.,
F as in Flickermouse (n.) See Flittermouse.,
F as in Flidge (a.) Fledged; fledge.,
F as in Flidge (v. i.) To become fledged; to fledge.,
F as in Flier (v.) One who flies or flees; a runaway; a fugitive.,
F as in Flier (v.) A fly. See Fly, n., 9, and 13 (b).,
F as in Flier (n.) See Flyer, n., 5.,
F as in Flier (n.) See Flyer, n., 4.,
F as in Flight (n.) The act or flying; a passing through the air by the help of wings; volitation; mode or style of flying.,
F as in Flight (n.) The act of fleeing; the act of running away, to escape or expected evil; hasty departure.,
F as in Flight (n.) Lofty elevation and excursion;a mounting; a soa/ing; as, a flight of imagination, ambition, folly.,
F as in Flight (n.) A number of beings or things passing through the air together; especially, a flock of birds flying in company; the birds that fly or migrate together; the birds produced in one season; as, a flight of arrows.,
F as in Flight (n.) A series of steps or stairs from one landing to another.,
F as in Flight (n.) A kind of arrow for the longbow; also, the sport of shooting with it. See Shaft.,
F as in Flight (n.) The husk or glume of oats.,
F as in Flighted (a.) Taking flight; flying; -- used in composition.,
F as in Flighted (a.) Feathered; -- said of arrows.,
F as in Flighter (n.) A horizontal vane revolving over the surface of wort in a cooler, to produce a circular current in the liquor.,
F as in Flightily (adv.) In a flighty manner.,
F as in Flightiness (n.) The state or quality of being flighty.,
F as in Flight-shot (n.) The distance to which an arrow or flight may be shot; bowshot, -- about the fifth of a mile.,
F as in Flighty (a.) Fleeting; swift; transient.,
F as in Flighty (a.) Indulging in flights, or wild and unrestrained sallies, of imagination, humor, caprice, etc.; given to disordered fancies and extravagant conduct; volatile; giddy; eccentric; slighty delirious.,
F as in Flimflam (n.) A freak; a trick; a lie.,
F as in Flimsily (adv.) In a flimsy manner.,
F as in Flimsiness (n.) The state or quality of being flimsy.,
F as in Flimsy (superl.) Weak; feeble; limp; slight; vain; without strength or solidity; of loose and unsubstantial structure; without reason or plausibility; as, a flimsy argument, excuse, objection.,
F as in Flimsy (n.) Thin or transfer paper.,
F as in Flimsy (n.) A bank note.,
F as in Flinched (imp. & p. p.) of Flinch,
F as in Flinching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Flinch,
F as in Flinch (v. i.) To withdraw from any suffering or undertaking, from pain or danger; to fail in doing or perserving; to show signs of yielding or of suffering; to shrink; to wince; as, one of the parties flinched from the combat.,
F as in Flinch (v. i.) To let the foot slip from a ball, when attempting to give a tight croquet.,
F as in Flinch (n.) The act of flinching.,
F as in Flincher (n.) One who flinches or fails.,
F as in Flinchingly (adv.) In a flinching manner.,
F as in Flindermouse (n.) A bat; a flittermouse.,
F as in Flinders (n. pl.) Small pieces or splinters; fragments.,
F as in Flung (imp. & p. p.) of Fling,
F as in Flinging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fling,
F as in Fling (v. t.) To cast, send, to throw from the hand; to hurl; to dart; to emit with violence as if thrown from the hand; as, to fing a stone into the pond.,
F as in Fling (v. t.) To shed forth; to emit; to scatter.,
F as in Fling (v. t.) To throw; to hurl; to throw off or down; to prostrate; hence, to baffle; to defeat; as, to fling a party in litigation.,
F as in Fling (v. i.) To throw; to wince; to flounce; as, the horse began to kick and fling.,
F as in Fling (v. i.) To cast in the teeth; to utter abusive language; to sneer; as, the scold began to flout and fling.,
F as in Fling (v. i.) To throw one's self in a violent or hasty manner; to rush or spring with violence or haste.,
F as in Fling (n.) A cast from the hand; a throw; also, a flounce; a kick; as, the fling of a horse.,
F as in Fling (n.) A severe or contemptuous remark; an expression of sarcastic scorn; a gibe; a sarcasm.,
F as in Fling (n.) A kind of dance; as, the Highland fling.,
F as in Fling (n.) A trifing matter; an object of contempt.,
F as in Flingdust (n.) One who kicks up the dust; a streetwalker; a low manner.,
F as in Flinger (n.) One who flings; one who jeers.,
F as in Flint (n.) A massive, somewhat impure variety of quartz, in color usually of a gray to brown or nearly black, breaking with a conchoidal fracture and sharp edge. It is very hard, and strikes fire with steel.,
F as in Flint (n.) A piece of flint for striking fire; -- formerly much used, esp. in the hammers of gun locks.,
F as in Flint (n.) Anything extremely hard, unimpressible, and unyielding, like flint.,
F as in Flint glass () A soft, heavy, brilliant glass, consisting essentially of a silicate of lead and potassium. It is used for tableware, and for optical instruments, as prisms, its density giving a high degree of dispersive power; -- so called, because formerly the silica was obtained from pulverized flints. Called also crystal glass. Cf. Glass.,
F as in Flint-hearted (a.) Hard-hearted.,
F as in Flintiness (n.) The state or quality of being flinty; hardness; cruelty.,
F as in Flintlock (n.) A lock for a gun or pistol, having a flint fixed in the hammer, which on striking the steel ignites the priming.,
F as in Flintlock (n.) A hand firearm fitted with a flintlock; esp., the old-fashioned musket of European and other armies.,
F as in Flintware (n.) A superior kind of earthenware into whose composition flint enters largely.,
F as in Flintwood (n.) An Australian name for the very hard wood of the Eucalyptus piluralis.,
F as in Flinty (superl.) Consisting of, composed of, abounding in, or resembling, flint; as, a flinty rock; flinty ground; a flinty heart.,
F as in Flip (n.) A mixture of beer, spirit, etc., stirred and heated by a hot iron.,
F as in Flipped (imp. & p. p.) of Flip,
F as in Flipping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Flip,
F as in Flip (v. t.) To toss or fillip; as, to flip up a cent.,
F as in Flipe (v. t.) To turn inside out, or with the leg part back over the foot, as a stocking in pulling off or for putting on.,
F as in Flip-flap (n.) The repeated stroke of something long and loose.,
F as in Flip-flap (adv.) With repeated strokes and noise, as of something long and loose.,
F as in Flippancy (n.) The state or quality of being flippant.,
F as in Flippant (a.) Of smooth, fluent, and rapid speech; speaking with ease and rapidity; having a voluble tongue; talkative.,
F as in Flippant (a.) Speaking fluently and confidently, without knowledge or consideration; empty; trifling; inconsiderate; pert; petulant.,
F as in Flippant (n.) A flippant person.,
F as in Flippantly (adv.) In a flippant manner.,
F as in Flippantness (n.) State or quality of being flippant.,
F as in Flipper (n.) A broad flat limb used for swimming, as those of seals, sea turtles, whales, etc.,
F as in Flipper (n.) The hand.,
F as in Flirted (imp. & p. p.) of Flirt,
F as in Flirting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Flirt,
F as in Flirt (v. t.) To throw with a jerk or quick effort; to fling suddenly; as, they flirt water in each other's faces; he flirted a glove, or a handkerchief.,
F as in Flirt (v. t.) To toss or throw about; to move playfully to and fro; as, to flirt a fan.,
F as in Flirt (v. t.) To jeer at; to treat with contempt; to mock.,
F as in Flirt (v. i.) To run and dart about; to act with giddiness, or from a desire to attract notice; especially, to play the coquette; to play at courtship; to coquet; as, they flirt with the young men.,
F as in Flirt (v. i.) To utter contemptuous language, with an air of disdain; to jeer or gibe.,
F as in Flirt (n.) A sudden jerk; a quick throw or cast; a darting motion; hence, a jeer.,
F as in Flirt (v. t.) One who flirts; esp., a woman who acts with giddiness, or plays at courtship; a coquette; a pert girl.,
F as in Flirt (a.) Pert; wanton.,
F as in Flirtation (n.) Playing at courtship; coquetry.,
F as in Flirt-gill (n.) A woman of light behavior; a gill-flirt.,
F as in Flirtigig (n.) A wanton, pert girl.,
F as in Flirtingly (adv.) In a flirting manner.,
F as in Flisk (v. i.) To frisk; to skip; to caper.,
F as in Flisk (n.) A caper; a spring; a whim.,
F as in Flitted (imp. & p. p.) of Flit,
F as in Flitting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Flit,
F as in Flit (v. i.) To move with celerity through the air; to fly away with a rapid motion; to dart along; to fleet; as, a bird flits away; a cloud flits along.,
F as in Flit (v. i.) To flutter; to rove on the wing.,
F as in Flit (v. i.) To pass rapidly, as a light substance, from one place to another; to remove; to migrate.,
F as in Flit (v. i.) To remove from one place or habitation to another.,
F as in Flit (v. i.) To be unstable; to be easily or often moved.,
F as in Flit (a.) Nimble; quick; swift. [Obs.] See Fleet.,
F as in Flitches (pl. ) of Flitch,
F as in Flitch (n.) The side of a hog salted and cured; a side of bacon.,
F as in Flitch (n.) One of several planks, smaller timbers, or iron plates, which are secured together, side by side, to make a large girder or built beam.,
F as in Flitch (n.) The outside piece of a sawed log; a slab.,
F as in Flite (v. i.) To scold; to quarrel.,
F as in Flitter (v. i.) To flutter.,
F as in Flitter (v. t.) To flutter; to move quickly; as, to flitter the cards.,
F as in Flitter (v. i.) A rag; a tatter; a small piece or fragment.,
F as in Flittermouse (n.) A bat; -- called also flickermouse, flindermouse, and flintymouse.,
F as in Flittern (a.) A term applied to the bark obtained from young oak trees.,
F as in Flittiness (n.) Unsteadiness; levity; lightness.,
F as in Flitting (n.) A flying with lightness and celerity; a fluttering.,
F as in Flitting (n.) A removal from one habitation to another.,
F as in Flittingly (adv.) In a flitting manner.,
F as in Flitty (a.) Unstable; fluttering.,
F as in Flix (n.) Down; fur.,
F as in Flix (n.) The flux; dysentery.,
F as in Flon (pl. ) of Flo,
F as in Flo (n.) An arrow.,
F as in Float (v. i.) Anything which floats or rests on the surface of a fluid, as to sustain weight, or to indicate the height of the surface, or mark the place of, something.,
F as in Float (v. i.) A mass of timber or boards fastened together, and conveyed down a stream by the current; a raft.,
F as in Float (v. i.) The hollow, metallic ball of a self-acting faucet, which floats upon the water in a cistern or boiler.,
F as in Float (v. i.) The cork or quill used in angling, to support the bait line, and indicate the bite of a fish.,
F as in Float (v. i.) Anything used to buoy up whatever is liable to sink; an inflated bag or pillow used by persons learning to swim; a life preserver.,
F as in Float (v. i.) A float board. See Float board (below).,
F as in Float (v. i.) A contrivance for affording a copious stream of water to the heated surface of an object of large bulk, as an anvil or die.,
F as in Float (v. i.) The act of flowing; flux; flow.,
F as in Float (v. i.) A quantity of earth, eighteen feet square and one foot deep.,
F as in Float (v. i.) The trowel or tool with which the floated coat of plastering is leveled and smoothed.,
F as in Float (v. i.) A polishing block used in marble working; a runner.,
F as in Float (v. i.) A single-cut file for smoothing; a tool used by shoemakers for rasping off pegs inside a shoe.,
F as in Float (v. i.) A coal cart.,
F as in Float (v. i.) The sea; a wave. See Flote, n.,
F as in Floated (imp. & p. p.) of Float,
F as in Floating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Float,
F as in Float (n.) To rest on the surface of any fluid; to swim; to be buoyed up.,
F as in Float (n.) To move quietly or gently on the water, as a raft; to drift along; to move or glide without effort or impulse on the surface of a fluid, or through the air.,
F as in Float (v. t.) To cause to float; to cause to rest or move on the surface of a fluid; as, the tide floated the ship into the harbor.,
F as in Float (v. t.) To flood; to overflow; to cover with water.,
F as in Float (v. t.) To pass over and level the surface of with a float while the plastering is kept wet.,
F as in Float (v. t.) To support and sustain the credit of, as a commercial scheme or a joint-stock company, so as to enable it to go into, or continue in, operation.,
F as in Floatable (a.) That may be floated.,
F as in Floatage (n.) Same as Flotage.,
F as in Floatation (n.) See Flotation.,
F as in Floater (n.) One who floats or swims.,
F as in Floater (n.) A float for indicating the height of a liquid surface.,
F as in Floating (a.) Buoyed upon or in a fluid; a, the floating timbers of a wreck; floating motes in the air.,
F as in Floating (a.) Free or lose from the usual attachment; as, the floating ribs in man and some other animals.,
F as in Floating (a.) Not funded; not fixed, invested, or determined; as, floating capital; a floating debt.,
F as in Floating (n.) Floating threads. See Floating threads, above.,
F as in Floating (n.) The second coat of three-coat plastering.,
F as in Floatingly (adv.) In a floating manner.,
F as in Floaty (a.) Swimming on the surface; buoyant; light.,
F as in Flobert (n.) A small cartridge designed for target shooting; -- sometimes called ball cap.,
F as in Floccillation (n.) A delirious picking of bedclothes by a sick person, as if to pick off flocks of wool; carphology; -- an alarming symptom in acute diseases.,
F as in Floccose (n.) Spotted with small tufts like wool.,
F as in Floccose (n.) Having tufts of soft hairs, which are often deciduous.,
F as in Floccular (a.) Of or pertaining to the flocculus.,
F as in Flocculated (imp. & p. p.) of Flocculate,
F as in Flocculating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Flocculate,
F as in Flocculate (v. i.) To aggregate into small lumps.,
F as in Flocculate (a.) Furnished with tufts of curly hairs, as some insects.,
F as in Flocculation (n.) The process by which small particles of fine soils and sediments aggregate into larger lumps.,
F as in Flocculence (n.) The state of being flocculent.,
F as in Flocculent (a.) Clothed with small flocks or flakes; woolly.,
F as in Flocculent (a.) Applied to the down of newly hatched or unfledged birds.,
F as in Flocculi (pl. ) of Flocculus,
F as in Flocculus (n.) A small lobe in the under surface of the cerebellum, near the middle peduncle; the subpeduncular lobe.,
F as in Flocci (pl. ) of Floccus,
F as in Floccus (n.) The tuft of hair terminating the tail of mammals.,
F as in Floccus (n.) A tuft of feathers on the head of young birds.,
F as in Floccus (n.) A woolly filament sometimes occuring with the sporules of certain fungi.,
F as in Flock (n.) A company or collection of living creatures; -- especially applied to sheep and birds, rarely to persons or (except in the plural) to cattle and other large animals; as, a flock of ravenous fowl.,
F as in Flock (n.) A Christian church or congregation; considered in their relation to the pastor, or minister in charge.,
F as in Flocked (imp. & p. p.) of Flock,
F as in Flocking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Flock,
F as in Flock (v. i.) To gather in companies or crowds.,
F as in Flock (v. t.) To flock to; to crowd.,
F as in Flock (n.) A lock of wool or hair.,
F as in Flock (n.) Woolen or cotton refuse (sing. / pl.), old rags, etc., reduced to a degree of fineness by machinery, and used for stuffing unpholstered furniture.,
F as in Flock (sing. / pl.) Very fine, sifted, woolen refuse, especially that from shearing the nap of cloths, used as a coating for wall paper to give it a velvety or clothlike appearance; also, the dust of vegetable fiber used for a similar purpose.,
F as in Flock (v. t.) To coat with flock, as wall paper; to roughen the surface of (as glass) so as to give an appearance of being covered with fine flock.,
F as in Flockling (n.) A lamb.,
F as in Flockly (adv.) In flocks; in crowds.,
F as in Flockmel (adv.) In a flock; in a body.,
F as in Flocky (a.) Abounding with flocks; floccose.,
F as in Floe (n.) A low, flat mass of floating ice.,
F as in Flogged (imp. & p. p.) of Flog,
F as in Flogging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Flog,
F as in Flog (v. t.) To beat or strike with a rod or whip; to whip; to lash; to chastise with repeated blows.,
F as in Flogger (n.) One who flogs.,
F as in Flogger (n.) A kind of mallet for beating the bung stave of a cask to start the bung.,
F as in Flogging (a. & n.) from Flog, v. t.,
F as in Flon (n. pl.) See Flo.,
F as in Flong () imp. & p. p. of Fling.,
F as in Flood (v. i.) A great flow of water; a body of moving water; the flowing stream, as of a river; especially, a body of water, rising, swelling, and overflowing land not usually thus covered; a deluge; a freshet; an inundation.,
F as in Flood (v. i.) The flowing in of the tide; the semidiurnal swell or rise of water in the ocean; -- opposed to ebb; as, young flood; high flood.,
F as in Flood (v. i.) A great flow or stream of any fluid substance; as, a flood of light; a flood of lava; hence, a great quantity widely diffused; an overflowing; a superabundance; as, a flood of bank notes; a flood of paper currency.,
F as in Flood (v. i.) Menstrual disharge; menses.,
F as in Flooded (imp. & p. p.) of Flood,
F as in Flooding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Flood,
F as in Flood (v. t.) To overflow; to inundate; to deluge; as, the swollen river flooded the valley.,
F as in Flood (v. t.) To cause or permit to be inundated; to fill or cover with water or other fluid; as, to flood arable land for irrigation; to fill to excess or to its full capacity; as, to flood a country with a depreciated currency.,
F as in Floodage (n.) Inundation.,
F as in Flooder (n.) One who floods anything.,
F as in Flooding (n.) The filling or covering with water or other fluid; overflow; inundation; the filling anything to excess.,
F as in Flooding (n.) An abnormal or excessive discharge of blood from the uterus.,
F as in Flook (n.) A fluke of an anchor.,
F as in Flookan (n.) Alt. of Flukan,
F as in Flukan (n.) See Flucan.,
F as in Flooky (a.) Fluky.,
F as in Floor (n.) The bottom or lower part of any room; the part upon which we stand and upon which the movables in the room are supported.,
F as in Floor (n.) The structure formed of beams, girders, etc., with proper covering, which divides a building horizontally into stories. Floor in sense 1 is, then, the upper surface of floor in sense 2.,
F as in Floor (n.) The surface, or the platform, of a structure on which we walk or travel; as, the floor of a bridge.,
F as in Floor (n.) A story of a building. See Story.,
F as in Floor (n.) The part of the house assigned to the members.,
F as in Floor (n.) The right to speak.,
F as in Floor (n.) That part of the bottom of a vessel on each side of the keelson which is most nearly horizontal.,
F as in Floor (n.) The rock underlying a stratified or nearly horizontal deposit.,
F as in Floor (n.) A horizontal, flat ore body.,
F as in Floored (imp. & p. p.) of Floor,
F as in Flooring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Floor,
F as in Floor (v. t.) To cover with a floor; to furnish with a floor; as, to floor a house with pine boards.,
F as in Floor (v. t.) To strike down or lay level with the floor; to knock down; hence, to silence by a conclusive answer or retort; as, to floor an opponent.,
F as in Floor (v. t.) To finish or make an end of; as, to floor a college examination.,
F as in Floorage (n.) Floor space.,
F as in Floorer (n.) Anything that floors or upsets a person, as a blow that knocks him down; a conclusive answer or retort; a task that exceeds one's abilities.,
F as in Floorheads (n. pl.) The upper extermities of the floor of a vessel.,
F as in Flooring (n.) A platform; the bottom of a room; a floor; pavement. See Floor, n.,
F as in Flooring (n.) Material for the construction of a floor or floors.,
F as in Floorless (a.) Having no floor.,
F as in Floorwalker (n.) One who walks about in a large retail store as an overseer and director.,
F as in Flopped (imp. & p. p.) of Flop,
F as in Flopping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Flop,
F as in Flop (v. t.) To clap or strike, as a bird its wings, a fish its tail, etc.; to flap.,
F as in Flop (v. t.) To turn suddenly, as something broad and flat.,
F as in Flop (v. i.) To strike about with something broad abd flat, as a fish with its tail, or a bird with its wings; to rise and fall; as, the brim of a hat flops.,
F as in Flop (v. i.) To fall, sink, or throw one's self, heavily, clumsily, and unexpectedly on the ground.,
F as in Flop (n.) Act of flopping.,
F as in Floppy (n.) Having a tendency to flop or flap; as, a floppy hat brim.,
F as in Flopwing (n.) The lapwing.,
F as in Flora (n.) The goddess of flowers and spring.,
F as in Flora (n.) The complete system of vegetable species growing without cultivation in a given locality, region, or period; a list or description of, or treatise on, such plants.,
F as in Floral (a.) Pertaining to Flora, or to flowers; made of flowers; as, floral games, wreaths.,
F as in Floral (a.) Containing, or belonging to, a flower; as, a floral bud; a floral leaf; floral characters.,
F as in Florally (adv.) In a floral manner.,
F as in Floramour (n.) The plant love-lies-bleeding.,
F as in Floran (n.) Tin ore scarcely perceptible in the stone; tin ore stamped very fine.,
F as in Floreal (n.) The eight month of the French republican calendar. It began April 20, and ended May 19. See Vendemiare.,
F as in Floren (n.) A cerain gold coin; a Florence.,
F as in Florence (n.) An ancient gold coin of the time of Edward III., of six shillings sterling value.,
F as in Florence (n.) A kind of cloth.,
F as in Florentine (a.) Belonging or relating to Florence, in Italy.,
F as in Florentine (n.) A native or inhabitant of Florence, a city in Italy.,
F as in Florentine (n.) A kind of silk.,
F as in Florentine (n.) A kind of pudding or tart; a kind of meat pie.,
F as in Florescence (n.) A bursting into flower; a blossoming.,
F as in Florescent (a.) Expanding into flowers; blossoming.,
F as in Floret (n.) A little flower; one of the numerous little flowers which compose the head or anthodium in such flowers as the daisy, thistle, and dandelion.,
F as in Floret (n.) A foil; a blunt sword used in fencing.,
F as in Floriage (n.) Bloom; blossom.,
F as in Floriated (a.) Having floral ornaments; as, floriated capitals of Gothic pillars.,
F as in Floricomous (a.) Having the head adorned with flowers.,
F as in Floricultural (a.) Pertaining to the cultivation of flowering plants.,
F as in Floriculture (n.) The cultivation of flowering plants.,
F as in Floriculturist (n.) One skilled in the cultivation of flowers; a florist.,
F as in Florid (a.) Covered with flowers; abounding in flowers; flowery.,
F as in Florid (a.) Bright in color; flushed with red; of a lively reddish color; as, a florid countenance.,
F as in Florid (a.) Embellished with flowers of rhetoric; enriched to excess with figures; excessively ornate; as, a florid style; florid eloquence.,
F as in Florid (a.) Flowery; ornamental; running in rapid melodic figures, divisions, or passages, as in variations; full of fioriture or little ornamentations.,
F as in Florida bean () The large, roundish, flattened seed of Mucuna urens. See under Bean.,
F as in Florida bean () One of the very large seeds of the Entada scandens.,
F as in Florideae (n. pl.) A subclass of algae including all the red or purplish seaweeds; the Rhodospermeae of many authors; -- so called from the rosy or florid color of most of the species.,
F as in Floridity (n.) The quality of being florid; floridness.,
F as in Floridly (adv.) In a florid manner.,
F as in Floridness (n.) The quality of being florid.,
F as in Floriferous (a.) Producing flowers.,
F as in Florification (n.) The act, process, or time of flowering; florescence.,
F as in Floriform (a.) Having the form of a flower; flower-shaped.,
F as in Floriken (n.) An Indian bustard (Otis aurita). The Bengal floriken is Sypheotides Bengalensis.,
F as in Florilege (n.) The act of gathering flowers.,
F as in Florimer (n.) See Floramour.,
F as in Florin (n.) A silver coin of Florence, first struck in the twelfth century, and noted for its beauty. The name is given to different coins in different countries. The florin of England, first minted in 1849, is worth two shillings, or about 48 cents; the florin of the Netherlands, about 40 cents; of Austria, about 36 cents.,
F as in Florist (n.) A cultivator of, or dealer in, flowers.,
F as in Florist (n.) One who writes a flora, or an account of plants.,
F as in Floroon (n.) A border worked with flowers.,
F as in Florulent (a.) Flowery; blossoming.,
F as in Floscular (a.) Flosculous.,
F as in Floscularian (n.) One of a group of stalked rotifers, having ciliated tentacles around the lobed disk.,
F as in Floscule (n.) A floret.,
F as in Flosculous (a.) Consisting of many gamopetalous florets.,
F as in Flos-ferri (n.) A variety of aragonite, occuring in delicate white coralloidal forms; -- common in beds of iron ore.,
F as in Flosh (n.) A hopper-shaped box or /nortar in which ore is placed for the action of the stamps.,
F as in Floss (n.) The slender styles of the pistillate flowers of maize; also called silk.,
F as in Floss (n.) Untwisted filaments of silk, used in embroidering.,
F as in Floss (n.) A small stream of water.,
F as in Floss (n.) Fluid glass floating on iron in the puddling furnace, produced by the vitrification of oxides and earths which are present.,
F as in Flossification (n.) A flowering; florification.,
F as in Flossy (a.) Pertaining to, made of, or resembling, floss; hence, light; downy.,
F as in Flota (n.) A fleet; especially, a /eet of Spanish ships which formerly sailed every year from Cadiz to Vera Cruz, in Mexico, to transport to Spain the production of Spanish America.,
F as in Flotage (n.) The state of floating.,
F as in Flotage (n.) That which floats on the sea or in rivers.,
F as in Flotant (a.) Represented as flying or streaming in the air; as, a banner flotant.,
F as in Flotation (n.) The act, process, or state of floating.,
F as in Flotation (n.) The science of floating bodies.,
F as in Flote (v. t.) To fleet; to skim.,
F as in Flote (n.) A wave.,
F as in Flotery (a.) Wavy; flowing.,
F as in Flotilla (n.) A little fleet, or a fleet of small vessels.,
F as in Flotsam (n.) Alt. of Flotson,
F as in Flotson (n.) Goods lost by shipwreck, and floating on the sea; -- in distinction from jetsam or jetson.,
F as in Flotten (v. t.) Skimmed.,
F as in Flounced (imp. & p. p.) of Flounce,
F as in Flouncing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Flounce,
F as in Flounce (v. i.) To throw the limbs and body one way and the other; to spring, turn, or twist with sudden effort or violence; to struggle, as a horse in mire; to flounder; to throw one's self with a jerk or spasm, often as in displeasure.,
F as in Flounce (n.) The act of floucing; a sudden, jerking motion of the body.,
F as in Flounce (n.) An ornamental appendage to the skirt of a woman's dress, consisting of a strip gathered and sewed on by its upper edge around the skirt, and left hanging.,
F as in Flounce (v. t.) To deck with a flounce or flounces; as, to flounce a petticoat or a frock.,
F as in Flounder (n.) A flatfish of the family Pleuronectidae, of many species.,
F as in Flounder (n.) A tool used in crimping boot fronts.,
F as in Floundered (imp. & p. p.) of Flounder,
F as in Floundering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Flounder,
F as in Flounder (v. i.) To fling the limbs and body, as in making efforts to move; to struggle, as a horse in the mire, or as a fish on land; to roll, toss, and tumble; to flounce.,
F as in Flounder (n.) The act of floundering.,
F as in Flour (n.) The finely ground meal of wheat, or of any other grain; especially, the finer part of meal separated by bolting; hence, the fine and soft powder of any substance; as, flour of emery; flour of mustard.,
F as in Floured (imp. & p. p.) of Flour,
F as in Flouring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Flour,
F as in Flour (v. t.) To grind and bolt; to convert into flour; as, to flour wheat.,
F as in Flour (v. t.) To sprinkle with flour.,
F as in Floured (p. a.) Finely granulated; -- said of quicksilver which has been granulated by agitation during the amalgamation process.,
F as in Flourished (imp. & p. p.) of Flourish,
F as in Flourishing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Flourish,
F as in Flourish (v. i.) To grow luxuriantly; to increase and enlarge, as a healthy growing plant; a thrive.,
F as in Flourish (v. i.) To be prosperous; to increase in wealth, honor, comfort, happiness, or whatever is desirable; to thrive; to be prominent and influental; specifically, of authors, painters, etc., to be in a state of activity or production.,
F as in Flourish (v. i.) To use florid language; to indulge in rhetorical figures and lofty expressions; to be flowery.,
F as in Flourish (v. i.) To make bold and sweeping, fanciful, or wanton movements, by way of ornament, parade, bravado, etc.; to play with fantastic and irregular motion.,
F as in Flourish (v. i.) To make ornamental strokes with the pen; to write graceful, decorative figures.,
F as in Flourish (v. i.) To execute an irregular or fanciful strain of music, by way of ornament or prelude.,
F as in Flourish (v. i.) To boast; to vaunt; to brag.,
F as in Flourish (v. t.) To adorn with flowers orbeautiful figures, either natural or artificial; to ornament with anything showy; to embellish.,
F as in Flourish (v. t.) To embellish with the flowers of diction; to adorn with rhetorical figures; to grace with ostentatious eloquence; to set off with a parade of words.,
F as in Flourish (v. t.) To move in bold or irregular figures; to swing about in circles or vibrations by way of show or triumph; to brandish.,
F as in Flourish (v. t.) To develop; to make thrive; to expand.,
F as in Flourishes (pl. ) of Flourish,
F as in Flourish (n.) A flourishing condition; prosperity; vigor.,
F as in Flourish (n.) Decoration; ornament; beauty.,
F as in Flourish (n.) Something made or performed in a fanciful, wanton, or vaunting manner, by way of ostentation, to excite admiration, etc.; ostentatious embellishment; ambitious copiousness or amplification; parade of words and figures; show; as, a flourish of rhetoric or of wit.,
F as in Flourish (n.) A fanciful stroke of the pen or graver; a merely decorative figure.,
F as in Flourish (n.) A fantastic or decorative musical passage; a strain of triumph or bravado, not forming part of a regular musical composition; a cal; a fanfare.,
F as in Flourish (n.) The waving of a weapon or other thing; a brandishing; as, the flourish of a sword.,
F as in Flourisher (n.) One who flourishes.,
F as in Flourishingly (adv.) In a flourishing manner; ostentatiously.,
F as in Floury (a.) Of or resembling flour; mealy; covered with flour.,
F as in Flouted (imp. & p. p.) of Flout,
F as in Flouting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Flout,
F as in Flout (v. t.) To mock or insult; to treat with contempt.,
F as in Flout (v. i.) To practice mocking; to behave with contempt; to sneer; to fleer; -- often with at.,
F as in Flout (n.) A mock; an insult.,
F as in Flouter (n.) One who flouts; a mocker.,
F as in Floutingly (adv.) With flouting; insultingly; as, to treat a lover floutingly.,
F as in Flow () imp. sing. of Fly, v. i.,
F as in Flowed (imp. & p. p.) of Flow,
F as in Flowing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Flow,
F as in Flow (v. i.) To move with a continual change of place among the particles or parts, as a fluid; to change place or circulate, as a liquid; as, rivers flow from springs and lakes; tears flow from the eyes.,
F as in Flow (v. i.) To become liquid; to melt.,
F as in Flow (v. i.) To proceed; to issue forth; as, wealth flows from industry and economy.,
F as in Flow (v. i.) To glide along smoothly, without harshness or asperties; as, a flowing period; flowing numbers; to sound smoothly to the ear; to be uttered easily.,
F as in Flow (v. i.) To have or be in abundance; to abound; to full, so as to run or flow over; to be copious.,
F as in Flow (v. i.) To hang loose and waving; as, a flowing mantle; flowing locks.,
F as in Flow (v. i.) To rise, as the tide; -- opposed to ebb; as, the tide flows twice in twenty-four hours.,
F as in Flow (v. i.) To discharge blood in excess from the uterus.,
F as in Flow (v. t.) To cover with water or other liquid; to overflow; to inundate; to flood.,
F as in Flow (v. t.) To cover with varnish.,
F as in Flow (n.) A stream of water or other fluid; a current; as, a flow of water; a flow of blood.,
F as in Flow (n.) A continuous movement of something abundant; as, a flow of words.,
F as in Flow (n.) Any gentle, gradual movement or procedure of thought, diction, music, or the like, resembling the quiet, steady movement of a river; a stream.,
F as in Flow (n.) The tidal setting in of the water from the ocean to the shore. See Ebb and flow, under Ebb.,
F as in Flow (n.) A low-lying piece of watery land; -- called also flow moss and flow bog.,
F as in Flowage (n.) An overflowing with water; also, the water which thus overflows.,
F as in Flowen () imp. pl. of Fly, v. i.,
F as in Flower (n.) In the popular sense, the bloom or blossom of a plant; the showy portion, usually of a different color, shape, and texture from the foliage.,
F as in Flower (n.) That part of a plant destined to produce seed, and hence including one or both of the sexual organs; an organ or combination of the organs of reproduction, whether inclosed by a circle of foliar parts or not. A complete flower consists of two essential parts, the stamens and the pistil, and two floral envelopes, the corolla and callyx. In mosses the flowers consist of a few special leaves surrounding or subtending organs called archegonia. See Blossom, and Corolla.,
F as in Flower (n.) The fairest, freshest, and choicest part of anything; as, the flower of an army, or of a family; the state or time of freshness and bloom; as, the flower of life, that is, youth.,
F as in Flower (n.) Grain pulverized; meal; flour.,
F as in Flower (n.) A substance in the form of a powder, especially when condensed from sublimation; as, the flowers of sulphur.,
F as in Flower (n.) A figure of speech; an ornament of style.,
F as in Flower (n.) Ornamental type used chiefly for borders around pages, cards, etc.,
F as in Flower (n.) Menstrual discharges.,
F as in Flowered (imp. & p. p.) of Flower,
F as in Flowering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Flower,
F as in Flower (v. i.) To blossom; to bloom; to expand the petals, as a plant; to produce flowers; as, this plant flowers in June.,
F as in Flower (v. i.) To come into the finest or fairest condition.,
F as in Flower (v. i.) To froth; to ferment gently, as new beer.,
F as in Flower (v. i.) To come off as flowers by sublimation.,
F as in Flower (v. t.) To embellish with flowers; to adorn with imitated flowers; as, flowered silk.,
F as in Flowerage (n.) State of flowers; flowers, collectively or in general.,
F as in Flower-de-luce (n.) A genus of perennial herbs (Iris) with swordlike leaves and large three-petaled flowers often of very gay colors, but probably white in the plant first chosen for the royal French emblem.,
F as in Flowerer (n.) A plant which flowers or blossoms.,
F as in Floweret (n.) A small flower; a floret.,
F as in Flower-fence (n.) A tropical leguminous bush (Poinciana, / Caesalpinia, pulcherrima) with prickly branches, and showy yellow or red flowers; -- so named from its having been sometimes used for hedges in the West Indies.,
F as in Flowerful (a.) Abounding with flowers.,
F as in Flower-gentle (n.) A species of amaranth (Amarantus melancholicus).,
F as in Floweriness (n.) The state of being flowery.,
F as in Flowering (a.) Having conspicuous flowers; -- used as an epithet with many names of plants; as, flowering ash; flowering dogwood; flowering almond, etc.,
F as in Flowering (n.) The act of blossoming, or the season when plants blossom; florification.,
F as in Flowering (n.) The act of adorning with flowers.,
F as in Flowerless (a.) Having no flowers.,
F as in Flowerlessness (n.) State of being without flowers.,
F as in Flowerpot (n.) A vessel, commonly or earthenware, for earth in which plants are grown.,
F as in Flowery (a.) Full of flowers; abounding with blossoms.,
F as in Flowery (a.) Highly embellished with figurative language; florid; as, a flowery style.,
F as in Flowery-kirtled (a.) Dressed with garlands of flowers.,
F as in Flowing (a.) That flows or for flowing (in various sense of the verb); gliding along smoothly; copious.,
F as in Flowing () a. & n. from Flow, v. i. & t.,
F as in Flowingly (adv.) In a flowing manner.,
F as in Flowingness (n.) Flowing tendency or quality; fluency.,
F as in Flowk (n.) See 1st Fluke.,
F as in Flown () p. p. of Fly; -- often used with the auxiliary verb to be; as, the birds are flown.,
F as in Flown (a.) Flushed, inflated.,
F as in Floxed silk () See Floss silk, under Floss.,
F as in Floyte (n. & v.) A variant of Flute.,
F as in Fluate (n.) A fluoride.,
F as in Fluavil (n.) A hydrocarbon extracted from gutta-percha, as a yellow, resinous substance; -- called also fluanil.,
F as in Flucan (n.) Soft clayey matter in the vein, or surrounding it.,
F as in Fluctiferous (a.) Tending to produce waves.,
F as in Fluctisonous (a.) Sounding like waves.,
F as in Fluctuability (n.) The capacity or ability to fluctuate.,
F as in Fluctuant (a.) Moving like a wave; wavering,
F as in Fluctuant (a.) showing undulation or fluctuation; as, a fluctuant tumor.,
F as in Fluctuant (a.) Floating on the waves.,
F as in Fluctuated (imp. & p. p.) of Fluctuate,
F as in Fluctuating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fluctuate,
F as in Fluctuate (v. i.) To move as a wave; to roll hither and thither; to wave; to float backward and forward, as on waves; as, a fluctuating field of air.,
F as in Fluctuate (v. i.) To move now in one direction and now in another; to be wavering or unsteady; to be irresolute or undetermined; to vacillate.,
F as in Fluctuate (v. t.) To cause to move as a wave; to put in motion.,
F as in Fluctuation (n.) A motion like that of waves; a moving in this and that direction; as, the fluctuations of the sea.,
F as in Fluctuation (n.) A wavering; unsteadiness; as, fluctuations of opinion; fluctuations of prices.,
F as in Fluctuation (n.) The motion or undulation of a fluid collected in a natural or artifical cavity, which is felt when it is subjected to pressure or percussion.,
F as in Flue (n.) An inclosed passage way for establishing and directing a current of air, gases, etc.; an air passage,
F as in Flue (n.) A compartment or division of a chimney for conveying flame and smoke to the outer air.,
F as in Flue (n.) A passage way for conducting a current of fresh, foul, or heated air from one place to another.,
F as in Flue (n.) A pipe or passage for conveying flame and hot gases through surrounding water in a boiler; -- distinguished from a tube which holds water and is surrounded by fire. Small flues are called fire tubes or simply tubes.,
F as in Flue (n.) Light down, such as rises from cotton, fur, etc.; very fine lint or hair.,
F as in Fluence (n.) Fluency.,
F as in Fluency (n.) The quality of being fluent; smoothness; readiness of utterance; volubility.,
F as in Fluent (a.) Flowing or capable of flowing; liquid; glodding; easily moving.,
F as in Fluent (a.) Ready in the use of words; voluble; copious; having words at command; and uttering them with facility and smoothness; as, a fluent speaker; hence, flowing; voluble; smooth; -- said of language; as, fluent speech.,
F as in Fluent (n.) A current of water; a stream.,
F as in Fluent (n.) A variable quantity, considered as increasing or diminishing; -- called, in the modern calculus, the function or integral.,
F as in Fluently (adv.) In a fluent manner.,
F as in Fluentness (n.) The quality of being fluent.,
F as in Fluework (n.) A general name for organ stops in which the sound is caused by wind passing through a flue or fissure and striking an edge above; -- in distinction from reedwork.,
F as in Fluey (a.) Downy; fluffy.,
F as in Fluff (n.) Nap or down; flue; soft, downy feathers.,
F as in Fluffy (superl.) Pertaining to, or resembling, fluff or nap; soft and downy.,
F as in Flugel (n.) A grand piano or a harpsichord, both being wing-shaped.,
F as in Flugelman (n.) Same as Fugleman.,
F as in Fluid (a.) Having particles which easily move and change their relative position without a separation of the mass, and which easily yield to pressure; capable of flowing; liquid or gaseous.,
F as in Fluid (n.) A fluid substance; a body whose particles move easily among themselves.,
F as in Fluidal (a.) Pertaining to a fluid, or to its flowing motion.,
F as in Fluinity (n.) The quality of being fluid or capable of flowing; a liquid, aeriform. or gaseous state; -- opposed to solidity.,
F as in Fluidized (imp. & p. p.) of Fluidize,
F as in Fluidizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fluidize,
F as in Fluidize (v. t.) To render fluid.,
F as in Fluidness (n.) The state of being flluid; fluidity.,
F as in Fluidounce (n.) See Fluid ounce, under Fluid.,
F as in Fluidrachm (n.) See Fluid dram, under Fluid.,
F as in Flukan (n.) Flucan.,
F as in Fluke (n.) The European flounder. See Flounder.,
F as in Fluke (n.) A parasitic trematode worm of several species, having a flat, lanceolate body and two suckers. Two species (Fasciola hepatica and Distoma lanceolatum) are found in the livers of sheep, and produce the disease called rot.,
F as in Fluke (n.) The part of an anchor which fastens in the ground; a flook. See Anchor.,
F as in Fluke (n.) One of the lobes of a whale's tail, so called from the resemblance to the fluke of an anchor.,
F as in Fluke (n.) An instrument for cleaning out a hole drilled in stone for blasting.,
F as in Fluke (n.) An accidental and favorable stroke at billiards (called a scratch in the United States); hence, any accidental or unexpected advantage; as, he won by a fluke.,
F as in Flukeworm (n.) Same as 1st Fluke, 2.,
F as in Fluky (a.) Formed like, or having, a fluke.,
F as in Flume (n.) A stream; especially, a passage channel, or conduit for the water that drives a mill wheel; or an artifical channel of water for hydraulic or placer mining; also, a chute for conveying logs or lumber down a declivity.,
F as in Fluminous (a.) Pertaining to rivers; abounding in streama.,
F as in Flummery (n.) A light kind of food, formerly made of flour or meal; a sort of pap.,
F as in Flummery (n.) Something insipid, or not worth having; empty compliment; trash; unsubstantial talk of writing.,
F as in Flung () imp. & p. p. of Fling.,
F as in Flunked (imp. & p. p.) of Flunk,
F as in Flunking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Flunk,
F as in Flunk (v. i.) To fail, as on a lesson; to back out, as from an undertaking, through fear.,
F as in Flunk (v. t.) To fail in; to shirk, as a task or duty.,
F as in Flunk (n.) A failure or backing out,
F as in Flunk (n.) a total failure in a recitation.,
F as in Flunkies (pl. ) of Flunky,
F as in Flunky (n.) A contemptuous name for a liveried servant or a footman.,
F as in Flunky (n.) One who is obsequious or cringing; a snob.,
F as in Flunky (n.) One easily deceived in buying stocks; an inexperienced and unwary jobber.,
F as in Flunkydom (n.) The place or region of flunkies.,
F as in Flunlyism (n.) The quality or characteristics of a flunky; readiness to cringe to those who are superior in wealth or position; toadyism.,
F as in Fluo- () A combining form indicating fluorine as an ingredient; as in fluosilicate, fluobenzene.,
F as in Fluoborate (n.) A salt of fluoboric acid; a fluoboride.,
F as in Fluoboric (a.) Pertaining to, derived from, or consisting of, fluorine and boron.,
F as in Fluoboride (n.) See Borofluoride.,
F as in Fluocerine (n.) Alt. of Fluocerite,
F as in Fluocerite (n.) A fluoride of cerium, occuring near Fahlun in Sweden. Tynosite, from Colorado, is probably the same mineral.,
F as in Fluohydric (a.) See Hydrofluoric.,
F as in Fluophosphate (n.) A double salt of fluoric and phosphoric acids.,
F as in Fluor (n.) A fluid state.,
F as in Fluor (n.) Menstrual flux; catamenia; menses.,
F as in Fluor (n.) See Fluorite.,
F as in Fluor albus () The whites; leucorrhaea.,
F as in Fluoranthene (n.) A white crystalline hydrocarbon C/H/, of a complex structure, found as one ingrdient of the higher boiling portion of coal tar.,
F as in Fluorated (a.) Combined with fluorine; subjected to the action of fluoride.,
F as in Fluorene (n.) A colorless, crystalline hydrocarbon, C13H10 having a beautiful violet fluorescence; whence its name. It occurs in the higher boiling products of coal tar, and is obtained artificially.,
F as in Fluorescein (n.) A yellowish red, crystalline substance, C20H12O5, produced by heating together phthalic anhydride and resorcin; -- so called, from the very brilliant yellowish green fluorescence of its alkaline solutions. It has acid properties, and its salts of the alkalies are known to the trade under the name of uranin.,
F as in Fluorescence (n.) That property which some transparent bodies have of producing at their surface, or within their substance, light different in color from the mass of the material, as when green crystals of fluor spar afford blue reflections. It is due not to the difference in the color of a distinct surface layer, but to the power which the substance has of modifying the light incident upon it. The light emitted by fluorescent substances is in general of lower refrangibility than the incident light.,
F as in Fluorescent (a.) Having the property of fluorescence.,
F as in Fluorescin (n.) A colorless, amorphous substance which is produced by the reduction of fluorescein, and from which the latter may be formed by oxidation.,
F as in Fluoric (a.) Pertaining to, obtained from, or containing, fluorine.,
F as in Fluoride (n.) A binary compound of fluorine with another element or radical.,
F as in Fluorine (n.) A non-metallic, gaseous element, strongly acid or negative, or associated with chlorine, bromine, and iodine, in the halogen group of which it is the first member. It always occurs combined, is very active chemically, and possesses such an avidity for most elements, and silicon especially, that it can neither be prepared nor kept in glass vessels. If set free it immediately attacks the containing material, so that it was not isolated until 1886. It is a pungent, corrosive, colorless gas. Symbol F. Atomic weight 19.,
F as in Fluorite (n.) Calcium fluoride, a mineral of many different colors, white, yellow, purple, green, red, etc., often very beautiful, crystallizing commonly in cubes with perfect octahedral cleavage; also massive. It is used as a flux. Some varieties are used for ornamental vessels. Also called fluor spar, or simply fluor.,
F as in Fluoroid (n.) A tetrahexahedron; -- so called because it is a common form of fluorite.,
F as in Fluoroscope (n.) An instrument for observing or exhibiting fluorescence.,
F as in Fluorous (a.) Pertaining to fluor.,
F as in Fluor spar () See Fluorite.,
F as in Fluosilicate (n.) A double fluoride of silicon and some other (usually basic) element or radical, regarded as a salt of fluosilicic acid; -- called also silicofluoride.,
F as in Fluosilicic (a.) Composed of, or derived from, silicon and fluorine.,
F as in Flurried (a.) Agitated; excited.,
F as in Flurries (pl. ) of Flurry,
F as in Flurry (n.) A sudden and brief blast or gust; a light, temporary breeze; as, a flurry of wind.,
F as in Flurry (n.) A light shower or snowfall accompanied with wind.,
F as in Flurry (n.) Violent agitation; commotion; bustle; hurry.,
F as in Flurry (n.) The violent spasms of a dying whale.,
F as in Flurried (imp. & p. p.) of Flurry,
F as in Flurrying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Flurry,
F as in Flurry (v. t.) To put in a state of agitation; to excite or alarm.,
F as in Flurt (n.) A flirt.,
F as in Flushed (imp. & p. p.) of Flush,
F as in Flushing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Flush,
F as in Flush (v. i.) To flow and spread suddenly; to rush; as, blood flushes into the face.,
F as in Flush (v. i.) To become suddenly suffused, as the cheeks; to turn red; to blush.,
F as in Flush (v. i.) To snow red; to shine suddenly; to glow.,
F as in Flush (v. i.) To start up suddenly; to take wing as a bird.,
F as in Flush (v. t.) To cause to be full; to flood; to overflow; to overwhelm with water; as, to flush the meadows; to flood for the purpose of cleaning; as, to flush a sewer.,
F as in Flush (v. t.) To cause the blood to rush into (the face); to put to the blush, or to cause to glow with excitement.,
F as in Flush (v. t.) To make suddenly or temporarily red or rosy, as if suffused with blood.,
F as in Flush (v. t.) To excite; to animate; to stir.,
F as in Flush (v. t.) To cause to start, as a hunter a bird.,
F as in Flush (n.) A sudden flowing; a rush which fills or overflows, as of water for cleansing purposes.,
F as in Flush (n.) A suffusion of the face with blood, as from fear, shame, modesty, or intensity of feeling of any kind; a blush; a glow.,
F as in Flush (n.) Any tinge of red color like that produced on the cheeks by a sudden rush of blood; as, the flush on the side of a peach; the flush on the clouds at sunset.,
F as in Flush (n.) A sudden flood or rush of feeling; a thrill of excitement. animation, etc.; as, a flush of joy.,
F as in Flush (n.) A flock of birds suddenly started up or flushed.,
F as in Flush (n.) A hand of cards of the same suit.,
F as in Flush (a.) Full of vigor; fresh; glowing; bright.,
F as in Flush (a.) Affluent; abounding; well furnished or suppled; hence, liberal; prodigal.,
F as in Flush (a.) Unbroken or even in surface; on a level with the adjacent surface; forming a continuous surface; as, a flush panel; a flush joint.,
F as in Flush (a.) Consisting of cards of one suit.,
F as in Flush (adv.) So as to be level or even.,
F as in Flushboard (n.) Same as Flashboard.,
F as in Flusher (n.) A workman employed in cleaning sewers by flushing them with water.,
F as in Flusher (n.) The red-backed shrike. See Flasher.,
F as in Flushing (n.) A heavy, coarse cloth manufactured from shoddy; -- commonly in the /,
F as in Flushing (n.) A surface formed of floating threads.,
F as in Flushingly (adv.) In a flushing manner.,
F as in Flushness (n.) The state of being flush; abundance.,
F as in Flustered (imp. & p. p.) of Fluster,
F as in Flustering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fluster,
F as in Fluster (v. t.) To make hot and rosy, as with drinking; to heat; hence, to throw into agitation and confusion; to confuse; to muddle.,
F as in Fluster (v. i.) To be in a heat or bustle; to be agitated and confused.,
F as in Fluster (n.) Heat or glow, as from drinking; agitation mingled with confusion; disorder.,
F as in Flusteration (n.) The act of flustering, or the state of being flustered; fluster.,
F as in Flustrate (v. t.) To fluster.,
F as in Flustration (n.) The act of flustrating; confusion; flurry.,
F as in Flute (v. i.) A musical wind instrument, consisting of a hollow cylinder or pipe, with holes along its length, stopped by the fingers or by keys which are opened by the fingers. The modern flute is closed at the upper end, and blown with the mouth at a lateral hole.,
F as in Flute (v. i.) A channel of curved section; -- usually applied to one of a vertical series of such channels used to decorate columns and pilasters in classical architecture. See Illust. under Base, n.,
F as in Flute (n.) A similar channel or groove made in wood or other material, esp. in plaited cloth, as in a lady's ruffle.,
F as in Flute (n.) A long French breakfast roll.,
F as in Flute (n.) A stop in an organ, having a flutelike sound.,
F as in Flute (n.) A kind of flyboat; a storeship.,
F as in Flute (v. i.) To play on, or as on, a flute; to make a flutelike sound.,
F as in Fluted (imp. & p. p.) of Flute,
F as in Fluting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Flute,
F as in Flute (v. t.) To play, whistle, or sing with a clear, soft note, like that of a flute.,
F as in Flute (v. t.) To form flutes or channels in, as in a column, a ruffle, etc.,
F as in Flute a bec () A beak flute, an older form of the flute, played with a mouthpiece resembling a beak, and held like a flageolet.,
F as in Fluted (a.) Thin; fine; clear and mellow; flutelike; as, fluted notes.,
F as in Fluted (a.) Decorated with flutes; channeled; grooved; as, a fluted column; a fluted ruffle; a fluted spectrum.,
F as in Flutemouth (n.) A fish of the genus Aulostoma, having a much elongated tubular snout.,
F as in Fluter (n.) One who plays on the flute; a flutist or flautist.,
F as in Fluter (n.) One who makes grooves or flutings.,
F as in Fluting (n.) Decoration by means of flutes or channels; a flute, or flutes collectively; as, the fluting of a column or pilaster; the fluting of a lady's ruffle.,
F as in Flutist (n.) A performer on the flute; a flautist.,
F as in Flutist (n.) To move with quick vibrations or undulations; as, a sail flutters in the wind; a fluttering fan.,
F as in Flutist (n.) To move about briskly, irregularly, or with great bustle and show, without much result.,
F as in Flutist (n.) To be in agitation; to move irregularly; to flucttuate; to be uncertainty.,
F as in Flutter (v. t.) To vibrate or move quickly; as, a bird flutters its wings.,
F as in Flutter (v. t.) To drive in disorder; to throw into confusion.,
F as in Flutter (n.) The act of fluttering; quick and irregular motion; vibration; as, the flutter of a fan.,
F as in Flutter (n.) Hurry; tumult; agitation of the mind; confusion; disorder.,
F as in Flutterer (n.) One who, or that which, flutters.,
F as in Flutteringly (adv.) In a fluttering manner.,
F as in Fluty (a.) Soft and clear in tone, like a flute.,
F as in Fluvial (a.) Belonging to rivers; growing or living in streams or ponds; as, a fluvial plant.,
F as in Fluvialist (n.) One who exlpains geological phenomena by the action of streams.,
F as in Fluviatic (a.) Belonging to rivers or streams; fluviatile.,
F as in Fluviatile (a.) Belonging to rivers or streams; existing in or about rivers; produced by river action; fluvial; as, fluviatile starta, plants.,
F as in Fluvio-marine (a.) Formed by the joint action of a river and the sea, as deposits at the mouths of rivers.,
F as in Flux (n.) The act of flowing; a continuous moving on or passing by, as of a flowing stream; constant succession; change.,
F as in Flux (n.) The setting in of the tide toward the shore, -- the ebb being called the reflux.,
F as in Flux (n.) The state of being liquid through heat; fusion.,
F as in Flux (n.) Any substance or mixture used to promote the fusion of metals or minerals, as alkalies, borax, lime, fluorite.,
F as in Flux (n.) A fluid discharge from the bowels or other part; especially, an excessive and morbid discharge; as, the bloody flux or dysentery. See Bloody flux.,
F as in Flux (n.) The matter thus discharged.,
F as in Flux (n.) The quantity of a fluid that crosses a unit area of a given surface in a unit of time.,
F as in Flux (n.) Flowing; unstable; inconstant; variable.,
F as in Fluxed (imp. & p. p.) of Flux,
F as in Fluxing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Flux,
F as in Flux (v. t.) To affect, or bring to a certain state, by flux.,
F as in Flux (v. t.) To cause to become fluid; to fuse.,
F as in Flux (v. t.) To cause a discharge from; to purge.,
F as in Fluxation (n.) The act of fluxing.,
F as in Fluxibility (n.) The quality of being fluxible.,
F as in Fluxible (a.) Capable of being melted or fused, as a mineral.,
F as in Fluxile (a.) Fluxible.,
F as in Fluxility (n.) State of being fluxible.,
F as in Fluxion (n.) The act of flowing.,
F as in Fluxion (n.) The matter that flows.,
F as in Fluxion (n.) Fusion; the running of metals into a fluid state.,
F as in Fluxion (n.) An unnatural or excessive flow of blood or fluid toward any organ; a determination.,
F as in Fluxion (n.) A constantly varying indication.,
F as in Fluxion (n.) The infinitely small increase or decrease of a variable or flowing quantity in a certain infinitely small and constant period of time; the rate of variation of a fluent; an incerement; a differential.,
F as in Fluxion (n.) A method of analysis developed by Newton, and based on the conception of all magnitudes as generated by motion, and involving in their changes the notion of velocity or rate of change. Its results are the same as those of the differential and integral calculus, from which it differs little except in notation and logical method.,
F as in Fluxional (a.) Pertaining to, or having the nature of, fluxion or fluxions; variable; inconstant.,
F as in Fluxionary (a.) Fluxional.,
F as in Fluxionary (a.) Pertaining to, or caused by, an increased flow of blood to a part; congestive; as, a fluxionary hemorrhage.,
F as in Fluxionist (n.) One skilled in fluxions.,
F as in Fluxions (n. pl.) See Fluxion, 6(b).,
F as in Fluxive (a.) Flowing; also, wanting solidity.,
F as in Fluxure (n.) The quality of being fluid.,
F as in Fluxure (n.) Fluid matter.,
F as in Flew (imp.) of Fly,
F as in Flown (p. p.) of Fly,
F as in Flying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fly,
F as in Fly (v. i.) To move in or pass thorugh the air with wings, as a bird.,
F as in Fly (v. i.) To move through the air or before the wind; esp., to pass or be driven rapidly through the air by any impulse.,
F as in Fly (v. i.) To float, wave, or rise in the air, as sparks or a flag.,
F as in Fly (v. i.) To move or pass swiftly; to hasten away; to circulate rapidly; as, a ship flies on the deep; a top flies around; rumor flies.,
F as in Fly (v. i.) To run from danger; to attempt to escape; to flee; as, an enemy or a coward flies. See Note under Flee.,
F as in Fly (v. i.) To move suddenly, or with violence; to do an act suddenly or swiftly; -- usually with a qualifying word; as, a door flies open; a bomb flies apart.,
F as in Fly (v. t.) To cause to fly or to float in the air, as a bird, a kite, a flag, etc.,
F as in Fly (v. t.) To fly or flee from; to shun; to avoid.,
F as in Fly (v. t.) To hunt with a hawk.,
F as in Flies (pl. ) of Fly,
F as in Fly (v. i.) Any winged insect; esp., one with transparent wings; as, the Spanish fly; firefly; gall fly; dragon fly.,
F as in Fly (v. i.) Any dipterous insect; as, the house fly; flesh fly; black fly. See Diptera, and Illust. in Append.,
F as in Fly (v. i.) A hook dressed in imitation of a fly, -- used for fishing.,
F as in Fly (v. i.) A familiar spirit; a witch's attendant.,
F as in Fly (v. i.) A parasite.,
F as in Fly (v. i.) A kind of light carriage for rapid transit, plying for hire and usually drawn by one horse.,
F as in Fly (v. i.) The length of an extended flag from its staff; sometimes, the length from the "union" to the extreme end.,
F as in Fly (v. i.) The part of a vane pointing the direction from which the wind blows.,
F as in Fly (v. i.) That part of a compass on which the points are marked; the compass card.,
F as in Fly (v. i.) Two or more vanes set on a revolving axis, to act as a fanner, or to equalize or impede the motion of machinery by the resistance of the air, as in the striking part of a clock.,
F as in Fly (v. i.) A heavy wheel, or cross arms with weights at the ends on a revolving axis, to regulate or equalize the motion of machinery by means of its inertia, where the power communicated, or the resistance to be overcome, is variable, as in the steam engine or the coining press. See Fly wheel (below).,
F as in Fly (v. i.) The piece hinged to the needle, which holds the engaged loop in position while the needle is penetrating another loop; a latch.,
F as in Fly (v. i.) The pair of arms revolving around the bobbin, in a spinning wheel or spinning frame, to twist the yarn.,
F as in Fly (v. i.) A shuttle driven through the shed by a blow or jerk.,
F as in Fly (v. i.) Formerly, the person who took the printed sheets from the press.,
F as in Fly (v. i.) A vibrating frame with fingers, attached to a power to a power printing press for doing the same work.,
F as in Fly (v. i.) The outer canvas of a tent with double top, usually drawn over the ridgepole, but so extended as to touch the roof of the tent at no other place.,
F as in Fly (v. i.) One of the upper screens of a stage in a theater.,
F as in Fly (v. i.) The fore flap of a bootee; also, a lap on trousers, overcoats, etc., to conceal a row of buttons.,
F as in Fly (v. i.) A batted ball that flies to a considerable distance, usually high in the air; also, the flight of a ball so struck; as, it was caught on the fly.,
F as in Fly (a.) Knowing; wide awake; fully understanding another's meaning.,
F as in Flybane (n.) A kind of catchfly of the genus Silene; also, a poisonous mushroom (Agaricus muscarius); fly agaric.,
F as in Fly-bitten (a.) Marked by, or as if by, the bite of flies.,
F as in Flyblow (v. t.) To deposit eggs upon, as a flesh fly does on meat; to cause to be maggoty; hence, to taint or contaminate, as if with flyblows.,
F as in Flyblow (n.) One of the eggs or young larvae deposited by a flesh fly, or blowfly.,
F as in Flyblown (a.) Tainted or contaminated with flyblows; damaged; foul.,
F as in Flyboat (n.) A large Dutch coasting vessel.,
F as in Flyboat (n.) A kind of passenger boat formerly used on canals.,
F as in Fly-case (n.) The covering of an insect, esp. the elytra of beetles.,
F as in Flycatcher (n.) One of numerous species of birds that feed upon insects, which they take on the wing.,
F as in Fly-catching (a.) Having the habit of catching insects on the wing.,
F as in Flyer (n.) One that uses wings.,
F as in Flyer (n.) The fly of a flag: See Fly, n., 6.,
F as in Flyer (n.) Anything that is scattered abroad in great numbers as a theatrical programme, an advertising leaf, etc.,
F as in Flyer (n.) One in a flight of steps which are parallel to each other(as in ordinary stairs), as distinguished from a winder.,
F as in Flyer (n.) The pair of arms attached to the spindle of a spinning frame, over which the thread passes to the bobbin; -- so called from their swift revolution. See Fly, n., 11.,
F as in Flyer (n.) The fan wheel that rotates the cap of a windmill as the wind veers.,
F as in Flyer (n.) A small operation not involving ? considerable part of one's capital, or not in the line of one's ordinary business; a venture.,
F as in Flyfish (n.) A California scorpaenoid fish (Sebastichthys rhodochloris), having brilliant colors.,
F as in Fly-fish (v. i.) To angle, using flies for bait.,
F as in Flying (v. i.) Moving in the air with, or as with, wings; moving lightly or rapidly; intended for rapid movement.,
F as in Flying fish () A fish which is able to leap from the water, and fly a considerable distance by means of its large and long pectoral fins. These fishes belong to several species of the genus Exocoetus, and are found in the warmer parts of all the oceans.,
F as in Flying squirrel () One of a group of squirrels, of the genera Pteromus and Sciuropterus, having parachute-like folds of skin extending from the fore to the hind legs, which enable them to make very long leaps.,
F as in Flymen (pl. ) of Flyman,
F as in Flyman (n.) The driver of a fly, or light public carriage.,
F as in Flysch (n.) A name given to the series of sandstones and schists overlying the true nummulitic formation in the Alps, and included in the Eocene Tertiary.,
F as in Flyspeck (n.) A speck or stain made by the excrement of a fly; hence, any insignificant dot.,
F as in Flyspeck (v. t.) To soil with flyspecks.,
F as in Flytrap (n.) A trap for catching flies.,
F as in Flytrap (n.) A plant (Dionaea muscipula), called also Venus's flytrap, the leaves of which are fringed with stiff bristles, and fold together when certain hairs on their upper surface are touched, thus seizing insects that light on them. The insects so caught are afterwards digested by a secretion from the upper surface of the leaves.,
F as in Fnese (v. i.) To breathe heavily; to snort.,
F as in Fo (n.) The Chinese name of Buddha.,
F as in Foal (n.) The young of any animal of the Horse family (Equidae); a colt; a filly.,
F as in Foaled (imp. & p. p.) of Foal,
F as in Foaling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Foal,
F as in Foal (v.t.) To bring forth (a colt); -- said of a mare or a she ass.,
F as in Foal (v.i.) To bring forth young, as an animal of the horse kind.,
F as in Foalfoot (n.) See Coltsfoot.,
F as in Foam (n.) The white substance, consisting of an aggregation of bubbles, which is formed on the surface of liquids, or in the mouth of an animal, by violent agitation or fermentation; froth; spume; scum; as, the foam of the sea.,
F as in Foamed (imp. & p. p.) of Foam,
F as in Foaming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Foam,
F as in Foam (n.) To gather foam; to froth; as, the billows foam.,
F as in Foam (n.) To form foam, or become filled with foam; -- said of a steam boiler when the water is unduly agitated and frothy, as because of chemical action.,
F as in Foam (v.t.) To cause to foam; as,to foam the goblet; also (with out), to throw out with rage or violence, as foam.,
F as in Foamingly (adv.) With foam; frothily.,
F as in Foamless (a.) Having no foam.,
F as in Foamy (a.) Covered with foam; frothy; spumy.,
F as in Fob (n.) A little pocket for a watch.,
F as in Fobbed (imp. & p. p.) of Fob,
F as in Fobbing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fob,
F as in Fob (v.t.) To beat; to maul.,
F as in Fob (v.t.) To cheat; to trick; to impose on.,
F as in Focal (a.) Belonging to,or concerning, a focus; as, a focal point.,
F as in Focalization (n.) The act of focalizing or bringing to a focus, or the state of being focalized.,
F as in Focalized (imp. & p. p.) of Focalize,
F as in Focalizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Focalize,
F as in Focalize (v. t.) To bring to a focus; to focus; to concentrate.,
F as in Focillate (v. t.) To nourish.,
F as in Focillation (n.) Comfort; support.,
F as in Focimeter (n.) An assisting instrument for focusing an object in or before a camera.,
F as in Focuses (pl. ) of Focus,
F as in Foci (pl. ) of Focus,
F as in Focus (n.) A point in which the rays of light meet, after being reflected or refrcted, and at which the image is formed; as, the focus of a lens or mirror.,
F as in Focus (n.) A point so related to a conic section and certain straight line called the directrix that the ratio of the distace between any point of the curve and the focus to the distance of the same point from the directrix is constant.,
F as in Focus (n.) A central point; a point of concentration.,
F as in Focused (imp. & p. p.) of Focus,
F as in Focusing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Focus,
F as in Focus (v. t.) To bring to a focus; to focalize; as, to focus a camera.,
F as in Fodder (n.) A weight by which lead and some other metals were formerly sold, in England, varying from 19/ to 24 cwt.; a fother.,
F as in Fodder (n.) That which is fed out to cattle horses, and sheep, as hay, cornstalks, vegetables, etc.,
F as in Foddered (imp. & p. p.) of Fodder,
F as in Foddering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fodder,
F as in Fodder (v.t.) To feed, as cattle, with dry food or cut grass, etc.;to furnish with hay, straw, oats, etc.,
F as in Fodderer (n.) One who fodders cattle.,
F as in Fodient (a.) Fitted for, or pertaining to, digging.,
F as in Fodient (n.) One of the Fodientia.,
F as in Fodientia (n.pl.) A group of African edentates including the aard-vark.,
F as in Foe (n.) One who entertains personal enmity, hatred, grudge, or malice, against another; an enemy.,
F as in Foe (n.) An enemy in war; a hostile army.,
F as in Foe (n.) One who opposes on principle; an opponent; an adversary; an ill-wisher; as, a foe to religion.,
F as in Foe (v. t.) To treat as an enemy.,
F as in Foehood (n.) Enmity.,
F as in Foemen (pl. ) of Foeman,
F as in Foeman (n.) An enemy in war.,
F as in Foetal (a.) Same as Fetal.,
F as in Foetation (n.) Same as Fetation.,
F as in Foeticide (n.) Same as Feticide.,
F as in Foetor (n.) Same as Fetor.,
F as in Foetus (n.) Same as Fetus.,
F as in Fog (n.) A second growth of grass; aftergrass.,
F as in Fog (n.) Dead or decaying grass remaining on land through the winter; -- called also foggage.,
F as in Fog (v. t.) To pasture cattle on the fog, or aftergrass, of; to eat off the fog from.,
F as in Fog (v. i.) To practice in a small or mean way; to pettifog.,
F as in Fog (n.) Watery vapor condensed in the lower part of the atmosphere and disturbing its transparency. It differs from cloud only in being near the ground, and from mist in not approaching so nearly to fine rain. See Cloud.,
F as in Fog (n.) A state of mental confusion.,
F as in Fogged (imp. & p. p.) of Fog,
F as in Fogging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fog,
F as in Fog (v. t.) To envelop, as with fog; to befog; to overcast; to darken; to obscure.,
F as in Fog (v. i.) To show indistinctly or become indistinct, as the picture on a negative sometimes does in the process of development.,
F as in Foge (n.) The Cornish name for a forge used for smelting tin.,
F as in Fo'gey (n.) See Fogy.,
F as in Fog'gage (n.) See 1st Fog.,
F as in Fog'ger (n.) One who fogs; a pettifogger.,
F as in Foggily (adv.) In a foggy manner; obscurely.,
F as in Fogginess (n.) The state of being foggy.,
F as in Foggy (superl.) Filled or abounding with fog, or watery exhalations; misty; as, a foggy atmosphere; a foggy morning.,
F as in Foggy (superl.) Beclouded; dull; obscure; as, foggy ideas.,
F as in Fogie (n.) See Fogy.,
F as in Fogless (a.) Without fog; clear.,
F as in Fogies (pl. ) of Fogy,
F as in Fogy (n.) A dull old fellow; a person behind the times, over-conservative, or slow; -- usually preceded by old.,
F as in Fogyism (n.) The principles and conduct of a fogy.,
F as in Foh (interj.) An exclamation of abhorrence or contempt; poh; fle.,
F as in Fohist (n.) A Buddhist priest. See Fo.,
F as in Foible (a.) Weak; feeble.,
F as in Foible (n.) A moral weakness; a failing; a weak point; a frailty.,
F as in Foible (n.) The half of a sword blade or foil blade nearest the point; -- opposed to forte.,
F as in Foiled (imp. & p. p.) of Foil,
F as in Foiling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Foil,
F as in Foil (v. t.) To tread under foot; to trample.,
F as in Foil (v. t.) To render (an effort or attempt) vain or nugatory; to baffle; to outwit; to balk; to frustrate; to defeat.,
F as in Foil (v. t.) To blunt; to dull; to spoil; as, to foil the scent in chase.,
F as in Foil (v. t.) To defile; to soil.,
F as in Foil (n.) Failure of success when on the point of attainment; defeat; frustration; miscarriage.,
F as in Foil (n.) A blunt weapon used in fencing, resembling a smallsword in the main, but usually lighter and having a button at the point.,
F as in Foil (n.) The track or trail of an animal.,
F as in Foil (n.) A leaf or very thin sheet of metal; as, brass foil; tin foil; gold foil.,
F as in Foil (n.) A thin leaf of sheet copper silvered and burnished, and afterwards coated with transparent colors mixed with isinglass; -- employed by jewelers to give color or brilliancy to pastes and inferior stones.,
F as in Foil (n.) Anything that serves by contrast of color or quality to adorn or set off another thing to advantage.,
F as in Foil (n.) A thin coat of tin, with quicksilver, laid on the back of a looking-glass, to cause reflection.,
F as in Foil (n.) The space between the cusps in Gothic architecture; a rounded or leaflike ornament, in windows, niches, etc. A group of foils is called trefoil, quatrefoil, quinquefoil, etc., according to the number of arcs of which it is composed.,
F as in Foilable (a.) Capable of being foiled.,
F as in Foiler (n.) One who foils or frustrates.,
F as in Foiling (n.) A foil.,
F as in Foiling (n.) The track of game (as deer) in the grass.,
F as in Foin (n.) The beech marten (Mustela foina). See Marten.,
F as in Foin (n.) A kind of fur, black at the top on a whitish ground, taken from the ferret or weasel of the same name.,
F as in Foin (v. i.) To thrust with a sword or spear; to lunge.,
F as in Foin (v. t.) To prick; to st?ng.,
F as in Foin (n.) A pass in fencing; a lunge.,
F as in Foinery (n.) Thrusting with the foil; fencing with the point, as distinguished from broadsword play.,
F as in Foiningly (adv.) With a push or thrust.,
F as in Foison (n.) Rich harvest; plenty; abundance.,
F as in Foist (n.) A light and fast-sailing ship.,
F as in Foisted (imp. & p. p.) of Foist,
F as in Foisting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Foist,
F as in Foist (v. t.) To insert surreptitiously, wrongfully, or without warrant; to interpolate; to pass off (something spurious or counterfeit) as genuine, true, or worthy; -- usually followed by in.,
F as in Foist (n.) A foister; a sharper.,
F as in Foist (n.) A trick or fraud; a swindle.,
F as in Foister (n.) One who foists something surreptitiously; a falsifier.,
F as in Foistied (a.) Fusty.,
F as in Foistiness (n.) Fustiness; mustiness.,
F as in Foisty (a.) Fusty; musty.,
F as in Folded (imp. & p. p.) of Fold,
F as in Folding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fold,
F as in Fold (v. t.) To lap or lay in plaits or folds; to lay one part over another part of; to double; as, to fold cloth; to fold a letter.,
F as in Fold (v. t.) To double or lay together, as the arms or the hands; as, he folds his arms in despair.,
F as in Fold (v. t.) To inclose within folds or plaitings; to envelop; to infold; to clasp; to embrace.,
F as in Fold (v. t.) To cover or wrap up; to conceal.,
F as in Fold (v. i.) To become folded, plaited, or doubled; to close over another of the same kind; to double together; as, the leaves of the door fold.,
F as in Fold (v.) A doubling,esp. of any flexible substance; a part laid over on another part; a plait; a plication.,
F as in Fold (v.) Times or repetitions; -- used with numerals, chiefly in composition, to denote multiplication or increase in a geometrical ratio, the doubling, tripling, etc., of anything; as, fourfold, four times, increased in a quadruple ratio, multiplied by four.,
F as in Fold (v.) That which is folded together, or which infolds or envelops; embrace.,
F as in Fold (n.) An inclosure for sheep; a sheep pen.,
F as in Fold (n.) A flock of sheep; figuratively, the Church or a church; as, Christ's fold.,
F as in Fold (n.) A boundary; a limit.,
F as in Fold (v. t.) To confine in a fold, as sheep.,
F as in Fold (v. i.) To confine sheep in a fold.,
F as in Foldage (n.) See Faldage.,
F as in Folder (n.) One who, or that which, folds; esp., a flat, knifelike instrument used for folding paper.,
F as in Folderol (n.) Nonsense.,
F as in Folding (n.) The act of making a fold or folds; also, a fold; a doubling; a plication.,
F as in Folding (n.) The keepig of sheep in inclosures on arable land, etc.,
F as in Foldless (a.) Having no fold.,
F as in Foliaceous (a.) Belonging to, or having the texture or nature of, a leaf; having leaves intermixed with flowers; as, a foliaceous spike.,
F as in Foliaceous (a.) Consisting of leaves or thin laminae; having the form of a leaf or plate; as, foliaceous spar.,
F as in Foliaceous (a.) Leaflike in form or mode of growth; as, a foliaceous coral.,
F as in Foliage (n.) Leaves, collectively, as produced or arranged by nature; leafage; as, a tree or forest of beautiful foliage.,
F as in Foliage (n.) A cluster of leaves, flowers, and branches; especially, the representation of leaves, flowers, and branches, in architecture, intended to ornament and enrich capitals, friezes, pediments, etc.,
F as in Foliage (v. t.) To adorn with foliage or the imitation of foliage; to form into the representation of leaves.,
F as in Foliaged (a.) Furnished with foliage; leaved; as, the variously foliaged mulberry.,
F as in Foliar (a.) Consisting of, or pertaining to, leaves; as, foliar appendages.,
F as in Foliate (a.) Furnished with leaves; leafy; as, a foliate stalk.,
F as in Foliated (imp. & p. p.) of Foliate,
F as in Foliating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Foliate,
F as in Foliate (v. t.) To beat into a leaf, or thin plate.,
F as in Foliate (v. t.) To spread over with a thin coat of tin and quicksilver; as, to foliate a looking-glass.,
F as in Foliated (a.) Having leaves, or leaflike projections; as, a foliated shell.,
F as in Foliated (a.) Containing, or consisting of, foils; as, a foliated arch.,
F as in Foliated (a.) Characterized by being separable into thin plates or folia; as, graphite has a foliated structure.,
F as in Foliated (a.) Laminated, but restricted to the variety of laminated structure found in crystalline schist, as mica schist, etc.; schistose.,
F as in Foliated (a.) Spread over with an amalgam of tin and quicksilver.,
F as in Foliation (n.) The process of forming into a leaf or leaves.,
F as in Foliation (n.) The manner in which the young leaves are dispo/ed within the bud.,
F as in Foliation (n.) The act of beating a metal into a thin plate, leaf, foil, or lamina.,
F as in Foliation (n.) The act of coating with an amalgam of tin foil and quicksilver, as in making looking-glasses.,
F as in Foliation (n.) The enrichment of an opening by means of foils, arranged in trefoils, quatrefoils, etc.; also, one of the ornaments. See Tracery.,
F as in Foliation (n.) The property, possessed by some crystalline rocks, of dividing into plates or slabs, which is due to the cleavage structure of one of the constituents, as mica or hornblende. It may sometimes include slaty structure or cleavage, though the latter is usually independent of any mineral constituent, and transverse to the bedding, it having been produced by pressure.,
F as in Foliature (n.) Foliage; leafage.,
F as in Foliature (n.) The state of being beaten into foil.,
F as in Folier (n.) Goldsmith's foil.,
F as in Foliferous (a.) Producing leaves.,
F as in Folily (a.) Foolishly.,
F as in Folios (pl. ) of Folio,
F as in Folio (n.) A leaf of a book or manuscript.,
F as in Folio (n.) A sheet of paper once folded.,
F as in Folio (n.) A book made of sheets of paper each folded once (four pages to the sheet); hence, a book of the largest kind. See Note under Paper.,
F as in Folio (n.) The page number. The even folios are on the left-hand pages and the odd folios on the right-hand.,
F as in Folio (n.) A page of a book; (Bookkeeping) a page in an account book; sometimes, two opposite pages bearing the same serial number.,
F as in Folio (n.) A leaf containing a certain number of words, hence, a certain number of words in a writing, as in England, in law proceedings 72, and in chancery, 90; in New York, 100 words.,
F as in Fol'io (v. t.) To put a serial number on each folio or page of (a book); to page.,
F as in Fol'io (a.) Formed of sheets each folded once, making two leaves, or four pages; as, a folio volume. See Folio, n., 3.,
F as in Fo'liolate (a.) Of or pertaining to leaflets; -- used in composition; as, bi-foliolate.,
F as in Foliole (n.) One of the distinct parts of a compound leaf; a leaflet.,
F as in Foliomort (a.) See Feuillemort.,
F as in Foliose (a.) Having many leaves; leafy.,
F as in Foliosity (n.) The ponderousness or bulk of a folio; voluminousness.,
F as in Folious (a.) Like a leaf; thin; unsubstantial.,
F as in Folious (a.) Foliose.,
F as in Foliums (pl. ) of Folium,
F as in Folia (pl. ) of Folium,
F as in Folium (n.) A leaf, esp. a thin leaf or plate.,
F as in Folium (n.) A curve of the third order, consisting of two infinite branches, which have a common asymptote. The curve has a double point, and a leaf-shaped loop; whence the name. Its equation is x3 + y3 = axy.,
F as in Folk (n. collect. & pl.) Alt. of Folks,
F as in Folks (n. collect. & pl.) In Anglo-Saxon times, the people of a group of townships or villages; a community; a tribe.,
F as in Folks (n. collect. & pl.) People in general, or a separate class of people; -- generally used in the plural form, and often with a qualifying adjective; as, the old folks; poor folks.,
F as in Folks (n. collect. & pl.) The persons of one's own family; as, our folks are all well.,
F as in Folkland (n.) Land held in villenage, being distributed among the folk, or people, at the pleasure of the lord of the manor, and resumed at his discretion. Not being held by any assurance in writing, it was opposed to bookland or charter land, which was held by deed.,
F as in Folklore () Alt. of Folk lore,
F as in Folk lore () Tales, legends, or superstitions long current among the people.,
F as in Folkmote (n.) An assembly of the people,
F as in Folkmote (n.) a general assembly of the people to consider and order matters of the commonwealth; also, a local court.,
F as in Folkmoter (n.) One who takes part in a folkmote, or local court.,
F as in Follicle (n.) A simple podlike pericarp which contains several seeds and opens along the inner or ventral suture, as in the peony, larkspur and milkweed.,
F as in Follicle (n.) A small cavity, tubular depression, or sac; as, a hair follicle.,
F as in Follicle (n.) A simple gland or glandular cavity; a crypt.,
F as in Follicle (n.) A small mass of adenoid tissue; as, a lymphatic follicle.,
F as in Follicular (a.) Like, pertaining to, or consisting of, a follicles or follicles.,
F as in Follicular (a.) Affecting the follicles; as, follicular pharyngitis.,
F as in Folliculated (a.) Having follicles.,
F as in Folliculous (a.) Having or producing follicles.,
F as in Folliful (a.) Full of folly.,
F as in Followed (imp. & p. p.) of Follow,
F as in Following (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Follow,
F as in Follow (v. t.) To go or come after; to move behind in the same path or direction; hence, to go with (a leader, guide, etc.); to accompany; to attend.,
F as in Follow (v. t.) To endeavor to overtake; to go in pursuit of; to chase; to pursue; to prosecute.,
F as in Follow (v. t.) To accept as authority; to adopt the opinions of; to obey; to yield to; to take as a rule of action; as, to follow good advice.,
F as in Follow (v. t.) To copy after; to take as an example.,
F as in Follow (v. t.) To succeed in order of time, rank, or office.,
F as in Follow (v. t.) To result from, as an effect from a cause, or an inference from a premise.,
F as in Follow (v. t.) To watch, as a receding object; to keep the eyes fixed upon while in motion; to keep the mind upon while in progress, as a speech, musical performance, etc.; also, to keep up with; to understand the meaning, connection, or force of, as of a course of thought or argument.,
F as in Follow (v. t.) To walk in, as a road or course; to attend upon closely, as a profession or calling.,
F as in Follow (v. i.) To go or come after; -- used in the various senses of the transitive verb: To pursue; to attend; to accompany; to be a result; to imitate.,
F as in Follower (n.) One who follows; a pursuer; an attendant; a disciple; a dependent associate; a retainer.,
F as in Follower (n.) A sweetheart; a beau.,
F as in Follower (n.) The removable flange, or cover, of a piston. See Illust. of Piston.,
F as in Follower (n.) A gland. See Illust. of Stuffing box.,
F as in Follower (n.) The part of a machine that receives motion from another part. See Driver.,
F as in Follower (n.) Among law stationers, a sheet of parchment or paper which is added to the first sheet of an indenture or other deed.,
F as in Following (n.) One's followers, adherents, or dependents, collectively.,
F as in Following (n.) Vocation; business; profession.,
F as in Following (a.) Next after; succeeding; ensuing; as, the assembly was held on the following day.,
F as in Following (a.) (In the field of a telescope) In the direction from which stars are apparently moving (in consequence of the earth's rotation); as, a small star, north following or south following. In the direction toward which stars appear to move is called preceding.,
F as in Follies (pl. ) of Folly,
F as in Folly (n.) The state of being foolish; want of good sense; levity, weakness, or derangement of mind.,
F as in Folly (n.) A foolish act; an inconsiderate or thoughtless procedure; weak or light-minded conduct; foolery.,
F as in Folly (n.) Scandalous crime; sin; specifically, as applied to a woman, wantonness.,
F as in Folly (n.) The result of a foolish action or enterprise.,
F as in Folwe (v. t.) To follow.,
F as in Fomalhaut (n.) A star of the first magnitude, in the constellation Piscis Australis, or Southern Fish.,
F as in Fomented (imp. & p. p.) of Foment,
F as in Fomenting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Foment,
F as in Foment (v. t.) To apply a warm lotion to; to bathe with a cloth or sponge wet with warm water or medicated liquid.,
F as in Foment (v. t.) To cherish with heat; to foster.,
F as in Foment (v. t.) To nurse to life or activity; to cherish and promote by excitements; to encourage; to abet; to instigate; -- used often in a bad sense; as, to foment ill humors.,
F as in Fomentation (n.) The act of fomenting; the application of warm, soft, medicinal substances, as for the purpose of easing pain, by relaxing the skin, or of discussing tumors.,
F as in Fomentation (n.) The lotion applied to a diseased part.,
F as in Fomentation (n.) Excitation; instigation; encouragement.,
F as in Fomenter (n.) One who foments; one who encourages or instigates; as, a fomenter of sedition.,
F as in Fomites (pl. ) of Fomes,
F as in Fomes (n.) Any substance supposed to be capable of absorbing, retaining, and transporting contagious or infectious germs; as, woolen clothes are said to be active fomites.,
F as in Fon (a.) A fool; an idiot.,
F as in Fond () imp. of Find. Found.,
F as in Fond (superl.) Foolish; silly; simple; weak.,
F as in Fond (superl.) Foolishly tender and loving; weakly indulgent; over-affectionate.,
F as in Fond (superl.) Affectionate; loving; tender; -- in a good sense; as, a fond mother or wife.,
F as in Fond (superl.) Loving; much pleased; affectionately regardful, indulgent, or desirous; longing or yearning; -- followed by of (formerly also by on).,
F as in Fond (superl.) Doted on; regarded with affection.,
F as in Fond (superl.) Trifling; valued by folly; trivial.,
F as in Fond (v. t.) To caress; to fondle.,
F as in Fond (v. i.) To be fond; to dote.,
F as in Fonde (v. t. & i.) To endeavor; to strive; to try.,
F as in Fondled (imp. & p. p.) of Fondle,
F as in Fondling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fondle,
F as in Fondle (v.) To treat or handle with tenderness or in a loving manner; to caress; as, a nurse fondles a child.,
F as in Fondler (n.) One who fondles.,
F as in Fondling (n.) The act of caressing; manifestation of tenderness.,
F as in Fondling (n.) A person or thing fondled or caressed; one treated with foolish or doting affection.,
F as in Fondling (n.) A fool; a simpleton; a ninny.,
F as in Fondly (adv.) Foolishly.,
F as in Fondly (adv.) In a fond manner; affectionately; tenderly.,
F as in Fondness (n.) The quality or state of being fond; foolishness.,
F as in Fondness (n.) Doting affection; tender liking; strong appetite, propensity, or relish; as, he had a fondness for truffles.,
F as in Fondon (n.) A large copper vessel used for hot amalgamation.,
F as in Fondus (n.) A style of printing calico, paper hangings, etc., in which the colors are in bands and graduated into each other.,
F as in Fone (n.) pl. of Foe.,
F as in Fonge (v. t.) To take; to receive.,
F as in Fonly (adv.) Foolishly; fondly.,
F as in Fonne (n.) A fon.,
F as in Font (n.) A complete assortment of printing type of one size, including a due proportion of all the letters in the alphabet, large and small, points, accents, and whatever else is necessary for printing with that variety of types; a fount.,
F as in Font (n.) A fountain; a spring; a source.,
F as in Font (n.) A basin or stone vessel in which water is contained for baptizing.,
F as in Fontal (a.) Pertaining to a font, fountain, source, or origin; original; primitive.,
F as in Fontanel (n.) An issue or artificial ulcer for the discharge of humors from the body.,
F as in Fontanel (n.) One of the membranous intervals between the incompleted angles of the parietal and neighboring bones of a fetal or young skull; -- so called because it exhibits a rhythmical pulsation.,
F as in Fontanelle (n.) Same as Fontanel, 2.,
F as in Fontange (n.) A kind of tall headdress formerly worn.,
F as in Food (n.) What is fed upon; that which goes to support life by being received within, and assimilated by, the organism of an animal or a plant; nutriment; aliment; especially, what is eaten by animals for nourishment.,
F as in Food (n.) Anything that instructs the intellect, excites the feelings, or molds habits of character; that which nourishes.,
F as in Food (v. t.) To supply with food.,
F as in Foodful (a.) Full of food; supplying food; fruitful; fertile.,
F as in Foodless (a.) Without food; barren.,
F as in Foody (a.) Eatable; fruitful.,
F as in Fool (n.) A compound of gooseberries scalded and crushed, with cream; -- commonly called gooseberry fool.,
F as in Fool (n.) One destitute of reason, or of the common powers of understanding; an idiot; a natural.,
F as in Fool (n.) A person deficient in intellect; one who acts absurdly, or pursues a course contrary to the dictates of wisdom; one without judgment; a simpleton; a dolt.,
F as in Fool (n.) One who acts contrary to moral and religious wisdom; a wicked person.,
F as in Fool (n.) One who counterfeits folly; a professional jester or buffoon; a retainer formerly kept to make sport, dressed fantastically in motley, with ridiculous accouterments.,
F as in Fooled (imp. & p. p.) of Fool,
F as in Fooling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fool,
F as in Fool (v. i.) To play the fool; to trifle; to toy; to spend time in idle sport or mirth.,
F as in Fool (v. t.) To infatuate; to make foolish.,
F as in Fool (v. t.) To use as a fool; to deceive in a shameful or mortifying manner; to impose upon; to cheat by inspiring foolish confidence; as, to fool one out of his money.,
F as in Foolahs (n. pl.) Same as Fulahs.,
F as in Fool-born (a.) Begotten by a fool.,
F as in Fooleries (pl. ) of Foolery,
F as in Foolery (n.) The practice of folly; the behavior of a fool; absurdity.,
F as in Foolery (n.) An act of folly or weakness; a foolish practice; something absurd or nonsensical.,
F as in Foolfish (n.) The orange filefish. See Filefish.,
F as in Foolfish (n.) The winter flounder. See Flounder.,
F as in Fool-happy (a.) Lucky, without judgment or contrivance.,
F as in Foolhardihood (n.) The state of being foolhardy; foolhardiness.,
F as in Foolhardily (adv.) In a foolhardy manner.,
F as in Foolhardiness (n.) Courage without sense or judgment; foolish rashness; recklessness.,
F as in Foolhardise (n.) Foolhardiness.,
F as in Foolhardy (a.) Daring without judgment; foolishly adventurous and bold.,
F as in Fool-hasty (a.) Foolishly hasty.,
F as in Foolify (v. t.) To make a fool of; to befool.,
F as in Foolish (a.) Marked with, or exhibiting, folly; void of understanding; weak in intellect; without judgment or discretion; silly; unwise.,
F as in Foolish (a.) Such as a fool would do; proceeding from weakness of mind or silliness; exhibiting a want of judgment or discretion; as, a foolish act.,
F as in Foolish (a.) Absurd; ridiculous; despicable; contemptible.,
F as in Foolishly (adv.) In a foolish manner.,
F as in Foolishness (n.) The quality of being foolish.,
F as in Foolishness (n.) A foolish practice; an absurdity.,
F as in Fool-large (a.) Foolishly liberal.,
F as in Fool-largesse (n.) Foolish expenditure; waste.,
F as in Foolscap (n.) A writing paper made in sheets, ordinarily 16 x 13 inches, and folded so as to make a page 13 x 8 inches. See Paper.,
F as in Feet (pl. ) of Foot,
F as in Foot (n.) The terminal part of the leg of man or an animal; esp., the part below the ankle or wrist; that part of an animal upon which it rests when standing, or moves. See Manus, and Pes.,
F as in Foot (n.) The muscular locomotive organ of a mollusk. It is a median organ arising from the ventral region of body, often in the form of a flat disk, as in snails. See Illust. of Buccinum.,
F as in Foot (n.) That which corresponds to the foot of a man or animal; as, the foot of a table; the foot of a stocking.,
F as in Foot (n.) The lowest part or base; the ground part; the bottom, as of a mountain or column; also, the last of a row or series; the end or extremity, esp. if associated with inferiority; as, the foot of a hill; the foot of the procession; the foot of a class; the foot of the bed.,
F as in Foot (n.) Fundamental principle; basis; plan; -- used only in the singular.,
F as in Foot (n.) Recognized condition; rank; footing; -- used only in the singular.,
F as in Foot (n.) A measure of length equivalent to twelve inches; one third of a yard. See Yard.,
F as in Foot (n.) Soldiers who march and fight on foot; the infantry, usually designated as the foot, in distinction from the cavalry.,
F as in Foot (n.) A combination of syllables consisting a metrical element of a verse, the syllables being formerly distinguished by their quantity or length, but in modern poetry by the accent.,
F as in Foot (n.) The lower edge of a sail.,
F as in Footed (imp. & p. p.) of Foot,
F as in Footing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Foot,
F as in Foot (v. i.) To tread to measure or music; to dance; to trip; to skip.,
F as in Foot (v. i.) To walk; -- opposed to ride or fly.,
F as in Foot (v. t.) To kick with the foot; to spurn.,
F as in Foot (v. t.) To set on foot; to establish; to land.,
F as in Foot (v. t.) To tread; as, to foot the green.,
F as in Foot (v. t.) To sum up, as the numbers in a column; -- sometimes with up; as, to foot (or foot up) an account.,
F as in Foot (v. t.) The size or strike with the talon.,
F as in Foot (v. t.) To renew the foot of, as of stocking.,
F as in Football (n.) An inflated ball to be kicked in sport, usually made in India rubber, or a bladder incased in Leather.,
F as in Football (n.) The game of kicking the football by opposing parties of players between goals.,
F as in Footband (n.) A band of foot soldiers.,
F as in Footbath (n.) A bath for the feet; also, a vessel used in bathing the feet.,
F as in Footboard (n.) A board or narrow platfrom upon which one may stand or brace his feet,
F as in Footboard (n.) The platform for the engineer and fireman of a locomotive.,
F as in Footboard (n.) The foot-rest of a coachman's box.,
F as in Footboard (n.) A board forming the foot of a bedstead.,
F as in Footboard (n.) A treadle.,
F as in Footboy (n.) A page; an attendant in livery; a lackey.,
F as in Footbreadth (n.) The breadth of a foot; -- used as a measure.,
F as in Footbridge (n.) A narrow bridge for foot passengers only.,
F as in Footcloth (n.) Formerly, a housing or caparison for a horse.,
F as in Footed (a.) Having a foot or feet; shaped in the foot.,
F as in Footed (a.) Having a foothold; established.,
F as in Footfall (n.) A setting down of the foot; a footstep; the sound of a footstep.,
F as in Footfight (n.) A conflict by persons on foot; -- distinguished from a fight on horseback.,
F as in Footglove (n.) A kind of stocking.,
F as in Foot Guards (pl.) Infantry soldiers belonging to select regiments called the Guards.,
F as in Foothalt (n.) A disease affecting the feet of sheep.,
F as in Foothill (n.) A low hill at the foot of higher hills or mountains.,
F as in Foothold (n.) A holding with the feet; firm standing; that on which one may tread or rest securely; footing.,
F as in Foothook (n.) See Futtock.,
F as in Foothot (adv.) Hastily; immediately; instantly; on the spot; hotfloot.,
F as in Footing (n.) Ground for the foot; place for the foot to rest on; firm foundation to stand on.,
F as in Footing (n.) Standing; position; established place; basis for operation; permanent settlement; foothold.,
F as in Footing (n.) Relative condition; state.,
F as in Footing (n.) Tread; step; especially, measured tread.,
F as in Footing (n.) The act of adding up a column of figures; the amount or sum total of such a column.,
F as in Footing (n.) The act of putting a foot to anything; also, that which is added as a foot; as, the footing of a stocking.,
F as in Footing (n.) A narrow cotton lace, without figures.,
F as in Footing (n.) The finer refuse part of whale blubber, not wholly deprived of oil.,
F as in Footing (n.) The thickened or sloping portion of a wall, or of an embankment at its foot.,
F as in Footless (a.) Having no feet.,
F as in Footlicker (n.) A sycophant; a fawner; a toady. Cf. Bootlick.,
F as in Footlight (n.) One of a row of lights in the front of the stage in a theater, etc., and on a level therewith.,
F as in Footmen (pl. ) of Footman,
F as in Footman (n.) A soldier who marches and fights on foot; a foot soldier.,
F as in Footman (n.) A man in waiting; a male servant whose duties are to attend the door, the carriage, the table, etc.,
F as in Footman (n.) Formerly, a servant who ran in front of his master's carriage; a runner.,
F as in Footman (n.) A metallic stand with four feet, for keeping anything warm before a fire.,
F as in Footman (n.) A moth of the family Lithosidae; -- so called from its livery-like colors.,
F as in Footmanship (n.) Art or skill of a footman.,
F as in Footmark (n.) A footprint; a track or vestige.,
F as in Footnote (n.) A note of reference or comment at the foot of a page.,
F as in Footpace (n.) A walking pace or step.,
F as in Footpace (n.) A dais, or elevated platform; the highest step of the altar; a landing in a staircase.,
F as in Footpad (n.) A highwayman or robber on foot.,
F as in Footpaths (pl. ) of Footpath,
F as in Footpath (n.) A narrow path or way for pedestrains only; a footway.,
F as in Footplate (n.) See Footboard (a).,
F as in Foot pound () A unit of energy, or work, being equal to the work done in raising one pound avoirdupois against the force of gravity the height of one foot.,
F as in Foot poundal () A unit of energy or work, equal to the work done in moving a body through one foot against the force of one poundal.,
F as in Footprint (n.) The impression of the foot; a trace or footmark; as, "Footprints of the Creator.",
F as in Footrope (n.) The rope rigged below a yard, upon which men stand when reefing or furling; -- formerly called a horse.,
F as in Footrope (n.) That part of the boltrope to which the lower edge of a sail is sewed.,
F as in Foots (n. pl.) The settlings of oil, molasses, etc., at the bottom of a barrel or hogshead.,
F as in Foot-sore (a.) Having sore or tender feet, as by reason of much walking; as, foot-sore cattle.,
F as in Footstalk (n.) The stalk of a leaf or of flower; a petiole, pedicel, or reduncle.,
F as in Footstalk (n.) The peduncle or stem by which various marine animals are attached, as certain brachiopods and goose barnacles.,
F as in Footstalk (n.) The stem which supports which supports the eye in decapod Crustacea; eyestalk.,
F as in Footstalk (n.) The lower part of a millstone spindle. It rests in a step.,
F as in Footstall (n.) The stirrup of a woman's saddle.,
F as in Footstall (n.) The plinth or base of a pillar.,
F as in Footstep (n.) The mark or impression of the foot; a track; hence, visible sign of a course pursued; token; mark; as, the footsteps of divine wisdom.,
F as in Footstep (n.) An inclined plane under a hand printing press.,
F as in Footstone (n.) The stone at the foot of a grave; -- opposed to headstone.,
F as in Footstool (n.) A low stool to support the feet of one when sitting.,
F as in Footway (n.) A passage for pedestrians only.,
F as in Footworn (a.) Worn by, or weared in, the feet; as, a footworn path; a footworn traveler.,
F as in Footy (a.) Having foots, or settlings; as, footy oil, molasses, etc.,
F as in Footy (a.) Poor; mean.,
F as in Fop (n.) One whose ambition it is to gain admiration by showy dress; a coxcomb; an inferior dandy.,
F as in Fop-doodle (n.) A stupid or insignificant fellow; a fool; a simpleton.,
F as in Fopling (n.) A petty fop.,
F as in Fopperies (pl. ) of Foppery,
F as in Foppery (n.) The behavior, dress, or other indication of a fop; coxcombry; affectation of show; showy folly.,
F as in Foppery (n.) Folly; foolery.,
F as in Foppish (a.) Foplike; characteristic of a top in dress or manners; making an ostentatious display of gay clothing; affected in manners.,
F as in For- () A prefix to verbs, having usually the force of a negative or privative. It often implies also loss, detriment, or destruction, and sometimes it is intensive, meaning utterly, quite thoroughly, as in forbathe.,
F as in For (prep.) In the most general sense, indicating that in consideration of, in view of, or with reference to, which anything is done or takes place.,
F as in For (prep.) Indicating the antecedent cause or occasion of an action; the motive or inducement accompanying and prompting to an act or state; the reason of anything; that on account of which a thing is or is done.,
F as in For (prep.) Indicating the remoter and indirect object of an act; the end or final cause with reference to which anything is, acts, serves, or is done.,
F as in For (prep.) Indicating that in favor of which, or in promoting which, anything is, or is done; hence, in behalf of; in favor of; on the side of; -- opposed to against.,
F as in For (prep.) Indicating that toward which the action of anything is directed, or the point toward which motion is made; /ntending to go to.,
F as in For (prep.) Indicating that on place of or instead of which anything acts or serves, or that to which a substitute, an equivalent, a compensation, or the like, is offered or made; instead of, or place of.,
F as in For (prep.) Indicating that in the character of or as being which anything is regarded or treated; to be, or as being.,
F as in For (prep.) Indicating that instead of which something else controls in the performing of an action, or that in spite of which anything is done, occurs, or is; hence, equivalent to notwithstanding, in spite of; -- generally followed by all, aught, anything, etc.,
F as in For (prep.) Indicating the space or time through which an action or state extends; hence, during; in or through the space or time of.,
F as in For (prep.) Indicating that in prevention of which, or through fear of which, anything is done.,
F as in For (conj.) Because; by reason that; for that; indicating, in Old English, the reason of anything.,
F as in For (conj.) Since; because; introducing a reason of something before advanced, a cause, motive, explanation, justification, or the like, of an action related or a statement made. It is logically nearly equivalent to since, or because, but connects less closely, and is sometimes used as a very general introduction to something suggested by what has gone before.,
F as in For (n.) One who takes, or that which is said on, the affrimative side; that which is said in favor of some one or something; -- the antithesis of against, and commonly used in connection with it.,
F as in Forage (n.) The act of foraging; search for provisions, etc.,
F as in Forage (n.) Food of any kind for animals, especially for horses and cattle, as grass, pasture, hay, corn, oats.,
F as in Foraged (imp. & p. p.) of Forage,
F as in Foraging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Forage,
F as in Forage (v. i.) To wander or rove in search of food; to collect food, esp. forage, for horses and cattle by feeding on or stripping the country; to ravage; to feed on spoil.,
F as in Forage (v. t.) To strip of provisions; to supply with forage; as, to forage steeds.,
F as in Forager (n.) One who forages.,
F as in Foralite (n.) A tubelike marking, occuring in sandstone and other strata.,
F as in Foramina (pl. ) of Foramen,
F as in Foramines (pl. ) of Foramen,
F as in Foramen (n.) A small opening, perforation, or orifice; a fenestra.,
F as in Foraminated (a.) Having small opening, or foramina.,
F as in Foraminifer (n.) One of the foraminifera.,
F as in Foraminifera (n. pl.) An extensive order of rhizopods which generally have a chambered calcareous shell formed by several united zooids. Many of them have perforated walls, whence the name. Some species are covered with sand. See Rhizophoda.,
F as in Foraminiferous (a.) Having small openings, or foramina.,
F as in Foraminiferous (a.) Pertaining to, or composed of, Foraminifera; as, foraminiferous mud.,
F as in Foraminous (a.) Having foramina; full of holes; porous.,
F as in Forasmuch (conj.) In consideration that; seeing that; since; because that; -- followed by as. See under For, prep.,
F as in Foray (n.) A sudden or irregular incursion in border warfare; hence, any irregular incursion for war or spoils; a raid.,
F as in Foray (v. t.) To pillage; to ravage.,
F as in Forayer (n.) One who makes or joins in a foray.,
F as in Forbade () imp. of Forbid.,
F as in Forbathe (v. t.) To bathe.,
F as in Forbear (n.) An ancestor; a forefather; -- usually in the plural.,
F as in Forbore (imp.) of Forbear,
F as in Forbare () of Forbear,
F as in Forborne (p. p.) of Forbear,
F as in Forbearing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Forbear,
F as in Forbear (v. i.) To refrain from proceeding; to pause; to delay.,
F as in Forbear (v. i.) To refuse; to decline; to give no heed.,
F as in Forbear (v. i.) To control one's self when provoked.,
F as in Forbear (v. t.) To keep away from; to avoid; to abstain from; to give up; as, to forbear the use of a word of doubdtful propriety.,
F as in Forbear (v. t.) To treat with consideration or indulgence.,
F as in Forbear (v. t.) To cease from bearing.,
F as in Forbearance (n.) The act of forbearing or waiting; the exercise of patience.,
F as in Forbearance (n.) The quality of being forbearing; indulgence toward offenders or enemies; long-suffering.,
F as in Forbearant (a.) Forbearing.,
F as in Forbearer (n.) One who forbears.,
F as in Forbearing (a.) Disposed or accustomed to forbear; patient; long-suffering.,
F as in Forbade (imp.) of Forbid,
F as in Forbidden (p. p.) of Forbid,
F as in Forbid () of Forbid,
F as in Forbidding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Forbid,
F as in Forbid (v. t.) To command against, or contrary to; to prohibit; to interdict.,
F as in Forbid (v. t.) To deny, exclude from, or warn off, by express command; to command not to enter.,
F as in Forbid (v. t.) To oppose, hinder, or prevent, as if by an effectual command; as, an impassable river forbids the approach of the army.,
F as in Forbid (v. t.) To accurse; to blast.,
F as in Forbid (v. t.) To defy; to challenge.,
F as in Forbid (v. i.) To utter a prohibition; to prevent; to hinder.,
F as in Forbiddance (n.) The act of forbidding; prohibition; command or edict against a thing.,
F as in Forbidden (a.) Prohibited; interdicted.,
F as in Forbiddenly (adv.) In a forbidden or unlawful manner.,
F as in Forbidder (n.) One who forbids.,
F as in Forbidding (a.) Repelling approach; repulsive; raising abhorrence, aversion, or dislike; disagreeable; prohibiting or interdicting; as, a forbidding aspect; a forbidding formality; a forbidding air.,
F as in Forblack (a.) Very black.,
F as in Forboden () p. p. of Forbid.,
F as in Forbore () imp. of Forbear.,
F as in Forborne () p. p. of Forbear.,
F as in Forbruise (v. t.) To bruise sorely or exceedingly.,
F as in Forby (adv. & prep.) Near; hard by; along; past.,
F as in Forcarve (v. t.) To cut completely; to cut off.,
F as in Force (v. t.) To stuff; to lard; to farce.,
F as in Force (n.) A waterfall; a cascade.,
F as in Force (n.) Strength or energy of body or mind; active power; vigor; might; often, an unusual degree of strength or energy; capacity of exercising an influence or producing an effect; especially, power to persuade, or convince, or impose obligation; pertinency; validity; special signification; as, the force of an appeal, an argument, a contract, or a term.,
F as in Force (n.) Power exerted against will or consent; compulsory power; violence; coercion.,
F as in Force (n.) Strength or power for war; hence, a body of land or naval combatants, with their appurtenances, ready for action; -- an armament; troops; warlike array; -- often in the plural; hence, a body of men prepared for action in other ways; as, the laboring force of a plantation.,
F as in Force (n.) Strength or power exercised without law, or contrary to law, upon persons or things; violence.,
F as in Force (n.) Validity; efficacy.,
F as in Force (n.) Any action between two bodies which changes, or tends to change, their relative condition as to rest or motion; or, more generally, which changes, or tends to change, any physical relation between them, whether mechanical, thermal, chemical, electrical, magnetic, or of any other kind; as, the force of gravity; cohesive force; centrifugal force.,
F as in Forced (imp. & p. p.) of Force,
F as in Forcing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Force,
F as in Force (n.) To constrain to do or to forbear, by the exertion of a power not resistible; to compel by physical, moral, or intellectual means; to coerce; as, masters force slaves to labor.,
F as in Force (n.) To compel, as by strength of evidence; as, to force conviction on the mind.,
F as in Force (n.) To do violence to; to overpower, or to compel by violence to one;s will; especially, to ravish; to violate; to commit rape upon.,
F as in Force (n.) To obtain or win by strength; to take by violence or struggle; specifically, to capture by assault; to storm, as a fortress.,
F as in Force (n.) To impel, drive, wrest, extort, get, etc., by main strength or violence; -- with a following adverb, as along, away, from, into, through, out, etc.,
F as in Force (n.) To put in force; to cause to be executed; to make binding; to enforce.,
F as in Force (n.) To exert to the utmost; to urge; hence, to strain; to urge to excessive, unnatural, or untimely action; to produce by unnatural effort; as, to force a consient or metaphor; to force a laugh; to force fruits.,
F as in Force (n.) To compel (an adversary or partner) to trump a trick by leading a suit of which he has none.,
F as in Force (n.) To provide with forces; to reenforce; to strengthen by soldiers; to man; to garrison.,
F as in Force (n.) To allow the force of; to value; to care for.,
F as in Force (v. i.) To use violence; to make violent effort; to strive; to endeavor.,
F as in Force (v. i.) To make a difficult matter of anything; to labor; to hesitate; hence, to force of, to make much account of; to regard.,
F as in Force (v. i.) To be of force, importance, or weight; to matter.,
F as in Forced (a.) Done or produced with force or great labor, or by extraordinary exertion; hurried; strained; produced by unnatural effort or pressure; as, a forced style; a forced laugh.,
F as in Forceful (a.) Full of or processing force; exerting force; mighty.,
F as in Forceless (a.) Having little or no force; feeble.,
F as in Forcemeat (n.) Meat chopped fine and highly seasoned, either served up alone, or used as a stuffing.,
F as in Forcement (n.) The act of forcing; compulsion.,
F as in Forceps (n.) A pair of pinchers, or tongs; an instrument for grasping, holding firmly, or exerting traction upon, bodies which it would be inconvenient or impracticable to seize with the fingers, especially one for delicate operations, as those of watchmakers, surgeons, accoucheurs, dentists, etc.,
F as in Forceps (n.) The caudal forceps-shaped appendage of earwigs and some other insects. See Earwig.,
F as in Force pump () A pump having a solid piston, or plunger, for drawing and forcing a liquid, as water, through the valves; in distinction from a pump having a bucket, or valved piston.,
F as in Force pump () A pump adapted for delivering water at a considerable height above the pump, or under a considerable pressure; in distinction from one which lifts the water only to the top of the pump or delivers it through a spout. See Illust. of Plunger pump, under Plunger.,
F as in Forcer (n.) One who, or that which, forces or drives.,
F as in Forcer (n.) The solid piston of a force pump; the instrument by which water is forced in a pump.,
F as in Forcer (n.) A small hand pump for sinking pits, draining cellars, etc.,
F as in Forcible (a.) Possessing force; characterized by force, efficiency, or energy; powerful; efficacious; impressive; influential.,
F as in Forcible (a.) Violent; impetuous.,
F as in Forcible (a.) Using force against opposition or resistance; obtained by compulsion; effected by force; as, forcible entry or abduction.,
F as in Forcible-feeble (a.) Seemingly vigorous, but really weak or insipid.,
F as in Forcibleness (n.) The quality of being forcible.,
F as in Forcibly (adv.) In a forcible manner.,
F as in Forcing (n.) The accomplishing of any purpose violently, precipitately, prematurely, or with unusual expedition.,
F as in Forcing (n.) The art of raising plants, flowers, and fruits at an earlier season than the natural one, as in a hitbed or by the use of artificial heat.,
F as in Forcipal (a.) Forked or branched like a pair of forceps; constructed so as to open and shut like a pair of forceps.,
F as in Forcipate (a.) Alt. of Forcipated,
F as in Forcipated (a.) Like a pair of forceps; as, a forcipated mouth.,
F as in Forcipation (n.) Torture by pinching with forceps or pinchers.,
F as in Forcut (v. t.) To cut completely; to cut off.,
F as in Ford (v. i.) A place in a river, or other water, where it may be passed by man or beast on foot, by wading.,
F as in Ford (v. i.) A stream; a current.,
F as in Forded (imp. & p. p.) of Ford,
F as in Fording (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ford,
F as in Ford (v. t.) To pass or cross, as a river or other water, by wading; to wade through.,
F as in Fordable (a.) Capable of being forded.,
F as in Fordless (a.) Without a ford.,
F as in Fordo (v. i.) To destroy; to undo; to ruin.,
F as in Fordo (v. i.) To overcome with fatigue; to exhaust.,
F as in Fordone (a.) Undone; ruined.,
F as in Fordrive (v. t.) To drive about; to drive here and there.,
F as in Fordrunken (a.) Utterly drunk; very drunk.,
F as in Fordry (a.) Entirely dry; withered.,
F as in Fordwine (v. i.) To dwindle away; to disappear.,
F as in Fore (v. i.) Journey; way; method of proceeding.,
F as in Fore (adv.) In the part that precedes or goes first; -- opposed to aft, after, back, behind, etc.,
F as in Fore (adv.) Formerly; previously; afore.,
F as in Fore (adv.) In or towards the bows of a ship.,
F as in Fore (adv.) Advanced, as compared with something else; toward the front; being or coming first, in time, place, order, or importance; preceding; anterior; antecedent; earlier; forward; -- opposed to back or behind; as, the fore part of a garment; the fore part of the day; the fore and of a wagon.,
F as in Fore (n.) The front; hence, that which is in front; the future.,
F as in Fore (prep.) Before; -- sometimes written 'fore as if a contraction of afore or before.,
F as in Foreadmonish (v. t.) To admonish beforehand, or before the act or event.,
F as in Foreadvise (v. t.) To advise or counsel before the time of action, or before the event.,
F as in Forealleged (imp. & p. p.) of Foreallege,
F as in Forealleging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Foreallege,
F as in Foreallege (v. t.) To allege or cite before.,
F as in Foreappoint (v. t.) To set, order, or appoint, beforehand.,
F as in Foreappointment (n.) Previous appointment; preordinantion.,
F as in Forearm (v. t.) To arm or prepare for attack or resistance before the time of need.,
F as in Forearm (n.) That part of the arm or fore limb between the elbow and wrist; the antibrachium.,
F as in Forebeam (n.) The breast beam of a loom.,
F as in Forebear (n.) An ancestor. See Forbear.,
F as in Foreboded (imp. & p. p.) of Forebode,
F as in Foreboding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Forebode,
F as in Forebode (v. t.) To foretell.,
F as in Forebode (v. t.) To be prescient of (some ill or misfortune); to have an inward conviction of, as of a calamity which is about to happen; to augur despondingly.,
F as in Forebode (v. i.) To fortell; to presage; to augur.,
F as in Forebode (n.) Prognostication; presage.,
F as in Forebodement (n.) The act of foreboding; the thing foreboded.,
F as in Foreboder (n.) One who forebodes.,
F as in Foreboding (n.) Presage of coming ill; expectation of misfortune.,
F as in Forebodingly (adv.) In a foreboding manner.,
F as in Forebrace (n.) A rope applied to the fore yardarm, to change the position of the foresail.,
F as in Forebrain (n.) The anterior of the three principal divisions of the brain, including the prosencephalon and thalamencephalon. Sometimes restricted to the prosencephalon only. See Brain.,
F as in Foreby (prep.) Near; hard by; along; past. See Forby.,
F as in Forecast (v. t.) To plan beforehand; to scheme; to project.,
F as in Forecast (v. t.) To foresee; to calculate beforehand, so as to provide for.,
F as in Forecast (v. i.) To contrive or plan beforehand.,
F as in Forecast (n.) Previous contrivance or determination; predetermination.,
F as in Forecast (n.) Foresight of consequences, and provision against them; prevision; premeditation.,
F as in Forecaster (n.) One who forecast.,
F as in Forecastle (n.) A short upper deck forward, formerly raised like a castle, to command an enemy's decks.,
F as in Forecastle (n.) That part of the upper deck of a vessel forward of the foremast, or of the after part of the fore channels.,
F as in Forecastle (n.) In merchant vessels, the forward part of the vessel, under the deck, where the sailors live.,
F as in Forechosen (a.) Chosen beforehand.,
F as in Forecited (a.) Cited or quoted before or above.,
F as in Foreclosed (imp. & p. p.) of Foreclose,
F as in Foreclosing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Foreclose,
F as in Foreclose (v. t.) To shut up or out; to preclude; to stop; to prevent; to bar; to exclude.,
F as in Foreclosure (n.) The act or process of foreclosing; a proceeding which bars or extinguishes a mortgager's right of redeeming a mortgaged estate.,
F as in Foreconceive (v. t.) To preconceive; to imagine beforehand.,
F as in Foredate (v. t.) To date before the true time; to antendate.,
F as in Foredeck (n.) The fore part of a deck, or of a ship.,
F as in Foredeem (v. t.) To recognize or judge in advance; to forebode.,
F as in Foredeem (v. i.) To know or discover beforehand; to foretell.,
F as in Foredesign (v. t.) To plan beforehand; to intend previously.,
F as in Foredetermine (v. t.) To determine or decree beforehand.,
F as in Foredispose (v. t.) To bestow beforehand.,
F as in Foredoom (v. t.) To doom beforehand; to predestinate.,
F as in Foredoom (n.) Doom or sentence decreed in advance.,
F as in Forefather (n.) One who precedes another in the line of genealogy in any degree, but usually in a remote degree; an ancestor.,
F as in Forefeel (v. t.) To feel beforehand; to have a presentiment of.,
F as in Forefence (n.) Defense in front.,
F as in Forefend (v. t.) To hinder; to fend off; to avert; to prevent the approach of; to forbid or prohibit. See Forfend.,
F as in Forefinger (n.) The finger next to the thumb; the index.,
F as in Foreflow (v. t.) To flow before.,
F as in Forefoot (n.) One of the anterior feet of a quardruped or multiped; -- usually written fore foot.,
F as in Forefoot (n.) A piece of timber which terminates the keel at the fore end, connecting it with the lower end of the stem.,
F as in Foreefront (n.) Foremost part or place.,
F as in Foregame (n.) A first game; first plan.,
F as in Foreganger (n.) A short rope grafted on a harpoon, to which a longer lin/ may be attached.,
F as in Foregather (v. i.) Same as Forgather.,
F as in Foregift (n.) A premium paid by / lessee when taking his lease.,
F as in Foregleam (n.) An antecedent or premonitory gleam; a dawning light.,
F as in Forewent 2 (imp.) of Forego,
F as in Foregone (p. p.) of Forego,
F as in Foregoing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Forego,
F as in Forego (v. t.) To quit; to relinquish; to leave.,
F as in Forego (v. t.) To relinquish the enjoyment or advantage of; to give up; to resign; to renounce; -- said of a thing already enjoyed, or of one within reach, or anticipated.,
F as in Forego (v. i.) To go before; to precede; -- used especially in the present and past participles.,
F as in Foregoer (n.) One who goes before another; a predecessor; hence, an ancestor' a progenitor.,
F as in Foregoer (n.) A purveyor of the king; -- so called, formerly, from going before to provide for his household.,
F as in Foregoer (n.) One who forbears to enjoy.,
F as in Foreground (n.) On a painting, and sometimes in a bas-relief, mosaic picture, or the like, that part of the scene represented, which is nearest to the spectator, and therefore occupies the lowest part of the work of art itself. Cf. Distance, n., 6.,
F as in Foreguess (v. t.) To conjecture.,
F as in Foregut (n.) The anterior part of the alimentary canal, from the mouth to the intestine, o/ to the entrance of the bile duct.,
F as in Forehand (n.) All that part of a horse which is before the rider.,
F as in Forehand (n.) The chief or most important part.,
F as in Forehand (n.) Superiority; advantage; start; precedence.,
F as in Forehand (a.) Done beforehand; anticipative.,
F as in Forehanded (a.) Early; timely; seasonable.,
F as in Forehanded (a.) Beforehand with one's needs, or having resources in advance of one's necessities; in easy circumstances; as, a forehanded farmer.,
F as in Forehanded (a.) Formed in the forehand or fore parts.,
F as in Forehead (n.) The front of that part of the head which incloses the brain; that part of the face above the eyes; the brow.,
F as in Forehead (n.) The aspect or countenance; assurance.,
F as in Forehead (n.) The front or fore part of anything.,
F as in Forehear (v. i. & t.) To hear beforehand.,
F as in Forehearth (n.) The forward extension of the hearth of a blast furnace under the tymp.,
F as in Forehend (v. t.) See Forhend.,
F as in Forehew (v. t.) To hew or cut in front.,
F as in Forehold (n.) The forward part of the hold of a ship.,
F as in Foreholding (n.) Ominous foreboding; superstitious prognostication.,
F as in Forehook (n.) A piece of timber placed across the stem, to unite the bows and strengthen the fore part of the ship; a breast hook.,
F as in Foreign (a.) Outside; extraneous; separated; alien; as, a foreign country; a foreign government.,
F as in Foreign (a.) Not native or belonging to a certain country; born in or belonging to another country, nation, sovereignty, or locality; as, a foreign language; foreign fruits.,
F as in Foreign (a.) Remote; distant; strange; not belonging; not connected; not pertaining or pertient; not appropriate; not harmonious; not agreeable; not congenial; -- with to or from; as, foreign to the purpose; foreign to one's nature.,
F as in Foreign (a.) Held at a distance; excluded; exiled.,
F as in Foreigner (n.) A person belonging to or owning allegiance to a foreign country; one not native in the country or jurisdiction under consideration, or not naturalized there; an alien; a stranger.,
F as in Foreignism (n.) Anything peculiar to a foreign language or people; a foreign idiom or custom.,
F as in Foreignness (n.) The quality of being foreign; remoteness; want of relation or appropriateness.,
F as in Forein (a.) Foreign.,
F as in Forejudge (v. t.) To judge beforehand, or before hearing the facts and proof; to prejudge.,
F as in Forejudge (v. t.) To expel from court for some offense or misconduct, as an attorney or officer; to deprive or put out of a thing by the judgment of a court.,
F as in Forejudger (n.) A judgment by which one is deprived or put of a right or thing in question.,
F as in Forejudgment (n.) Prejudgment.,
F as in Foreknew (imp.) of Foreknow,
F as in Foreknown (p. p.) of Foreknow,
F as in Foreknowing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Foreknow,
F as in Foreknow (v. t.) To have previous knowledge of; to know beforehand.,
F as in Foreknowa-ble (a.) That may be foreknown.,
F as in Foreknower (n.) One who foreknows.,
F as in Foreknowingly (adv.) With foreknowledge.,
F as in Foreknowledge (n.) Knowledge of a thing before it happens, or of whatever is to happen; prescience.,
F as in Forel (n.) A kind of parchment for book covers. See Forrill.,
F as in Forel (v. t.) To bind with a forel.,
F as in Foreland (n.) A promontory or cape; a headland; as, the North and South Foreland in Kent, England.,
F as in Foreland (n.) A piece of ground between the wall of a place and the moat.,
F as in Foreland (n.) That portion of the natural shore on the outside of the embankment which receives the stock of waves and deadens their force.,
F as in Forelay (v. t.) To lay down beforehand.,
F as in Forelay (v. t.) To waylay. See Forlay.,
F as in Foreleader (n.) One who leads others by his example; aguide.,
F as in Forelend (v. t.) See Forlend.,
F as in Forelet (v. t.) See Forlet.,
F as in Forelie (v. i.) To lie in front of.,
F as in Forelift (v. t.) To lift up in front.,
F as in Forelock (n.) The lock of hair that grows from the forepart of the head.,
F as in Forelock (n.) A cotter or split pin, as in a slot in a bolt, to prevent retraction; a linchpin; a pin fastening the cap-square of a gun.,
F as in Forelook (v. i.) To look beforehand or forward.,
F as in Foremen (pl. ) of Foreman,
F as in Foreman (n.) The first or chief man,
F as in Foreman (n.) The chief man of a jury, who acts as their speaker.,
F as in Foreman (n.) The chief of a set of hands employed in a shop, or on works of any kind, who superintends the rest; an overseer.,
F as in Foremast (n.) The mast nearest the bow.,
F as in Foremeant (a.) Intended beforehand; premeditated.,
F as in Forementioned (a.) Mentioned before; already cited; aforementioned.,
F as in Foremilk (n.) The milk secreted just before, or directly after, the birth of a child or of the young of an animal; colostrum.,
F as in Foremost (a.) First in time or place; most advanced; chief in rank or dignity; as, the foremost troops of an army.,
F as in Foremostly (adv.) In the foremost place or order; among the foremost.,
F as in Foremother (n.) A female ancestor.,
F as in Forename (n.) A name that precedes the family name or surname; a first name.,
F as in Forename (v. t.) To name or mention before.,
F as in Forenamed (a.) Named before; aforenamed.,
F as in Forenenst (prep.) Over against; opposite to.,
F as in Fore-night (n.) The evening between twilight and bedtime.,
F as in Forenoon (n.) The early part of the day, from morning to meridian, or noon.,
F as in Forenotice (n.) Notice or information of an event before it happens; forewarning.,
F as in Forensal (a.) Forensic.,
F as in Forensic (a.) Belonging to courts of judicature or to public discussion and debate; used in legal proceedings, or in public discussions; argumentative; rhetorical; as, forensic eloquence or disputes.,
F as in Forensic (n.) An exercise in debate; a forensic contest; an argumentative thesis.,
F as in Forensical (a.) Forensic.,
F as in Foreordain (v. t.) To ordain or appoint beforehand; to preordain; to predestinate; to predetermine.,
F as in Foreordinate (v. t.) To foreordain.,
F as in Foreordination (n.) Previous ordination or appointment; predetermination; predestination.,
F as in Fore part (n.) Alt. of Forepart,
F as in Forepart (n.) The part most advanced, or first in time or in place; the beginning.,
F as in Forepast (a.) Bygone.,
F as in Forepossessed (a.) Holding or held formerly in possession.,
F as in Forepossessed (a.) Preoccupied; prepossessed; preengaged.,
F as in Foreprize (v. t.) To prize or rate beforehand.,
F as in Forepromised (a.) Promised beforehand; preengaged.,
F as in Forequoted (a.) Cited before; quoted in a foregoing part of the treatise or essay.,
F as in Foreran () imp. of Forerun.,
F as in Forerank (n.) The first rank; the front.,
F as in Forereach (v. t.) To advance or gain upon; -- said of a vessel that gains upon another when sailing closehauled.,
F as in Forereach (v. i.) To shoot ahead, especially when going in stays.,
F as in Foreread (v. t.) To tell beforehand; to signify by tokens; to predestine.,
F as in Forerecited (a.) Named or recited before.,
F as in Foreremembered (a.) Called to mind previously.,
F as in Foreright (a.) Ready; directly forward; going before.,
F as in Foreright (adv.) Right forward; onward.,
F as in Forerun (v. t.) To turn before; to precede; to be in advance of (something following).,
F as in Forerun (v. t.) To come before as an earnest of something to follow; to introduce as a harbinger; to announce.,
F as in Forerunner (n.) A messenger sent before to give notice of the approach of others; a harbinger; a sign foreshowing something; a prognostic; as, the forerunner of a fever.,
F as in Forerunner (n.) A predecessor; an ancestor.,
F as in Forerunner (n.) A piece of rag terminating the log line.,
F as in Foresaid (a.) Mentioned before; aforesaid.,
F as in Foresail (n.) The sail bent to the foreyard of a square-rigged vessel, being the lowest sail on the foremast.,
F as in Foresail (n.) The gaff sail set on the foremast of a schooner.,
F as in Foresail (n.) The fore staysail of a sloop, being the triangular sail next forward of the mast.,
F as in Foresay (v. t.) To foretell.,
F as in Foresee (v. t.) To see beforehand; to have prescience of; to foreknow.,
F as in Foresee (v. t.) To provide.,
F as in Foresee (v. i.) To have or exercise foresight.,
F as in Foreseen (p. p.) Provided; in case that; on condition that.,
F as in Foreseer (n.) One who foresees or foreknows.,
F as in Foreseize (v. t.) To seize beforehand.,
F as in Foreshadow (v. t.) To shadow or typi/y beforehand; to prefigure.,
F as in Foreshew (v. t.) See Foreshow.,
F as in Foreship (n.) The fore part of a ship.,
F as in Foreshorten (v. t.) To represent on a plane surface, as if extended in a direction toward the spectator or nearly so; to shorten by drawing in perspective.,
F as in Foreshorten (v. t.) Fig.: To represent pictorially to the imagination.,
F as in Foreshortening (n.) Representation in a foreshortened mode or way.,
F as in Foreshot (n.) In distillation of low wines, the first portion of spirit that comes over, being a fluid abounding in fusel oil.,
F as in Foreshow (v. t.) To show or exhibit beforehand; to give foreknowledge of; to prognosticate; to foretell.,
F as in Foreshower (n.) One who predicts.,
F as in Foreside (n.) The front side; the front; esp., a stretch of country fronting the sea.,
F as in Foreside (n.) The outside or external covering.,
F as in Foresight (n.) The act or the power of foreseeing; prescience; foreknowledge.,
F as in Foresight (n.) Action in reference to the future; provident care; prudence; wise forethought.,
F as in Foresight (n.) Any sight or reading of the leveling staff, except the backsight; any sight or bearing taken by a compass or theodolite in a forward direction.,
F as in Foresight (n.) Muzzle sight. See Fore sight, under Fore, a.,
F as in Foresighted (a.) Sagacious; prudent; provident for the future.,
F as in Foresightful (a.) Foresighted.,
F as in Foresignify (v. t.) To signify beforehand; to foreshow; to typify.,
F as in Foreskin (n.) The fold of skin which covers the glans of the penis; the prepuce.,
F as in Foreskirt (n.) The front skirt of a garment, in distinction from the train.,
F as in Foreslack (v. t.) See Forslack.,
F as in Foresleeve (n.) The sleeve below the elbow.,
F as in Foreslow (v. t.) To make slow; to hinder; to obstruct. [Obs.] See Forslow, v. t.,
F as in Foreslow (v. i.) To loiter. [Obs.] See Forslow, v. i.,
F as in Forespeak (v. t.) See Forspeak.,
F as in Forespeak (v. t.) To foretell; to predict.,
F as in Forespeaking (n.) A prediction; also, a preface.,
F as in Forespeech (n.) A preface.,
F as in Forespent (a.) Already spent; gone by; past.,
F as in Forespent (a.) See Forspent.,
F as in Forespurrer (n.) One who rides before; a harbinger.,
F as in Forest (n.) An extensive wood; a large tract of land covered with trees; in the United States, a wood of native growth, or a tract of woodland which has never been cultivated.,
F as in Forest (n.) A large extent or precinct of country, generally waste and woody, belonging to the sovereign, set apart for the keeping of game for his use, not inclosed, but distinguished by certain limits, and protected by certain laws, courts, and officers of its own.,
F as in Forest (a.) Of or pertaining to a forest; sylvan.,
F as in Forest (v. t.) To cover with trees or wood.,
F as in Forestaff (n.) An instrument formerly used at sea for taking the altitudes of heavenly bodies, now superseded by the sextant; -- called also cross-staff.,
F as in Forestage (n.) A duty or tribute payable to the king's foresters.,
F as in Forestage (n.) A service paid by foresters to the king.,
F as in Forestal (a.) Of or pertaining to forests; as, forestal rights.,
F as in Forestalled (imp. & p. p.) of Forestall,
F as in Forestalling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Forestall,
F as in Forestall (v. t.) To take beforehand, or in advance; to anticipate.,
F as in Forestall (v. t.) To take possession of, in advance of some one or something else, to the exclusion or detriment of the latter; to get ahead of; to preoccupy; also, to exclude, hinder, or prevent, by prior occupation, or by measures taken in advance.,
F as in Forestall (v. t.) To deprive; -- with of.,
F as in Forestall (v. t.) To obstruct or stop up, as a way; to stop the passage of on highway; to intercept on the road, as goods on the way to market.,
F as in Forestaller (n.) One who forestalls; esp., one who forestalls the market.,
F as in Forestay (n.) A large, strong rope, reaching from the foremast head to the bowsprit, to support the mast. See Illust. under Ship.,
F as in Forester (n.) One who has charge of the growing timber on an estate; an officer appointed to watch a forest and preserve the game.,
F as in Forester (n.) An inhabitant of a forest.,
F as in Forester (n.) A forest tree.,
F as in Forester (n.) A lepidopterous insect belonging to Alypia and allied genera; as, the eight-spotted forester (A. octomaculata), which in the larval state is injurious to the grapevine.,
F as in Forestick (n.) Front stick of a hearth fire.,
F as in Forestry (n.) The art of forming or of cultivating forests; the management of growing timber.,
F as in Foreswart (a.) Alt. of Foreswart,
F as in Foreswart (a.) See Forswat.,
F as in Foretaste (n.) A taste beforehand; enjoyment in advance; anticipation.,
F as in Foretaste (v. t.) To taste before full possession; to have previous enjoyment or experience of; to anticipate.,
F as in Foretaste (v. t.) To taste before another.,
F as in Foretaster (n.) One who tastes beforehand, or before another.,
F as in Foreteach (v. t.) To teach beforehand.,
F as in Foretold (imp. & p. p.) of Foretell,
F as in Foretelling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Foretell,
F as in Foretell (v. t.) To predict; to tell before occurence; to prophesy; to foreshow.,
F as in Foretell (v. i.) To utter predictions.,
F as in Foreteller (n.) One who predicts.,
F as in Forethink (v. t.) To think beforehand; to anticipate in the mind; to prognosticate.,
F as in Forethink (v. t.) To contrive (something) beforehend.,
F as in Forethink (v. i.) To contrive beforehand.,
F as in Forethought (a.) Thought of, or planned, beforehand; aforethought; prepense; hence, deliberate.,
F as in Forethought (n.) A thinking or planning beforehand; prescience; premeditation; forecast; provident care.,
F as in Forethoughtful (a.) Having forethought.,
F as in Foretime (n.) The past; the time before the present.,
F as in Foretoken (n.) Prognostic; previous omen.,
F as in Foretokened (imp. & p. p.) of Foretoken,
F as in Foretokening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Foretoken,
F as in Foretoken (v. t.) To foreshow; to presignify; to prognosticate.,
F as in Fore teeth (pl. ) of Fore tooth,
F as in Fore tooth () One of the teeth in the forepart of the mouth; an incisor.,
F as in Foretop (n.) The hair on the forepart of the head; esp., a tuft or lock of hair which hangs over the forehead, as of a horse.,
F as in Foretop (n.) That part of a headdress that is in front; the top of a periwig.,
F as in Foretop (n.) The platform at the head of the foremast.,
F as in Fore-topgallant (a.) Designating the mast, sail, yard, etc., above the topmast; as, the fore-topgallant sail. See Sail.,
F as in Fore-topmast (n.) The mast erected at the head of the foremast, and at the head of which stands the fore-topgallant mast. See Ship.,
F as in Fore-topsail (n.) See Sail.,
F as in Forever (adv.) Through eternity; through endless ages, eternally.,
F as in Forever (adv.) At all times; always.,
F as in Forevouched (a.) Formerly vouched or avowed; affirmed in advance.,
F as in Foreward (n.) The van; the front.,
F as in Forewarned (imp. & p. p.) of Forewarn,
F as in Forewarning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Forewarn,
F as in Forewarn (v. t.) To warn beforehand; to give previous warning, admonition, information, or notice to; to caution in advance.,
F as in Forewaste (v. t.) See Forewaste.,
F as in Forewend (v. t.) To go before.,
F as in Forewish (v. t.) To wish beforehand.,
F as in Forewit (n.) A leader, or would-be leader, in matters of knowledge or taste.,
F as in Forewit (n.) Foresight; prudence.,
F as in Forewot (pres. indic. sing., 1st & 3d pers.) of Forewite,
F as in Forewost (2d person) of Forewite,
F as in Forewiten (pl.) of Forewite,
F as in Forewiste (imp. sing.) of Forewite,
F as in Forewisten (pl.) of Forewite,
F as in Forewiting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Forewite,
F as in Forewite (v. t.) To foreknow.,
F as in Forewomen (pl. ) of Forewoman,
F as in Forewoman (n.) A woman who is chief; a woman who has charge of the work or workers in a shop or other place; a head woman.,
F as in Foreword (n.) A preface.,
F as in Foreworn (a.) Worn out; wasted; used up.,
F as in Forewot () pres. indic., 1st & 3d pers. sing. of Forewite.,
F as in Foreyard (n.) The lowermost yard on the foremast.,
F as in Forfalture (n.) Forfeiture.,
F as in Forfeit (n.) Injury; wrong; mischief.,
F as in Forfeit (n.) A thing forfeit or forfeited; what is or may be taken from one in requital of a misdeed committed; that which is lost, or the right to which is alienated, by a crime, offense, neglect of duty, or breach of contract; hence, a fine; a mulct; a penalty; as, he who murders pays the forfeit of his life.,
F as in Forfeit (n.) Something deposited and redeemable by a sportive fine; -- whence the game of forfeits.,
F as in Forfeit (n.) Lost or alienated for an offense or crime; liable to penal seizure.,
F as in Forfeited (imp. & p. p.) of Forfeit,
F as in Forfeiting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Forfeit,
F as in Forfeit (n.) To lose, or lose the right to, by some error, fault, offense, or crime; to render one's self by misdeed liable to be deprived of; to alienate the right to possess, by some neglect or crime; as, to forfeit an estate by treason; to forfeit reputation by a breach of promise; -- with to before the one acquiring what is forfeited.,
F as in Forfeit (v. i.) To be guilty of a misdeed; to be criminal; to transgress.,
F as in Forfeit (v. i.) To fail to keep an obligation.,
F as in Forfeit (p. p. / a.) In the condition of being forfeited; subject to alienation.,
F as in Fourfeitable (a.) Liable to be forfeited; subject to forfeiture.,
F as in Forfeiter (n.) One who incurs a penalty of forfeiture.,
F as in Forfeiture (n.) The act of forfeiting; the loss of some right, privilege, estate, honor, office, or effects, by an offense, crime, breach of condition, or other act.,
F as in Forfeiture (n.) That which is forfeited; a penalty; a fine or mulct.,
F as in Forfend (v. t.) To prohibit; to forbid; to avert.,
F as in Forfered (p. p. & a.) Excessively alarmed; in great fear.,
F as in Forfete (v. i.) To incur a penalty; to transgress.,
F as in Forfex (n.) A pair of shears.,
F as in Forficate (a.) Deeply forked, as the tail of certain birds.,
F as in Forficula (n.) A genus of insects including the earwigs. See Earwig, 1.,
F as in Forgather (v. i.) To convene; to gossip; to meet accidentally.,
F as in Forgave () imp. of Forgive.,
F as in Forge (n.) A place or establishment where iron or other metals are wrought by heating and hammering; especially, a furnace, or a shop with its furnace, etc., where iron is heated and wrought; a smithy.,
F as in Forge (n.) The works where wrought iron is produced directly from the ore, or where iron is rendered malleable by puddling and shingling; a shingling mill.,
F as in Forge (n.) The act of beating or working iron or steel; the manufacture of metalic bodies.,
F as in Forged (imp. & p. p.) of Forge,
F as in Forging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Forge,
F as in Forge (n.) To form by heating and hammering; to beat into any particular shape, as a metal.,
F as in Forge (n.) To form or shape out in any way; to produce; to frame; to invent.,
F as in Forge (n.) To coin.,
F as in Forge (n.) To make falsely; to produce, as that which is untrue or not genuine; to fabricate; to counterfeit, as, a signature, or a signed document.,
F as in Forge (v. t.) To commit forgery.,
F as in Forge (v. t.) To move heavily and slowly, as a ship after the sails are furled; to work one's way, as one ship in outsailing another; -- used especially in the phrase to forge ahead.,
F as in Forge (v. t.) To impel forward slowly; as, to forge a ship forward.,
F as in Forgemen (pl. ) of Forgeman,
F as in Forgeman (n.) A skilled smith, who has a hammerer to assist him.,
F as in Forger (n. & v. t.) One who forges, makes, of forms; a fabricator; a falsifier.,
F as in Forger (n. & v. t.) Especially: One guilty of forgery; one who makes or issues a counterfeit document.,
F as in Forgeries (pl. ) of Forgery,
F as in Forgery (n.) The act of forging metal into shape.,
F as in Forgery (n.) The act of forging, fabricating, or producing falsely; esp., the crime of fraudulently making or altering a writing or signature purporting to be made by another; the false making or material alteration of or addition to a written instrument for the purpose of deceit and fraud; as, the forgery of a bond.,
F as in Forgery (n.) That which is forged, fabricated, falsely devised, or counterfeited.,
F as in Forgot (imp.) of Forget,
F as in Forgat () of Forget,
F as in Forgotten (p. p.) of Forget,
F as in Forgot () of Forget,
F as in Forgetting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Forget,
F as in Forget (v. t.) To lose the remembrance of; to let go from the memory; to cease to have in mind; not to think of; also, to lose the power of; to cease from doing.,
F as in Forget (v. t.) To treat with inattention or disregard; to slight; to neglect.,
F as in Forgetful (a.) Apt to forget; easily losing remembrance; as, a forgetful man should use helps to strengthen his memory.,
F as in Forgetful (a.) Heedless; careless; neglectful; inattentive.,
F as in Forgetful (a.) Causing to forget; inducing oblivion; oblivious.,
F as in Forgetfully (adv.) In a forgetful manner.,
F as in Forgetfulness (n.) The quality of being forgetful; prononess to let slip from the mind.,
F as in Forgetfulness (n.) Loss of remembrance or recollection; a ceasing to remember; oblivion.,
F as in Forgetfulness (n.) Failure to bear in mind; careless omission; inattention; as, forgetfulness of duty.,
F as in Forgetive (a.) Inventive; productive; capable.,
F as in Forget-me-not (n.) A small herb, of the genus Myosotis (M. palustris, incespitosa, etc.), bearing a beautiful blue flower, and extensively considered the emblem of fidelity.,
F as in Forgettable (a.) Liable to be, or that may be, forgotten.,
F as in Forgetter (n.) One who forgets; a heedless person.,
F as in Forgettingly (adv.) By forgetting.,
F as in Forging (n.) The act of shaping metal by hammering or pressing.,
F as in Forging (n.) The act of counterfeiting.,
F as in Forging (n.) A piece of forged work in metal; -- a general name for a piece of hammered iron or steel.,
F as in Forgivable (a.) Capable of being forgiven; pardonable; venial.,
F as in Forgave (imp.) of Forgive,
F as in Forgiven (p. p.) of Forgive,
F as in Forgiving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Forgive,
F as in Forgive (v. t.) To give wholly; to make over without reservation; to resign.,
F as in Forgive (v. t.) To give up resentment or claim to requital on account of (an offense or wrong); to remit the penalty of; to pardon; -- said in reference to the act forgiven.,
F as in Forgive (v. t.) To cease to feel resentment against, on account of wrong committed; to give up claim to requital from or retribution upon (an offender); to absolve; to pardon; -- said of the person offending.,
F as in Forgiveness (n.) The act of forgiving; the state of being forgiven; as, the forgiveness of sin or of injuries.,
F as in Forgiveness (n.) Disposition to pardon; willingness to forgive.,
F as in Forgiver (n.) One who forgives.,
F as in Forgiving (a.) Disposed to forgive; inclined to overlook offenses; mild; merciful; compassionate; placable; as, a forgiving temper.,
F as in Forwent (imp.) of Forgo,
F as in Forgone (p. p.) of Forgo,
F as in Forgoing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Forgo,
F as in Forgo (v. i.) To pass by; to leave. See 1st Forego.,
F as in Forgot () imp. & p. p. of Forget.,
F as in Forgotten () p. p. of Forget.,
F as in Forhall (v. t.) To harass; to torment; to distress.,
F as in Forhend (v. t.) To seize upon.,
F as in Forinsecal (a.) Foreign; alien.,
F as in Forisfamiliated (imp. & p. p.) of Forisfamiliate,
F as in Forisfamiliating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Forisfamiliate,
F as in Forisfamiliate (v. t.) Literally, to put out of a family; hence, to portion off, so as to exclude further claim of inheritance; to emancipate (as a with his own consent) from paternal authority.,
F as in Forisfamiliate (v. i.) To renounce a legal title to a further share of paternal inheritance.,
F as in Forisfamiliation (n.) The act of forisfamiliating.,
F as in Fork (n.) An instrument consisting of a handle with a shank terminating in two or more prongs or tines, which are usually of metal, parallel and slightly curved; -- used from piercing, holding, taking up, or pitching anything.,
F as in Fork (n.) Anything furcate or like a fork in shape, or furcate at the extremity; as, a tuning fork.,
F as in Fork (n.) One of the parts into which anything is furcated or divided; a prong; a branch of a stream, a road, etc.; a barbed point, as of an arrow.,
F as in Fork (n.) The place where a division or a union occurs; the angle or opening between two branches or limbs; as, the fork of a river, a tree, or a road.,
F as in Fork (n.) The gibbet.,
F as in Forked (imp. & p. p.) of Fork,
F as in Forking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fork,
F as in Fork (v. i.) To shoot into blades, as corn.,
F as in Fork (v. i.) To divide into two or more branches; as, a road, a tree, or a stream forks.,
F as in Fork (v. t.) To raise, or pitch with a fork, as hay; to dig or turn over with a fork, as the soil.,
F as in Forkbeard (n.) A European fish (Raniceps raninus), having a large flat head; -- also called tadpole fish, and lesser forked beard.,
F as in Forkbeard (n.) The European forked hake or hake's-dame (Phycis blennoides); -- also called great forked beard.,
F as in Forked (a.) Formed into a forklike shape; having a fork; dividing into two or more prongs or branches; furcated; bifurcated; zigzag; as, the forked lighting.,
F as in Forked (a.) Having a double meaning; ambiguous; equivocal.,
F as in Forkerve (v. t.) See Forcarve, v. t.,
F as in Forkiness (n.) The quality or state or dividing in a forklike manner.,
F as in Forkless (a.) Having no fork.,
F as in Forktail (n.) One of several Asiatic and East Indian passerine birds, belonging to Enucurus, and allied genera. The tail is deeply forking.,
F as in Forktail (n.) A salmon in its fourth year's growth.,
F as in Fork-tailed (a.) Having the outer tail feathers longer than the median ones; swallow-tailed; -- said of many birds.,
F as in Forky (a.) Opening into two or more parts or shoots; forked; furcated.,
F as in Forlaft () p. p. of Forleave.,
F as in Forlay (v. t.) To lie in wait for; to ambush.,
F as in Forleave (v. t.) To leave off wholly.,
F as in Forlend (v. t.) To give up wholly.,
F as in Forlore (p. p.) of Forlese,
F as in Forlorn () of Forlese,
F as in Forlese (v. t.) To lose utterly.,
F as in Forlet (v. t.) To give up; to leave; to abandon.,
F as in Forlie (v. i.) See Forelie.,
F as in Forlore () imp. pl. & p. p. of Forlese.,
F as in Forlorn (v. t.) Deserted; abandoned; lost.,
F as in Forlorn (v. t.) Destitute; helpless; in pitiful plight; wretched; miserable; almost hopeless; desperate.,
F as in Forlorn (n.) A lost, forsaken, or solitary person.,
F as in Forlorn (n.) A forlorn hope; a vanguard.,
F as in Forlornly (adv.) In a forlorn manner.,
F as in Forlornness (n.) State of being forlorn.,
F as in Forlye (v. i.) Same as Forlie.,
F as in form (n.) A suffix used to denote in the form / shape of, resembling, etc.; as, valiform; oviform.,
F as in Form (n.) The shape and structure of anything, as distinguished from the material of which it is composed; particular disposition or arrangement of matter, giving it individuality or distinctive character; configuration; figure; external appearance.,
F as in Form (n.) Constitution; mode of construction, organization, etc.; system; as, a republican form of government.,
F as in Form (n.) Established method of expression or practice; fixed way of proceeding; conventional or stated scheme; formula; as, a form of prayer.,
F as in Form (n.) Show without substance; empty, outside appearance; vain, trivial, or conventional ceremony; conventionality; formality; as, a matter of mere form.,
F as in Form (n.) Orderly arrangement; shapeliness; also, comeliness; elegance; beauty.,
F as in Form (n.) A shape; an image; a phantom.,
F as in Form (n.) That by which shape is given or determined; mold; pattern; model.,
F as in Form (n.) A long seat; a bench; hence, a rank of students in a school; a class; also, a class or rank in society.,
F as in Form (n.) The seat or bed of a hare.,
F as in Form (n.) The type or other matter from which an impression is to be taken, arranged and secured in a chase.,
F as in Form (n.) The boundary line of a material object. In painting, more generally, the human body.,
F as in Form (n.) The particular shape or structure of a word or part of speech; as, participial forms; verbal forms.,
F as in Form (n.) The combination of planes included under a general crystallographic symbol. It is not necessarily a closed solid.,
F as in Form (n.) That assemblage or disposition of qualities which makes a conception, or that internal constitution which makes an existing thing to be what it is; -- called essential or substantial form, and contradistinguished from matter; hence, active or formative nature; law of being or activity; subjectively viewed, an idea; objectively, a law.,
F as in Form (n.) Mode of acting or manifestation to the senses, or the intellect; as, water assumes the form of ice or snow. In modern usage, the elements of a conception furnished by the mind's own activity, as contrasted with its object or condition, which is called the matter; subjectively, a mode of apprehension or belief conceived as dependent on the constitution of the mind; objectively, universal and necessary accompaniments or elements of every object known or thought of.,
F as in Form (n.) The peculiar characteristics of an organism as a type of others; also, the structure of the parts of an animal or plant.,
F as in Formed (imp. & p. p.) of Form,
F as in Forming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Form,
F as in Form (n.) To give form or shape to; to frame; to construct; to make; to fashion.,
F as in Form (n.) To give a particular shape to; to shape, mold, or fashion into a certain state or condition; to arrange; to adjust; also, to model by instruction and discipline; to mold by influence, etc.; to train.,
F as in Form (n.) To go to make up; to act as constituent of; to be the essential or constitutive elements of; to answer for; to make the shape of; -- said of that out of which anything is formed or constituted, in whole or in part.,
F as in Form (n.) To provide with a form, as a hare. See Form, n., 9.,
F as in Form (n.) To derive by grammatical rules, as by adding the proper suffixes and affixes.,
F as in Form (v. i.) To take a form, definite shape, or arrangement; as, the infantry should form in column.,
F as in Form (v. i.) To run to a form, as a hare.,
F as in Formal (n.) See Methylal.,
F as in Formal (a.) Belonging to the form, shape, frame, external appearance, or organization of a thing.,
F as in Formal (a.) Belonging to the constitution of a thing, as distinguished from the matter composing it; having the power of making a thing what it is; constituent; essential; pertaining to or depending on the forms, so called, of the human intellect.,
F as in Formal (a.) Done in due form, or with solemnity; according to regular method; not incidental, sudden or irregular; express; as, he gave his formal consent.,
F as in Formal (a.) Devoted to, or done in accordance with, forms or rules; punctilious; regular; orderly; methodical; of a prescribed form; exact; prim; stiff; ceremonious; as, a man formal in his dress, his gait, his conversation.,
F as in Formal (a.) Having the form or appearance without the substance or essence; external; as, formal duty; formal worship; formal courtesy, etc.,
F as in Formal (a.) Dependent in form; conventional.,
F as in Formal (a.) Sound; normal.,
F as in Formaldehyde (n.) A colorless, volatile liquid, H2CO, resembling acetic or ethyl aldehyde, and chemically intermediate between methyl alcohol and formic acid.,
F as in Formalism (n.) The practice or the doctrine of strict adherence to, or dependence on, external forms, esp. in matters of religion.,
F as in Formalist (n.) One overattentive to forms, or too much confined to them; esp., one who rests in external religious forms, or observes strictly the outward forms of worship, without possessing the life and spirit of religion.,
F as in Formalities (pl. ) of Formality,
F as in Formality (n.) The condition or quality of being formal, strictly ceremonious, precise, etc.,
F as in Formality (n.) Form without substance.,
F as in Formality (n.) Compliance with formal or conventional rules; ceremony; conventionality.,
F as in Formality (n.) An established order; conventional rule of procedure; usual method; habitual mode.,
F as in Formality (n.) The dress prescribed for any body of men, academical, municipal, or sacerdotal.,
F as in Formality (n.) That which is formal; the formal part.,
F as in Formality (n.) The quality which makes a thing what it is; essence.,
F as in Formality (n.) The manner in which a thing is conceived or constituted by an act of human thinking; the result of such an act; as, animality and rationality are formalities.,
F as in Formalized (imp. & p. p.) of Formalize,
F as in Formalizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Formalize,
F as in Formalize (v. t.) To give form, or a certain form, to; to model.,
F as in Formalize (v. t.) To render formal.,
F as in Formalize (v. i.) To affect formality.,
F as in Formally (adv.) In a formal manner; essentially; characteristically; expressly; regularly; ceremoniously; precisely.,
F as in Formate (n.) A salt of formic acid.,
F as in Formation (n.) The act of giving form or shape to anything; a forming; a shaping.,
F as in Formation (n.) The manner in which a thing is formed; structure; construction; conformation; form; as, the peculiar formation of the heart.,
F as in Formation (n.) A substance formed or deposited.,
F as in Formation (n.) Mineral deposits and rock masses designated with reference to their origin; as, the siliceous formation about geysers; alluvial formations; marine formations.,
F as in Formation (n.) A group of beds of the same age or period; as, the Eocene formation.,
F as in Formation (n.) The arrangement of a body of troops, as in a square, column, etc.,
F as in Formative (a.) Giving form; having the power of giving form; plastic; as, the formative arts.,
F as in Formative (a.) Serving to form; derivative; not radical; as, a termination merely formative.,
F as in Formative (a.) Capable of growth and development; germinal; as, living or formative matter.,
F as in Formative (n.) That which serves merely to give form, and is no part of the radical, as the prefix or the termination of a word.,
F as in Formative (n.) A word formed in accordance with some rule or usage, as from a root.,
F as in Forme (a.) Same as Pate or Patte.,
F as in Forme (a.) First.,
F as in Formed (a.) Arranged, as stars in a constellation; as, formed stars.,
F as in Formed (a.) Having structure; capable of growth and development; organized; as, the formed or organized ferments. See Ferment, n.,
F as in Formedon (n.) A writ of right for a tenant in tail in case of a discontinuance of the estate tail. This writ has been abolished.,
F as in Formell (n.) The female of a hawk or falcon.,
F as in Former (n.) One who forms; a maker; a creator.,
F as in Former (n.) A shape around which an article is to be shaped, molded, woven wrapped, pasted, or otherwise constructed.,
F as in Former (n.) A templet, pattern, or gauge by which an article is shaped.,
F as in Former (n.) A cutting die.,
F as in Former (a.) Preceding in order of time; antecedent; previous; prior; earlier; hence, ancient; long past.,
F as in Former (a.) Near the beginning; preceeding; as, the former part of a discourse or argument.,
F as in Former (a.) Earlier, as between two things mentioned together; first mentioned.,
F as in Formeret (n.) One of the half ribs against the walls in a ceiling vaulted with ribs.,
F as in Formerly (adv.) In time past, either in time immediately preceding or at any indefinite distance; of old; heretofore.,
F as in Formful (a.) Creative; imaginative.,
F as in Formic (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, ants; as, formic acid; in an extended sense, pertaining to, or derived from, formic acid; as, formic ether.,
F as in Formica (n.) A Linnaean genus of hymenopterous insects, including the common ants. See Ant.,
F as in Formicaroid (a.) Like or pertaining to the family Formicaridae or ant thrushes.,
F as in Formicary (n.) The nest or dwelling of a swarm of ants; an ant-hill.,
F as in Formicate (a.) Resembling, or pertaining to, an ant or ants.,
F as in Formication (n.) A sensation resembling that made by the creeping of ants on the skin.,
F as in Formicid (a.) Pertaining to the ants.,
F as in Formicid (n.) One of the family Formicidae, or ants.,
F as in Formidability (n.) Formidableness.,
F as in Formidable (a.) Exciting fear or apprehension; impressing dread; adapted to excite fear and deter from approach, encounter, or undertaking; alarming.,
F as in Formidableness (n.) The quality of being formidable, or adapted to excite dread.,
F as in Formidably (adv.) In a formidable manner.,
F as in Formidolose (a.) Very much afraid.,
F as in Forming (n.) The act or process of giving form or shape to anything; as, in shipbuilding, the exact shaping of partially shaped timbers.,
F as in Formless (a.) Shapeless; without a determinate form; wanting regularity of shape.,
F as in Formulas (pl. ) of Formula,
F as in Formulae (pl. ) of Formula,
F as in Formula (n.) A prescribed or set form; an established rule; a fixed or conventional method in which anything is to be done, arranged, or said.,
F as in Formula (n.) A written confession of faith; a formal statement of foctrines.,
F as in Formula (n.) A rule or principle expressed in algebraic language; as, the binominal formula.,
F as in Formula (n.) A prescription or recipe for the preparation of a medicinal compound.,
F as in Formula (n.) A symbolic expression (by means of letters, figures, etc.) of the constituents or constitution of a compound.,
F as in Formularistic (a.) Pertaining to, or exhibiting, formularization.,
F as in Formularization (n.) The act of formularizing; a formularized or formulated statement or exhibition.,
F as in Formularize (v. t.) To reduce to a forula; to formulate.,
F as in Formulary (a.) Stated; prescribed; ritual.,
F as in Formularies (pl. ) of Formulary,
F as in Formulary (n.) A book containing stated and prescribed forms, as of oaths, declarations, prayers, medical formulaae, etc.; a book of precedents.,
F as in Formulary (n.) Prescribed form or model; formula.,
F as in Formulated (imp. & p. p.) of Formulate,
F as in Formulating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Formulate,
F as in Formulate (v. t.) To reduce to, or express in, a formula; to put in a clear and definite form of statement or expression.,
F as in Formulation (n.) The act, process, or result of formulating or reducing to a formula.,
F as in Formule (n.) A set or prescribed model; a formula.,
F as in Formulization (n.) The act or process of reducing to a formula; the state of being formulized.,
F as in Formulized (imp. & p. p.) of Formulize,
F as in Formulizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Formulize,
F as in Formulize (v. t.) To reduce to a formula; to formulate.,
F as in Formyl (n.) A univalent radical, H.C:O, regarded as the essential residue of formic acid and aldehyde.,
F as in Formyl (n.) Formerly, the radical methyl, CH3.,
F as in Forncast (p. p.) Predestined.,
F as in Fornical (a.) Relating to a fornix.,
F as in Fornicate (a.) Alt. of Fornicated,
F as in Fornicated (a.) Vaulted like an oven or furnace; arched.,
F as in Fornicated (a.) Arching over; overarched.,
F as in Fornicate (v. i.) To commit fornication; to have unlawful sexual intercourse.,
F as in Fornication (n.) Unlawful sexual intercourse on the part of an unmarried person; the act of such illicit sexual intercourse between a man and a woman as does not by law amount to adultery.,
F as in Fornication (n.) Adultery.,
F as in Fornication (n.) Incest.,
F as in Fornication (n.) Idolatry.,
F as in Fornicator (n.) An unmarried person, male or female, who has criminal intercourse with the other sex; one guilty of fornication.,
F as in Fornicatress (n.) A woman guilty of fornication.,
F as in Fornices (pl. ) of Fornix,
F as in Fornix (n.) An arch or fold; as, the fornix, or vault, of the cranium; the fornix, or reflection, of the conjuctiva.,
F as in Fornix (n.) Esp., two longitudinal bands of white nervous tissue beneath the lateral ventricles of the brain.,
F as in Forold (a.) Very old.,
F as in Forpass (v. t. & i.) To pass by or along; to pass over.,
F as in Forpine (v. t.) To waste away completely by suffering or torment.,
F as in Forray (v. t.) To foray; to ravage; to pillage.,
F as in Forray (n.) The act of ravaging; a ravaging; a predatory excursion. See Foray.,
F as in Forrill (n.) Lambskin parchment; vellum; forel.,
F as in Forsook (imp.) of Forsake,
F as in Forsaken (p. p.) of Forsake,
F as in Forsaking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Forsake,
F as in Forsake (v. t.) To quit or leave entirely; to desert; to abandon; to depart or withdraw from; to leave; as, false friends and flatterers forsake us in adversity.,
F as in Forsake (v. t.) To renounce; to reject; to refuse.,
F as in Forsaker (n.) One who forsakes or deserts.,
F as in Forsay (v. t.) To forbid; to renounce; to forsake; to deny.,
F as in Forshape (v. t.) To render misshapen.,
F as in Forslack (v. t.) To neglect by idleness; to delay or to waste by sloth.,
F as in Forslouthe (v. t.) To lose by sloth or negligence.,
F as in Forslow (v. t.) To delay; to hinder; to neglect; to put off.,
F as in Forslow (v. i.) To loiter.,
F as in Forslugge (v. t.) To lsoe by idleness or slotch.,
F as in Forsooth (adv.) In truth; in fact; certainly; very well; -- formerly used as an expression of deference or respect, especially to woman; now used ironically or contemptuously.,
F as in Forsooth (v. t.) To address respectfully with the term forsooth.,
F as in Forsooth (n.) A person who used forsooth much; a very ceremonious and deferential person.,
F as in Forspeak (v. t.) To forbid; to prohibit.,
F as in Forspeak (v. t.) To bewitch.,
F as in Forspent (a.) Wasted in strength; tired; exhausted.,
F as in Forstall (v. t.) To forestall.,
F as in Forster (n.) A forester.,
F as in Forstraught (p. p. & a.) Distracted.,
F as in Forswat (a.) Spent with heat; covered with sweat.,
F as in Forswore (imp.) of Forswear,
F as in Forsworn (p. p.) of Forswear,
F as in Forswearing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Forswear,
F as in Forswear (v. i.) To reject or renounce upon oath; hence, to renounce earnestly, determinedly, or with protestations.,
F as in Forswear (v. i.) To deny upon oath.,
F as in Forswear (v. i.) To swear falsely; to commit perjury.,
F as in Forswearer (n.) One who rejects of renounces upon oath; one who swears a false oath.,
F as in Forswonk (a.) Overlabored; exhausted; worn out.,
F as in Forswore () imp. of Forswear.,
F as in Forsworn () p. p. of Forswear.,
F as in Forswornness (n.) State of being forsworn.,
F as in Forsythia (a.) A shrub of the Olive family, with yellow blossoms.,
F as in Fort (n.) A strong or fortified place; usually, a small fortified place, occupied only by troops, surrounded with a ditch, rampart, and parapet, or with palisades, stockades, or other means of defense; a fortification.,
F as in Fortalice (n.) A small outwork of a fortification; a fortilage; -- called also fortelace.,
F as in Forte (n.) The strong point; that in which one excels.,
F as in Forte (n.) The stronger part of the blade of a sword; the part of half nearest the hilt; -- opposed to foible.,
F as in Forte (a. & adv.) Loudly; strongly; powerfully.,
F as in Forted (a.) Furnished with, or guarded by, forts; strengthened or defended, as by forts.,
F as in Forth (adv.) Forward; onward in time, place, or order; in advance from a given point; on to end; as, from that day forth; one, two, three, and so forth.,
F as in Forth (adv.) Out, as from a state of concealment, retirement, confinement, nondevelopment, or the like; out into notice or view; as, the plants in spring put forth leaves.,
F as in Forth (adv.) Beyond a (certain) boundary; away; abroad; out.,
F as in Forth (adv.) Throughly; from beginning to end.,
F as in Forth (prep.) Forth from; out of.,
F as in Forth (n.) A way; a passage or ford.,
F as in Forthby (adv.) See Forby.,
F as in Forthcoming (a.) Ready or about to appear; making appearance.,
F as in Forthgoing (n.) A going forth; an utterance.,
F as in Forthgoing (a.) Going forth.,
F as in Forthink (v. t.) To repent; to regret; to be sorry for; to cause regret.,
F as in Forthputing (a.) Bold; forward; aggressive.,
F as in Forthright (adv.) Straight forward; in a straight direction.,
F as in Forthright (a.) Direct; straightforward; as, a forthright man.,
F as in Forthright (n.) A straight path.,
F as in Forthrightness (n.) Straightforwardness; explicitness; directness.,
F as in Forthward (adv.) Forward.,
F as in Forthwith (adv.) Immediately; without delay; directly.,
F as in Forthwith (adv.) As soon as the thing required may be done by reasonable exertion confined to that object.,
F as in Forthy (adv.) Therefore.,
F as in Forties (n. pl.) See Forty.,
F as in Fortieth (a.) Following the thirty-ninth, or preceded by thirty-nine units, things, or parts.,
F as in Fortieth (a.) Constituting one of forty equal parts into which anything is divided.,
F as in Fortieth (n.) One of forty equal parts into which one whole is divided; the quotient of a unit divided by forty; one next in order after the thirty-ninth.,
F as in Fortifiable (a.) Capable of being fortified.,
F as in Fortification (n.) The act of fortifying; the art or science of fortifying places in order to defend them against an enemy.,
F as in Fortification (n.) That which fortifies; especially, a work or works erected to defend a place against attack; a fortified place; a fortress; a fort; a castle.,
F as in Fortifier (n.) One who, or that which, fortifies, strengthens, supports, or upholds.,
F as in Fortified (imp. & p. p.) of Fortify,
F as in Fortifying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fortify,
F as in Fortify (v. t.) To add strength to; to strengthen; to confirm; to furnish with power to resist attack.,
F as in Fortify (v. t.) To strengthen and secure by forts or batteries, or by surrounding with a wall or ditch or other military works; to render defensible against an attack by hostile forces.,
F as in Fortify (v. i.) To raise defensive works.,
F as in Fortilage (n.) A little fort; a blockhouse.,
F as in Fortin (n.) A little fort; a fortlet.,
F as in Fortissimo (adv.) Very loud; with the utmost strength or loudness.,
F as in Fortition (n.) Casual choice; fortuitous selection; hazard.,
F as in Fortitude (n.) Power to resist attack; strength; firmness.,
F as in Fortitude (n.) That strength or firmness of mind which enables a person to encounter danger with coolness and courage, or to bear pain or adversity without murmuring, depression, or despondency; passive courage; resolute endurance; firmness in confronting or bearing up against danger or enduring trouble.,
F as in Fortitudinous (a.) Having fortitude; courageous.,
F as in Fortlet (n.) A little fort.,
F as in Fortnight (n.) The space of fourteen days; two weeks.,
F as in Fortnightly (a.) Occurring or appearing once in a fortnight; as, a fortnightly meeting of a club; a fortnightly magazine, or other publication.,
F as in Fortnightly (adv.) Once in a fortnight; at intervals of a fortnight.,
F as in Fortread (v. t.) To tread down; to trample upon.,
F as in Fortresses (pl. ) of Fortress,
F as in Fortress (n.) A fortified place; a large and permanent fortification, sometimes including a town; a fort; a castle; a stronghold; a place of defense or security.,
F as in Fortress (v. t.) To furnish with a fortress or with fortresses; to guard; to fortify.,
F as in Fortuitous (a.) Happening by chance; coming or occuring unexpectedly, or without any known cause; chance; as, the fortuitous concourse of atoms.,
F as in Fortuitous (a.) Happening independently of human will or means of foresight; resulting from unavoidable physical causes.,
F as in Fortuity (n.) Accident; chance; casualty.,
F as in Fortunate (n.) Coming by good luck or favorable chance; bringing some good thing not foreseen as certain; presaging happiness; auspicious; as, a fortunate event; a fortunate concurrence of circumstances; a fortunate investment.,
F as in Fortunate (n.) Receiving same unforeseen or unexpected good, or some good which was not dependent on one's own skill or efforts; favored with good forune; lucky.,
F as in Fortunately (adv.) In a fortunate manner; luckily; successfully; happily.,
F as in Fortunateness (n.) The condition or quality of being fortunate; good luck; success; happiness.,
F as in Fortune (n.) The arrival of something in a sudden or unexpected manner; chance; accident; luck; hap; also, the personified or deified power regarded as determining human success, apportioning happiness and unhappiness, and distributing arbitrarily or fortuitously the lots of life.,
F as in Fortune (n.) That which befalls or is to befall one; lot in life, or event in any particular undertaking; fate; destiny; as, to tell one's fortune.,
F as in Fortune (n.) That which comes as the result of an undertaking or of a course of action; good or ill success; especially, favorable issue; happy event; success; prosperity as reached partly by chance and partly by effort.,
F as in Fortune (n.) Wealth; large possessions; large estate; riches; as, a gentleman of fortune.,
F as in Fortune (n.) To make fortunate; to give either good or bad fortune to.,
F as in Fortune (n.) To provide with a fortune.,
F as in Fortune (n.) To presage; to tell the fortune of.,
F as in Fortune (v. i.) To fall out; to happen.,
F as in Fortuneless (a.) Luckless; also, destitute of a fortune or portion.,
F as in Fortunize (v. t.) To regulate the fortune of; to make happy.,
F as in Forty (a.) Four times ten; thirty-nine and one more.,
F as in Forties (pl. ) of Forty,
F as in Forty (n.) The sum of four tens; forty units or objects.,
F as in Forty (n.) A symbol expressing forty units; as, 40, or xl.,
F as in Forty-spot (n.) The Tasmanian forty-spotted diamond bird (Pardalotus quadragintus).,
F as in Forums (pl. ) of Forum,
F as in Fora (pl. ) of Forum,
F as in Forum (n.) A market place or public place in Rome, where causes were judicially tried, and orations delivered to the people.,
F as in Forum (n.) A tribunal; a court; an assembly empowered to hear and decide causes.,
F as in Forwaked (p. p. & a.) Tired out with excessive waking or watching.,
F as in Forwander (v. i.) To wander away; to go astray; to wander far and to weariness.,
F as in Forward (n.) An agreement; a covenant; a promise.,
F as in Forward (adv.) Alt. of Forwards,
F as in Forwards (adv.) Toward a part or place before or in front; onward; in advance; progressively; -- opposed to backward.,
F as in Forward (a.) Near, or at the fore part; in advance of something else; as, the forward gun in a ship, or the forward ship in a fleet.,
F as in Forward (a.) Ready; prompt; strongly inclined; in an ill sense, overready; to hasty.,
F as in Forward (a.) Ardent; eager; earnest; in an ill sense, less reserved or modest than is proper; bold; confident; as, the boy is too forward for his years.,
F as in Forward (a.) Advanced beyond the usual degree; advanced for season; as, the grass is forward, or forward for the season; we have a forward spring.,
F as in Forwarded (imp. & p. p.) of Forward,
F as in Forwarding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Forward,
F as in Forward (v. t.) To help onward; to advance; to promote; to accelerate; to quicken; to hasten; as, to forward the growth of a plant; to forward one in improvement.,
F as in Forward (v. t.) To send forward; to send toward the place of destination; to transmit; as, to forward a letter.,
F as in Forwarder (n.) One who forwards or promotes; a promoter.,
F as in Forwarder (n.) One who sends forward anything; (Com.) one who transmits goods; a forwarding merchant.,
F as in Forwarder (n.) One employed in forwarding.,
F as in Forwarding (n.) The act of one who forwards; the act or occupation of transmitting merchandise or other property for others.,
F as in Forwarding (n.) The process of putting a book into its cover, and making it ready for the finisher.,
F as in Forwardly (adv.) Eagerly; hastily; obtrusively.,
F as in Forwardness (n.) The quality of being forward; cheerful readiness; promtness; as, the forwardness of Christians in propagating the gospel.,
F as in Forwardness (n.) An advanced stage of progress or of preparation; advancement; as, his measures were in great forwardness.,
F as in Forwardness (n.) Eagerness; ardor; as, it is difficult to restrain the forwardness of youth.,
F as in Forwardness (n.) Boldness; confidence; assurance; want of due reserve or modesty.,
F as in Forwardness (n.) A state of advance beyond the usual degree; prematureness; precocity; as, the forwardnessof spring or of corn; the forwardness of a pupil.,
F as in Forwards (adv.) Same as Forward.,
F as in Forwaste (v. t.) To desolate or lay waste utterly.,
F as in Forwweary (v. t.) To weary extremely; to dispirit.,
F as in Forweep (v. i.) To weep much.,
F as in Forwete (v. t.) See Forewite.,
F as in Forwhy (conj.) Wherefore; because.,
F as in Forworn (a.) Much worn.,
F as in Forwot () pres. indic. 1st & 3d pers. sing. of Forwete.,
F as in Forwrap (v. t.) To wrap up; to conceal.,
F as in Foryelde (v. t.) To repay; to requite.,
F as in Foryete (v. t.) To forget.,
F as in Foryetten () p. p. of Foryete.,
F as in Forzando (adv.) See Sforzato.,
F as in FossAe (pl. ) of Fossa,
F as in Fossa (n.) A pit, groove, cavity, or depression, of greater or less depth; as, the temporal fossa on the side of the skull; the nasal fossae containing the nostrils in most birds.,
F as in Fossane (n.) A species of civet (Viverra fossa) resembling the genet.,
F as in Fosse (n.) A ditch or moat.,
F as in Fosse (n.) See Fossa.,
F as in Fosset (n.) A faucet.,
F as in Fossette (n.) A little hollow; hence, a dimple.,
F as in Fossette (n.) A small, deep-centered ulcer of the transparent cornea.,
F as in Fosseway (n.) One of the great military roads constructed by the Romans in England and other parts of Europe; -- so called from the fosse or ditch on each side for keeping it dry.,
F as in Fossil (a.) Dug out of the earth; as, fossil coal; fossil salt.,
F as in Fossil (a.) Like or pertaining to fossils; contained in rocks, whether petrified or not; as, fossil plants, shells.,
F as in Fossil (n.) A substance dug from the earth.,
F as in Fossil (n.) The remains of an animal or plant found in stratified rocks. Most fossils belong to extinct species, but many of the later ones belong to species still living.,
F as in Fossil (n.) A person whose views and opinions are extremely antiquated; one whose sympathies are with a former time rather than with the present.,
F as in Fossiliferous (a.) Containing or composed of fossils.,
F as in Fossilification (n.) The process of becoming fossil.,
F as in Fossilism (n.) The science or state of fossils.,
F as in Fossilism (n.) The state of being extremely antiquated in views and opinions.,
F as in Fossilist (n.) One who is versed in the science of fossils; a paleontologist.,
F as in Fossilization (n.) The process of converting, or of being converted, into a fossil.,
F as in Fossilized (imp. & p. p.) of Fossilize,
F as in Fossilizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fossilize,
F as in Fossilize (v. t.) To convert into a fossil; to petrify; as, to fossilize bones or wood.,
F as in Fossilize (v. t.) To cause to become antiquated, rigid, or fixed, as by fossilization; to mummify; to deaden.,
F as in Fossilize (v. i.) To become fossil.,
F as in Fossilize (v. i.) To become antiquated, rigid, or fixed, beyond the influence of change or progress.,
F as in Fossilized (a.) Converted into a fossil; antiquated; firmly fixed in views or opinions.,
F as in Fossores (n. pl.) A group of hymenopterous insects including the sand wasps. They excavate cells in earth, where they deposit their eggs, with the bodies of other insects for the food of the young when hatched.,
F as in Fossoria (n. pl.) See Fossores.,
F as in Fossorial (a.) Fitted for digging, adapted for burrowing or digging; as, a fossorial foot; a fossorial animal.,
F as in Fossorious (a.) Adapted for digging; -- said of the legs of certain insects.,
F as in Fossulate (a.) Having, or surrounded by, long, narrow depressions or furrows.,
F as in Fostered (imp. & p. p.) of Foster,
F as in Fostering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Foster,
F as in Foster (v. t.) To feed; to nourish; to support; to bring up.,
F as in Foster (v. t.) To cherish; to promote the growth of; to encourage; to sustain and promote; as, to foster genius.,
F as in Foster (v. i.) To be nourished or trained up together.,
F as in Foster (v. t.) Relating to nourishment; affording, receiving, or sharing nourishment or nurture; -- applied to father, mother, child, brother, etc., to indicate that the person so called stands in the relation of parent, child, brother, etc., as regards sustenance and nurture, but not by tie of blood.,
F as in Foster (n.) A forester.,
F as in Fosterage (n.) The care of a foster child; the charge of nursing.,
F as in Foster (n.) One who, or that which, fosters.,
F as in Fosterling (n.) A foster child.,
F as in Fosterment (n.) Food; nourishment.,
F as in Fostress (n.) A woman who feeds and cherishes; a nurse.,
F as in Fother (n.) A wagonload; a load of any sort.,
F as in Fother (n.) See Fodder, a unit of weight.,
F as in Fothered (imp. & p. p.) of Fother,
F as in Fothering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fother,
F as in Fother (v. t.) To stop (a leak in a ship at sea) by drawing under its bottom a thrummed sail, so that the pressure of the water may force it into the crack.,
F as in Fotive (a.) Nourishing.,
F as in Fotmal (n.) Seventy pounds of lead.,
F as in Fougade (n.) Alt. of Fougasse,
F as in Fougasse (n.) A small mine, in the form of a well sunk from the surface of the ground, charged with explosive and projectiles. It is made in a position likely to be occupied by the enemy.,
F as in Fought () imp. & p. p. of Fight.,
F as in Foughten () p. p. of Fight.,
F as in Foul (n.) A bird.,
F as in Foul (superl.) Covered with, or containing, extraneous matter which is injurious, noxious, offensive, or obstructive; filthy; dirty; not clean; polluted; nasty; defiled; as, a foul cloth; foul hands; a foul chimney; foul air; a ship's bottom is foul when overgrown with barnacles; a gun becomes foul from repeated firing; a well is foul with polluted water.,
F as in Foul (superl.) Scurrilous; obscene or profane; abusive; as, foul words; foul language.,
F as in Foul (superl.) Hateful; detestable; shameful; odious; wretched.,
F as in Foul (superl.) Loathsome; disgusting; as, a foul disease.,
F as in Foul (superl.) Ugly; homely; poor.,
F as in Foul (superl.) Not favorable; unpropitious; not fair or advantageous; as, a foul wind; a foul road; cloudy or rainy; stormy; not fair; -- said of the weather, sky, etc.,
F as in Foul (superl.) Not conformed to the established rules and customs of a game, conflict, test, etc.; unfair; dishonest; dishonorable; cheating; as, foul play.,
F as in Foul (superl.) Having freedom of motion interfered with by collision or entanglement; entangled; -- opposed to clear; as, a rope or cable may get foul while paying it out.,
F as in Fouled (imp. & p. p.) of Foul,
F as in Fouling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Foul,
F as in Foul (v. t.) To make filthy; to defile; to daub; to dirty; to soil; as, to foul the face or hands with mire.,
F as in Foul (v. t.) To incrust (the bore of a gun) with burnt powder in the process of firing.,
F as in Foul (v. t.) To cover (a ship's bottom) with anything that impered its sailing; as, a bottom fouled with barnacles.,
F as in Foul (v. t.) To entangle, so as to impede motion; as, to foul a rope or cable in paying it out; to come into collision with; as, one boat fouled the other in a race.,
F as in Foul (v. i.) To become clogged with burnt powder in the process of firing, as a gun.,
F as in Foul (v. i.) To become entagled, as ropes; to come into collision with something; as, the two boats fouled.,
F as in Foul (n.) An entanglement; a collision, as in a boat race.,
F as in Foul (n.) See Foul ball, under Foul, a.,
F as in Foulard (n.) A thin, washable material of silk, or silk and cotton, originally imported from India, but now also made elsewhere.,
F as in Foulder (v. i.) To flash, as lightning; to lighten; to gleam; to thunder.,
F as in Foule (adv.) Foully.,
F as in Foully (v.) In a foul manner; filthily; nastily; shamefully; unfairly; dishonorably.,
F as in Foul-mouthed (a.) Using language scurrilous, opprobrious, obscene, or profane; abusive.,
F as in Foulness (n.) The quality or condition of being foul.,
F as in Foul-spoken (a.) Using profane, scurrilous, slanderous, or obscene language.,
F as in Foumart (a.) The European polecat; -- called also European ferret, and fitchew. See Polecat.,
F as in Found () imp. & p. p. of Find.,
F as in Founded (imp. & p. p.) of Found,
F as in Founding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Found,
F as in Found (v. t.) To form by melting a metal, and pouring it into a mold; to cast.,
F as in Found (n.) A thin, single-cut file for combmakers.,
F as in Founded (imp. & p. p.) of Found,
F as in Founding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Found,
F as in Found (v. i.) To lay the basis of; to set, or place, as on something solid, for support; to ground; to establish upon a basis, literal or figurative; to fix firmly.,
F as in Found (v. i.) To take the ffirst steps or measures in erecting or building up; to furnish the materials for beginning; to begin to raise; to originate; as, to found a college; to found a family.,
F as in Foundation (n.) The act of founding, fixing, establishing, or beginning to erect.,
F as in Foundation (n.) That upon which anything is founded; that on which anything stands, and by which it is supported; the lowest and supporting layer of a superstructure; groundwork; basis.,
F as in Foundation (n.) The lowest and supporting part or member of a wall, including the base course (see Base course (a), under Base, n.) and footing courses; in a frame house, the whole substructure of masonry.,
F as in Foundation (n.) A donation or legacy appropriated to support a charitable institution, and constituting a permanent fund; endowment.,
F as in Foundation (n.) That which is founded, or established by endowment; an endowed institution or charity.,
F as in Foundationer (n.) One who derives support from the funds or foundation of a college or school.,
F as in Foundationless (a.) Having no foundation.,
F as in Founder (n.) One who founds, establishes, and erects; one who lays a foundation; an author; one from whom anything originates; one who endows.,
F as in Founder (n.) One who founds; one who casts metals in various forms; a caster; as, a founder of cannon, bells, hardware, or types.,
F as in Foundered (imp. & p. p.) of Founder,
F as in Foundering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Founder,
F as in Founder (v. i.) To become filled with water, and sink, as a ship.,
F as in Founder (v. i.) To fall; to stumble and go lame, as a horse.,
F as in Founder (v. i.) To fail; to miscarry.,
F as in Founder (v. t.) To cause internal inflammation and soreness in the feet or limbs of (a horse), so as to disable or lame him.,
F as in Founder (n.) A lameness in the foot of a horse, occasioned by inflammation; closh.,
F as in Founder (n.) An inflammatory fever of the body, or acute rheumatism; as, chest founder. See Chest ffounder.,
F as in Founderous (a.) Difficult to travel; likely to trip one up; as, a founderous road.,
F as in Foundershaft (n.) The first shaft sunk.,
F as in Founderies (pl. ) of Foundery,
F as in Foundery (n.) Same as Foundry.,
F as in Founding (n.) The art of smelting and casting metals.,
F as in Foundling (v. t.) A deserted or exposed infant; a child found without a parent or owner.,
F as in Foundress (n.) A female founder; a woman who founds or establishes, or who endows with a fund.,
F as in Foundries (pl. ) of Foundry,
F as in Foundry (n.) The act, process, or art of casting metals.,
F as in Foundry (n.) The buildings and works for casting metals.,
F as in Fount (n.) A font.,
F as in Fount (n.) A fountain.,
F as in Fountain (n.) A spring of water issuing from the earth.,
F as in Fountain (n.) An artificially produced jet or stream of water; also, the structure or works in which such a jet or stream rises or flows; a basin built and constantly supplied with pure water for drinking and other useful purposes, or for ornament.,
F as in Fountain (n.) A reservoir or chamber to contain a liquid which can be conducted or drawn off as needed for use; as, the ink fountain in a printing press, etc.,
F as in Fountain (n.) The source from which anything proceeds, or from which anything is supplied continuously; origin; source.,
F as in Fountainless (a.) Having no fountain; destitute of springs or sources of water.,
F as in Fountful (a.) Full of fountains.,
F as in Four (a.) One more than three; twice two.,
F as in Four (n.) The sum of four units; four units or objects.,
F as in Four (n.) A symbol representing four units, as 4 or iv.,
F as in Four (n.) Four things of the same kind, esp. four horses; as, a chariot and four.,
F as in Fourb (n.) Alt. of Fourbe,
F as in Fourbe (n.) A trickly fellow; a cheat.,
F as in Fourche (a.) Having the ends forked or branched, and the ends of the branches terminating abruptly as if cut off; -- said of an ordinary, especially of a cross.,
F as in Fourchette (n.) A table fork.,
F as in Fourchette (n.) A small fold of membrane, connecting the labia in the posterior part of the vulva.,
F as in Fourchette (n.) The wishbone or furculum of birds.,
F as in Fourchette (n.) The frog of the hoof of the horse and allied animals.,
F as in Fourchette (n.) An instrument used to raise and support the tongue during the cutting of the fraenum.,
F as in Fourchette (n.) The forked piece between two adjacent fingers, to which the front and back portions are sewed.,
F as in Four-cornered (a.) Having four corners or angles.,
F as in Fourdrinier (n.) A machine used in making paper; -- so named from an early inventor of improvements in this class of machinery.,
F as in Fourfold (a. & adv.) Four times; quadruple; as, a fourfold division.,
F as in Fourfold (n.) Four times as many or as much.,
F as in Fourfold (v. t.) To make four times as much or as many, as an assessment,; to quadruple.,
F as in Fourfooted (a.) Having four feet; quadruped; as, fourfooted beasts.,
F as in Fourgon (n.) An ammunition wagon.,
F as in Fourgon (n.) A French baggage wagon.,
F as in Fourhanded (a.) Having four hands; quadrumanous.,
F as in Fourhanded (a.) Requiring four "hands" or players; as, a fourhanded game at cards.,
F as in Fourierism (n.) The cooperative socialistic system of Charles Fourier, a Frenchman, who recommended the reorganization of society into small communities, living in common.,
F as in Fourierist (n.) Alt. of Fourierite,
F as in Fourierite (n.) One who adopts the views of Fourier.,
F as in Four-in-hand (a.) Consisting of four horses controlled by one person; as, a four-in-hand team; drawn by four horses driven by one person; as, a four-in-hand coach.,
F as in Four-in-hand (n.) A team of four horses driven by one person; also, a vehicle drawn by such a team.,
F as in Fourling (n.) One of four children born at the same time.,
F as in Fourling (n.) A compound or twin crystal consisting of four individuals.,
F as in Fourneau (n.) The chamber of a mine in which the powder is placed.,
F as in Four-o'clock (n.) A plant of the genus Mirabilis. There are about half a dozen species, natives of the warmer parts of America. The common four-o'clock is M. Jalapa. Its flowers are white, yellow, and red, and open toward sunset, or earlier in cloudy weather; hence the name. It is also called marvel of Peru, and afternoon lady.,
F as in Four-o'clock (n.) The friar bird; -- so called from its cry, which resembles these words.,
F as in Fourpence (n.) A British silver coin, worth four pence; a groat.,
F as in Fourpence (n.) A name formerly given in New England to the Spanish half real, a silver coin worth six and a quarter cents.,
F as in Four-poster (n.) A large bedstead with tall posts at the corners to support curtains.,
F as in Fourrier (n.) A harbinger.,
F as in Fourscore (n.) Four times twenty; eighty.,
F as in Fourscore (n.) The product of four times twenty; eighty units or objects.,
F as in Foursquare (a.) Having four sides and four equal angles.,
F as in Fourteen (a.) Four and ten more; twice seven.,
F as in Fourteen (n.) The sum of ten and four; forteen units or objects.,
F as in Fourteen (n.) A symbol representing fourteen, as 14 or xiv.,
F as in Fourteenth (a.) Next in order after the thirteenth; as, the fourteenth day of the month.,
F as in Fourteenth (a.) Making or constituting one of fourteen equal parts into which anything may be derived.,
F as in Fourteenth (n.) One of fourteen equal parts into which one whole may be divided; the quotient of a unit divided by fourteen; one next after the thirteenth.,
F as in Fourteenth (n.) The octave of the seventh.,
F as in Fourth (a.) Next in order after the third; the ordinal of four.,
F as in Fourth (a.) Forming one of four equal parts into which anything may be divided.,
F as in Fourth (n.) One of four equal parts into which one whole may be divided; the quotient of a unit divided by four; one coming next in order after the third.,
F as in Fourth (n.) The interval of two tones and a semitone, embracing four diatonic degrees of the scale; the subdominant of any key.,
F as in Fourthly (adv.) In the fourth place.,
F as in Four-way (a.) Allowing passage in either of four directions; as, a four-way cock, or valve.,
F as in Four-wheeled (a.) Having four wheels.,
F as in Four-wheeler (n.) A vehicle having four wheels.,
F as in Foussa (n.) A viverrine animal of Madagascar (Cryptoprocta ferox). It resembles a cat in size and form, and has retractile claws.,
F as in Fouter (n.) A despicable fellow.,
F as in Foutra (n.) A fig; -- a word of contempt.,
F as in Fouty (a.) Despicable.,
F as in Foveae (pl. ) of Fovea,
F as in Fovea (n.) A slight depression or pit; a fossa.,
F as in Foveate (a.) Having pits or depressions; pitted.,
F as in Foveolae (pl. ) of Foveola,
F as in Foveola (n.) A small depression or pit; a fovea.,
F as in Foveolate (a.) Having small pits or depression, as the receptacle in some composite flowers.,
F as in Foveolated (a.) Foveolate.,
F as in Fovillae (pl. ) of Fovilla,
F as in Fovilla (n.) One of the fine granules contained in the protoplasm of a pollen grain.,
F as in Fowls (pl. ) of Fowl,
F as in Fowl (n.) Any bird; esp., any large edible bird.,
F as in Fowl (n.) Any domesticated bird used as food, as a hen, turkey, duck; in a more restricted sense, the common domestic cock or hen (Gallus domesticus).,
F as in Fowled (imp. & p. p.) of Fowl,
F as in Fowling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fowl,
F as in Fowl (v. i.) To catch or kill wild fowl, for game or food, as by shooting, or by decoys, nets, etc.,
F as in Fowler (n.) A sportsman who pursues wild fowl, or takes or kills for food.,
F as in Fowlerite (n.) A variety of rhodonite, from Franklin Furnace, New Jersey, containing some zinc.,
F as in Fowler's solution () An aqueous solution of arsenite of potassium, of such strength that one hundred parts represent one part of arsenious acid, or white arsenic; -- named from Fowler, an English physician who first brought it into use.,
F as in Foxes (pl. ) of Fox,
F as in Fox (n.) A carnivorous animal of the genus Vulpes, family Canidae, of many species. The European fox (V. vulgaris or V. vulpes), the American red fox (V. fulvus), the American gray fox (V. Virginianus), and the arctic, white, or blue, fox (V. lagopus) are well-known species.,
F as in Fox (n.) The European dragonet.,
F as in Fox (n.) The fox shark or thrasher shark; -- called also sea fox. See Thrasher shark, under Shark.,
F as in Fox (n.) A sly, cunning fellow.,
F as in Fox (n.) Rope yarn twisted together, and rubbed with tar; -- used for seizings or mats.,
F as in Fox (n.) A sword; -- so called from the stamp of a fox on the blade, or perhaps of a wolf taken for a fox.,
F as in Fox (n.) A tribe of Indians which, with the Sacs, formerly occupied the region about Green Bay, Wisconsin; -- called also Outagamies.,
F as in Foxed (imp. & p. p.) of Fox,
F as in Foxing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fox,
F as in Fox (n.) To intoxicate; to stupefy with drink.,
F as in Fox (n.) To make sour, as beer, by causing it to ferment.,
F as in Fox (n.) To repair the feet of, as of boots, with new front upper leather, or to piece the upper fronts of.,
F as in Fox (v. i.) To turn sour; -- said of beer, etc., when it sours in fermenting.,
F as in Foxearth (n.) A hole in the earth to which a fox resorts to hide himself.,
F as in Fracas (v. t.) An uproar; a noisy quarrel; a disturbance; a brawl.,
F as in Fracho (n.) A shallow iron pan to hold glass ware while being annealed.,
F as in Fracid (a.) Rotten from being too ripe; overripe.,
F as in Fract (v. t.) To break; to violate.,
F as in Fracted (a.) Having a part displaced, as if broken; -- said of an ordinary.,
F as in Foxed (a.) Discolored or stained; -- said of timber, and also of the paper of books or engravings.,
F as in Foxed (a.) Repaired by foxing; as, foxed boots.,
F as in Foxery (n.) Behavior like that of a fox; cunning.,
F as in Foxes (n. pl.) See Fox, n., 7.,
F as in Foxfish (n.) The fox shark; -- called also sea fox. See Thrasher shark, under Shark.,
F as in Foxfish (n.) The european dragonet. See Dragonet.,
F as in Foxglove (n.) Any plant of the genus Digitalis. The common English foxglove (Digitalis purpurea) is a handsome perennial or biennial plant, whose leaves are used as a powerful medicine, both as a sedative and diuretic. See Digitalis.,
F as in Foxhound (n.) One of a special breed of hounds used for chasing foxes.,
F as in Fox-hunting (a.) Pertaining to or engaged in the hunting of foxes; fond of hunting foxes.,
F as in Foxiness (n.) The state or quality of being foxy, or foxlike; craftiness; shrewdness.,
F as in Foxiness (n.) The state of being foxed or discolored, as books; decay; deterioration.,
F as in Foxiness (n.) A coarse and sour taste in grapes.,
F as in Foxish (a.) Foxlike.,
F as in Foxlike (a.) Resembling a fox in his characteristic qualities; cunning; artful; foxy.,
F as in Foxly (a.) Foxlike.,
F as in Foxship (n.) Foxiness; craftiness.,
F as in Foxtail (n.) The tail or brush of a fox.,
F as in Foxtail (n.) The name of several kinds of grass having a soft dense head of flowers, mostly the species of Alopecurus and Setaria.,
F as in Foxtail (n.) The last cinders obtained in the fining process.,
F as in Foxy (a.) Like or pertaining to the fox; foxlike in disposition or looks; wily.,
F as in Foxy (a.) Having the color of a fox; of a yellowish or reddish brown color; -- applied sometimes to paintings when they have too much of this color.,
F as in Foxy (a.) Having the odor of a fox; rank; strong smeelling.,
F as in Foxy (a.) Sour; unpleasant in taste; -- said of wine, beer, etc., not properly fermented; -- also of grapes which have the coarse flavor of the fox grape.,
F as in Foy (n.) Faith; allegiance; fealty.,
F as in Foy (n.) A feast given by one about to leave a place.,
F as in Foyer (n.) A lobby in a theater; a greenroom.,
F as in Foyer (n.) The crucible or basin in a furnace which receives the molten metal.,
F as in Foyson (n.) See Foison.,
F as in Foziness (n.) The state of being fozy; spiritlessness; dullness.,
F as in Fozy (a.) Spongy; soft; fat and puffy.,
F as in Fra (adv. & prep.) Fro.,
F as in Fra (n.) Brother; -- a title of a monk of friar; as, Fra Angelo.,
F as in Frab (v. i. & t.) To scold; to nag.,
F as in Frabbit (a.) Crabbed; peevish.,
F as in Fraction (n.) The act of breaking, or state of being broken, especially by violence.,
F as in Fraction (n.) A portion; a fragment.,
F as in Fraction (n.) One or more aliquot parts of a unit or whole number; an expression for a definite portion of a unit or magnitude.,
F as in Fraction (v. t.) To separate by means of, or to subject to, fractional distillation or crystallization; to fractionate; -- frequently used with out; as, to fraction out a certain grade of oil from pretroleum.,
F as in Fractional (a.) Of or pertaining to fractions or a fraction; constituting a fraction; as, fractional numbers.,
F as in Fractional (a.) Relatively small; inconsiderable; insignificant; as, a fractional part of the population.,
F as in Fractionally (adv.) By fractions or separate portions; as, to distill a liquid fractionally, that is, so as to separate different portions.,
F as in Fractionary (a.) Fractional.,
F as in Fractionate (v. t.) To separate into different portions or fractions, as in the distillation of liquids.,
F as in Fractious (a.) Apt to break out into a passion; apt to scold; cross; snappish; ugly; unruly; as, a fractious man; a fractious horse.,
F as in Fractural (a.) Pertaining to, or consequent on, a fracture.,
F as in Fracture (n.) The act of breaking or snapping asunder; rupture; breach.,
F as in Fracture (n.) The breaking of a bone.,
F as in Fracture (n.) The texture of a freshly broken surface; as, a compact fracture; an even, hackly, or conchoidal fracture.,
F as in Fractured (imp. & p. p.) of Fracture,
F as in Fracturing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fracture,
F as in Fracture (v. t.) To cause a fracture or fractures in; to break; to burst asunder; to crack; to separate the continuous parts of; as, to fracture a bone; to fracture the skull.,
F as in Fraenula (pl. ) of Fraenulum,
F as in Fraenulum (n.) A fraenum.,
F as in Fraenums (pl. ) of Frenum,
F as in Fraena (pl. ) of Frenum,
F as in Fraenum (n.) Alt. of Frenum,
F as in Frenum (n.) A connecting fold of membrane serving to support or restrain any part; as, the fraenum of the tongue.,
F as in Fragile (a.) Easily broken; brittle; frail; delicate; easily destroyed.,
F as in Fragility (n.) The condition or quality of being fragile; brittleness; frangibility.,
F as in Fragility (n.) Weakness; feebleness.,
F as in Fragility (n.) Liability to error and sin; frailty.,
F as in Fragment (v. t.) A part broken off; a small, detached portion; an imperfect part; as, a fragment of an ancient writing.,
F as in Fragmentak (a.) Fragmentary.,
F as in Fragmentak (a.) Consisting of the pulverized or fragmentary material of rock, as conglomerate, shale, etc.,
F as in Fragmental (n.) A fragmentary rock.,
F as in Fragmentarily (adv.) In a fragmentary manner; piecemeal.,
F as in Fragmentariness (n.) The quality or property of being in fragnebts, or broken pieces, incompleteness; want of continuity.,
F as in Fragmentary (a.) Composed of fragments, or broken pieces; disconnected; not complete or entire.,
F as in Fragmentary (a.) Composed of the fragments of other rocks.,
F as in Fragmented (a.) Broken into fragments.,
F as in Fragmentist (n.) A writer of fragments; as, the fragmentist of Wolfenbuttel.,
F as in Fragor (n.) A loud and sudden sound; the report of anything bursting; a crash.,
F as in Fragor (n.) A strong or sweet scent.,
F as in Fragrance (n.) Alt. of Fragrancy,
F as in Fragrancy (n.) The quality of being fragrant; sweetness of smell; a sweet smell; a pleasing odor; perfume.,
F as in Fragrant (a.) Affecting the olfactory nerves agreeably; sweet of smell; odorous; having or emitting an agreeable perfume.,
F as in Fraight (a.) Same as Fraught.,
F as in Frail (n.) A basket made of rushes, used chiefly for containing figs and raisins.,
F as in Frail (n.) The quantity of raisins -- about thirty-two, fifty-six, or seventy-five pounds, -- contained in a frail.,
F as in Frail (n.) A rush for weaving baskets.,
F as in Frail (superl) Easily broken; fragile; not firm or durable; liable to fail and perish; easily destroyed; not tenacious of life; weak; infirm.,
F as in Frail (superl) Tender.,
F as in Frail (superl) Liable to fall from virtue or be led into sin; not strong against temptation; weak in resolution; also, unchaste; -- often applied to fallen women.,
F as in Frailly (adv.) Weakly; infirmly.,
F as in Frailness (n.) Frailty.,
F as in Frailties (pl. ) of Frailty,
F as in Frailty (a.) The condition quality of being frail, physically, mentally, or morally, frailness; infirmity; weakness of resolution; liableness to be deceived or seduced.,
F as in Frailty (a.) A fault proceeding from weakness; foible; sin of infirmity.,
F as in Fraischeur (a.) Freshness; coolness.,
F as in Fraise (n.) A large and thick pancake, with slices of bacon in it.,
F as in Fraise (n.) A defense consisting of pointed stakes driven into the ramparts in a horizontal or inclined position.,
F as in Fraise (n.) A fluted reamer for enlarging holes in stone; a small milling cutter.,
F as in Fraise (v. t.) To protect, as a line of troops, against an onset of cavalry, by opposing bayonets raised obliquely forward.,
F as in Fraised (a.) Fortified with a fraise.,
F as in Fraken (n.) A freckle.,
F as in Framable (a.) Capable of being framed.,
F as in Frambaesia (n.) The yaws. See Yaws.,
F as in Framed (imp. & p. p.) of Frame,
F as in Framing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Frame,
F as in Frame (v. t.) To construct by fitting and uniting the several parts of the skeleton of any structure; specifically, in woodwork, to put together by cutting parts of one member to fit parts of another. See Dovetail, Halve, v. t., Miter, Tenon, Tooth, Tusk, Scarf, and Splice.,
F as in Frame (v. t.) To originate; to plan; to devise; to contrive; to compose; in a bad sense, to invent or fabricate, as something false.,
F as in Frame (v. t.) To fit to something else, or for some specific end; to adjust; to regulate; to shape; to conform.,
F as in Frame (v. t.) To cause; to bring about; to produce.,
F as in Frame (v. t.) To support.,
F as in Frame (v. t.) To provide with a frame, as a picture.,
F as in Frame (v. i.) To shape; to arrange, as the organs of speech.,
F as in Frame (v. i.) To proceed; to go.,
F as in Frame (n.) Anything composed of parts fitted and united together; a fabric; a structure; esp., the constructional system, whether of timber or metal, that gives to a building, vessel, etc., its model and strength; the skeleton of a structure.,
F as in Frame (n.) The bodily structure; physical constitution; make or build of a person.,
F as in Frame (n.) A kind of open case or structure made for admitting, inclosing, or supporting things, as that which incloses or contains a window, door, picture, etc.; that on which anything is held or stretched,
F as in Frame (n.) The skeleton structure which supports the boiler and machinery of a locomotive upon its wheels.,
F as in Frame (n.) A molding box or flask, which being filled with sand serves as a mold for castings.,
F as in Frame (n.) The ribs and stretchers of an umbrella or other structure with a fabric covering.,
F as in Frame (n.) A structure of four bars, adjustable in size, on which cloth, etc., is stretched for quilting, embroidery, etc.,
F as in Frame (n.) A glazed portable structure for protecting young plants from frost.,
F as in Frame (n.) A stand to support the type cases for use by the compositor.,
F as in Frame (n.) A term applied, especially in England, to certain machines built upon or within framework; as, a stocking frame; lace frame; spinning frame, etc.,
F as in Frame (n.) Form; shape; proportion; scheme; structure; constitution; system; as, a frameof government.,
F as in Frame (n.) Particular state or disposition, as of the mind; humor; temper; mood; as, to be always in a happy frame.,
F as in Frame (n.) Contrivance; the act of devising or scheming.,
F as in Framer (n.) One who frames; as, the framer of a building; the framers of the Constitution.,
F as in Framework (n.) The work of framing, or the completed work; the frame or constructional part of anything; as, the framework of society.,
F as in Framework (n.) Work done in, or by means of, a frame or loom.,
F as in Framing (n.) The act, process, or style of putting together a frame, or of constructing anything; a frame; that which frames.,
F as in Framing (n.) A framework, or a sy/ of frames.,
F as in Frampel (a.) Alt. of Frampoid,
F as in Frampoid (a.) Peevish; cross; vexatious; quarrelsome.,
F as in Franc (a.) A silver coin of France, and since 1795 the unit of the French monetary system. It has been adopted by Belgium and Swizerland. It is equivalent to about nineteen cents, or ten pence, and is divided into 100 centimes.,
F as in Franchise (a.) Exemption from constraint or oppression; freedom; liberty.,
F as in Franchise (a.) A particular privilege conferred by grant from a sovereign or a government, and vested in individuals; an imunity or exemption from ordinary jurisdiction; a constitutional or statutory right or privilege, esp. the right to vote.,
F as in Franchise (a.) The district or jurisdiction to which a particular privilege extends; the limits of an immunity; hence, an asylum or sanctuary.,
F as in Franchise (a.) Magnanimity; generosity; liberality; frankness; nobility.,
F as in Franchised (imp. & p. p.) of Franchise,
F as in Franchising (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Franchise,
F as in Franchise (v. t.) To make free; to enfranchise; to give liberty to.,
F as in Franchisement (n.) Release; deliverance; freedom.,
F as in Francic (a.) Pertaining to the Franks, or their language; Frankish.,
F as in Franciscan (a.) Belonging to the Order of St. Francis of the Franciscans.,
F as in Franciscan (n.) A monk or friar of the Order of St. Francis, a large and zealous order of mendicant monks founded in 1209 by St. Francis of Assisi. They are called also Friars Minor; and in England, Gray Friars, because they wear a gray habit.,
F as in Francolin (n.) A spurred partidge of the genus Francolinus and allied genera, of Asia and Africa. The common species (F. vulgaris) was formerly common in southern Europe, but is now nearly restricted to Asia.,
F as in Francolite (n.) A variety of apatite from Wheal Franco in Devonshire.,
F as in Frangent (a.) Causing fracture; breaking.,
F as in Frangibility (n.) The state or quality of being frangible.,
F as in Frangible (a.) Capable of being broken; brittle; fragile; easily broken.,
F as in Frangipane (n.) A perfume of jasmine; frangipani.,
F as in Frangipane (n.) A species of pastry, containing cream and almonds.,
F as in Frangipani (n.) Alt. of Frangipanni,
F as in Frangipanni (n.) A perfume derived from, or imitating the odor of, the flower of the red jasmine, a West Indian tree of the genus Plumeria.,
F as in Frangulic (a.) Alt. of Frangulinic,
F as in Frangulinic (a.) Pertaining to, or drived from, frangulin, or a species (Rhamnus Frangula) of the buckthorn.,
F as in Frangulin (n.) A yellow crystalline dyestuff, regarded as a glucoside, extracted from a species (Rhamnus Frangula) of the buckthorn; -- called also rhamnoxanthin.,
F as in Franion (n.) A paramour; a loose woman; also, a gay, idle fellow.,
F as in Frank (n.) A pigsty.,
F as in Frank (v. t.) To shut up in a frank or sty; to pen up; hence, to cram; to fatten.,
F as in Frank (n.) The common heron; -- so called from its note.,
F as in Frank (n.) Unbounded by restrictions, limitations, etc.; free.,
F as in Frank (n.) Free in uttering one's real sentiments; not reserved; using no disguise; candid; ingenuous; as, a frank nature, conversation, manner, etc.,
F as in Frank (n.) Liberal; generous; profuse.,
F as in Frank (n.) Unrestrained; loose; licentious; -- used in a bad sense.,
F as in Franked (imp. & p. p.) of Frank,
F as in Franking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Frank,
F as in Frank (v. t.) To send by public conveyance free of expense.,
F as in Frank (v. t.) To extempt from charge for postage, as a letter, package, or packet, etc.,
F as in Frank (a.) The privilege of sending letters or other mail matter, free of postage, or without charge; also, the sign, mark, or signature denoting that a letter or other mail matter is to free of postage.,
F as in Frank (a.) A member of one of the German tribes that in the fifth century overran and conquered Gaul, and established the kingdom of France.,
F as in Frank (a.) A native or inhabitant of Western Europe; a European; -- a term used in the Levant.,
F as in Frank (a.) A French coin. See Franc.,
F as in Frankalmoigne (a.) A tenure by which a religious corporation holds lands given to them and their successors forever, usually on condition of praying for the soul of the donor and his heirs; -- called also tenure by free alms.,
F as in Frank-chase (n.) The liberty or franchise of having a chase; free chase.,
F as in Frank-fee (n.) A species of tenure in fee simple, being the opposite of ancient demesne, or copyhold.,
F as in Frankfort black () A black pigment used in copperplate printing, prepared by burning vine twigs, the lees of wine, etc.,
F as in Frankincense (n.) A fragrant, aromatic resin, or gum resin, burned as an incense in religious rites or for medicinal fumigation. The best kinds now come from East Indian trees, of the genus Boswellia; a commoner sort, from the Norway spruce (Abies excelsa) and other coniferous trees. The frankincense of the ancient Jews is still unidentified.,
F as in Franking (n.) A method of forming a joint at the intersection of window-sash bars, by cutting away only enough wood to show a miter.,
F as in Frankish (a.) Like, or pertaining to, the Franks.,
F as in Frank-law (n.) The liberty of being sworn in courts, as a juror or witness; one of the ancient privileges of a freeman; free and common law; -- an obsolete expression signifying substantially the same as the American expression civil rights.,
F as in Franklin (a.) An English freeholder, or substantial householder.,
F as in Franklinic (a.) Of or pertaining to Benjamin Franklin.,
F as in Franklinite (n.) A kind of mineral of the spinel group.,
F as in Franklin stove () A kind of open stove introduced by Benjamin Franklin, the peculiar feature of which was that a current of heated air was directly supplied to the room from an air box; -- now applied to other varieties of open stoves.,
F as in Frankly (adv.) In a frank manner; freely.,
F as in Frank-marriage (n.) A certain tenure in tail special; an estate of inheritance given to a man his wife (the wife being of the blood of the donor), and descendible to the heirs of their two bodies begotten.,
F as in Frankness (n.) The quality of being frank; candor; openess; ingenuousness; fairness; liberality.,
F as in Frankpledge (n.) A pledge or surety for the good behavior of freemen, -- each freeman who was a member of an ancient decennary, tithing, or friborg, in England, being a pledge for the good conduct of the others, for the preservation of the public peace; a free surety.,
F as in Frankpledge (n.) The tithing itself.,
F as in Frantic (a.) Mad; raving; furious; violent; wild and disorderly; distracted.,
F as in Frapped (imp. & p. p.) of Frap,
F as in Frapping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Frap,
F as in Frap (v. t.) To draw together; to bind with a view to secure and strengthen, as a vessel by passing cables around it; to tighten; as a tackle by drawing the lines together.,
F as in Frap (v. t.) To brace by drawing together, as the cords of a drum.,
F as in Frape (n.) A crowd, a rabble.,
F as in Frapler (n.) A blusterer; a rowdy.,
F as in Frater (n.) A monk; also, a frater house.,
F as in Fraternal (a.) Pf, pertaining to, or involving, brethren; becoming to brothers; brotherly; as, fraternal affection; a fraternal embrace.,
F as in Fraternate (v. i.) To fraternize; to hold fellowship.,
F as in Fraternation (n.) Alt. of Fraternism,
F as in Fraternism (n.) Fraternization.,
F as in Fraternities (pl. ) of Fraternity,
F as in Fraternity (n.) The state or quality of being fraternal or brotherly; brotherhood.,
F as in Fraternity (n.) A body of men associated for their common interest, business, or pleasure; a company; a brotherhood; a society; in the Roman Catholic Chucrch, an association for special religious purposes, for relieving the sick and destitute, etc.,
F as in Fraternity (n.) Men of the same class, profession, occupation, character, or tastes.,
F as in Fraternization (n.) The act of fraternizing or uniting as brothers.,
F as in Fraternized (imp. & p. p.) of Fraternize,
F as in Fraternizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fraternize,
F as in Fraternize (v. i.) To associate or hold fellowship as brothers, or as men of like occupation or character; to have brotherly feelings.,
F as in Fraternize (v. t.) To bring into fellowship or brotherly sympathy.,
F as in Fraternizer (n.) One who fraternizes.,
F as in Fratery (n.) A frater house. See under Frater.,
F as in Fratrage (n.) A sharing among brothers, or brothers' kin.,
F as in Fratricelli (n. pl.) The name which St. Francis of Assisi gave to his followers, early in the 13th century.,
F as in Fratricelli (n. pl.) A sect which seceded from the Franciscan Order, chiefly in Italy and Sicily, in 1294, repudiating the pope as an apostate, maintaining the duty of celibacy and poverty, and discountenancing oaths. Called also Fratricellians and Fraticelli.,
F as in Fratricidal (a.) Of or pertaining to fratricide; of the nature of fratricide.,
F as in Fratricide (n.) The act of one who murders or kills his own brother.,
F as in Fratricide (n.) One who murders or kills his own brother.,
F as in Fraud (n.) Deception deliberately practiced with a view to gaining an unlawful or unfair advantage; artifice by which the right or interest of another is injured; injurious stratagem; deceit; trick.,
F as in Fraud (n.) An intentional perversion of truth for the purpose of obtaining some valuable thing or promise from another.,
F as in Fraud (n.) A trap or snare.,
F as in Fraudful (a.) Full of fraud, deceit, or treachery; trickish; treacherous; fraudulent; -- applied to persons or things.,
F as in Fraudless (a.) Free from fraud.,
F as in Fraudulence (n.) Alt. of Fraudulency,
F as in Fraudulency (n.) The quality of being fraudulent; deliberate deceit; trickishness.,
F as in Fraudulent (a.) Using fraud; trickly; deceitful; dishonest.,
F as in Fraudulent (a.) Characterized by,, founded on, or proceeding from, fraund; as, a fraudulent bargain.,
F as in Fraudulent (a.) Obtained or performed by artifice; as, fraudulent conquest.,
F as in Fraudulently (adv.) In a fraudulent manner.,
F as in Fraught (n.) A freight; a cargo.,
F as in Fraught (a.) Freighted; laden; filled; stored; charged.,
F as in Fraughted (imp. & p. p.) of Fraught,
F as in Fraught () of Fraught,
F as in Fraughting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fraught,
F as in Fraught (n.) To freight; to load; to burden; to fill; to crowd.,
F as in Fraughtage (n.) Freight; loading; cargo.,
F as in Fraughting (a.) Constituting the freight or cargo.,
F as in Fraunhofer lines () The lines of the spectrun; especially and properly, the dark lines of the solar spectrum, so called because first accurately observed and interpreted by Fraunhofer, a German physicist.,
F as in Fraxin (n.) A colorless crystalline substance, regarded as a glucoside, and found in the bark of the ash (Fraxinus) and along with esculin in the bark of the horse-chestnut. It shows a delicate fluorescence in alkaline solutions; -- called also paviin.,
F as in Fraxinus (n.) A genus of deciduous forest trees, found in the north temperate zone, and including the true ash trees.,
F as in Fray (n.) Affray; broil; contest; combat.,
F as in Frayed (imp. & p. p.) of Fray,
F as in Fraying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fray,
F as in Fray (v. t.) To frighten; to terrify; to alarm.,
F as in Fray (v. t.) To bear the expense of; to defray.,
F as in Fray (v. t.) To rub; to wear off, or wear into shreds, by rubbing; to fret, as cloth; as, a deer is said to fray her head.,
F as in Fray (v. i.) To rub.,
F as in Fray (v. i.) To wear out or into shreads, or to suffer injury by rubbing, as when the threads of the warp or of the woof wear off so that the cross threads are loose; to ravel; as, the cloth frays badly.,
F as in Fray (n.) A fret or chafe, as in cloth; a place injured by rubbing.,
F as in Fraying (n.) The skin which a deer frays from his horns.,
F as in Freaked (imp. & p. p.) of Freak,
F as in Freaking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Freak,
F as in Freak (v. t.) To variegate; to checker; to streak.,
F as in Freak (n.) A sudden causeless change or turn of the mind; a whim of fancy; a capricious prank; a vagary or caprice.,
F as in Freaking (a.) Freakish.,
F as in Freakish (a.) Apt to change the mind suddenly; whimsical; capricious.,
F as in Freck (v. t.) To checker; to diversify.,
F as in Freckle (v. t.) A small yellowish or brownish spot in the skin, particularly on the face, neck, or hands.,
F as in Freckle (v. t.) Any small spot or discoloration.,
F as in Freckled (imp. & p. p.) of Freckle,
F as in Freckling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Freckle,
F as in Freckle (v. t.) To spinkle or mark with freckle or small discolored spots; to spot.,
F as in Freckle (v. i.) To become covered or marked with freckles; to be spotted.,
F as in Freckled (a.) Marked with freckles; spotted.,
F as in Freckledness (n.) The state of being freckled.,
F as in Freckly (a.) Full of or marked with freckles; sprinkled with spots; freckled.,
F as in Fred (n.) Peace; -- a word used in composition, especially in proper names; as, Alfred; Frederic.,
F as in Fredstole (n.) See Fridstol.,
F as in Free (superl.) Exempt from subjection to the will of others; not under restraint, control, or compulsion; able to follow one's own impulses, desires, or inclinations; determining one's own course of action; not dependent; at liberty.,
F as in Free (superl.) Not under an arbitrary or despotic government; subject only to fixed laws regularly and fairly administered, and defended by them from encroachments upon natural or acquired rights; enjoying political liberty.,
F as in Free (superl.) Liberated, by arriving at a certain age, from the control of parents, guardian, or master.,
F as in Free (superl.) Not confined or imprisoned; released from arrest; liberated; at liberty to go.,
F as in Free (superl.) Not subjected to the laws of physical necessity; capable of voluntary activity; endowed with moral liberty; -- said of the will.,
F as in Free (superl.) Clear of offense or crime; guiltless; innocent.,
F as in Free (superl.) Unconstrained by timidity or distrust; unreserved; ingenuous; frank; familiar; communicative.,
F as in Free (superl.) Unrestrained; immoderate; lavish; licentious; -- used in a bad sense.,
F as in Free (superl.) Not close or parsimonious; liberal; open-handed; lavish; as, free with his money.,
F as in Free (superl.) Exempt; clear; released; liberated; not encumbered or troubled with; as, free from pain; free from a burden; -- followed by from, or, rarely, by of.,
F as in Free (superl.) Characteristic of one acting without restraint; charming; easy.,
F as in Free (superl.) Ready; eager; acting without spurring or whipping; spirited; as, a free horse.,
F as in Free (superl.) Invested with a particular freedom or franchise; enjoying certain immunities or privileges; admitted to special rights; -- followed by of.,
F as in Free (superl.) Thrown open, or made accessible, to all; to be enjoyed without limitations; unrestricted; not obstructed, engrossed, or appropriated; open; -- said of a thing to be possessed or enjoyed; as, a free school.,
F as in Free (superl.) Not gained by importunity or purchase; gratuitous; spontaneous; as, free admission; a free gift.,
F as in Free (superl.) Not arbitrary or despotic; assuring liberty; defending individual rights against encroachment by any person or class; instituted by a free people; -- said of a government, institutions, etc.,
F as in Free (superl.) Certain or honorable; the opposite of base; as, free service; free socage.,
F as in Free (superl.) Privileged or individual; the opposite of common; as, a free fishery; a free warren.,
F as in Free (superl.) Not united or combined with anything else; separated; dissevered; unattached; at liberty to escape; as, free carbonic acid gas; free cells.,
F as in Free (adv.) Freely; willingly.,
F as in Free (adv.) Without charge; as, children admitted free.,
F as in Freed (imp. & p. p.) of Free,
F as in Freeing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Free,
F as in Free (a.) To make free; to set at liberty; to rid of that which confines, limits, embarrasses, oppresses, etc.; to release; to disengage; to clear; -- followed by from, and sometimes by off; as, to free a captive or a slave; to be freed of these inconveniences.,
F as in Free (a.) To remove, as something that confines or bars; to relieve from the constraint of.,
F as in Free (a.) To frank.,
F as in Freebooter (n.) One who plunders or pillages without the authority of national warfare; a member of a predatory band; a pillager; a buccaneer; a sea robber.,
F as in Freebootery (n.) The act, practice, or gains of a freebooter; freebooting.,
F as in Freebooting (n.) Robbery; plunder; a pillaging.,
F as in Freebooting (a.) Acting the freebooter; practicing freebootery; robbing.,
F as in Freebooty (n.) Freebootery.,
F as in Freeborn (a.) Born free; not born in vassalage; inheriting freedom.,
F as in Free-denizen (v. t.) To make free.,
F as in Freedmen (pl. ) of Freedman,
F as in Freedman (n.) A man who has been a slave, and has been set free.,
F as in Freedom (n.) The state of being free; exemption from the power and control of another; liberty; independence.,
F as in Freedom (n.) Privileges; franchises; immunities.,
F as in Freedom (n.) Exemption from necessity, in choise and action; as, the freedom of the will.,
F as in Freedom (n.) Ease; facility; as, he speaks or acts with freedom.,
F as in Freedom (n.) Frankness; openness; unreservedness.,
F as in Freedom (n.) Improper familiarity; violation of the rules of decorum; license.,
F as in Freedom (n.) Generosity; liberality.,
F as in Freedstool (n.) See Fridstol.,
F as in Free-hand (a.) Done by the hand, without support, or the guidance of instruments; as, free-hand drawing. See under Drawing.,
F as in Free-handed (a.) Open-handed; liberal.,
F as in Free-hearted (a.) Open; frank; unreserved; liberal; generous; as, free-hearted mirth.,
F as in Freehold (n.) An estate in real property, of inheritance (in fee simple or fee tail) or for life; or the tenure by which such estate is held.,
F as in Freeholder (n.) The possessor of a freehold.,
F as in Free-liver (n.) One who gratifies his appetites without stint; one given to indulgence in eating and drinking.,
F as in Free-living (n.) Unrestrained indulgence of the appetites.,
F as in Free-love (n.) The doctrine or practice of consorting with the opposite sex, at pleasure, without marriage.,
F as in Free-lover (n.) One who believes in or practices free-love.,
F as in Freelte (n.) Frailty.,
F as in Freely (adv.) In a free manner; without restraint or compulsion; abundantly; gratuitously.,
F as in Freemen (pl. ) of Freeman,
F as in Freeman (n.) One who enjoys liberty, or who is not subject to the will of another; one not a slave or vassal.,
F as in Freeman (n.) A member of a corporation, company, or city, possessing certain privileges; a member of a borough, town, or State, who has the right to vote at elections. See Liveryman.,
F as in Free-martin (n.) An imperfect female calf, twinborn with a male.,
F as in Freemason (n.) One of an ancient and secret association or fraternity, said to have been at first composed of masons or builders in stone, but now consisting of persons who are united for social enjoyment and mutual assistance.,
F as in Freemasonic (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, the institutions or the practices of freemasons; as, a freemasonic signal.,
F as in Freemasonry (n.) The institutions or the practices of freemasons.,
F as in Free-milling (a.) Yielding free gold or silver; -- said of certain ores which can be reduced by crushing and amalgamation, without roasting or other chemical treatment.,
F as in Free-minded (a.) Not perplexed; having a mind free from care.,
F as in Freeness (n.) The state or quality of being free; freedom; liberty; openness; liberality; gratuitousness.,
F as in Freer (n.) One who frees, or sets free.,
F as in Free-soil (a.) Pertaining to, or advocating, the non-extension of slavery; -- esp. applied to a party which was active during the period 1846-1856.,
F as in Free-spoken (a.) Accustomed to speak without reserve.,
F as in Freestone (n.) A stone composed of sand or grit; -- so called because it is easily cut or wrought.,
F as in Freestone (a.) Having the flesh readily separating from the stone, as in certain kinds of peaches.,
F as in Free-swimming (a.) Swimming in the open sea; -- said of certain marine animals.,
F as in Freethinker (n.) One who speculates or forms opinions independently of the authority of others; esp., in the sphere or religion, one who forms opinions independently of the authority of revelation or of the church; an unbeliever; -- a term assumed by deists and skeptics in the eighteenth century.,
F as in Freethinking (n.) Undue boldness of speculation; unbelief.,
F as in Freethinking (a.) Exhibiting undue boldness of speculation; skeptical.,
F as in Free-tongued (a.) Speaking without reserve.,
F as in Free will () A will free from improper coercion or restraint.,
F as in Free will () The power asserted of moral beings of willing or choosing without the restraints of physical or absolute necessity.,
F as in Freewill (a.) Of or pertaining to free will; voluntary; spontaneous; as, a freewill offering.,
F as in Freezable (a.) Capable of being frozen.,
F as in Freeze (n.) A frieze.,
F as in Froze (imp.) of Freeze,
F as in Frozen (p. p.) of Freeze,
F as in Freezing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Freeze,
F as in Freeze (v. i.) To become congealed by cold; to be changed from a liquid to a solid state by the abstraction of heat; to be hardened into ice or a like solid body.,
F as in Freeze (v. i.) To become chilled with cold, or as with cold; to suffer loss of animation or life by lack of heat; as, the blood freezes in the veins.,
F as in Freeze (v. t.) To congeal; to harden into ice; to convert from a fluid to a solid form by cold, or abstraction of heat.,
F as in Freeze (v. t.) To cause loss of animation or life in, from lack of heat; to give the sensation of cold to; to chill.,
F as in Freeze (n.) The act of congealing, or the state of being congealed.,
F as in Freezer (n.) One who, or that which, cools or freezes, as a refrigerator, or the tub and can used in the process of freezing ice cream.,
F as in Freezing (a.) Tending to freeze; for freezing; hence, cold or distant in manner.,
F as in Freieslebenite (n.) A sulphide of antimony, lead, and silver, occuring in monoclinic crystals.,
F as in Freight (n.) That with which anything in fraught or laden for transportation; lading; cargo, especially of a ship, or a car on a railroad, etc.; as, a freight of cotton; a full freight.,
F as in Freight (n.) The sum paid by a party hiring a ship or part of a ship for the use of what is thus hired.,
F as in Freight (n.) The price paid a common carrier for the carriage of goods.,
F as in Freight (n.) Freight transportation, or freight line.,
F as in Freight (a.) Employed in the transportation of freight; having to do with freight; as, a freight car.,
F as in Freighted (imp. & p. p.) of Freight,
F as in Freighting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Freight,
F as in Freight (v. t.) To load with goods, as a ship, or vehicle of any kind, for transporting them from one place to another; to furnish with freight; as, to freight a ship; to freight a car.,
F as in Freightage (n.) Charge for transportation; expense of carriage.,
F as in Freightage (n.) The transportation of freight.,
F as in Freightage (n.) Freight; cargo; lading. Milton.,
F as in Freighter (n.) One who loads a ship, or one who charters and loads a ship.,
F as in Freighter (n.) One employed in receiving and forwarding freight.,
F as in Freighter (n.) One for whom freight is transported.,
F as in Freighter (n.) A vessel used mainly to carry freight.,
F as in Freightless (a.) Destitute of freight.,
F as in Frelte (n.) Frailty.,
F as in Fremd (a.) Alt. of Fremed,
F as in Fremed (a.) Strange; foreign.,
F as in Fren (a.) A stranger.,
F as in French (a.) Of or pertaining to France or its inhabitants.,
F as in French (n.) The language spoken in France.,
F as in French (n.) Collectively, the people of France.,
F as in Frenchified (imp. & p. p.) of Frenchify,
F as in Frenchifying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Frenchify,
F as in Frenchify (v. t.) To make French; to infect or imbue with the manners or tastes of the French; to Gallicize.,
F as in Frenchism (n.) A French mode or characteristic; an idiom peculiar to the French language.,
F as in Frenchmen (pl. ) of Frenchman,
F as in Frenchman (n.) A native or one of the people of France.,
F as in Frenetir (a.) Distracted; mad; frantic; phrenetic.,
F as in Frenetical (a.) Frenetic; frantic; frenzied.,
F as in Frenums (pl. ) of Frenum,
F as in Frena (pl. ) of Frenum,
F as in Frenum (n.) A cheek stripe of color.,
F as in Frenum (n.) Same as Fraenum.,
F as in Frenzical (a.) Frantic.,
F as in Frenzied (p. p. & a.) Affected with frenzy; frantic; maddened.,
F as in Frenzies (pl. ) of Frenzy,
F as in Frenzy (n.) Any violent agitation of the mind approaching to distraction; violent and temporary derangement of the mental faculties; madness; rage.,
F as in Frenzy (a.) Mad; frantic.,
F as in Frenzy (v. t.) To affect with frenzy; to drive to madness,
F as in Frequence (n.) A crowd; a throng; a concourse.,
F as in Frequence (n.) Frequency; abundance.,
F as in Frequencies (pl. ) of Frequency,
F as in Frequency (n.) The condition of returning frequently; occurrence often repeated; common occurence; as, the frequency of crimes; the frequency of miracles.,
F as in Frequency (n.) A crowd; a throng.,
F as in Frequent (n.) Often to be met with; happening at short intervals; often repeated or occurring; as, frequent visits.,
F as in Frequent (n.) Addicted to any course of conduct; inclined to indulge in any practice; habitual; persistent.,
F as in Frequent (n.) Full; crowded; thronged.,
F as in Frequent (n.) Often or commonly reported.,
F as in Frequented (imp. & p. p.) of Frequent,
F as in Frequenting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Frequent,
F as in Frequent (a.) To visit often; to resort to often or habitually.,
F as in Frequent (a.) To make full; to fill.,
F as in Frequentable (a.) Accessible.,
F as in Frequentage (n.) The practice or habit of frequenting.,
F as in Frequentation (n.) The act or habit of frequenting or visiting often; resort.,
F as in Frequentative (a.) Serving to express the frequent repetition of an action; as, a frequentative verb.,
F as in Frequentative (n.) A frequentative verb.,
F as in Frequenter (n.) One who frequents; one who often visits, or resorts to customarily.,
F as in Frequently (adv.) At frequent or short intervals; many times; often; repeatedly; commonly.,
F as in Frequentness (n.) The quality of being frequent.,
F as in Frere (n.) A friar.,
F as in Frescade (a.) A cool walk; shady place.,
F as in Frescoes (pl. ) of Fresco,
F as in Frescos (pl. ) of Fresco,
F as in Fresco (a.) A cool, refreshing state of the air; duskiness; coolness; shade.,
F as in Fresco (a.) The art of painting on freshly spread plaster, before it dries.,
F as in Fresco (a.) In modern parlance, incorrectly applied to painting on plaster in any manner.,
F as in Fresco (a.) A painting on plaster in either of senses a and b.,
F as in Frescoed (imp. & p. p.) of Fresco,
F as in Frescoing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fresco,
F as in Fresco (v. t.) To paint in fresco, as walls.,
F as in Fresh (superl) Possessed of original life and vigor; new and strong; unimpaired; sound.,
F as in Fresh (superl) New; original; additional.,
F as in Fresh (superl) Lately produced, gathered, or prepared for market; not stale; not dried or preserved; not wilted, faded, or tainted; in good condition; as, fresh vegetables, flowers, eggs, meat, fruit, etc.; recently made or obtained; occurring again; repeated; as, a fresh supply of goods; fresh tea, raisins, etc.; lately come or made public; as, fresh news; recently taken from a well or spring; as, fresh water.,
F as in Fresh (superl) Youthful; florid; as, these fresh nymphs.,
F as in Fresh (superl) In a raw, green, or untried state; uncultivated; uncultured; unpracticed; as, a fresh hand on a ship.,
F as in Fresh (superl) Renewed in vigor, alacrity, or readiness for action; as, fresh for a combat; hence, tending to renew in vigor; rather strong; cool or brisk; as, a fresh wind.,
F as in Fresh (superl) Not salt; as, fresh water, in distinction from that which is from the sea, or brackish; fresh meat, in distinction from that which is pickled or salted.,
F as in Freshes (pl. ) of Fresh,
F as in Fresh (n.) A stream or spring of fresh water.,
F as in Fresh (n.) A flood; a freshet.,
F as in Fresh (n.) The mingling of fresh water with salt in rivers or bays, as by means of a flood of fresh water flowing toward or into the sea.,
F as in Fresh (v. t.) To refresh; to freshen.,
F as in Freshened (imp. & p. p.) of Freshen,
F as in Freshening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Freshen,
F as in Freshen (v. t.) To make fresh; to separate, as water, from saline ingredients; to make less salt; as, to freshen water, fish, or flesh.,
F as in Freshen (v. t.) To refresh; to revive.,
F as in Freshen (v. t.) To relieve, as a rope, by change of place where friction wears it; or to renew, as the material used to prevent chafing; as, to freshen a hawse.,
F as in Freshen (v. i.) To grow fresh; to lose saltness.,
F as in Freshen (v. i.) To grow brisk or strong; as, the wind freshens.,
F as in Freshet (a.) A stream of fresh water.,
F as in Freshet (a.) A flood or overflowing of a stream caused by heavy rains or melted snow; a sudden inundation.,
F as in Freshly (adv.) In a fresh manner; vigorously; newly, recently; brightly; briskly; coolly; as, freshly gathered; freshly painted; the wind blows freshly.,
F as in Freshmen (pl. ) of Freshman,
F as in Freshman (n.) novice; one in the rudiments of knowledge; especially, a student during his fist year in a college or university.,
F as in Freshmanship (n.) The state of being a freshman.,
F as in Freshment (n.) Refreshment.,
F as in Freshness (n.) The state of being fresh.,
F as in Fresh-new (a.) Unpracticed.,
F as in Fresh-water (a.) Of, pertaining to, or living in, water not salt; as, fresh-water geological deposits; a fresh-water fish; fresh-water mussels.,
F as in Fresh-water (a.) Accustomed to sail on fresh water only; unskilled as a seaman; as, a fresh-water sailor.,
F as in Fresh-water (a.) Unskilled; raw.,
F as in Fresnel lamp () Alt. of Fres'nel' lan'tern,
F as in Fres'nel' lan'tern () A lantern having a lamp surrounded by a hollow cylindrical Fresnel lens.,
F as in Fresnel lens () See under Lens.,
F as in Fret (n.) See 1st Frith.,
F as in Fretted (imp. & p. p.) of Fret,
F as in Fretting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fret,
F as in Fret (v. t.) To devour.,
F as in Fret (v. t.) To rub; to wear away by friction; to chafe; to gall; hence, to eat away; to gnaw; as, to fret cloth; to fret a piece of gold or other metal; a worm frets the plants of a ship.,
F as in Fret (v. t.) To impair; to wear away; to diminish.,
F as in Fret (v. t.) To make rough, agitate, or disturb; to cause to ripple; as, to fret the surface of water.,
F as in Fret (v. t.) To tease; to irritate; to vex.,
F as in Fret (v. i.) To be worn away; to chafe; to fray; as, a wristband frets on the edges.,
F as in Fret (v. i.) To eat in; to make way by corrosion.,
F as in Fret (v. i.) To be agitated; to be in violent commotion; to rankle; as, rancor frets in the malignant breast.,
F as in Fret (v. i.) To be vexed; to be chafed or irritated; to be angry; to utter peevish expressions.,
F as in Fret (n.) The agitation of the surface of a fluid by fermentation or other cause; a rippling on the surface of water.,
F as in Fret (n.) Agitation of mind marked by complaint and impatience; disturbance of temper; irritation; as, he keeps his mind in a continual fret.,
F as in Fret (n.) Herpes; tetter.,
F as in Fret (n.) The worn sides of river banks, where ores, or stones containing them, accumulate by being washed down from the hills, and thus indicate to the miners the locality of the veins.,
F as in Fret (v. t.) To ornament with raised work; to variegate; to diversify.,
F as in Fret (n.) Ornamental work in relief, as carving or embossing. See Fretwork.,
F as in Fret (n.) An ornament consisting of smmall fillets or slats intersecting each other or bent at right angles, as in classical designs, or at obilique angles, as often in Oriental art.,
F as in Fret (n.) The reticulated headdress or net, made of gold or silver wire, in which ladies in the Middle Ages confined their hair.,
F as in Fret (n.) A saltire interlaced with a mascle.,
F as in Fret (n.) A short piece of wire, or other material fixed across the finger board of a guitar or a similar instrument, to indicate where the finger is to be placed.,
F as in Fret (v. t.) To furnish with frets, as an instrument of music.,
F as in Fretful (a.) Disposed to fret; ill-humored; peevish; angry; in a state of vexation; as, a fretful temper.,
F as in Frett (n.) The worn side of the bank of a river. See 4th Fret, n., 4.,
F as in Frett (n.) A vitreous compound, used by potters in glazing, consisting of lime, silica, borax, lead, and soda.,
F as in Fretted (p. p. & a.) Rubbed or worn away; chafed.,
F as in Fretted (p. p. & a.) Agitated; vexed; worried.,
F as in Fretted (p. p. & a.) Ornamented with fretwork; furnished with frets; variegated; made rough on the surface.,
F as in Fretted (p. p. & a.) Interlaced one with another; -- said of charges and ordinaries.,
F as in Fretten (a.) Rubbed; marked; as, pock-fretten, marked with the smallpox.,
F as in Fretter (n.) One who, or that which, frets.,
F as in Fretty (a.) Adorned with fretwork.,
F as in Freta (pl. ) of Fretum,
F as in Fretum (n.) A strait, or arm of the sea.,
F as in Fretwork (n.) Work adorned with frets; ornamental openwork or work in relief, esp. when elaborate and minute in its parts. Hence, any minute play of light and shade, dark and light, or the like.,
F as in Freya (n.) The daughter of Njord, and goddess of love and beauty; the Scandinavian Venus; -- in Teutonic myths confounded with Frigga, but in Scandinavian, distinct.,
F as in Friabiiity (n.) The quality of being friable; friableness.,
F as in Friable (a.) Easily crumbled, pulverized, or reduced to powder.,
F as in Friar (n.) A brother or member of any religious order, but especially of one of the four mendicant orders, viz: (a) Minors, Gray Friars, or Franciscans. (b) Augustines. (c) Dominicans or Black Friars. (d) White Friars or Carmelites. See these names in the Vocabulary.,
F as in Friar (n.) A white or pale patch on a printed page.,
F as in Friar (n.) An American fish; the silversides.,
F as in Friarly (a.) Like a friar; inexperienced.,
F as in Friary (n.) Like a friar; pertaining to friars or to a convent.,
F as in Friary (n.) A monastery; a convent of friars.,
F as in Friary (n.) The institution or praactices of friars.,
F as in Friation (n.) The act of breaking up or pulverizing.,
F as in Frible (a.) Frivolous; trifling; sily.,
F as in Fribble (n.) A frivolous, contemptible fellow; a fop.,
F as in Fribble (v. i.) To act in a trifling or foolish manner; to act frivolously.,
F as in Fribble (v. i.) To totter.,
F as in Fribbler (n.) A trifler; a fribble.,
F as in Fribbling (a.) Frivolous; trining; toolishly captious.,
F as in Friborg (n.) Alt. of Friborgh,
F as in Friborgh (n.) The pledge and tithing, afterwards called by the Normans frankpledge. See Frankpledge.,
F as in Fricace (n.) Meat sliced and dressed with strong sauce.,
F as in Fricace (n.) An unguent; also, the act of rubbing with the unguent.,
F as in Fricandeau (n.) Alt. of Fricando,
F as in Fricando (n.) A ragout or fricassee of veal; a fancy dish of veal or of boned turkey, served as an entree, -- called also fricandel.,
F as in Fricassee (n.) A dish made of fowls, veal, or other meat of small animals cut into pieces, and stewed in a gravy.,
F as in Fricassed (imp. & p. p.) of Frlcassee,
F as in Fricasseeing (p. pr. &. vb. n.) of Frlcassee,
F as in Frlcassee (v. t.) To dress like a fricassee.,
F as in Frication (n.) Friction.,
F as in Fricative (a.) Produced by the friction or rustling of the breath, intonated or unintonated, through a narrow opening between two of the mouth organs; uttered through a close approach, but not with a complete closure, of the organs of articulation, and hence capable of being continued or prolonged; -- said of certain consonantal sounds, as f, v, s, z, etc.,
F as in Fricative (n.) A fricative consonant letter or sound. See Guide to Pronunciation, // 197-206, etc.,
F as in Fricatrice (n.) A lewd woman; a harlot.,
F as in Frickle (n.) A bushel basket.,
F as in Ftiction (n.) The act of rubbing the surface of one body against that of another; attrition; in hygiene, the act of rubbing the body with the hand, with flannel, or with a brush etc., to excite the skin to healthy action.,
F as in Ftiction (n.) The resistance which a body meets with from the surface on which it moves. It may be resistance to sliding motion, or to rolling motion.,
F as in Ftiction (n.) A clashing between two persons or parties in opinions or work; a disagreement tending to prevent or retard progress.,
F as in Frictional (a.) Relating to friction; moved by friction; produced by friction; as, frictional electricity.,
F as in Frictionless (a.) Having no friction.,
F as in Friday (n.) The sixth day of the week, following Thursday and preceding Saturday.,
F as in Fridge (n.) To rub; to fray.,
F as in Fridstol (n.) Alt. of Frithstool,
F as in Frithstool (n.) A seat in churches near the altar, to which offenders formerly fled for sanctuary.,
F as in Fried () imp. & p. p. of Fry.,
F as in Friend (n.) One who entertains for another such sentiments of esteem, respect, and affection that he seeks his society aud welfare; a wellwisher; an intimate associate; sometimes, an attendant.,
F as in Friend (n.) One not inimical or hostile; one not a foe or enemy; also, one of the same nation, party, kin, etc., whose friendly feelings may be assumed. The word is some times used as a term of friendly address.,
F as in Friend (n.) One who looks propitiously on a cause, an institution, a project, and the like; a favorer; a promoter; as, a friend to commerce, to poetry, to an institution.,
F as in Friend (n.) One of a religious sect characterized by disuse of outward rites and an ordained ministry, by simplicity of dress and speech, and esp. by opposition to war and a desire to live at peace with all men. They are popularly called Quakers.,
F as in Friend (n.) A paramour of either sex.,
F as in Friended (imp. & p. p.) of Friend,
F as in Friending (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Friend,
F as in Friend (v. t.) To act as the friend of; to favor; to countenance; to befriend.,
F as in Friended (a.) Having friends;,
F as in Friended (a.) Inclined to love; well-disposed.,
F as in Friending (n.) Friendliness.,
F as in Friendless (a.) Destitute of friends; forsaken.,
F as in Friendlily (adv.) In a friendly manner.,
F as in Friendliness (n.) The condition or quality of being friendly.,
F as in Friendly (a.) Having the temper and disposition of a friend; disposed to promote the good of another; kind; favorable.,
F as in Friendly (a.) Appropriate to, or implying, friendship; befitting friends; amicable.,
F as in Friendly (a.) Not hostile; as, a friendly power or state.,
F as in Friendly (a.) Promoting the good of any person; favorable; propitious; serviceable; as, a friendly breeze or gale.,
F as in Friendly (adv.) In the manner of friends; amicably; like friends.,
F as in Friendship (n.) The state of being friends; friendly relation, or attachment, to a person, or between persons; affection arising from mutual esteem and good will; friendliness; amity; good will.,
F as in Friendship (n.) Kindly aid; help; assistance,,
F as in Friendship (n.) Aptness to unite; conformity; affinity; harmony; correspondence.,
F as in Frier (n.) One who fries.,
F as in Friese (n.) Same as Friesic, n.,
F as in Friesic (a.) Of or pertaining to Friesland, a province in the northern part of the Netherlands.,
F as in Friesic (n.) The language of the Frisians, a Teutonic people formerly occupying a large part of the coast of Holland and Northwestern Germany. The modern dialects of Friesic are spoken chiefly in the province of Friesland, and on some of the islands near the coast of Germany and Denmark.,
F as in Friesish (a.) Friesic.,
F as in Frieze (n.) That part of the entablature of an order which is between the architrave and cornice. It is a flat member or face, either uniform or broken by triglyphs, and often enriched with figures and other ornaments of sculpture.,
F as in Frieze (n.) Any sculptured or richly ornamented band in a building or, by extension, in rich pieces of furniture. See Illust. of Column.,
F as in Frieze (n.) A kind of coarse woolen cloth or stuff with a shaggy or tufted (friezed) nap on one side.,
F as in Frieze (v. t.) To make a nap on (cloth); to friz. See Friz, v. t., 2.,
F as in Friezed (a.) Gathered, or having the map gathered, into little tufts, knots, or protuberances. Cf. Frieze, v. t., and Friz, v. t., 2.,
F as in Friezer (n.) One who, or that which, friezes or frizzes.,
F as in Frigate (n.) Originally, a vessel of the Mediterranean propelled by sails and by oars. The French, about 1650, transferred the name to larger vessels, and by 1750 it had been appropriated for a class of war vessels intermediate between corvettes and ships of the line. Frigates, from about 1750 to 1850, had one full battery deck and, often, a spar deck with a lighter battery. They carried sometimes as many as fifty guns. After the application of steam to navigation steam frigates of largely increased size and power were built, and formed the main part of the navies of the world till about 1870, when the introduction of ironclads superseded them.,
F as in Frigate (n.) Any small vessel on the water.,
F as in Frigate-built (a.) Built like a frigate with a raised quarter-deck and forecastle.,
F as in Frigatoon (n.) A Venetian vessel, with a square stern, having only a mainmast, jigger mast, and bowsprit; also a sloop of war ship-rigged.,
F as in Frigefaction (n.) The act of making cold. [Obs.],
F as in Frigefactive (a.) Cooling.,
F as in Frigerate (e. t.) To make cool.,
F as in Frigg (n.) Alt. of Frigga,
F as in Frigga (n.) The wife of Odin and mother of the gods; the supreme goddess; the Juno of the Valhalla. Cf. Freya.,
F as in Fright (n.) A state of terror excited by the sudden appearance of danger; sudden and violent fear, usually of short duration; a sudden alarm.,
F as in Fright (n.) Anything strange, ugly or shocking, producing a feeling of alarm or aversion.,
F as in Frighted (imp.) of Fright,
F as in Frighting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fright,
F as in Fright (n.) To alarm suddenly; to shock by causing sudden fear; to terrify; to scare.,
F as in Frightened (imp.) of Frighten,
F as in Frightening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Frighten,
F as in Frighten (v. t.) To disturb with fear; to throw into a state of alarm or fright; to affright; to terrify.,
F as in Frightful (a.) Full of fright; affrighted; frightened.,
F as in Frightful (a.) Full of that which causes fright; exciting alarm; impressing terror; shocking; as, a frightful chasm, or tempest; a frightful appearance.,
F as in Frightfully (adv.) In a frightful manner; to a frightful dagree.,
F as in Frightfulness (n.) The quality of being frightful.,
F as in Frightless (a.) Free from fright; fearless.,
F as in Frightment (n.) Fear; terror.,
F as in Frigid (a.) Cold; wanting heat or warmth; of low temperature; as, a frigid climate.,
F as in Frigid (a.) Wanting warmth, fervor, ardor, fire, vivacity, etc.; unfeeling; forbidding in manner; dull and unanimated; stiff and formal; as, a frigid constitution; a frigid style; a frigid look or manner; frigid obedience or service.,
F as in Frigid (a.) Wanting natural heat or vigor sufficient to excite the generative power; impotent.,
F as in Frigidaria (pl. ) of Frigidarium,
F as in Frigidarium (n.) The cooling room of the Roman thermae, furnished with a cold bath.,
F as in Prigidity (n.) The condition or quality of being frigid; coldness; want of warmth.,
F as in Prigidity (n.) Want of ardor, animation, vivacity, etc.; coldness of affection or of manner; dullness; stiffness and formality; as, frigidity of a reception, of a bow, etc.,
F as in Prigidity (n.) Want of heat or vigor; as, the frigidity of old age.,
F as in Frigidly (adv.) In a frigid manner; coldly; dully; without affection.,
F as in Frigidness (n.) The state of being frigid; want of heat, vigor, or affection; coldness; dullness.,
F as in Frigorific (a.) Alt. of Frigorifical,
F as in Frigorifical (a.) Causing cold; producing or generating cold.,
F as in Frilled (imp. & p. p.) of Frill,
F as in Frilling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Frill,
F as in Frill (v. i.) To shake or shiver as with cold; as, the hawk frills.,
F as in Frill (v. i.) To wrinkle; -- said of the gelatin film.,
F as in Frill (v. t.) To provide or decorate with a frill or frills; to turn back. in crimped plaits; as, to frill a cap.,
F as in Frill (v. i.) A ruffing of a bird's feathers from cold.,
F as in Frill (v. i.) A ruffle, consisting of a fold of membrane, of hairs, or of feathers, around the neck of an animal.,
F as in Frill (v. i.) A similar ruffle around the legs or other appendages of animals.,
F as in Frill (v. i.) A ruffled varex or fold on certain shells.,
F as in Frill (v. i.) A border or edging secured at one edge and left free at the other, usually fluted or crimped like a very narrow flounce.,
F as in Frilled (a.) Furnished with a frill or frills.,
F as in Frim (a.) Flourishing; thriving; fresh; in good case; vigorous.,
F as in Frimaire (n.) The third month of the French republican calendar. It commenced November 21, and ended December 20., See Vendemiaire.,
F as in Fringe (n.) An ornamental appendage to the border of a piece of stuff, originally consisting of the ends of the warp, projecting beyond the woven fabric; but more commonly made separate and sewed on, consisting sometimes of projecting ends, twisted or plaited together, and sometimes of loose threads of wool, silk, or linen, or narrow strips of leather, or the like.,
F as in Fringe (n.) Something resembling in any respect a fringe; a line of objects along a border or edge; a border; an edging; a margin; a confine.,
F as in Fringe (n.) One of a number of light or dark bands, produced by the interference of light; a diffraction band; -- called also interference fringe.,
F as in Fringe (n.) The peristome or fringelike appendage of the capsules of most mosses. See Peristome.,
F as in Fringed (imp. & p. p.) of Fringe,
F as in Fringing (p. pr. & vb. a.) of Fringe,
F as in Fringe (v. t.) To adorn the edge of with a fringe or as with a fringe.,
F as in Fringed (a.) Furnished with a fringe.,
F as in Fringeless (a.) Having no fringe.,
F as in Fringent (a.) Encircling like a fringe; bordering.,
F as in Fringilla (a.) A genus of birds, with a short, conical, pointed bill. It formerly included all the sparrows and finches, but is now restricted to certain European finches, like the chaffinch and brambling.,
F as in Fringillaceous (a.) Fringilline.,
F as in Fringilline (a.) Pertaining to the family Fringillidae; characteristic of finches; sparrowlike.,
F as in Fringy (a.) Aborned with fringes.,
F as in Fripper (n.) One who deals in frippery or in old clothes.,
F as in Fripperer (n.) A fripper.,
F as in Frippery (n.) Coast-off clothes.,
F as in Frippery (n.) Hence: Secondhand finery; cheap and tawdry decoration; affected elegance.,
F as in Frippery (n.) A place where old clothes are sold.,
F as in Frippery (n.) The trade or traffic in old clothes.,
F as in Frippery (a.) Trifling; contemptible.,
F as in Friseur' (n.) A hairdresser.,
F as in Frisian (a.) Of or pertaining to Friesland, a province of the Netherlands; Friesic.,
F as in Frisian (n.) A native or inhabitant of Friesland; also, the language spoken in Friesland. See Friesic, n.,
F as in Frisk (a.) Lively; brisk; frolicsome; frisky.,
F as in Frisk (a.) A frolic; a fit of wanton gayety; a gambol: a little playful skip or leap.,
F as in Frisked (imp. & p. p.) of Frisk,
F as in Frisking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Frisk,
F as in Frisk (v. i.) To leap, skip, dance, or gambol, in fronc and gayety.,
F as in Friskal (n.) A leap or caper.,
F as in Frisker (n.) One who frisks; one who leaps of dances in gayety; a wanton; an inconstant or unsettled person.,
F as in Frisket (a.) The light frame which holds the sheet of paper to the tympan in printing.,
F as in Friskful (a.) Brisk; lively; frolicsome.,
F as in Friskily' (adv.) In a frisky manner.,
F as in Friskiness (n.) State or quality of being frisky.,
F as in Frisky (a.) Inclined to frisk; frolicsome; gay.,
F as in Frislet (n.) A kind of small ruffle.,
F as in Frist (v. t.) To sell upon credit, as goods.,
F as in Frisure (n.) The dressing of the hair by crisping or curling.,
F as in Frit (v. t.) The material of which glass is made, after having been calcined or partly fused in a furnace, but before vitrification. It is a composition of silex and alkali, occasionally with other ingredients.,
F as in Frit (v. t.) The material for glaze of pottery.,
F as in Fritted (imp. & p. p.) of Frit,
F as in Fritting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Frit,
F as in Frit (v. t.) To prepare by heat (the materials for making glass); to fuse partially.,
F as in Frit (v. t.) To fritter; -- with away.,
F as in Frith (n.) A narrow arm of the sea; an estuary; the opening of a river into the sea; as, the Frith of Forth.,
F as in Frith (n.) A kind of weir for catching fish.,
F as in Frith (a.) A forest; a woody place.,
F as in Frith (a.) A small field taken out of a common, by inclosing it; an inclosure.,
F as in Frithy (a.) Woody.,
F as in Fritillaria (n.) A genus of liliaceous plants, of which the crown-imperial (Fritillaria imperialis) is one species, and the Guinea-hen flower (F. Meleagris) another. See Crown-imperial.,
F as in Fritillary (n.) A plant with checkered petals, of the genus Fritillaria: the Guinea-hen flower. See Fritillaria.,
F as in Fritillary (n.) One of several species of butterflies belonging to Argynnis and allied genera; -- so called because the coloring of their wings resembles that of the common Fritillaria. See Aphrodite.,
F as in Fritinancy (n.) A chirping or creaking, as of a cricket.,
F as in Fritter (v. t.) A small quantity of batter, fried in boiling lard or in a frying pan. Fritters are of various kinds, named from the substance inclosed in the batter; as, apple fritters, clam fritters, oyster fritters.,
F as in Fritter (v. t.) A fragment; a shred; a small piece.,
F as in Frittered (imp. & p. p.) of Fritter,
F as in Frittering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fritter,
F as in Fritter (v. t.) To cut, as meat, into small pieces, for frying.,
F as in Fritter (v. t.) To break into small pieces or fragments.,
F as in Fritting (n.) The formation of frit or slag by heat with but incipient fusion.,
F as in Frivolism (n.) Frivolity.,
F as in Frivolities (pl. ) of Frivolity,
F as in Frivolity (n.) The condition or quality of being frivolous; also, acts or habits of trifling; unbecoming levity of disposition.,
F as in Frivolous (a.) Of little weight or importance; not worth notice; slight; as, a frivolous argument.,
F as in Frivolous (a.) Given to trifling; marked with unbecoming levity; silly; interested especially in trifling matters.,
F as in Frizzed (imp. & p. p.) of Friz,
F as in Frizzing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Friz,
F as in Friz (v. t.) To curl or form into small curls, as hair, with a crisping pin; to crisp.,
F as in Friz (v. t.) To form into little burs, prominences, knobs, or tufts, as the nap of cloth.,
F as in Friz (v. t.) To soften and make of even thickness by rubbing, as with pumice stone or a blunt instrument.,
F as in Frizzes (pl. ) of Friz,
F as in Friz (n.) That which is frizzed; anything crisped or curled, as a wig; a frizzle.,
F as in Frize (n.) See 1st Frieze.,
F as in Frizel (a.) A movable furrowed piece of steel struck by the flint, to throw sparks into the pan, in an early form of flintlock.,
F as in Frizette (n.) A curl of hair or silk; a pad of frizzed hair or silk worn by women under the hair to stuff it out.,
F as in Frizz (v. t. & n.) See Friz, v. t. & n.,
F as in Frizzled (imp. & p. p.) of Frizzle,
F as in Frizzling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Frizzle,
F as in Frizzle (v. t.) To curl or crisp, as hair; to friz; to crinkle.,
F as in Frizzle (n.) A curl; a lock of hair crisped.,
F as in Frizzler (n.) One who frizzles.,
F as in Frizzly (a.) Alt. of Frizzy,
F as in Frizzy (a.) Curled or crisped; as, frizzly, hair.,
F as in Fro (adv.) From; away; back or backward; -- now used only in opposition to the word to, in the phrase to and fro, that is, to and from. See To and fro under To.,
F as in Fro (prep.) From.,
F as in Frock (n.) A loose outer garment; especially, a gown forming a part of European modern costume for women and children; also, a coarse shirtlike garment worn by some workmen over their other clothes; a smock frock; as, a marketman's frock.,
F as in Frock (n.) A coarse gown worn by monks or friars, and supposed to take the place of all, or nearly all, other garments. It has a hood which can be drawn over the head at pleasure, and is girded by a cord.,
F as in Frock (v. t.) To clothe in a frock.,
F as in Frock (v. t.) To make a monk of. Cf. Unfrock.,
F as in Frocked (a.) Clothed in a frock.,
F as in Frockless (a.) Destitute of a frock.,
F as in Froe (n.) A dirty woman; a slattern; a frow.,
F as in Froe (n.) An iron cleaver or splitting tool; a frow.,
F as in Frog (n.) An amphibious animal of the genus Rana and related genera, of many species. Frogs swim rapidly, and take long leaps on land. Many of the species utter loud notes in the springtime.,
F as in Frog (n.) The triangular prominence of the hoof, in the middle of the sole of the foot of the horse, and other animals; the fourchette.,
F as in Frog (n.) A supporting plate having raised ribs that form continuations of the rails, to guide the wheels where one track branches from another or crosses it.,
F as in Frog (n.) An oblong cloak button, covered with netted thread, and fastening into a loop instead of a button hole.,
F as in Frog (n.) The loop of the scabbard of a bayonet or sword.,
F as in Frog (v. t.) To ornament or fasten (a coat, etc.) with trogs. See Frog, n., 4.,
F as in Frogbit (n.) A European plant (Hydrocharis Morsus-ranae), floating on still water and propagating itself by runners. It has roundish leaves and small white flowers.,
F as in Frogbit (n.) An American plant (Limnobium Spongia), with similar habits.,
F as in Frogfish (n.) See Angler, n., 2.,
F as in Frogfish (n.) An oceanic fish of the genus Antennarius or Pterophrynoides; -- called also mousefish and toadfish.,
F as in Frogged (a.) Provided or ornamented with frogs; as, a frogged coat. See Frog, n., 4.,
F as in Froggy (a.) Abounding in frogs.,
F as in Frogmouth (n.) One of several species of Asiatic and East Indian birds of the genus Batrachostomus (family Podargidae); -- so called from their very broad, flat bills.,
F as in Frogs-bit (n.) Frogbit.,
F as in Frogshell (n.) One of numerous species of marine gastropod shells, belonging to Ranella and allied genera.,
F as in Froise (n.) A kind of pancake. See 1st Fraise.,
F as in Frolic (a.) Full of levity; dancing, playing, or frisking about; full of pranks; frolicsome; gay; merry.,
F as in Frolic (n.) A wild prank; a flight of levity, or of gayety and mirth.,
F as in Frolic (n.) A scene of gayety and mirth, as in lively play, or in dancing; a merrymaking.,
F as in Frolicked (imp. & p. p.) of Frolic,
F as in Frolicking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Frolic,
F as in Frolic (v. i.) To play wild pranks; to play tricks of levity, mirth, and gayety; to indulge in frolicsome play; to sport.,
F as in Frolicful (a.) Frolicsome.,
F as in Frolicky (a.) Frolicsome.,
F as in Frolicly (adv.) In a frolicsome manner; with mirth and gayety.,
F as in Frolicsome (a.) Full of gayety and mirth; given to pranks; sportive.,
F as in From (prep.) Out of the neighborhood of; lessening or losing proximity to; leaving behind; by reason of; out of; by aid of; -- used whenever departure, setting out, commencement of action, being, state, occurrence, etc., or procedure, emanation, absence, separation, etc., are to be expressed. It is construed with, and indicates, the point of space or time at which the action, state, etc., are regarded as setting out or beginning; also, less frequently, the source, the cause, the occasion, out of which anything proceeds; -- the aritithesis and correlative of to; as, it, is one hundred miles from Boston to Springfield; he took his sword from his side; light proceeds from the sun; separate the coarse wool from the fine; men have all sprung from Adam, and often go from good to bad, and from bad to worse; the merit of an action depends on the principle from which it proceeds; men judge of facts from personal knowledge, or from testimony.,
F as in Fromward (prep.) Alt. of Fromwards,
F as in Fromwards (prep.) A way from; -- the contrary of toward.,
F as in Frond (n.) The organ formed by the combination or union into one body of stem and leaf, and often bearing the fructification; as, the frond of a fern or of a lichen or seaweed; also, the peculiar leaf of a palm tree.,
F as in Frondation (n.) The act of stripping, as trees, of leaves or branches; a kind of pruning.,
F as in Fronde (n.) A political party in France, during the minority of Louis XIV., who opposed the government, and made war upon the court party.,
F as in Fronded (a.) Furnished with fronds.,
F as in Frondent (a.) Covered with leaves; leafy; as, a frondent tree.,
F as in Frondesce (v. i.) To unfold leaves, as plants.,
F as in Frondescence (n.) The time at which each species of plants unfolds its leaves.,
F as in Frondescence (n.) The act of bursting into leaf.,
F as in Frondeur (n.) A member of the Fronde.,
F as in Frondiferous (a.) Producing fronds.,
F as in Frondlet (n.) A very small frond, or distinct portion of a compound frond.,
F as in Frondose (a.) Frond bearing; resembling a frond; having a simple expansion not separable into stem and leaves.,
F as in Frondose (a.) Leafy.,
F as in Frondous (a.) Frondose.,
F as in Frons (n.) The forehead; the part of the cranium between the orbits and the vertex.,
F as in Front (n.) The forehead or brow, the part of the face above the eyes; sometimes, also, the whole face.,
F as in Front (n.) The forehead, countenance, or personal presence, as expressive of character or temper, and especially, of boldness of disposition, sometimes of impudence; seeming; as, a bold front; a hardened front.,
F as in Front (n.) The part or surface of anything which seems to look out, or to be directed forward; the fore or forward part; the foremost rank; the van; -- the opposite to back or rear; as, the front of a house; the front of an army.,
F as in Front (n.) A position directly before the face of a person, or before the foremost part of a thing; as, in front of un person, of the troops, or of a house.,
F as in Front (n.) The most conspicuous part.,
F as in Front (n.) That which covers the foremost part of the head: a front piece of false hair worn by women.,
F as in Front (n.) The beginning.,
F as in Front (a.) Of or relating to the front or forward part; having a position in front; foremost; as, a front view.,
F as in Fronted (imp. & p. p.) of Front,
F as in Fronting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Front,
F as in Front (v. t.) To oppose face to face; to oppose directly; to meet in a hostile manner.,
F as in Front (v. t.) To appear before; to meet.,
F as in Front (v. t.) To face toward; to have the front toward; to confront; as, the house fronts the street.,
F as in Front (v. t.) To stand opposed or opposite to, or over against as, his house fronts the church.,
F as in Front (v. t.) To adorn in front; to supply a front to; as, to front a house with marble; to front a head with laurel.,
F as in Front (v. t.) To have or turn the face or front in any direction; as, the house fronts toward the east.,
F as in Frontage (n.) The front part of an edifice or lot; extent of front.,
F as in Frontal (a.) Belonging to the front part; being in front,
F as in Frontal (a.) Of or pertaining to the forehead or the anterior part of the roof of the brain case; as, the frontal bones.,
F as in Frontal (n.) Something worn on the forehead or face; a frontlet,
F as in Frontal (n.) An ornamental band for the hair.,
F as in Frontal (n.) The metal face guard of a soldier.,
F as in Frontal (n.) A little pediment over a door or window.,
F as in Frontal (n.) A movable, decorative member in metal, carved wood, or, commonly, in rich stuff or in embroidery, covering the front of the altar. Frontals are usually changed according to the different ceremonies.,
F as in Frontal (n.) A medicament or application for the forehead.,
F as in Frontal (n.) The frontal bone, or one of the two frontal bones, of the cranium.,
F as in Frontate (a.) Alt. of Fron'tated,
F as in Fron'tated (a.) Growing broader and broader, as a leaf; truncate.,
F as in Fronted (a.) Formed with a front; drawn up in line.,
F as in Frontier (n.) That part of a country which fronts or faces another country or an unsettled region; the marches; the border, confine, or extreme part of a country, bordering on another country; the border of the settled and cultivated part of a country; as, the frontier of civilization.,
F as in Frontier (n.) An outwork.,
F as in Frontier (a.) Lying on the exterior part; bordering; conterminous; as, a frontier town.,
F as in Frontier (a.) Of or relating to a frontier.,
F as in Frontier (v. i.) To constitute or form a frontier; to have a frontier; -- with on.,
F as in Frontiered (p. a.) Placed on the frontiers.,
F as in Frontiersmen (pl. ) of Floatiersman,
F as in Floatiersman (n.) A man living on the frontier.,
F as in Frontignac (n.) Alt. of Frontignan,
F as in Frontignan (n.) A sweet muscadine wine made in Frontignan (Languedoc), France.,
F as in Frontignan (n.) A grape of many varieties and colors.,
F as in Frontingly (adv.) In a fronting or facing position; opposingly.,
F as in Frontiniac (n.) See Frontignac.,
F as in Frontispiece (n.) The part which first meets the eye,
F as in Frontispiece (n.) The principal front of a building.,
F as in Frontispiece (n.) An ornamental figure or illustration fronting the first page, or titlepage, of a book; formerly, the titlepage itself.,
F as in Frontless (a.) Without face or front; shameless; not diffident; impudent.,
F as in Frontlessly (adv.) Shamelessly; impudently.,
F as in Frontlet (n.) A frontal or brow band; a fillet or band worn on the forehead.,
F as in Frontlet (n.) A frown (likened to a frontlet).,
F as in Frontlet (n.) The margin of the head, behind the bill of birds, often bearing rigid bristles.,
F as in Fronto- () A combining form signifying relating to the forehead or the frontal bone; as, fronto-parietal, relating to the frontal and the parietal bones; fronto-nasal, etc.,
F as in Fronton (n.) Same as Frontal, 2.,
F as in Froppish (a.) Peevish; froward.,
F as in Frore (adv.) Frostily.,
F as in Frorn (p. a.) Frozen.,
F as in Frory (a.) Frozen; stiff with cold.,
F as in Frory (a.) Covered with a froth like hoarfrost.,
F as in Frost (v. i.) The act of freezing; -- applied chiefly to the congelation of water; congelation of fluids.,
F as in Frost (v. i.) The state or temperature of the air which occasions congelation, or the freezing of water; severe cold or freezing weather.,
F as in Frost (v. i.) Frozen dew; -- called also hoarfrost or white frost.,
F as in Frost (v. i.) Coldness or insensibility; severity or rigidity of character.,
F as in Frostted (imp. & p. p.) of Frost,
F as in Frosting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Frost,
F as in Frost (v. t.) To injure by frost; to freeze, as plants.,
F as in Frost (v. t.) To cover with hoarfrost; to produce a surface resembling frost upon, as upon cake, metals, or glass.,
F as in Frost (v. t.) To roughen or sharpen, as the nail heads or calks of horseshoes, so as to fit them for frosty weather.,
F as in Frostbird (n.) The golden plover.,
F as in Frostbite (n.) The freezing, or effect of a freezing, of some part of the body, as the ears or nose.,
F as in Frostbite (v. t.) To expose to the effect of frost, or a frosty air; to blight or nip with frost.,
F as in Frost-bitten (p. a.) Nipped, withered, or injured, by frost or freezing.,
F as in Frost-blite (n.) A plant of the genus Atriplex; orache.,
F as in Frost-blite (n.) The lamb's-quarters (Chenopodium album).,
F as in Frosted (a.) Covered with hoarfrost or anything resembling hoarfrost; ornamented with frosting; also, frost-bitten; as, a frosted cake; frosted glass.,
F as in Frostfish (n.) The tomcod; -- so called because it is abundant on the New England coast in autumn at about the commencement of frost. See Tomcod.,
F as in Frostfish (n.) The smelt.,
F as in Frostfish (n.) A name applied in New Zealand to the scabbard fish (Lepidotus) valued as a food fish.,
F as in Frostily (adv.) In a frosty manner.,
F as in Frostiness (n.) State or quality of being frosty.,
F as in Frosting (n.) A composition of sugar and beaten egg, used to cover or ornament cake, pudding, etc.,
F as in Frosting (n.) A lusterless finish of metal or glass; the process of producing such a finish.,
F as in Frostless (a.) Free from frost; as, a frostless winter.,
F as in Frostweed (n.) An American species of rockrose (Helianthemum Canadense), sometimes used in medicine as an astringent or aromatic tonic.,
F as in Frostwork (n.) The figurework, often fantastic and delicate, which moisture sometimes forms in freezing, as upon a window pane or a flagstone.,
F as in Frostwort (n.) Same as Frostweed.,
F as in Frosty (a.) Attended with, or producing, frost; having power to congeal water; cold; freezing; as, a frosty night.,
F as in Frosty (a.) Covered with frost; as, the grass is frosty.,
F as in Frosty (a.) Chill in affection; without warmth of affection or courage.,
F as in Frosty (a.) Appearing as if covered with hoarfrost; white; gray-haired; as, a frosty head.,
F as in Frote (v. t.) To rub or wear by rubbing; to chafe.,
F as in Froterer (n.) One who frotes; one who rubs or chafes.,
F as in Froth (n.) The bubbles caused in fluids or liquors by fermentation or agitation; spume; foam; esp., a spume of saliva caused by disease or nervous excitement.,
F as in Froth (n.) Any empty, senseless show of wit or eloquence; rhetoric without thought.,
F as in Froth (n.) Light, unsubstantial matter.,
F as in Frothed (imp. & p. p.) of Froth,
F as in Frothing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Froth,
F as in Froth (v. t.) To cause to foam.,
F as in Froth (v. t.) To spit, vent, or eject, as froth.,
F as in Froth (v. t.) To cover with froth; as, a horse froths his chain.,
F as in Froth (v. i.) To throw up or out spume, foam, or bubbles; to foam; as beer froths; a horse froths.,
F as in Frothily (adv.) In a frothy manner.,
F as in Frothiness (n.) State or quality of being frothy.,
F as in Frothing (n.) Exaggerated declamation; rant.,
F as in Frothless (a.) Free from froth.,
F as in Frothy (superl.) Full of foam or froth, or consisting of froth or light bubbles; spumous; foamy.,
F as in Frothy (superl.) Not firm or solid; soft; unstable.,
F as in Frothy (superl.) Of the nature of froth; light; empty; unsubstantial; as, a frothy speaker or harangue.,
F as in Frounced (imp. & p. p.) of Frounce,
F as in Frouncing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Frounce,
F as in Frounce (v. i.) To gather into or adorn with plaits, as a dress; to form wrinkles in or upon; to curl or frizzle, as the hair.,
F as in Frounce (v. i.) To form wrinkles in the forehead; to manifest displeasure; to frown.,
F as in Frounce (n.) A wrinkle, plait, or curl; a flounce; -- also, a frown.,
F as in Frounce (n.) An affection in hawks, in which white spittle gathers about the hawk's bill.,
F as in Frounceless (a.) Without frounces.,
F as in Frouzy (a.) Fetid, musty; rank; disordered and offensive to the smell or sight; slovenly; dingy. See Frowzy.,
F as in Frow (n.) A woman; especially, a Dutch or German woman.,
F as in Frow (n.) A dirty woman; a slattern.,
F as in Frow (n.) A cleaving tool with handle at right angles to the blade, for splitting cask staves and shingles from the block; a frower.,
F as in Frow (a.) Brittle.,
F as in Froward (a.) Not willing to yield or compIy with what is required or is reasonable; perverse; disobedient; peevish; as, a froward child.,
F as in Frower (n.) A tool. See 2d Frow.,
F as in Frowey (a.) Working smoothly, or without splitting; -- said of timber.,
F as in Frowned (imp. &, p. p.) of Frown,
F as in Frowning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Frown,
F as in Frown (v. i.) To contract the brow in displeasure, severity, or sternness; to scowl; to put on a stern, grim, or surly look.,
F as in Frown (v. i.) To manifest displeasure or disapprobation; to look with disfavor or threateningly; to lower; as, polite society frowns upon rudeness.,
F as in Frown (v. t.) To repress or repel by expressing displeasure or disapproval; to rebuke with a look; as, frown the impudent fellow into silence.,
F as in Frown (n.) A wrinkling of the face in displeasure, rebuke, etc.; a sour, severe, or stere look; a scowl.,
F as in Frown (n.) Any expression of displeasure; as, the frowns of Providence; the frowns of Fortune.,
F as in Frowningly (adv.) In a frowning manner.,
F as in Frowny (a.) Frowning; scowling.,
F as in Frowy (a.) Musty. rancid; as, frowy butter.,
F as in Frowzy (a.) Slovenly; unkempt; untidy; frouzy.,
F as in Froze () imp. of Freeze.,
F as in Frozen (a.) Congealed with cold; affected by freezing; as, a frozen brook.,
F as in Frozen (a.) Subject to frost, or to long and severe cold; chilly; as, the frozen north; the frozen zones.,
F as in Frozen (a.) Cold-hearted; unsympathetic; unyielding.,
F as in Frozenness (n.) A state of being frozen.,
F as in Frubish (v. t.) To rub up: to furbish.,
F as in Fructed (a.) Bearing fruit; -- said of a tree or plant so represented upon an escutcheon.,
F as in Fructescence (n.) The maturing or ripening of fruit.,
F as in Fructiculose (a.) Fruitful; full of fruit.,
F as in Fructidor (n.) The twelfth month of the French republican calendar; -- commencing August 18, and ending September 16. See Vendemiaire.,
F as in Fructiferuos (a.) Bearing or producing fruit.,
F as in Fructification (n.) The act of forming or producing fruit; the act of fructifying, or rendering productive of fruit; fecundation.,
F as in Fructification (n.) The collective organs by which a plant produces its fruit, or seeds, or reproductive spores.,
F as in Fructification (n.) The process of producing fruit, or seeds, or spores.,
F as in Fructify (v. i.) To bear fruit.,
F as in Fructified (imp. & p. p.) of Fructify,
F as in Fructifying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fructify,
F as in Fructify (v. t.) To make fruitful; to render productive; to fertilize; as, to fructify the earth.,
F as in Fructose (n.) Fruit sugar; levulose.,
F as in Fructuaries (pl. ) of Fructuary,
F as in Fructuary (n.) One who enjoys the profits, income, or increase of anything.,
F as in Fructuation (n.) Produce; fruit.,
F as in Fructuous (a.) Fruitful; productive; profitable.,
F as in Fructure (n.) Use; fruition; enjoyment.,
F as in Frue vanner () A moving, inclined, endless apron on which ore is concentrated by a current of water; a kind of buddle.,
F as in Frugal (n.) Economical in the use or appropriation of resources; not wasteful or lavish; wise in the expenditure or application of force, materials, time, etc.; characterized by frugality; sparing; economical; saving; as, a frugal housekeeper; frugal of time.,
F as in Frugal (n.) Obtained by, or appropriate to, economy; as, a frugal fortune.,
F as in Frugalities (pl. ) of Frugality,
F as in Frugality (n.) The quality of being frugal; prudent economy; that careful management of anything valuable which expends nothing unnecessarily, and applies what is used to a profitable purpose; thrift; --- opposed to extravagance.,
F as in Frugality (n.) A sparing use; sparingness; as, frugality of praise.,
F as in Frugally (adv.) Thriftily; prudently.,
F as in Frugalness (n.) Quality of being frugal; frugality.,
F as in Frugiferous (a.) Producing fruit; fruitful; fructiferous.,
F as in Frugivora (n. pl.) The fruit bate; a group of the Cheiroptera, comprising the bats which live on fruits. See Eruit bat, under Fruit.,
F as in Frugivorous (a.) Feeding on fruit, as birds and other animals.,
F as in Fruit (v. t.) Whatever is produced for the nourishment or enjoyment of man or animals by the processes of vegetable growth, as corn, grass, cotton, flax, etc.; -- commonly used in the plural.,
F as in Fruit (v. t.) The pulpy, edible seed vessels of certain plants, especially those grown on branches above ground, as apples, oranges, grapes, melons, berries, etc. See 3.,
F as in Fruit (v. t.) The ripened ovary of a flowering plant, with its contents and whatever parts are consolidated with it.,
F as in Fruit (v. t.) The spore cases or conceptacles of flowerless plants, as of ferns, mosses, algae, etc., with the spores contained in them.,
F as in Fruit (v. t.) The produce of animals; offspring; young; as, the fruit of the womb, of the loins, of the body.,
F as in Fruit (v. t.) That which is produced; the effect or consequence of any action; advantageous or desirable product or result; disadvantageous or evil consequence or effect; as, the fruits of labor, of self-denial, of intemperance.,
F as in Fruit (v. i.) To bear fruit.,
F as in Fruitage (n.) Fruit, collectively; fruit, in general; fruitery.,
F as in Fruitage (n.) Product or result of any action; effect, good or ill.,
F as in Fruiter (a.) A ship for carrying fruit.,
F as in Fruiterer (n.) One who deals in fruit; a seller of fruits.,
F as in Fruiteress (n.) A woman who sells fruit.,
F as in Fruiteries (pl. ) of Fruitery,
F as in Fruitery (n.) Fruit, taken collectively; fruitage.,
F as in Fruitery (n.) A repository for fruit.,
F as in Fruitestere (n.) A fruiteress.,
F as in Fruitful (a.) Full of fruit; producing fruit abundantly; bearing results; prolific; fertile; liberal; bountiful; as, a fruitful tree, or season, or soil; a fruitful wife.,
F as in Fruiting (a.) Pertaining to, or producing, fruit.,
F as in Fruiting (n.) The bearing of fruit.,
F as in Fruition (n.) Use or possession of anything, especially such as is accompanied with pleasure or satisfaction; pleasure derived from possession or use.,
F as in Fruitive (a.) Enjoying; possessing.,
F as in Fruitless (a.) Lacking, or not bearing, fruit; barren; destitute of offspring; as, a fruitless tree or shrub; a fruitless marriage.,
F as in Fruitless (a.) Productive of no advantage or good effect; vain; idle; useless; unprofitable; as, a fruitless attempt; a fruitless controversy.,
F as in Fruit'y (a.) Having the odor, taste, or appearance of fruit; also, fruitful.,
F as in Frumentaceous (a.) Made of, or resembling, wheat or other grain.,
F as in Frumentarious (a.) Of or pertaining to wheat or grain.,
F as in Frumentation (n.) A largess of grain bestowed upon the people, to quiet them when uneasy.,
F as in Frumenty (n.) Food made of hulled wheat boiled in milk, with sugar, plums, etc.,
F as in Frump (v. t.) To insult; to flout; to mock; to snub.,
F as in Frump (n.) A contemptuous speech or piece of conduct; a gibe or flout.,
F as in Frump (n.) A cross, old-fashioned person; esp., an old woman; a gossip.,
F as in Frumper (n.) A mocker.,
F as in Frumpish (a.) Cross-tempered; scornful.,
F as in Frumpish (a.) Old-fashioned, as a woman's dress.,
F as in Frush (v. t.) To batter; to break in pieces.,
F as in Frush (a.) Easily broken; brittle; crisp.,
F as in Frush (n.) Noise; clatter; crash.,
F as in Frush (n.) The frog of a horse's foot.,
F as in Frush (n.) A discharge of a fetid or ichorous matter from the frog of a horse's foot; -- also caled thrush.,
F as in Frustrable (a.) Capable of beeing frustrated or defeated.,
F as in Frustraneous (a.) Vain; useless; unprofitable.,
F as in Frustrate (a.) Vain; ineffectual; useless; unprofitable; null; voil; nugatory; of no effect.,
F as in Frustrated (imp. & p. p.) of Frustrate,
F as in Frustrating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Frustrate,
F as in Frustrate (v. t.) To bring to nothing; to prevent from attaining a purpose; to disappoint; to defeat; to baffle; as, to frustrate a plan, design, or attempt; to frustrate the will or purpose.,
F as in Frustrate (v. t.) To make null; to nullifly; to render invalid or of no effect; as, to frustrate a conveyance or deed.,
F as in Frustrately (adv.) In vain.,
F as in Frustration (n.) The act of frustrating; disappointment; defeat; as, the frustration of one's designs,
F as in Frustrative (a.) Tending to defeat; fallacious.,
F as in Frustratory (a.) Making void; rendering null; as, a frustratory appeal.,
F as in Frustule (n.) The siliceous shell of a diatom. It is composed of two valves, one overlapping the other, like a pill box and its cover.,
F as in Frustulent (a.) Abounding in fragments.,
F as in Frusta (pl. ) of Frustum,
F as in Frustums (pl. ) of Frustum,
F as in Frustum (n.) The part of a solid next the base, formed by cutting off the, top; or the part of any solid, as of a cone, pyramid, etc., between two planes, which may be either parallel or inclined to each other.,
F as in Frustum (n.) One of the drums of the shaft of a column.,
F as in Frutage (n.) A picture of fruit; decoration by representation of fruit.,
F as in Frutage (n.) A confection of fruit.,
F as in Frutescent (a.) Somewhat shrubby in character; imperfectly shrubby, as the American species of Wistaria.,
F as in Frutex (n.) A plant having a woody, durable stem, but less than a tree; a shrub.,
F as in Fruticant (a.) Full of shoots.,
F as in Fruticose (a.) Pertaining to a shrub or shrubs; branching like a shrub; shrubby; shrublike; as, a fruticose stem.,
F as in Fruticous (a.) Fruticose.,
F as in Fruticulose (a.) Like, or pertaining to, a small shrub.,
F as in Fried (imp. & p. p.) of Fry,
F as in Frying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fry,
F as in Fry (v. t.) To cook in a pan or on a griddle (esp. with the use of fat, butter, or olive oil) by heating over a fire; to cook in boiling lard or fat; as, to fry fish; to fry doughnuts.,
F as in Fry (v. i.) To undergo the process of frying; to be subject to the action of heat in a frying pan, or on a griddle, or in a kettle of hot fat.,
F as in Fry (v. i.) To simmer; to boil.,
F as in Fry (v. i.) To undergo or cause a disturbing action accompanied with a sensation of heat.,
F as in Fry (v. i.) To be agitated; to be greatly moved.,
F as in Ery (n.) A dish of anything fried.,
F as in Ery (n.) A state of excitement; as, to be in a fry.,
F as in Fry (n.) The young of any fish.,
F as in Fry (n.) A swarm or crowd, especially of little fishes; young or small things in general.,
F as in Frying (n.) The process denoted by the verb fry.,
F as in Fuage (n.) Same as Fumage.,
F as in Fuar (n.) Same as Feuar.,
F as in Fub (n.) Alt. of Fubs,
F as in Fubs (n.) A plump young person or child.,
F as in Fub (v. t.) To put off by trickery; to cheat.,
F as in Fubbery (n.) Cheating; deception.,
F as in Fubby (a.) Alt. of Fubsy,
F as in Fubsy (a.) Plump; chubby; short and stuffy; as a fubsy sofa.,
F as in Fucate (a.) Alt. of Fucated,
F as in Fucated (a.) Painted; disguised with paint, or with false show.,
F as in Fuchs (n.) A student of the first year.,
F as in Fuchsias (pl. ) of Fuchsia,
F as in Fuchslae (pl. ) of Fuchsia,
F as in Fuchsia (n.) A genus of flowering plants having elegant drooping flowers, with four sepals, four petals, eight stamens, and a single pistil. They are natives of Mexico and South America. Double-flowered varieties are now common in cultivation.,
F as in Fuchsine (n.) Aniline red; an artificial coal-tar dyestuff, of a metallic green color superficially, resembling cantharides, but when dissolved forming a brilliant dark red. It consists of a hydrochloride or acetate of rosaniline. See Rosaniline.,
F as in Fucivorous (a.) Eating fucus or other seaweeds.,
F as in Fucoid (a.) Properly, belonging to an order of alga: (Fucoideae) which are blackish in color, and produce oospores which are not fertilized until they have escaped from the conceptacle. The common rockweeds and the gulfweed (Sargassum) are fucoid in character.,
F as in Fucoid (a.) In a vague sense, resembling seaweeds, or of the nature of seaweeds.,
F as in Fucoid (n.) A plant, whether recent or fossil, which resembles a seaweed. See Fucoid, a.,
F as in Fucoidal (a.) Fucoid.,
F as in Fucoidal (a.) Containing impressions of fossil fucoids or seaweeds; as, fucoidal sandstone.,
F as in Fuci (pl. ) of Fucus,
F as in Fucus (n.) A paint; a dye; also, false show.,
F as in Fucus (n.) A genus of tough, leathery seaweeds, usually of a dull brownish green color; rockweed.,
F as in Fucusol (n.) An oily liquid, resembling, and possibly identical with, furfurol, and obtained from fucus, and other seaweeds.,
F as in Fud (n.) The tail of a hare, coney, etc.,
F as in Fud (n.) Woolen waste, for mixing with mungo and shoddy.,
F as in Fudder (n.) See Fodder, a weight.,
F as in Fuddled (imp. & p. p.,) of Fuddle,
F as in Fuddling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fuddle,
F as in Fuddle (v. t.) To make foolish by drink; to cause to become intoxicated.,
F as in Fuddle (v. i.) To drink to excess.,
F as in Fuddler (n.) A drunkard.,
F as in Fudge (n.) A made-up story; stuff; nonsense; humbug; -- often an exclamation of contempt.,
F as in Fudged (imp. & p. p.) of Fudge,
F as in Fudging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fudge,
F as in Fudge (v. t.) To make up; to devise; to contrive; to fabricate.,
F as in Fudge (v. t.) To foist; to interpolate.,
F as in Fudge wheel () A tool for ornamenting the edge of a sole.,
F as in Fuegian (a.) Of or pertaining to Terra del Fuego.,
F as in Fuegian (n.) A native of Terra del Fuego.,
F as in Fuel (n.) Any matter used to produce heat by burning; that which feeds fire; combustible matter used for fires, as wood, coal, peat, etc.,
F as in Fuel (n.) Anything that serves to feed or increase passion or excitement.,
F as in Fuel (v. t.) To feed with fuel.,
F as in Fuel (v. t.) To store or furnish with fuel or firing.,
F as in Fueler (n.) One who, or that which, supplies fuel.,
F as in Fuero (n.) A code; a charter; a grant of privileges.,
F as in Fuero (n.) A custom having the force of law.,
F as in Fuero (n.) A declaration by a magistrate.,
F as in Fuero (n.) A place where justice is administered.,
F as in Fuero (n.) The jurisdiction of a tribunal.,
F as in Fuff (v. t. & i.) To puff.,
F as in Fuffy (a.) Light; puffy.,
F as in Fuga (n.) A fugue.,
F as in Fugacious (a.) Flying, or disposed to fly; fleeing away; lasting but a short time; volatile.,
F as in Fugacious (a.) Fleeting; lasting but a short time; -- applied particularly to organs or parts which are short-lived as compared with the life of the individual.,
F as in Fugaciousness (n.) Fugacity.,
F as in Fugacity (a.) The quality of being fugacious; fugaclousness; volatility; as, fugacity of spirits.,
F as in Fugacity (a.) Uncertainty; instability.,
F as in Fugacy (n.) Banishment.,
F as in Fugato (a.) in the gugue style, but not strictly like a fugue.,
F as in Fugato (n.) A composition resembling a fugue.,
F as in Fugh (interj.) An exclamation of disgust; foh; faugh.,
F as in Fughetta (n.) a short, condensed fugue.,
F as in Fugitive (a.) Fleeing from pursuit, danger, restraint, etc., escaping, from service, duty etc.; as, a fugitive solder; a fugitive slave; a fugitive debtor.,
F as in Fugitive (a.) Not fixed; not durable; liable to disappear or fall away; volatile; uncertain; evanescent; liable to fade; -- applied to material and immaterial things; as, fugitive colors; a fugitive idea.,
F as in Fugitive (n.) One who flees from pursuit, danger, restraint, service, duty, etc.; a deserter; as, a fugitive from justice.,
F as in Fugitive (n.) Something hard to be caught or detained.,
F as in Fugitively (adv.) In a fugitive manner.,
F as in Fugitiveness (n.) The quality or condition of being fugitive; evanescence; volatility; fugacity; instability.,
F as in Fugle (v. i.) To maneuver; to move hither and thither.,
F as in Fuglemen (pl. ) of Fugleman,
F as in Fugleman (n.) A soldier especially expert and well drilled, who takes his place in front of a military company, as a guide for the others in their exercises; a file leader. He originally stood in front of the right wing.,
F as in Fugleman (n.) Hence, one who leads the way.,
F as in Fugue (n.) A polyphonic composition, developed from a given theme or themes, according to strict contrapuntal rules. The theme is first given out by one voice or part, and then, while that pursues its way, it is repeated by another at the interval of a fifth or fourth, and so on, until all the parts have answered one by one, continuing their several melodies and interweaving them in one complex progressive whole, in which the theme is often lost and reappears.,
F as in Fuguist (n.) A musician who composes or performs fugues.,
F as in -ful (a.) A suffix signifying full of, abounding with; as, boastful, harmful, woeful.,
F as in Fulahs (n. pl.) Alt. of Foolahs,
F as in Foolahs (n. pl.) A peculiar African race of uncertain origin, but distinct from the negro tribes, inhabiting an extensive region of Western Soudan. Their color is brown or yellowish bronze. They are Mohammedans. Called also Fellatahs, Foulahs, and Fellani. Fulah is also used adjectively; as, Fulah empire, tribes, language.,
F as in Fulbe (n.) Same as Fulahs.,
F as in Fuldble (a.) Capable of being propped up.,
F as in Fulciment (n.) A prop; a fulcrum.,
F as in Fulcra (n. pl.) See Fulcrum.,
F as in Fulcrate (a.) Propped; supported by accessory organs.,
F as in Fulcrate (a.) Furnished with fulcrums.,
F as in Fulcra (pl. ) of Fulcrum,
F as in Fulcrums (pl. ) of Fulcrum,
F as in Fulcrum (n.) A prop or support.,
F as in Fulcrum (n.) That by which a lever is sustained, or about which it turns in lifting or moving a body.,
F as in Fulcrum (n.) An accessory organ such as a tendril, stipule, spine, and the like.,
F as in Fulcrum (n.) The horny inferior surface of the lingua of certain insects.,
F as in Fulcrum (n.) One of the small, spiniform scales found on the front edge of the dorsal and caudal fins of many ganoid fishes.,
F as in Fulcrum (n.) The connective tissue supporting the framework of the retina of the eye.,
F as in Fulfilled (imp. & p. p.) of Fulfill,
F as in Fulfilling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fulfill,
F as in Fulfill (v. t.) To fill up; to make full or complete.,
F as in Fulfill (v. t.) To accomplish or carry into effect, as an intention, promise, or prophecy, a desire, prayer, or requirement, etc.; to complete by performance; to answer the requisitions of; to bring to pass, as a purpose or design; to effectuate.,
F as in Fulfiller (n.) One who fulfills.,
F as in Fulfillment (n.) The act of fulfilling; accomplishment; completion; as, the fulfillment of prophecy.,
F as in Fulfillment (n.) Execution; performance; as, the fulfillment of a promise.,
F as in Fulgency (n.) Brightness; splendor; glitter; effulgence.,
F as in Fulgent (a.) Exquisitely bright; shining; dazzling; effulgent.,
F as in Fulgently (adv.) Dazzlingly; glitteringly.,
F as in Fulgid (a.) Shining; glittering; dazzling.,
F as in Fulgidity (n.) Splendor; resplendence; effulgence.,
F as in Fulgor (n.) Dazzling brightness; splendor.,
F as in Fulgurant (a.) Lightening.,
F as in Fulgurata (n.) A spectro-electric tube in which the decomposition of a liquid by the passage of an electric spark is observed.,
F as in Fulgurate (v. i.) To flash as lightning.,
F as in Fulgurating (a.) Resembling lightning; -- used to describe intense lancinating pains accompanying locomotor ataxy.,
F as in Fulguration (n.) The act of lightening.,
F as in Fulguration (n.) The sudden brightening of a fused globule of gold or silver, when the last film of the oxide of lead or copper leaves its surface; -- also called blick.,
F as in Fulgurite (n.) A vitrified sand tube produced by the striking of lightning on sand; a lightning tube; also, the portion of rock surface fused by a lightning discharge.,
F as in Fulgury (n.) Lightning.,
F as in Fulham (n.) A false die.,
F as in Fuliginosity (n.) The condition or quality of being fuliginous; sootiness; matter deposited by smoke.,
F as in Fuliginous (a.) Pertaining to soot; sooty; dark; dusky.,
F as in Fuliginous (a.) Pertaining to smoke; resembling smoke.,
F as in Fuliginously (adv.) In a smoky manner.,
F as in Fulimart (n.) Same as Foumart.,
F as in Full (Compar.) Filled up, having within its limits all that it can contain; supplied; not empty or vacant; -- said primarily of hollow vessels, and hence of anything else; as, a cup full of water; a house full of people.,
F as in Full (Compar.) Abundantly furnished or provided; sufficient in. quantity, quality, or degree; copious; plenteous; ample; adequate; as, a full meal; a full supply; a full voice; a full compensation; a house full of furniture.,
F as in Full (Compar.) Not wanting in any essential quality; complete, entire; perfect; adequate; as, a full narrative; a person of full age; a full stop; a full face; the full moon.,
F as in Full (Compar.) Sated; surfeited.,
F as in Full (Compar.) Having the mind filled with ideas; stocked with knowledge; stored with information.,
F as in Full (Compar.) Having the attention, thoughts, etc., absorbed in any matter, and the feelings more or less excited by it, as, to be full of some project.,
F as in Full (Compar.) Filled with emotions.,
F as in Full (Compar.) Impregnated; made pregnant.,
F as in Full (n.) Complete measure; utmost extent; the highest state or degree.,
F as in Full (adv.) Quite; to the same degree; without abatement or diminution; with the whole force or effect; thoroughly; completely; exactly; entirely.,
F as in Full (v. i.) To become full or wholly illuminated; as, the moon fulls at midnight.,
F as in Fulled (imp. & p. p.) of Full,
F as in Fulling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Full,
F as in Full (n.) To thicken by moistening, heating, and pressing, as cloth; to mill; to make compact; to scour, cleanse, and thicken in a mill.,
F as in Full (v. i.) To become fulled or thickened; as, this material fulls well.,
F as in Fullage (n.) The money or price paid for fulling or cleansing cloth.,
F as in Fullam (n.) A false die. See Fulham.,
F as in Full-blooded (a.) Having a full supply of blood.,
F as in Full-blooded (a.) Of pure blood; thoroughbred; as, a full-blooded horse.,
F as in Full-bloomed (a.) Like a perfect blossom.,
F as in Full-blown (a.) Fully expanded, as a blossom; as, a full-bloun rose.,
F as in Full-blown (a.) Fully distended with wind, as a sail.,
F as in Full-bottomed (a.) Full and large at the bottom, as wigs worn by certain civil officers in Great Britain.,
F as in Full-bottomed (a.) Of great capacity below the water line.,
F as in Full-butt (adv.) With direct and violentop position; with sudden collision.,
F as in Full-drive (adv.) With full speed.,
F as in Fuller (v. t.) One whose occupation is to full cloth.,
F as in Fuller (a.) A die; a half-round set hammer, used for forming grooves and spreading iron; -- called also a creaser.,
F as in Fuller (v. t.) To form a groove or channel in, by a fuller or set hammer; as, to fuller a bayonet.,
F as in Fulleries (pl. ) of Fullery,
F as in Fullery (n.) The place or the works where the fulling of cloth is carried on.,
F as in Full-formed (a.) Full in form or shape; rounded out with flesh.,
F as in Full-grown (a.) Having reached the limits of growth; mature.,
F as in Full-hearted (a.) Full of courage or confidence.,
F as in Full-hot (a.) Very fiery.,
F as in Fulling (n.) The process of cleansing, shrinking, and thickening cloth by moisture, heat, and pressure.,
F as in Full-manned (a.) Completely furnished wiith men, as a ship.,
F as in Fullmart (n.) See Foumart.,
F as in Fullness (n.) The state of being full, or of abounding; abundance; completeness.,
F as in Fullonical (a.) Pertaining to a fuller of cloth.,
F as in Full-orbed (a.) Having the orb or disk complete or fully illuminated; like the full moon.,
F as in Full-sailed (a.) Having all its sails set,; hence, without restriction or reservation.,
F as in Full-winged (a.) Having large and strong or complete wings.,
F as in Full-winged (a.) Beady for flight; eager.,
F as in Fully (adv.) In a full manner or degree; completely; entirely; without lack or defect; adequately; satisfactorily; as, to be fully persuaded of the truth of a proposition.,
F as in Fulmar (n.) One of several species of sea birds, of the family procellariidae, allied to the albatrosses and petrels. Among the well-known species are the arctic fulmar (Fulmarus glacialis) (called also fulmar petrel, malduck, and mollemock), and the giant fulmar (Ossifraga gigantea).,
F as in Fulminant (a.) Thundering; fulminating.,
F as in Fulminated (imp. & p. p.) of Fulminate,
F as in Fulminating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fulminate,
F as in Fulminate (v. i.) To thunder; hence, to make a loud, sudden noise; to detonate; to explode with a violent report.,
F as in Fulminate (v. i.) To issue or send forth decrees or censures with the assumption of supreme authority; to thunder forth menaces.,
F as in Fulminate (v. t.) To cause to explode.,
F as in Fulminate (v. t.) To utter or send out with denunciations or censures; -- said especially of menaces or censures uttered by ecclesiastical authority.,
F as in Fulminate (v. i.) A salt of fulminic acid. See under Fulminic.,
F as in Fulminate (v. i.) A fulminating powder.,
F as in Fulminating (a.) Thundering; exploding in a peculiarly sudden or violent manner.,
F as in Fulminating (a.) Hurling denunciations, menaces, or censures.,
F as in Fulmination (n.) The act of fulminating or exploding; detonation.,
F as in Fulmination (n.) The act of thundering forth threats or censures, as with authority.,
F as in Fulmination (n.) That which is fulminated or thundered forth; vehement menace or censure.,
F as in Fulminatory (a.) Thundering; striking terror.,
F as in Fulmine (v.) To thunder.,
F as in Fulmine (v. t.) To shoot; to dart like lightning; to fulminate; to utter with authority or vehemence.,
F as in Fulmineous (a.) Of, or concerning thunder.,
F as in Fulmiaic (a.) Pertaining to fulmination; detonating; specifically (Chem.), pertaining to, derived from, or denoting, an acid, so called; as, fulminic acid.,
F as in Fulminuric (a.) Pertaining to fulminic and cyanuric acids, and designating an acid so called.,
F as in Falness (n.) See Fullness.,
F as in Fulsamic (a.) Fulsome.,
F as in Fulsome (a.) Full; abundant; plenteous; not shriveled.,
F as in Fulsome (a.) Offending or disgusting by overfullness, excess, or grossness; cloying; gross; nauseous; esp., offensive from excess of praise; as, fulsome flattery.,
F as in Fulsome (a.) Lustful; wanton; obscene; also, tending to obscenity.,
F as in Fulvid (a.) Fulvous.,
F as in Fulvous (a.) Tawny; dull yellow, with a mixture of gray and brown.,
F as in Fum (v. i.) To play upon a fiddle.,
F as in Fumacious (a.) Smoky; hence, fond of smoking; addicted to smoking tobacco.,
F as in Fumades (pl. ) of Fumado,
F as in Fumadoes (pl. ) of Fumado,
F as in Fumade (v. i.) Alt. of Fumado,
F as in Fumado (v. i.) A salted and smoked fish, as the pilchard.,
F as in Fumage (n.) Hearth money.,
F as in Fumarate (n.) A salt of fumaric acid.,
F as in Fumaric (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, fumitory (Fumaria officinalis).,
F as in Fumarine (n.) An alkaloid extracted from fumitory, as a white crystalline substance.,
F as in Fumarole (n.) A hole or spot in a volcanic or other region, from which fumes issue.,
F as in Fumatory (n.) See Fumitory.,
F as in Fumbled (imp. & p. p.) of Fumble,
F as in Fumbling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fumble,
F as in Fumble (v. i.) To feel or grope about; to make awkward attempts to do or find something.,
F as in Fumble (v. i.) To grope about in perplexity; to seek awkwardly; as, to fumble for an excuse.,
F as in Fumble (v. i.) To handle much; to play childishly; to turn over and over.,
F as in Fumble (v. t.) To handle or manage awkwardly; to crowd or tumble together.,
F as in Fumbler (n.) One who fumbles.,
F as in Fumblingly (adv.) In the manner of one who fumbles.,
F as in Fume (n.) Exhalation; volatile matter (esp. noxious vapor or smoke) ascending in a dense body; smoke; vapor; reek; as, the fumes of tobacco.,
F as in Fume (n.) Rage or excitement which deprives the mind of self-control; as, the fumes of passion.,
F as in Fume (n.) Anything vaporlike, unsubstantial, or airy; idle conceit; vain imagination.,
F as in Fume (n.) The incense of praise; inordinate flattery.,
F as in Fumed (imp. & p. p.) of Fume,
F as in Fuming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fume,
F as in Fume (n.) To smoke; to throw off fumes, as in combustion or chemical action; to rise up, as vapor.,
F as in Fume (n.) To be as in a mist; to be dulled and stupefied.,
F as in Fume (n.) To pass off in fumes or vapors.,
F as in Fume (n.) To be in a rage; to be hot with anger.,
F as in Fume (v. t.) To expose to the action of fumes; to treat with vapors, smoke, etc.; as, to bleach straw by fuming it with sulphur; to fill with fumes, vapors, odors, etc., as a room.,
F as in Fume (v. t.) To praise inordinately; to flatter.,
F as in Fume (v. t.) To throw off in vapor, or as in the form of vapor.,
F as in Fumeless (a.) Free from fumes.,
F as in Fumer (n.) One that fumes.,
F as in Fumer (n.) One who makes or uses perfumes.,
F as in Fumerell (n.) See Femerell.,
F as in Fumet (n.) The dung of deer.,
F as in Fumet (n.) Alt. of Fumette,
F as in Fumette (n.) The stench or high flavor of game or other meat when kept long.,
F as in Fumetere (n.) Fumitory.,
F as in Fumid (a.) Smoky; vaporous.,
F as in Fumidity (n.) Alt. of Fumidness,
F as in Fumidness (n.) The state of being fumid; smokiness.,
F as in Fumiferous (a.) Producing smoke.,
F as in Fumifugist (n.) One who, or that which, drives away smoke or fumes.,
F as in Fumify (v. t.) To subject to the action of smoke.,
F as in Fumigant (a.) Fuming.,
F as in Fumigated (imp. & p. p.) of Fumigate,
F as in Fumigating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fumigate,
F as in Fumigate (n.) To apply smoke to; to expose to smoke or vapor; to purify, or free from infection, by the use of smoke or vapors.,
F as in Fumigate (n.) To smoke; to perfume.,
F as in Fumigation (n.) The act of fumigating, or applying smoke or vapor, as for disinfection.,
F as in Fumigation (n.) Vapor raised in the process of fumigating.,
F as in Fumigator (n.) One who, or that which, fumigates; an apparattus for fumigating.,
F as in Fumigatory (a.) Having the quality of purifying by smoke.,
F as in Fumlly (adv.) Smokily; with fume.,
F as in Fuming (a.) Producing fumes, or vapors.,
F as in Fumingly (adv.) In a fuming manner; angrily.,
F as in Famish (a.) Smoky; hot; choleric.,
F as in Fumishness (n.) Choler; fretfulness; passion.,
F as in Fumitez (n.) Fumitory.,
F as in Fumitory (n.) The common uame of several species of the genus Fumaria, annual herbs of the Old World, with finely dissected leaves and small flowers in dense racemes or spikes. F. officinalis is a common species, and was formerly used as an antiscorbutic.,
F as in Fummel (n.) A hinny.,
F as in Fumosity (n.) The fumes of drink.,
F as in Fumous (a.) Producing smoke; smoky.,
F as in Fumous (a.) Producing fumes; full of fumes.,
F as in Fumy (a.) Producing fumes; fumous.,
F as in Fun (n.) Sport; merriment; frolicsome amusement.,
F as in Funambulate (v. i.) To walk or to dance on a rope.,
F as in Funambulation (n.) Ropedancing.,
F as in Funambulatory (a.) Performing like a ropedancer.,
F as in Funambulatory (a.) Narrow, like the walk of a ropedancer.,
F as in Funambulist (n.) A ropewalker or ropedancer.,
F as in Funambulo (n.) Alt. of Funambulus,
F as in Funambulus (n.) A ropewalker or ropedancer.,
F as in Function (n.) The act of executing or performing any duty, office, or calling; per formance.,
F as in Function (n.) The appropriate action of any special organ or part of an animal or vegetable organism; as, the function of the heart or the limbs; the function of leaves, sap, roots, etc.; life is the sum of the functions of the various organs and parts of the body.,
F as in Function (n.) The natural or assigned action of any power or faculty, as of the soul, or of the intellect; the exertion of an energy of some determinate kind.,
F as in Function (n.) The course of action which peculiarly pertains to any public officer in church or state; the activity appropriate to any business or profession.,
F as in Function (n.) A quantity so connected with another quantity, that if any alteration be made in the latter there will be a consequent alteration in the former. Each quantity is said to be a function of the other. Thus, the circumference of a circle is a function of the diameter. If x be a symbol to which different numerical values can be assigned, such expressions as x2, 3x, Log. x, and Sin. x, are all functions of x.,
F as in Function (v. i.) Alt. of Functionate,
F as in Functionate (v. i.) To execute or perform a function; to transact one's regular or appointed business.,
F as in Functional (a.) Pertaining to, or connected with, a function or duty; official.,
F as in Functional (a.) Pertaining to the function of an organ or part, or to the functions in general.,
F as in Functionalize (v. t.) To assign to some function or office.,
F as in Functionally (adv.) In a functional manner; as regards normal or appropriate activity.,
F as in Functionaries (pl. ) of Functionary,
F as in Functionary (n.) One charged with the performance of a function or office; as, a public functionary; secular functionaries.,
F as in Functionless (a.) Destitute of function, or of an appropriate organ. Darwin.,
F as in Fund (n.) An aggregation or deposit of resources from which supplies are or may be drawn for carrying on any work, or for maintaining existence.,
F as in Fund (n.) A stock or capital; a sum of money appropriated as the foundation of some commercial or other operation undertaken with a view to profit; that reserve by means of which expenses and credit are supported; as, the fund of a bank, commercial house, manufacturing corporation, etc.,
F as in Fund (n.) The stock of a national debt; public securities; evidences (stocks or bonds) of money lent to government, for which interest is paid at prescribed intervals; -- called also public funds.,
F as in Fund (n.) An invested sum, whose income is devoted to a specific object; as, the fund of an ecclesiastical society; a fund for the maintenance of lectures or poor students; also, money systematically collected to meet the expenses of some permanent object.,
F as in Fund (n.) A store laid up, from which one may draw at pleasure; a supply; a full provision of resources; as, a fund of wisdom or good sense.,
F as in Funded (imp. & p. p.) of Fund,
F as in Funding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fund,
F as in Fund (v. t.) To provide and appropriate a fund or permanent revenue for the payment of the interest of; to make permanent provision of resources (as by a pledge of revenue from customs) for discharging the interest of or principal of; as, to fund government notes.,
F as in Fund (v. t.) To place in a fund, as money.,
F as in Fund (v. t.) To put into the form of bonds or stocks bearing regular interest; as, to fund the floating debt.,
F as in Fundable (a.) Capable of being funded, or converted into a fund; convertible into bonds.,
F as in Fundament (n.) Foundation.,
F as in Fundament (n.) The part of the body on which one sits; the buttocks; specifically (Anat.), the anus.,
F as in Fundamental (a.) Pertaining to the foundation or basis; serving for the foundation. Hence: Essential, as an element, principle, or law; important; original; elementary; as, a fundamental truth; a fundamental axiom.,
F as in Fundamental (n.) A leading or primary principle, rule, law, or article, which serves as the groundwork of a system; essential part, as, the fundamentals of the Christian faith.,
F as in Fundamentally (adv.) Primarily; originally; essentially; radically; at the foundation; in origin or constituents.,
F as in Funded (a.) Existing in the form of bonds bearing regular interest; as, funded debt.,
F as in Funded (a.) Invested in public funds; as, funded money.,
F as in Fundholder (a.) One who has money invested in the public funds.,
F as in Funding (a.) Providing a fund for the payment of the interest or principal of a debt.,
F as in Funding (a.) Investing in the public funds.,
F as in Funuless (a.) Destitute of funds.,
F as in Fundus (n.) The bottom or base of any hollow organ; as, the fundus of the bladder; the fundus of the eye.,
F as in Funebrial (a.) Pertaining to a funeral or funerals; funeral; funereal.,
F as in Funebrious (a.) Funebrial.,
F as in Funeral (n.) The solemn rites used in the disposition of a dead human body, whether such disposition be by interment, burning, or otherwise; esp., the ceremony or solemnization of interment; obsequies; burial; -- formerly used in the plural.,
F as in Funeral (n.) The procession attending the burial of the dead; the show and accompaniments of an interment.,
F as in Funeral (n.) A funeral sermon; -- usually in the plural.,
F as in Funeral (n.) Per. taining to a funeral; used at the interment of the dead; as, funeral rites, honors, or ceremonies.,
F as in Funerate (v. t.) To bury with funeral rites.,
F as in Funeration (n.) The act of burying with funeral rites.,
F as in Funereal (a.) Suiting a funeral; pertaining to burial; solemn. Hence: Dark; dismal; mournful.,
F as in Funest (a.) Lamentable; doleful.,
F as in Fungal (a.) Of or pertaining to fungi.,
F as in Fungate (n.) A salt of fungic acid.,
F as in Funge (n.) A blockhead; a dolt; a fool.,
F as in Fungi (n. pl.) See Fungus.,
F as in Fungia (n.) A genus of simple, stony corals; -- so called because they are usually flat and circular, with radiating plates, like the gills of a mushroom. Some of them are eighteen inches in diameter.,
F as in Fungian (a.) Of or pertaining to the Fungidae, a family of stony corals.,
F as in Fungian (n.) One of the Fungidae.,
F as in Fungibles (n. pl.) Things which may be furnished or restored in kind, as distinguished from specific things; -- called also fungible things.,
F as in Fungibles (n. pl.) Movable goods which may be valued by weight or measure, in contradistinction from those which must be judged of individually.,
F as in Fungic (a.) Pertaining to, or obtained from, mushrooms; as, fungic acid.,
F as in Fungicide (n.) Anything that kills fungi.,
F as in Fungiform (a.) Shaped like a fungus or mushroom.,
F as in Fungilliform (a.) Shaped like a small fungus.,
F as in Fungin (n.) A name formerly given to cellulose found in certain fungi and mushrooms.,
F as in Fungite (n.) A fossil coral resembling Fungia.,
F as in Fungivorous (a.) Eating fungi; -- said of certain insects and snails.,
F as in Fungoid (a.) Like a fungus; fungous; spongy.,
F as in Fungologist (n.) A mycologist.,
F as in Fungology (n.) Mycology.,
F as in Fungosity (n.) The quality of that which is fungous; fungous excrescence.,
F as in Fungous (a.) Of the nature of fungi; spongy.,
F as in Fungous (a.) Growing suddenly, but not substantial or durable.,
F as in Fungi (pl. ) of Fungus,
F as in Funguses (pl. ) of Fungus,
F as in Fungus (n.) Any one of the Fungi, a large and very complex group of thallophytes of low organization, -- the molds, mildews, rusts, smuts, mushrooms, toadstools, puff balls, and the allies of each.,
F as in Fungus (n.) A spongy, morbid growth or granulation in animal bodies, as the proud flesh of wounds.,
F as in Funic (a.) Funicular.,
F as in Funicle (n.) A small cord, ligature, or fiber.,
F as in Funicle (n.) The little stalk that attaches a seed to the placenta.,
F as in Funicular (a.) Consisting of a small cord or fiber.,
F as in Funicular (a.) Dependent on the tension of a cord.,
F as in Funicular (a.) Pertaining to a funiculus; made up of, or resembling, a funiculus, or funiculi; as, a funicular ligament.,
F as in Funiculate (a.) Forming a narrow ridge.,
F as in Funiculi (pl. ) of Funiculus,
F as in Funiculus (n.) A cord, baud, or bundle of fibers; esp., one of the small bundles of fibers, of which large nerves are made up; applied also to different bands of white matter in the brain and spinal cord.,
F as in Funiculus (n.) A short cord which connects the embryo of some myriapods with the amnion.,
F as in Funiculus (n.) In Bryozoa, an organ extending back from the stomach. See Bryozoa, and Phylactolema.,
F as in Funiliform (a.) Resembling a cord in toughness and flexibility, as the roots of some endogenous trees.,
F as in Funis (n.) A cord; specifically, the umbilical cord or navel string.,
F as in Funk (n.) An offensive smell; a stench.,
F as in Funk (v. t.) To envelop with an offensive smell or smoke.,
F as in Funk (v. i.) To emit an offensive smell; to stink.,
F as in Funk (v. i.) To be frightened, and shrink back; to flinch; as, to funk at the edge of a precipice.,
F as in Funk (n.) Alt. of Funking,
F as in Funking (n.) A shrinking back through fear.,
F as in Funky (a.) Pertaining to, or characterized by, great fear, or funking.,
F as in Funnel (v. t.) A vessel of the shape of an inverted hollow cone, terminating below in a pipe, and used for conveying liquids into a close vessel; a tunnel.,
F as in Funnel (v. t.) A passage or avenue for a fluid or flowing substance; specifically, a smoke flue or pipe; the iron chimney of a steamship or the like.,
F as in Funnelform (a.) Having the form of a funnel, or tunnel; that is, expanding gradually from the bottom upward, as the corolla of some flowers; infundibuliform.,
F as in Funny (superl.) Droll; comical; amusing; laughable.,
F as in Funnies (pl. ) of Funny,
F as in Funny (n.) A clinkerbuit, narrow boat for sculling.,
F as in Fur (n.) The short, fine, soft hair of certain animals, growing thick on the skin, and distinguished from the hair, which is longer and coarser.,
F as in Fur (n.) The skins of certain wild animals with the fur; peltry; as, a cargo of furs.,
F as in Fur (n.) Strips of dressed skins with fur, used on garments for warmth or for ornament.,
F as in Fur (n.) Articles of clothing made of fur; as, a set of furs for a lady (a collar, tippet, or cape, muff, etc.).,
F as in Fur (n.) Any coating considered as resembling fur,
F as in Fur (n.) A coat of morbid matter collected on the tongue in persons affected with fever.,
F as in Fur (n.) The soft, downy covering on the skin of a peach.,
F as in Fur (n.) The deposit formed on the interior of boilers and other vessels by hard water.,
F as in Fur (n.) One of several patterns or diapers used as tinctures. There are nine in all, or, according to some writers, only six.,
F as in Fur (a.) Of or pertaining to furs; bearing or made of fur; as, a fur cap; the fur trade.,
F as in Furred (imp. & p. p.) of Fur,
F as in Furring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fur,
F as in Fur (v. t.) To line, face, or cover with fur; as, furred robes.,
F as in Fur (v. t.) To cover with morbid matter, as the tongue.,
F as in Fur (v. t.) To nail small strips of board or larger scantling upon, in order to make a level surface for lathing or boarding, or to provide for a space or interval back of the plastered or boarded surface, as inside an outer wall, by way of protection against damp.,
F as in Furacious (a.) Given to theft; thievish.,
F as in Furacity (n.) Addictedness to theft; thievishness.,
F as in Furbelow (n.) A plaited or gathered flounce on a woman's garment.,
F as in Furbelowed (imp. & p. p.) of Furhelow,
F as in Furbelowing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Furhelow,
F as in Furhelow (v. t.) To put a furbelow on; to ornament.,
F as in Furbished (imp. & p. p.) of Furbish,
F as in Furbishing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Furbish,
F as in Furbish (v. t.) To rub or scour to brightness; to clean; to burnish; as, to furbish a sword or spear.,
F as in Furbishable (a.) Capable of being furbished.,
F as in Furbisher (n.) One who furbishes; esp., a sword cutler, who finishes sword blades and similar weapons.,
F as in Furcate (a.) Alt. of Furcated,
F as in Furcated (a.) Forked; branching like a fork; as, furcate twigs.,
F as in Furcation (n.) A branching like a. fork.,
F as in Furciferous (a.) Rascally; scandalous.,
F as in Furcula (n.) A forked process; the wishbone or furculum.,
F as in Furcular (a.) Shaped like a fork; furcate.,
F as in Furculum (n.) The wishbone or merrythought of birds, formed by the united clavicles.,
F as in Furdle (v. t.) To draw up into a bundle; to roll up.,
F as in Furfur (n.) Scurf; dandruff.,
F as in Furfuraceous (a.) Made of bran; like bran; scurfy.,
F as in Furfuran (n.) A colorless, oily substance, C4H4O, obtained by distilling certain organic substances, as pine wood, salts of pyromucic acid, etc.; -- called also tetraphenol.,
F as in Furfuration (n.) Falling of scurf from the head; desquamation.,
F as in Furfurine (n.) A white, crystalline base, obtained indirectly from furfurol.,
F as in Furfurol (n.) A colorless oily liquid, C4H3O.CHO, of a pleasant odor, obtained by the distillation of bran, sugar, etc., and regarded as an aldehyde derivative of furfuran; -- called also furfural.,
F as in Furfurous (a.) Made of bran; furfuraceous.,
F as in Furial (a.) Furious; raging; tormenting.,
F as in Furibundal (a.) Full of rage.,
F as in Furies (n. pl.) See Fury, 3.,
F as in Furile (n.) A yellow, crystalline substance, (C4H3O)2.C2O2, obtained by the oxidation of furoin.,
F as in Furilic (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, furile; as, furilic acid.,
F as in Furioso (a. & adv.) With great force or vigor; vehemently.,
F as in Furious (a.) Transported with passion or fury; raging; violent; as, a furious animal.,
F as in Furious (a.) Rushing with impetuosity; moving with violence; as, a furious stream; a furious wind or storm.,
F as in Furld (imp. & p. p.) of Furl,
F as in Furling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Furl,
F as in Furl (v. t.) To draw up or gather into close compass; to wrap or roll, as a sail, close to the yard, stay, or mast, or, as a flag, close to or around its staff, securing it there by a gasket or line. Totten.,
F as in Furlong (a.) A measure of length; the eighth part of a mile; forty rods; two hundred and twenty yards.,
F as in Furlough (a.) Leave of abserice; especially, leave given to an offcer or soldier to be absent from service for a certain time; also, the document granting leave of absence.,
F as in Furloughed (imp. & p. p.) of Furlough,
F as in Furloughing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Furlough,
F as in Furlough (v. t.) To furnish with a furlough; to grant leave of absence to, as to an offcer or soldier.,
F as in Furmonty (n.) Alt. of Furmity,
F as in Furmity (n.) Same as Frumenty.,
F as in Furnace (n.) An inclosed place in which heat is produced by the combustion of fuel, as for reducing ores or melting metals, for warming a house, for baking pottery, etc.; as, an iron furnace; a hot-air furnace; a glass furnace; a boiler furnace, etc.,
F as in Furnace (n.) A place or time of punishment, affiction, or great trial; severe experience or discipline.,
F as in Furnace (n.) To throw out, or exhale, as from a furnace; also, to put into a furnace.,
F as in Furniment (n.) Furniture.,
F as in Furnished (imp. & p. p.) of Furnish,
F as in Furnishing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Furnish,
F as in Furnish (v. t.) To supply with anything necessary, useful, or appropriate; to provide; to equip; to fit out, or fit up; to adorn; as, to furnish a family with provisions; to furnish one with arms for defense; to furnish a Cable; to furnish the mind with ideas; to furnish one with knowledge or principles; to furnish an expedition or enterprise, a room or a house.,
F as in Furnish (v. t.) To offer for use; to provide (something); to give (something); to afford; as, to furnish food to the hungry: to furnish arms for defense.,
F as in Furnish (n.) That which is furnished as a specimen; a sample; a supply.,
F as in Furnisher (n.) One who supplies or fits out.,
F as in Furnishment (n.) The act of furnishing, or of supplying furniture; also, furniture.,
F as in Furniture (v. t.) That with which anything is furnished or supplied; supplies; outfit; equipment.,
F as in Furniture (v. t.) Articles used for convenience or decoration in a house or apartment, as tables, chairs, bedsteads, sofas, carpets, curtains, pictures, vases, etc.,
F as in Furniture (v. t.) The necessary appendages to anything, as to a machine, a carriage, a ship, etc.,
F as in Furniture (v. t.) The masts and rigging of a ship.,
F as in Furniture (v. t.) The mountings of a gun.,
F as in Furniture (v. t.) Builders' hardware such as locks, door and window trimmings.,
F as in Furniture (v. t.) Pieces of wood or metal of a lesser height than the type, placed around the pages or other matter in a form, and, with the quoins, serving to secure the form in its place in the chase.,
F as in Furniture (v. t.) A mixed or compound stop in an organ; -- sometimes called mixture.,
F as in Furoin (n.) A colorless, crystalline substance, C10H8O4, from furfurol.,
F as in Furore (n.) Excitement; commotion; enthusiasm.,
F as in Furrier (n.) A dealer in furs; one who makes or sells fur goods.,
F as in Furriery (n.) Furs, in general.,
F as in Furriery (n.) The business of a furrier; trade in furs.,
F as in Furring (n.) The leveling of a surface, or the preparing of an air space, by means of strips of board or of larger pieces. See Fur, v. t., 3.,
F as in Furring (v. t.) The strips thus laid on.,
F as in Furring (v. t.) Double planking of a ship's side.,
F as in Furring (v. t.) A deposit from water, as on the inside of a boiler; also, the operation of cleaning away this deposit.,
F as in Furrow (n.) A trench in the earth made by, or as by, a plow.,
F as in Furrow (n.) Any trench, channel, or groove, as in wood or metal; a wrinkle on the face; as, the furrows of age.,
F as in Furrowed (imp. & p. p.) of Furrow,
F as in Furrowing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Furrow,
F as in Furrow (n.) To cut a furrow in; to make furrows in; to plow; as, to furrow the ground or sea.,
F as in Furrow (n.) To mark with channels or with wrinkles.,
F as in Furrowy (a.) Furrowed.,
F as in Furry (a.) Covered with fur; dressed in fur.,
F as in Furry (a.) Consisting of fur; as, furry spoils.,
F as in Furry (a.) Resembling fur.,
F as in Further (adv.) To a greater distance; in addition; moreover. See Farther.,
F as in Further (superl.) More remote; at a greater distance; more in advance; farther; as, the further end of the field. See Farther.,
F as in Further (superl.) Beyond; additional; as, a further reason for this opinion; nothing further to suggest.,
F as in Furthered (imp. & p. p.) of Further,
F as in Furthering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Further,
F as in Further (adv.) To help forward; to promote; to advance; to forward; to help or assist.,
F as in Furtherance (n.) The act of furthering or helping forward; promotion; advancement; progress.,
F as in Fartherer (n.) One who furthers. or helps to advance; a promoter.,
F as in Furthermore (adv.) or conj. Moreover; besides; in addition to what has been said.,
F as in Furthermost (a.) Most remote; furthest.,
F as in Furthersome (a.) Tending to further, advance, or promote; helpful; advantageous.,
F as in Furthest (a.) superl. Most remote; most in advance; farthest. See Further, a.,
F as in Furthest (adv.) At the greatest distance; farthest.,
F as in Furtive (a.) Stolen; obtained or characterized by stealth; sly; secret; stealthy; as, a furtive look.,
F as in Furtively (adv.) Stealthily by theft.,
F as in Furuncle (n.) A superficial, inflammatory tumor, suppurating with a central core; a boil.,
F as in Faruncular (a.) Of or pertaining to a furuncle; marked by the presence of furuncles.,
F as in Fury (n.) A thief.,
F as in Furies (pl. ) of Fury,
F as in Fury (n.) Violent or extreme excitement; overmastering agitation or enthusiasm.,
F as in Fury (n.) Violent anger; extreme wrath; rage; -- sometimes applied to inanimate things, as the wind or storms; impetuosity; violence.,
F as in Fury (n.) pl. (Greek Myth.) The avenging deities, Tisiphone, Alecto, and Megaera; the Erinyes or Eumenides.,
F as in Fury (n.) One of the Parcae, or Fates, esp. Atropos.,
F as in Fury (n.) A stormy, turbulent violent woman; a hag; a vixen; a virago; a termagant.,
F as in Furze (n.) A thorny evergreen shrub (Ulex Europaeus), with beautiful yellow flowers, very common upon the plains and hills of Great Britain; -- called also gorse, and whin. The dwarf furze is Ulex nanus.,
F as in Furzechat (n.) The whinchat; -- called also furzechuck.,
F as in Furzeling (n.) An English warbler (Melizophilus provincialis); -- called also furze wren, and Dartford warbler.,
F as in Furzen (a.) Furzy; gorsy.,
F as in Furzy (a. a.) bounding in, or overgrown with, furze; characterized by furze.,
F as in Fusain (n.) Fine charcoal of willow wood, used as a drawing implement.,
F as in Fusain (n.) A drawing made with it. See Charcoal, n. 2, and Charcoal drawing, under Charcoal.,
F as in Fusarole (n.) A molding generally placed under the echinus or quarter round of capitals in the Doric, Ionic, and Corinthian orders of architecture.,
F as in Fuscation (n.) A darkening; obscurity; obfuscation.,
F as in Fuscin (n.) A brown, nitrogenous pigment contained in the retinal epithelium; a variety of melanin.,
F as in Fuscine (n.) A dark-colored substance obtained from empyreumatic animal oil.,
F as in Fuscous (a.) Brown or grayish black; darkish.,
F as in Fused (imp. & p. p.) of Fuse,
F as in Fusing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fuse,
F as in Fuse (v. t.) To liquefy by heat; to render fiuid; to dissolve; to melt.,
F as in Fuse (v. t.) To unite or blend, as if melted together.,
F as in Fuse (v. i.) To be reduced from a solid to a Quid state by heat; to be melted; to melt.,
F as in Fuse (v. i.) To be blended, as if melted together.,
F as in Fuse (n.) A tube or casing filled with combustible matter, by means of which a charge of powder is ignited, as in blasting; -- called also fuzee. See Fuze.,
F as in Fusee (n.) A flintlock gun. See 2d Fusil.,
F as in Fusee (n.) A fuse. See Fuse, n.,
F as in Fusee (n.) A kind of match for lighting a pipe or cigar.,
F as in Fusee (n.) A small packet of explosive material with wire appendages allowing it to be conveniently attached to a railroad track. It will explode with a loud report when run over by a train, and is used to provide a warning signal to the engineer.,
F as in Fusee (n.) The track of a buck.,
F as in Fusee (n.) The cone or conical wheel of a watch or clock, designed to equalize the power of the mainspring by having the chain from the barrel which contains the spring wind in a spiral groove on the surface of the cone in such a manner that the diameter of the cone at the point where the chain acts may correspond with the degree of tension of the spring.,
F as in Fusee (n.) A similar wheel used in other machinery.,
F as in Fusel () Alt. of Fusel oil,
F as in Fusel oil () A hot, acrid, oily liquid, accompanying many alcoholic liquors (as potato whisky, corn whisky, etc.), as an undesirable ingredient, and consisting of several of the higher alcohols and compound ethers, but particularly of amyl alcohol; hence, specifically applied to amyl alcohol.,
F as in Fusibility (n.) The quality of being fusible.,
F as in Fusible (v. t.) CapabIe of being melted or liquefied.,
F as in Fusiform (a.) Shaped like a spindle; tapering at each end; as, a fusiform root; a fusiform cell.,
F as in Fusil (v. t.) Capable of being melted or rendered fluid by heat; fusible.,
F as in Fusil (v. t.) Running or flowing, as a liquid.,
F as in Fusil (v. t.) Formed by melting and pouring into a mold; cast; founded.,
F as in Fusil (n.) A light kind of flintlock musket, formerly in use.,
F as in Fusil (n.) A bearing of a rhomboidal figure; -- named from its shape, which resembles that of a spindle.,
F as in Fusile (a.) Same as Fusil, a.,
F as in Fusileer (n.) Alt. of Fusilier,
F as in Fusilier (n.) Formerly, a soldier armed with a fusil. Hence, in the plural:,
F as in Fusilier (n.) A title now borne by some regiments and companies; as, "The Royal Fusiliers," etc.,
F as in Fusillade (n.) A simultaneous discharge of firearms.,
F as in Fusillader (imp. & p. p.) of Fusillade,
F as in Fusillading (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fusillade,
F as in Fusillade (v. t.) To shoot down of shoot at by a simultaneous discharge of firearms.,
F as in Fusion (v. t.) The act or operation of melting or rendering fluid by heat; the act of melting together; as, the fusion of metals.,
F as in Fusion (v. t.) The state of being melted or dissolved by heat; a state of fluidity or flowing in consequence of heat; as, metals in fusion.,
F as in Fusion (v. t.) The union or blending together of things, as, melted together.,
F as in Fusion (v. t.) The union, or binding together, of adjacent parts or tissues.,
F as in Fusome (a.) Handy; reat; handsome; notable.,
F as in Fuss (n.) A tumult; a bustle; unnecessary or annoying ado about trifles.,
F as in Fuss (n.) One who is unduly anxious about trifles.,
F as in Fussed (imp. & p. p.) of Fuss,
F as in Fussing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fuss,
F as in Fuss (v. i.) To be overbusy or unduly anxious about trifles; to make a bustle or ado.,
F as in Fussily (adv.) In a fussy manner.,
F as in Fussiness (n.) The quality of being fussy.,
F as in Fussy (superl) Making a fuss; disposed to make an unnecessary ado about trifles; overnice; fidgety.,
F as in Fast (n.) The shaft of a column, or trunk of pilaster.,
F as in Fust (n.) A strong, musty smell; mustiness.,
F as in Fust (v. i.) To become moldy; to smell ill.,
F as in Fusted (a.) Moldy; ill-smelling.,
F as in Fusteric (n.) The coloring matter of fustet.,
F as in Fustet (n.) The wood of the Rhus Cptinus or Venice sumach, a shrub of Southern Europe, which yields a fine orange color, which, however, is not durable without a mordant.,
F as in Fustian (n.) A kind of coarse twilled cotton or cotton and linen stuff, including corduroy, velveteen, etc.,
F as in Fustian (n.) An inflated style of writing; a kind of writing in which high-sounding words are used,' above the dignity of the thoughts or subject; bombast.,
F as in Fustian (a.) Made of fustian.,
F as in Fustian (a.) Pompous; ridiculously tumid; inflated; bombastic; as, fustian history.,
F as in Fustianist (n.) A writer of fustian.,
F as in Fustic (n.) The wood of the Maclura tinctoria, a tree growing in the West Indies, used in dyeing yellow; -- called also old fustic.,
F as in Fustigate (v. t.) To cudgel.,
F as in Fustigation (n.) A punishment by beating with a stick or club; cudgeling.,
F as in Fastilarian (n.) A low fellow; a stinkard; a scoundrel.,
F as in Fustilug (n.) Alt. of Fustilugs,
F as in Fustilugs (n.) A gross, fat, unwieldy person.,
F as in Fusiness (n.) A fusty state or quality; moldiness; mustiness; an ill smell from moldiness.,
F as in Fusty (superl) Moldy; musty; ill-smelling; rank.,
F as in Fusty (superl) Moping.,
F as in Fussure (v. t.) Act of fusing; fusion.,
F as in Futchel (n.) The jaws between which the hinder end of a carriage tongue is inserted.,
F as in Futile (v. t.) Talkative; loquacious; tattling.,
F as in Futile (v. t.) Of no importance; answering no useful end; useless; vain; worthless.,
F as in Futilely (adv.) In a futile manner.,
F as in Futility (n.) The quality of being talkative; talkativeness; loquaciousness; loquacity.,
F as in Futility (n.) The quality of producing no valuable effect, or of coming to nothing; uselessness.,
F as in Futilous (a.) Futile; trifling.,
F as in Futtock (n.) One of the crooked timbers which are scarfed together to form the lower part of the compound rib of a vessel; one of the crooked transverse timbers passing across and over the keel.,
F as in Futurable (a.) Capable of being future; possible to occur.,
F as in Future (v. i.) That is to be or come hereafter; that will exist at any time after the present; as, the next moment is future, to the present.,
F as in Future (a.) Time to come; time subsequent to the present (as, the future shall be as the present); collectively, events that are to happen in time to come.,
F as in Future (a.) The possibilities of the future; -- used especially of prospective success or advancement; as, he had great future before him.,
F as in Future (a.) A future tense.,
F as in Futureless (a.) Without prospect of betterment in the future.,
F as in Futurely (adv.) In time to come.,
F as in Futurist (n.) One whose chief interests are in what is to come; one who anxiously, eagerly, or confidently looks forward to the future; an expectant.,
F as in Futurist (n.) One who believes or maintains that the fulfillment of the prophecies of the Bible is to be in the future.,
F as in Futuritial (a.) Relating to what is to come; pertaining to futurity; future.,
F as in Futurition (n.) The state of being future; futurity.,
F as in Futurities (pl. ) of Futurity,
F as in Futurity (n.) State of being that is yet to come; future state.,
F as in Futurity (n.) Future time; time to come; the future.,
F as in Futurity (n.) Event to come; a future event.,
F as in Fuze (n.) A tube, filled with combustible matter, for exploding a shell, etc. See Fuse, n.,
F as in Fuzz (v. t.) To make drunk.,
F as in Fuzz (n.) Fine, light particles or fibers; loose, volatile matter.,
F as in Fuzz (v. i.) To fly off in minute particles.,
F as in Fuzzle (v. t.) To make drunk; to intoxicate; to fuddle.,
F as in Fuzzy (n.) Not firmly woven; that ravels.,
F as in Fuzzy (n.) Furnished with fuzz; having fuzz; like fuzz; as, the fuzzy skin of a peach.,
F as in -fy () A suffix signifying to make, to form into, etc.; as, acetify, amplify, dandify, Frenchify, etc.,
F as in Fy (interj.) A word which expresses blame, dislike, disapprobation, abhorrence, or contempt. See Fie.,
F as in Fyke (n.) A long bag net distended by hoops, into which fish can pass easily, without being able to return; -- called also fyke net.,
F as in Fyllot (n.) A rebated cross, formerly used as a secret emblem, and a common ornament. It is also called gammadion, and swastika.,
F as in Fyrd (v. i.) Alt. of Fyrdung,
F as in Fyrdung (v. i.) The military force of the whole nation, consisting of all men able to bear arms.,
F as in Fytte (n.) See Fit a song.,
