G as in G () G is the seventh letter of the English alphabet, and a vocal consonant. It has two sounds; one simple, as in gave, go, gull; the other compound (like that of j), as in gem, gin, dingy. See Guide to Pronunciation, // 231-6, 155, 176, 178, 179, 196, 211, 246.,
G as in G () G is the name of the fifth tone of the natural or model scale; -- called also sol by the Italians and French. It was also originally used as the treble clef, and has gradually changed into the character represented in the margin. See Clef. G/ (G sharp) is a tone intermediate between G and A.,
G as in Gab (n.) The hook on the end of an eccentric rod opposite the strap. See. Illust. of Eccentric.,
G as in Gab (v. i.) The mouth; hence, idle prate; chatter; unmeaning talk; loquaciousness.,
G as in Gab (v. i.) To deceive; to lie.,
G as in Gab (v. i.) To talk idly; to prate; to chatter.,
G as in Gabarage (n.) A kind of coarse cloth for packing goods.,
G as in Gabardine (n.) Alt. of Gaberdine,
G as in Gaberdine (n.) A coarse frock or loose upper garment formerly worn by Jews; a mean dress.,
G as in Gabber (n.) A liar; a deceiver.,
G as in Gabber (n.) One addicted to idle talk.,
G as in Gabbled (imp. & p. p.) of Gabble,
G as in Gabbling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gabble,
G as in Gabble (v. i.) To talk fast, or to talk without meaning; to prate; to jabber.,
G as in Gabble (v. i.) To utter inarticulate sounds with rapidity; as, gabbling fowls.,
G as in Gabble (n.) Loud or rapid talk without meaning.,
G as in Gabble (n.) Inarticulate sounds rapidly uttered; as of fowls.,
G as in Gabbier (n.) One who gabbles; a prater.,
G as in Gabbro (n.) A name originally given by the Italians to a kind of serpentine, later to the rock called euphotide, and now generally used for a coarsely crystalline, igneous rock consisting of lamellar pyroxene (diallage) and labradorite, with sometimes chrysolite (olivine gabbro).,
G as in Gabel (n.) A rent, service, tribute, custom, tax, impost, or duty; an excise.,
G as in Gabeler (n.) A collector of gabels or taxes.,
G as in Gabelle (n.) A tax, especially on salt.,
G as in Gabelleman (n.) A gabeler.,
G as in Gaberdine (n.) See Gabardine.,
G as in Gaber-lunzie (n.) A beggar with a wallet; a licensed beggar.,
G as in Gabert (n.) A lighter, or vessel for inland navigation.,
G as in Gabion (n.) A hollow cylinder of wickerwork, like a basket without a bottom. Gabions are made of various sizes, and filled with earth in building fieldworks to shelter men from an enemy's fire.,
G as in Gabion (n.) An openwork frame, as of poles, filled with stones and sunk, to assist in forming a bar dyke, etc., as in harbor improvement.,
G as in Gabionade (n.) A traverse made with gabions between guns or on their flanks, protecting them from enfilading fire.,
G as in Gabionade (n.) A structure of gabions sunk in lines, as a core for a sand bar in harbor improvements.,
G as in Gabionage (n.) The part of a fortification built of gabions.,
G as in Gabioned (p. a.) Furnished with gabions.,
G as in Gabionnade (n.) See Gabionade.,
G as in Gable (n.) A cable.,
G as in Gable (n.) The vertical triangular portion of the end of a building, from the level of the cornice or eaves to the ridge of the roof. Also, a similar end when not triangular in shape, as of a gambrel roof and the like.,
G as in Gable (n.) The end wall of a building, as distinguished from the front or rear side.,
G as in Gable (n.) A decorative member having the shape of a triangular gable, such as that above a Gothic arch in a doorway.,
G as in Gablet (n.) A small gable, or gable-shaped canopy, formed over a tabernacle, niche, etc.,
G as in Gablock (n.) A false spur or gaff, fitted on the heel of a gamecock.,
G as in Gaby (n.) A simpleton; a dunce; a lout.,
G as in Gad (n.) The point of a spear, or an arrowhead.,
G as in Gad (n.) A pointed or wedge-shaped instrument of metal, as a steel wedge used in mining, etc.,
G as in Gad (n.) A sharp-pointed rod; a goad.,
G as in Gad (n.) A spike on a gauntlet; a gadling.,
G as in Gad (n.) A wedge-shaped billet of iron or steel.,
G as in Gad (n.) A rod or stick, as a fishing rod, a measuring rod, or a rod used to drive cattle with.,
G as in Gadded (imp. & p. p.) of Gad,
G as in Gadding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gad,
G as in Gad (n.) To walk about; to rove or go about, without purpose; hence, to run wild; to be uncontrolled.,
G as in Gadabout (n.) A gadder,
G as in Gadbee (n.) The gadfly.,
G as in Gadder (n.) One who roves about idly, a rambling gossip.,
G as in Gadding (a. & n.) Going about much, needlessly or without purpose.,
G as in Gaddingly (adv.) In a roving, idle manner.,
G as in Gaddish (a.) Disposed to gad.,
G as in Gade (n.) A small British fish (Motella argenteola) of the Cod family.,
G as in Gade (n.) A pike, so called at Moray Firth; -- called also gead.,
G as in Gadere (v. t. & i.) Alt. of Gadre,
G as in Gadre (v. t. & i.) To gather.,
G as in Gadflies (pl. ) of Gadfly,
G as in Gadfly (n.) Any dipterous insect of the genus Oestrus, and allied genera of botflies.,
G as in Gadhelic (a.) Of or pertaining to that division of the Celtic languages, which includes the Irish, Gaelic, and Manx.,
G as in Gadic (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, the cod (Gadus); -- applied to an acid obtained from cod-liver oil, viz., gadic acid.,
G as in Gaditanian (a.) Of or relating to Cadiz, in Spain.,
G as in Gaditanian (n.) A native or inhabitant of Cadiz.,
G as in Gadling (n.) See Gad, n., 4.,
G as in Gadling (v. i.) Gadding about.,
G as in Gadling (n.) A roving vagabond.,
G as in Gadman (n.) A gadsman.,
G as in Gadoid (a.) Of or pertaining to the family of fishes (Gadidae) which includes the cod, haddock, and hake.,
G as in Gadoid (n.) One of the Gadidae.,
G as in Gadolinia (n.) A rare earth, regarded by some as an oxide of the supposed element gadolinium, by others as only a mixture of the oxides of yttrium, erbium, ytterbium, etc.,
G as in Gadolinic (a.) Pertaining to or containing gadolinium.,
G as in Gadolinite (n.) A mineral of a nearly black color and vitreous luster, and consisting principally of the silicates of yttrium, cerium, and iron.,
G as in Gadolinium (n.) A supposed rare metallic element, with a characteristic spectrum, found associated with yttrium and other rare metals. Its individuality and properties have not yet been determined.,
G as in Gadsman (n.) One who uses a gad or goad in driving.,
G as in Gaduin (n.) A yellow or brown amorphous substance, of indifferent nature, found in cod-liver oil.,
G as in Gadwall (n.) A large duck (Anas strepera), valued as a game bird, found in the northern parts of Europe and America; -- called also gray duck.,
G as in Gael (n.sing. & pl.) A Celt or the Celts of the Scotch Highlands or of Ireland; now esp., a Scotch Highlander of Celtic origin.,
G as in Gaelic (a.) Of or pertaining to the Gael, esp. to the Celtic Highlanders of Scotland; as, the Gaelic language.,
G as in Gaelic (n.) The language of the Gaels, esp. of the Highlanders of Scotland. It is a branch of the Celtic.,
G as in Gaff (n.) A barbed spear or a hook with a handle, used by fishermen in securing heavy fish.,
G as in Gaff (n.) The spar upon which the upper edge of a fore-and-aft sail is extended.,
G as in Gaff (n.) Same as Gaffle, 1.,
G as in Gaffed (imp. & p. p.) of Gaff,
G as in Gaffing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gaff,
G as in Gaff (v. t.) To strike with a gaff or barbed spear; to secure by means of a gaff; as, to gaff a salmon.,
G as in Gaffer (n.) An old fellow; an aged rustic.,
G as in Gaffer (n.) A foreman or overseer of a gang of laborers.,
G as in Gaffle (n.) An artificial spur or gaff for gamecocks.,
G as in Gaffle (n.) A lever to bend crossbows.,
G as in Gaff-topsail (n.) A small triangular sail having its foot extended upon the gaff and its luff upon the topmast.,
G as in Gagged (imp. & p. p.) of Gag,
G as in Gagging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gag,
G as in Gag (v. t.) To stop the mouth of, by thrusting sometimes in, so as to hinder speaking; hence, to silence by authority or by violence; not to allow freedom of speech to.,
G as in Gag (v. t.) To pry or hold open by means of a gag.,
G as in Gag (v. t.) To cause to heave with nausea.,
G as in Gag (v. i.) To heave with nausea; to retch.,
G as in Gag (v. i.) To introduce gags or interpolations. See Gag, n., 3.,
G as in Gag (n.) Something thrust into the mouth or throat to hinder speaking.,
G as in Gag (n.) A mouthful that makes one retch; a choking bit; as, a gag of mutton fat.,
G as in Gag (n.) A speech or phrase interpolated offhand by an actor on the stage in his part as written, usually consisting of some seasonable or local allusion.,
G as in Gagate (n.) Agate.,
G as in Gage (n.) A pledge or pawn; something laid down or given as a security for the performance of some act by the person depositing it, and forfeited by nonperformance; security.,
G as in Gage (n.) A glove, cap, or the like, cast on the ground as a challenge to combat, and to be taken up by the accepter of the challenge; a challenge; a defiance.,
G as in Gage (n.) A variety of plum; as, the greengage; also, the blue gage, frost gage, golden gage, etc., having more or less likeness to the greengage. See Greengage.,
G as in Gaged (imp. & p. p.) of Gage,
G as in Gaging (p. pr & vb. n.) of Gage,
G as in Gage (n.) To give or deposit as a pledge or security for some act; to wage or wager; to pawn or pledge.,
G as in Gage (n.) To bind by pledge, or security; to engage.,
G as in Gage (n.) A measure or standard. See Gauge, n.,
G as in Gage (v. t.) To measure. See Gauge, v. t.,
G as in Gager (n.) A measurer. See Gauger.,
G as in Gagger (n.) One who gags.,
G as in Gagger (n.) A piece of iron imbedded in the sand of a mold to keep the sand in place.,
G as in Gaggled (imp. & p. p.) of Gaggle,
G as in Gaggling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gaggle,
G as in Gaggle (v. i.) To make a noise like a goose; to cackle.,
G as in Gaggle (v. i.) A flock of wild geese.,
G as in Gagtooth (n.) A projecting tooth.,
G as in Gag-toothed (a.) Having gagteeth.,
G as in Gahnite (n.) Zinc spinel; automolite.,
G as in Gaidic (a.) Pertaining to hypogeic acid; -- applied to an acid obtained from hypogeic acid.,
G as in Gaiety (n.) Same as Gayety.,
G as in Gailer (n.) A jailer.,
G as in Gaillard (a.) Gay; brisk; merry; galliard.,
G as in Gailliarde (n.) A lively French and Italian dance.,
G as in Gaily (adv.) Merrily; showily. See gaily.,
G as in Gain (n.) A square or beveled notch cut out of a girder, binding joist, or other timber which supports a floor beam, so as to receive the end of the floor beam.,
G as in Gain (a.) Convenient; suitable; direct; near; handy; dexterous; easy; profitable; cheap; respectable.,
G as in Gain (v. t.) That which is gained, obtained, or acquired, as increase, profit, advantage, or benefit; -- opposed to loss.,
G as in Gain (v. t.) The obtaining or amassing of profit or valuable possessions; acquisition; accumulation.,
G as in Gained (imp. & p. p.) of Gain,
G as in Gaining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gain,
G as in Gain (n.) To get, as profit or advantage; to obtain or acquire by effort or labor; as, to gain a good living.,
G as in Gain (n.) To come off winner or victor in; to be successful in; to obtain by competition; as, to gain a battle; to gain a case at law; to gain a prize.,
G as in Gain (n.) To draw into any interest or party; to win to one's side; to conciliate.,
G as in Gain (n.) To reach; to attain to; to arrive at; as, to gain the top of a mountain; to gain a good harbor.,
G as in Gain (n.) To get, incur, or receive, as loss, harm, or damage.,
G as in Gain (v. i.) To have or receive advantage or profit; to acquire gain; to grow rich; to advance in interest, health, or happiness; to make progress; as, the sick man gains daily.,
G as in Gainable (v. t.) Capable of being obtained or reached.,
G as in Gainage (v. t.) The horses, oxen, plows, wains or wagons and implements for carrying on tillage.,
G as in Gainage (v. t.) The profit made by tillage; also, the land itself.,
G as in Gainer (n.) One who gains.,
G as in Gainful (a.) Profitable; advantageous; lucrative.,
G as in Gaingiving (n.) A misgiving.,
G as in Gainless (a.) Not producing gain; unprofitable.,
G as in Gainly (a.) Handily; readily; dexterously; advantageously.,
G as in Gainpain (n.) Bread-gainer; -- a term applied in the Middle Ages to the sword of a hired soldier.,
G as in Gainsaid (imp. & p. p.) of Gainsay,
G as in Gainsaying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gainsay,
G as in Gainsay (v. t.) To contradict; to deny; to controvert; to dispute; to forbid.,
G as in Gainsayer (n.) One who gainsays, contradicts, or denies.,
G as in Gainsome (a.) Gainful.,
G as in Gainsome (a.) Prepossessing; well-favored.,
G as in 'Gainst (prep.) A contraction of Against.,
G as in Gainstood (imp. & p. p.) of Gainstand,
G as in gainstanding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gainstand,
G as in Gainstand (v. t.) To withstand; to resist.,
G as in Gainstrive (v. t. & i.) To strive or struggle against; to withstand.,
G as in Gairfowl (n.) See Garefowl.,
G as in Gairish (n.) Alt. of Gairish/ness,
G as in Gairishly (n.) Alt. of Gairish/ness,
G as in Gairish/ness (n.) Same as Garish, Garishly, Garishness.,
G as in Gait (n.) A going; a walk; a march; a way.,
G as in Gait (n.) Manner of walking or stepping; bearing or carriage while moving.,
G as in Gaited (a.) Having (such) a gait; -- used in composition; as, slow-gaited; heavy-gaited.,
G as in Gaiter (n.) A covering of cloth or leather for the ankle and instep, or for the whole leg from the knee to the instep, fitting down upon the shoe.,
G as in Gaiter (n.) A kind of shoe, consisting of cloth, and covering the ankle.,
G as in Gaiter (v. t.) To dress with gaiters.,
G as in Gaitre (n.) Alt. of Gaytre,
G as in Gaytre (n.) The dogwood tree.,
G as in Gala (n.) Pomp, show, or festivity.,
G as in Galacta-gogue (n.) An agent exciting secretion of milk.,
G as in Galactic (a.) Of or pertaining to milk; got from milk; as, galactic acid.,
G as in Galactic (a.) Of or pertaining to the galaxy or Milky Way.,
G as in Galactin (n.) An amorphous, gelatinous substance containing nitrogen, found in milk and other animal fluids. It resembles peptone, and is variously regarded as a coagulating or emulsifying agent.,
G as in Galactin (n.) A white waxy substance found in the sap of the South American cow tree (Galactodendron).,
G as in Galactin (n.) An amorphous, gummy carbohydrate resembling gelose, found in the seeds of leguminous plants, and yielding on decomposition several sugars, including galactose.,
G as in Galactodensimeter (n.) Same as Galactometer.,
G as in Galactometer (n.) An instrument for ascertaining the quality of milk (i.e., its richness in cream) by determining its specific gravity; a lactometer.,
G as in Galactophagist (n.) One who eats, or subsists on, milk.,
G as in Galactophagous (a.) Feeding on milk.,
G as in Galactophorous (a.) Milk-carrying; lactiferous; -- applied to the ducts of mammary glands.,
G as in Galactopoietic (a.) Increasing the flow of milk; milk-producing. -- n. A galactopoietic substance.,
G as in Galactose (n.) A white, crystalline sugar, C6H12O6, isomeric with dextrose, obtained by the decomposition of milk sugar, and also from certain gums. When oxidized it forms mucic acid. Called also lactose (though it is not lactose proper).,
G as in Galage (n.) See Galoche.,
G as in Galagos (pl. ) of Galago,
G as in Galago (n.) A genus of African lemurs, including numerous species.,
G as in Galanga (n.) Alt. of Galangal,
G as in Galangal (n.) The pungent aromatic rhizome or tuber of certain East Indian or Chinese species of Alpinia (A. Galanga and A. officinarum) and of the Kaempferia Galanga), -- all of the Ginger family.,
G as in Galantine (n.) A dish of veal, chickens, or other white meat, freed from bones, tied up, boiled, and served cold.,
G as in Galapee tree () The West Indian Sciadophyllum Brownei, a tree with very large digitate leaves.,
G as in Galatian (a.) Of or pertaining to Galatia or its inhabitants. -- A native or inhabitant of Galatia, in Asia Minor; a descendant of the Gauls who settled in Asia Minor.,
G as in Galaxies (pl. ) of Galaxy,
G as in Galaxy (n.) The Milky Way; that luminous tract, or belt, which is seen at night stretching across the heavens, and which is composed of innumerable stars, so distant and blended as to be distinguishable only with the telescope. The term has recently been used for remote clusters of stars.,
G as in Galaxy (n.) A splendid assemblage of persons or things.,
G as in Galban (n.) Alt. of Galbanum,
G as in Galbanum (n.) A gum resin exuding from the stems of certain Asiatic umbelliferous plants, mostly species of Ferula. The Bubon Galbanum of South Africa furnishes an inferior kind of galbanum. It has an acrid, bitter taste, a strong, unpleasant smell, and is used for medical purposes, also in the arts, as in the manufacture of varnish.,
G as in Gale (n.) A strong current of air; a wind between a stiff breeze and a hurricane. The most violent gales are called tempests.,
G as in Gale (n.) A moderate current of air; a breeze.,
G as in Gale (n.) A state of excitement, passion, or hilarity.,
G as in Gale (v. i.) To sale, or sail fast.,
G as in Gale (n.) A song or story.,
G as in Gale (v. i.) To sing.,
G as in Gale (n.) A plant of the genus Myrica, growing in wet places, and strongly resembling the bayberry. The sweet gale (Myrica Gale) is found both in Europe and in America.,
G as in Gale (n.) The payment of a rent or annuity.,
G as in Galea (n.) The upper lip or helmet-shaped part of a labiate flower.,
G as in Galea (n.) A kind of bandage for the head.,
G as in Galea (n.) Headache extending all over the head.,
G as in Galea (n.) A genus of fossil echini, having a vaulted, helmet-shaped shell.,
G as in Galea (n.) The anterior, outer process of the second joint of the maxillae in certain insects.,
G as in Galeas (n.) See Galleass.,
G as in Galeate (a.) Alt. of Galeated,
G as in Galeated (a.) Wearing a helmet; protected by a helmet; covered, as with a helmet.,
G as in Galeated (a.) Helmeted; having a helmetlike part, as a crest, a flower, etc.; helmet-shaped.,
G as in Galei (n. pl.) That division of elasmobranch fishes which includes the sharks.,
G as in Galena (n.) A remedy or antidose for poison; theriaca.,
G as in Galena (n.) Lead sulphide; the principal ore of lead. It is of a bluish gray color and metallic luster, and is cubic in crystallization and cleavage.,
G as in Galenic (a.) Alt. of Galenical,
G as in Galenical (a.) Pertaining to, or containing, galena.,
G as in Galenic (an.) Alt. of Galenical,
G as in Galenical (an.) Relating to Galen or to his principles and method of treating diseases.,
G as in Galenism (n.) The doctrines of Galen.,
G as in Galenist (n.) A follower of Galen.,
G as in Galenite (n.) Galena; lead ore.,
G as in Gale-opithecus (n.) A genus of flying Insectivora, formerly called flying lemurs. See Colugo.,
G as in Galericu-late (a.) Covered as with a hat or cap.,
G as in Galerite (n.) A cretaceous fossil sea urchin of the genus Galerites.,
G as in Galician (a.) Of or pertaining to Galicia, in Spain, or to Galicia, the kingdom of Austrian Poland.,
G as in Galician (n.) A native of Galicia in Spain; -- called also Gallegan.,
G as in Galilean (a.) Of or pertaining to Galileo; as, the Galilean telescope. See Telescope.,
G as in Galilean (a.) Of or relating to Galilee.,
G as in Galilean (n.) A native or inhabitant of Galilee, the northern province of Palestine under the Romans.,
G as in Galilean (n.) One of the party among the Jews, who opposed the payment of tribute to the Romans; -- called also Gaulonite.,
G as in Galilean (n.) A Christian in general; -- used as a term of reproach by Mohammedans and Pagans.,
G as in Galilee (n.) A porch or waiting room, usually at the west end of an abbey church, where the monks collected on returning from processions, where bodies were laid previous to interment, and where women were allowed to see the monks to whom they were related, or to hear divine service. Also, frequently applied to the porch of a church, as at Ely and Durham cathedrals.,
G as in Galimatias (n.) Nonsense; gibberish; confused and unmeaning talk; confused mixture.,
G as in Galingale (n.) A plant of the Sedge family (Cyperus longus) having aromatic roots; also, any plant of the same genus.,
G as in Galiot (n.) A small galley, formerly used in the Mediterranean, built mainly for speed. It was moved both by sails and oars, having one mast, and sixteen or twenty seats for rowers.,
G as in Galiot (n.) A strong, light-draft, Dutch merchant vessel, carrying a mainmast and a mizzenmast, and a large gaff mainsail.,
G as in Galipot (n.) An impure resin of turpentine, hardened on the outside of pine trees by the spontaneous evaporation of its essential oil. When purified, it is called yellow pitch, white pitch, or Burgundy pitch.,
G as in Gall (n.) The bitter, alkaline, viscid fluid found in the gall bladder, beneath the liver. It consists of the secretion of the liver, or bile, mixed with that of the mucous membrane of the gall bladder.,
G as in Gall (n.) The gall bladder.,
G as in Gall (n.) Anything extremely bitter; bitterness; rancor.,
G as in Gall (n.) Impudence; brazen assurance.,
G as in Gall (n.) An excrescence of any form produced on any part of a plant by insects or their larvae. They are most commonly caused by small Hymenoptera and Diptera which puncture the bark and lay their eggs in the wounds. The larvae live within the galls. Some galls are due to aphids, mites, etc. See Gallnut.,
G as in Gall (v. t.) To impregnate with a decoction of gallnuts.,
G as in Galled (imp. & p. p.) of Gall,
G as in Galling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gall,
G as in Gall (v. t.) To fret and wear away by friction; to hurt or break the skin of by rubbing; to chafe; to injure the surface of by attrition; as, a saddle galls the back of a horse; to gall a mast or a cable.,
G as in Gall (v. t.) To fret; to vex; as, to be galled by sarcasm.,
G as in Gall (v. t.) To injure; to harass; to annoy; as, the troops were galled by the shot of the enemy.,
G as in Gall (v. i.) To scoff; to jeer.,
G as in Gall (n.) A wound in the skin made by rubbing.,
G as in Gallant (a.) Showy; splendid; magnificent; gay; well-dressed.,
G as in Gallant (a.) Noble in bearing or spirit; brave; high-spirited; courageous; heroic; magnanimous; as, a gallant youth; a gallant officer.,
G as in Gallant (a.) Polite and attentive to ladies; courteous to women; chivalrous.,
G as in Gallant (n.) A man of mettle or spirit; a gay; fashionable man; a young blood.,
G as in Gallant (n.) One fond of paying attention to ladies.,
G as in Gallant (n.) One who wooes; a lover; a suitor; in a bad sense, a seducer.,
G as in Gallanted (imp. & p. p.) of Gallant,
G as in Gallanting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gallant,
G as in Gallant (v. t.) To attend or wait on, as a lady; as, to gallant ladies to the play.,
G as in Gallant (v. t.) To handle with grace or in a modish manner; as, to gallant a fan.,
G as in Gallantly (adv.) In a polite or courtly manner; like a gallant or wooer.,
G as in Gallantly (adv.) In a gallant manner.,
G as in Gallantness (n.) The quality of being gallant.,
G as in Gallantries (pl. ) of Gallantry,
G as in Gallantry (n.) Splendor of appearance; ostentatious finery.,
G as in Gallantry (n.) Bravery; intrepidity; as, the troops behaved with great gallantry.,
G as in Gallantry (n.) Civility or polite attention to ladies; in a bad sense, attention or courtesy designed to win criminal favors from a female; freedom of principle or practice with respect to female virtue; intrigue.,
G as in Gallantry (n.) Gallant persons, collectively.,
G as in Gallate (n.) A salt of gallic acid.,
G as in Gallature (n.) The tread, treadle, or chalasa of an egg.,
G as in Galleass (n.) A large galley, having some features of the galleon, as broadside guns; esp., such a vessel used by the southern nations of Europe in the 16th and 17th centuries. See Galleon, and Galley.,
G as in Gallegan (n.) Alt. of Gallego,
G as in Gallego (n.) A native or inhabitant of Galicia, in Spain; a Galician.,
G as in Gallein (n.) A red crystalline dyestuff, obtained by heating together pyrogallic and phthalic acids.,
G as in Galleon (n.) A sailing vessel of the 15th and following centuries, often having three or four decks, and used for war or commerce. The term is often rather indiscriminately applied to any large sailing vessel.,
G as in Galleot (n.) See Galiot.,
G as in Galleries (pl. ) of Gallery,
G as in Gallery (a.) A long and narrow corridor, or place for walking; a connecting passageway, as between one room and another; also, a long hole or passage excavated by a boring or burrowing animal.,
G as in Gallery (a.) A room for the exhibition of works of art; as, a picture gallery; hence, also, a large or important collection of paintings, sculptures, etc.,
G as in Gallery (a.) A long and narrow platform attached to one or more sides of public hall or the interior of a church, and supported by brackets or columns; -- sometimes intended to be occupied by musicians or spectators, sometimes designed merely to increase the capacity of the hall.,
G as in Gallery (a.) A frame, like a balcony, projecting from the stern or quarter of a ship, and hence called stern gallery or quarter gallery, -- seldom found in vessels built since 1850.,
G as in Gallery (a.) Any communication which is covered overhead as well as at the sides. When prepared for defense, it is a defensive gallery.,
G as in Gallery (a.) A working drift or level.,
G as in Galletyle (n.) A little tile of glazed earthenware.,
G as in Galleys (pl. ) of Galley,
G as in Galley (n.) A vessel propelled by oars, whether having masts and sails or not,
G as in Galley (n.) A large vessel for war and national purposes; -- common in the Middle Ages, and down to the 17th century.,
G as in Galley (n.) A name given by analogy to the Greek, Roman, and other ancient vessels propelled by oars.,
G as in Galley (n.) A light, open boat used on the Thames by customhouse officers, press gangs, and also for pleasure.,
G as in Galley (n.) One of the small boats carried by a man-of-war.,
G as in Galley (n.) The cookroom or kitchen and cooking apparatus of a vessel; -- sometimes on merchant vessels called the caboose.,
G as in Galley (n.) An oblong oven or muffle with a battery of retorts; a gallery furnace.,
G as in Galley (n.) An oblong tray of wood or brass, with upright sides, for holding type which has been set, or is to be made up, etc.,
G as in Galley (n.) A proof sheet taken from type while on a galley; a galley proof.,
G as in Galley-bird (n.) The European green woodpecker; also, the spotted woodpecker.,
G as in Galley-worm (n.) A chilognath myriapod of the genus Iulus, and allied genera, having numerous short legs along the sides; a milliped or "thousand legs." See Chilognatha.,
G as in Gallflies (pl. ) of Gallfly,
G as in Gallfly (n.) An insect that deposits its eggs in plants, and occasions galls, esp. any small hymenopteran of the genus Cynips and allied genera. See Illust. of Gall.,
G as in Gallyambic (a.) Consisting of two iambic dimeters catalectic, the last of which lacks the final syllable; -- said of a kind of verse.,
G as in Gallian (a.) Gallic; French.,
G as in Galliard (a.) Gay; brisk; active.,
G as in Galliard (n.) A brisk, gay man.,
G as in Galliard (a.) A gay, lively dance. Cf. Gailliarde.,
G as in Galliardise (a.) Excessive gayety; merriment.,
G as in Galliardness (n.) Gayety.,
G as in Galliass (n.) Same as Galleass.,
G as in Gallic (a.) Pertaining to, or containing, gallium.,
G as in Gallic (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, galls, nutgalls, and the like.,
G as in Gallic (a.) Pertaining to Gaul or France; Gallican.,
G as in Gallican (a.) Of or pertaining to Gaul or France; Gallic; French; as, the Gallican church or clergy.,
G as in Gallican (n.) An adherent to, and supporter of, Gallicanism.,
G as in Gallicanism (n.) The principles, tendencies, or action of those, within the Roman Catholic Church in France, who (esp. in 1682) sought to restrict the papal authority in that country and increase the power of the national church.,
G as in Gallicism (n.) A mode of speech peculiar to the French; a French idiom; also, in general, a French mode or custom.,
G as in Gallicized (imp. & p. p.) of Gallicize,
G as in Gallicizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gallicize,
G as in Gallicize (v. t.) To conform to the French mode or idiom.,
G as in Gallied (p. p. & a.) Worried; flurried; frightened.,
G as in Galliform (a.) Like the Gallinae (or Galliformes) in structure.,
G as in Galligaskins (n. pl.) Loose hose or breeches; leather leg quards. The word is used loosely and often in a jocose sense.,
G as in Gallimatia (n.) Senseless talk. [Obs. or R.] See Galimatias.,
G as in Gallimaufries (pl. ) of Gallimaufry,
G as in Gallimaufry (n.) A hash of various kinds of meats, a ragout.,
G as in Gallimaufry (n.) Any absurd medley; a hotchpotch.,
G as in Gallin (n.) A substance obtained by the reduction of gallein.,
G as in Gallinaceae (n. pl.) Same as Gallinae.,
G as in Gallinacean (n.) One of the Gallinae or gallinaceous birds.,
G as in Gallinaceous (a.) Resembling the domestic fowls and pheasants; of or pertaining to the Gallinae.,
G as in Gallinae (n.) An order of birds, including the common domestic fowls, pheasants, grouse, quails, and allied forms; -- sometimes called Rasores.,
G as in Galling (a.) Fitted to gall or chafe; vexing; harassing; irritating.,
G as in Gallinipper (n.) A large mosquito.,
G as in Gallinule (n.) One of several wading birds, having long, webless toes, and a frontal shield, belonging to the family Rallidae. They are remarkable for running rapidly over marshes and on floating plants. The purple gallinule of America is Ionornis Martinica, that of the Old World is Porphyrio porphyrio. The common European gallinule (Gallinula chloropus) is also called moor hen, water hen, water rail, moor coot, night bird, and erroneously dabchick. Closely related to it is the Florida gallinule (Gallinula galeata).,
G as in Galliot (n.) See Galiot.,
G as in Gallipoli oil () An inferior kind of olive oil, brought from Gallipoli, in Italy.,
G as in Gallipot (n.) A glazed earthen pot or vessel, used by druggists and apothecaries for containing medicines, etc.,
G as in Gallium (n.) A rare metallic element, found in certain zinc ores. It is white, hard, and malleable, resembling aluminium, and remarcable for its low melting point (86/ F., 30/C). Symbol Ga. Atomic weight 69.9.,
G as in Gallivant (v. i.) To play the beau; to wait upon the ladies; also, to roam about for pleasure without any definite plan.,
G as in Gallivat (n.) A small armed vessel, with sails and oars, -- used on the Malabar coast.,
G as in Galliwasp (n.) A West Indian lizard (Celestus occiduus), about a foot long, imagined by the natives to be venomous.,
G as in Gallnut (n.) A round gall produced on the leaves and shoots of various species of the oak tree. See Gall, and Nutgall.,
G as in Gallomania (n.) An excessive admiration of what is French.,
G as in Gallon (n.) A measure of capacity, containing four quarts; -- used, for the most part, in liquid measure, but sometimes in dry measure.,
G as in Galloon (n.) A narrow tapelike fabric used for binding hats, shoes, etc., -- sometimes made ornamental.,
G as in Galloon (n.) A similar bordering or binding of rich material, such as gold lace.,
G as in Gallooned (a.) Furnished or adorned with galloon.,
G as in Galloped (imp. & p. p.) of Gallop,
G as in Galloping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gallop,
G as in Gallop (v. i.) To move or run in the mode called a gallop; as a horse; to go at a gallop; to run or move with speed.,
G as in Gallop (v. i.) To ride a horse at a gallop.,
G as in Gallop (v. i.) Fig.: To go rapidly or carelessly, as in making a hasty examination.,
G as in Gallop (v. t.) To cause to gallop.,
G as in Gallop (v. i.) A mode of running by a quadruped, particularly by a horse, by lifting alternately the fore feet and the hind feet, in successive leaps or bounds.,
G as in Gallopade (n.) I horsemanship, a sidelong or curveting kind of gallop.,
G as in Gallopade (n.) A kind of dance; also, music to the dance; a galop.,
G as in Gallopaded (imp. & p. p.) of Gallopade,
G as in Gallopading (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gallopade,
G as in Gallopade (v. i.) To gallop, as on horseback.,
G as in Gallopade (v. i.) To perform the dance called gallopade.,
G as in Galloper (n.) One who, or that which, gallops.,
G as in Galloper (n.) A carriage on which very small guns were formerly mounted, the gun resting on the shafts, without a limber.,
G as in Gallopin (v. i.) An under servant for the kitchen; a scullion; a cook's errand boy.,
G as in Galloping (a.) Going at a gallop; progressing rapidly; as, a galloping horse.,
G as in Gallotannic (a.) Pertaining to the tannin or nutgalls.,
G as in Gallow (v. t.) To fright or terrify. See Gally, v. t.,
G as in Galloway (n.) A small horse of a breed raised at Galloway, Scotland; -- called also garran, and garron.,
G as in Gallowglass (n.) A heavy-armed foot soldier from Ireland and the Western Isles in the time of Edward /,
G as in Gallowses (pl. ) of Gallows,
G as in Gallows (pl. ) of Gallows,
G as in Gallows (n. sing.) A frame from which is suspended the rope with which criminals are executed by hanging, usually consisting of two upright posts and a crossbeam on the top; also, a like frame for suspending anything.,
G as in Gallows (n. sing.) A wretch who deserves the gallows.,
G as in Gallows (n. sing.) The rest for the tympan when raised.,
G as in Gallows (n. sing.) A pair of suspenders or braces.,
G as in Gallstone (n.) A concretion, or calculus, formed in the gall bladder or biliary passages. See Calculus, n., 1.,
G as in Gally (v. t.) To frighten; to worry.,
G as in Gally (a.) Like gall; bitter as gall.,
G as in Gally (n.) See Galley, n., 4.,
G as in Gallygaskins (n. pl.) See Galligaskins.,
G as in Galoche () Alt. of Galoshe,
G as in Galoshe () A clog or patten.,
G as in Galoshe () Hence: An overshoe worn in wet weather.,
G as in Galoshe () A gaiter, or legging, covering the upper part of the shoe and part of the leg.,
G as in Galoot (n.) A noisy, swaggering, or worthless fellow; a rowdy.,
G as in Galop (n.) A kind of lively dance, in 2-4 time; also, the music to the dance.,
G as in Galore (n. & a.) Plenty; abundance; in abundance.,
G as in Galoshe (n.) Same as Galoche.,
G as in Galpe (v. i.) To gape,; to yawn.,
G as in Galsome (a.) Angry; malignant.,
G as in Galt (n.) Same as Gault.,
G as in Galvanic (a.) Of or pertaining to, or exhibiting the phenomena of, galvanism; employing or producing electrical currents.,
G as in Galvanism (n.) Electricity excited by the mutual action of certain liquids and metals; dynamical electricity.,
G as in Galvanism (n.) The branch of physical science which treats of dynamical elecricity, or the properties and effects of electrical currents.,
G as in Galvanist (n.) One versed in galvanism.,
G as in Galvanization (n.) The act of process of galvanizing.,
G as in Galvanized (imp. & p. p.) of Galvanize,
G as in Galvanizing (p pr. & vb. n.) of Galvanize,
G as in Galvanize (v. t.) To affect with galvanism; to subject to the action of electrical currents.,
G as in Galvanize (v. t.) To plate, as with gold, silver, etc., by means of electricity.,
G as in Galvanize (v. t.) To restore to consciousness by galvanic action (as from a state of suspended animation); hence, to stimulate or excite to a factitious animation or activity.,
G as in Galvanize (v. t.) To coat, as iron, with zinc. See Galvanized iron.,
G as in Galvanizer (n.) One who, or that which, galvanize.,
G as in Galvanocaustic (a.) Relating to the use of galvanic heat as a caustic, especially in medicine.,
G as in Galvanocautery (n.) Cautery effected by a knife or needle heated by the passage of a galvanic current.,
G as in Galvanoglyphy (n.) Same as Glyphography.,
G as in Galvanograph (n.) A copperplate produced by the method of galvanography; also, a picture printed from such a plate.,
G as in Galvanographic (a.) Of or pertaining to galvanography.,
G as in Galvanography (n.) The art or process of depositing metals by electricity; electrotypy.,
G as in Galvanography (n.) A method of producing by means of electrotyping process (without etching) copperplates which can be printed from in the same manner as engraved plates.,
G as in Galvanologist (n.) One who describes the phenomena of galvanism; a writer on galvanism.,
G as in Galvanology (n.) A treatise on galvanism, or a description of its phenomena.,
G as in Galvanometer (n.) An instrument or apparatus for measuring the intensity of an electric current, usually by the deflection of a magnetic needle.,
G as in Galvanometric (a.) Of, pertaining to, or measured by, a galvanometer.,
G as in Galvanometry (n.) The art or process of measuring the force of electric currents.,
G as in Galvanoplastic (a.) Of or pertaining to the art or process of electrotyping; employing, or produced by, the process of electolytic deposition; as, a galvano-plastic copy of a medal or the like.,
G as in Galvanoplasty (n.) The art or process of electrotypy.,
G as in Galvanopuncture (n.) Same as Electro-puncture.,
G as in Galvanoscope (n.) An instrument or apparatus for detecting the presence of electrical currents, especially such as are of feeble intensity.,
G as in Galvanoscopic (a.) Of or pertaining to a galvanoscope.,
G as in Galvanoscopy (n.) The use of galvanism in physiological experiments.,
G as in Galvanotonus (n.) Same as Electrotonus.,
G as in Galvanotropism (n.) The tendency of a root to place its axis in the line of a galvanic current.,
G as in Galwes (n.) Gallows.,
G as in Gama grass () A species of grass (Tripsacum dactyloides) tall, stout, and exceedingly productive; cultivated in the West Indies, Mexico, and the Southern States of North America as a forage grass; -- called also sesame grass.,
G as in Gamashes (n. pl.) High boots or buskins; in Scotland, short spatterdashes or riding trousers, worn over the other clothing.,
G as in Gamba (n.) A viola da gamba.,
G as in Gambadoes (n.) Same as Gamashes.,
G as in Gambeson (n.) Same as Gambison.,
G as in Gambet (n.) Any bird of the genuis Totanus. See Tattler.,
G as in Gambier (n.) The inspissated juice of a plant (Uncaria Gambir) growing in Malacca. It is a powerful astringent, and, under the name of Terra Japonica, is used for chewing with the Areca nut, and is exported for tanning and dyeing.,
G as in Gambier (n.) Catechu.,
G as in Gambison (n.) A defensive garment formerly in use for the body, made of cloth stuffed and quilted.,
G as in Gambist (n.) A performer upon the viola di gamba. See under Viola.,
G as in Gambit (n.) A mode of opening the game, in which a pawn is sacrificed to gain an attacking position.,
G as in Gambled (imp. & p. p.) of Gamble,
G as in Gambling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gamble,
G as in Gamble (v. i.) To play or game for money or other stake.,
G as in Gamble (v. t.) To lose or squander by gaming; -- usually with away.,
G as in Gambler (n.) One who gambles.,
G as in Gamboge (n.) A concrete juice, or gum resin, produced by several species of trees in Siam, Ceylon, and Malabar. It is brought in masses, or cylindrical rolls, from Cambodia, or Cambogia, -- whence its name. The best kind is of a dense, compact texture, and of a beatiful reddish yellow. Taking internally, it is a strong and harsh cathartic and emetic.,
G as in Gambogian (a.) Alt. of Gambogic,
G as in Gambogic (a.) Pertaining to, resembling, or containing, gamboge.,
G as in Gambol (n.) A skipping or leaping about in frolic; a hop; a sportive prank.,
G as in Gamboled (imp. & p. p.) of Gambol,
G as in Gambolled () of Gambol,
G as in Gamboling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gambol,
G as in Gambolling () of Gambol,
G as in Gambol (v. i.) To dance and skip about in sport; to frisk; to skip; to play in frolic, like boys or lambs.,
G as in Gambrel (n.) The hind leg of a horse.,
G as in Gambrel (n.) A stick crooked like a horse's hind leg; -- used by butchers in suspending slaughtered animals.,
G as in Gambrel (v. t.) To truss or hang up by means of a gambrel.,
G as in Gambroon (n.) A kind of twilled linen cloth for lining.,
G as in Game (n.) Crooked; lame; as, a game leg.,
G as in Game (v. i.) Sport of any kind; jest, frolic.,
G as in Game (v. i.) A contest, physical or mental, according to certain rules, for amusement, recreation, or for winning a stake; as, a game of chance; games of skill; field games, etc.,
G as in Game (v. i.) The use or practice of such a game; a single match at play; a single contest; as, a game at cards.,
G as in Game (v. i.) That which is gained, as the stake in a game; also, the number of points necessary to be scored in order to win a game; as, in short whist five points are game.,
G as in Game (v. i.) In some games, a point credited on the score to the player whose cards counts up the highest.,
G as in Game (v. i.) A scheme or art employed in the pursuit of an object or purpose; method of procedure; projected line of operations; plan; project.,
G as in Game (v. i.) Animals pursued and taken by sportsmen; wild meats designed for, or served at, table.,
G as in Game (a.) Having a resolute, unyielding spirit, like the gamecock; ready to fight to the last; plucky.,
G as in Game (a.) Of or pertaining to such animals as are hunted for game, or to the act or practice of hunting.,
G as in Gamed (imp. & p. p.) of Game,
G as in Gaming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Game,
G as in Game (n.) To rejoice; to be pleased; -- often used, in Old English, impersonally with dative.,
G as in Game (n.) To play at any sport or diversion.,
G as in Game (n.) To play for a stake or prize; to use cards, dice, billiards, or other instruments, according to certain rules, with a view to win money or other thing waged upon the issue of the contest; to gamble.,
G as in Gamecock (n.) The male game fowl.,
G as in Game fowl () A handsome breed of the common fowl, remarkable for the great courage and pugnacity of the males.,
G as in Gameful (a.) Full of game or games.,
G as in Gamekeeper (n.) One who has the care of game, especially in a park or preserve.,
G as in Gameless (a.) Destitute of game.,
G as in Gamely (adv.) In a plucky manner; spiritedly.,
G as in Gameness (n.) Endurance; pluck.,
G as in Gamesome (a.) Gay; sportive; playful; frolicsome; merry.,
G as in Gamester (n.) A merry, frolicsome person.,
G as in Gamester (n.) A person who plays at games; esp., one accustomed to play for a stake; a gambler; one skilled in games.,
G as in Gamester (n.) A prostitute; a strumpet.,
G as in Gamic (a.) Pertaining to, or resulting from, sexual connection; formed by the union of the male and female elements.,
G as in Gamin (n.) A neglected and untrained city boy; a young street Arab.,
G as in Gaming (n.) The act or practice of playing games for stakes or wagers; gambling.,
G as in Gamma (n.) The third letter (/, / = Eng. G) of the Greek alphabet.,
G as in Gammadion (n.) A cross formed of four capital gammas, formerly used as a mysterious ornament on ecclesiastical vestments, etc. See Fylfot.,
G as in Gammer (n.) An old wife; an old woman; -- correlative of gaffer, an old man.,
G as in Gammon (n.) The buttock or thigh of a hog, salted and smoked or dried; the lower end of a flitch.,
G as in Gammoned (imp. & p. p.) of Gammon,
G as in Gammoning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gammon,
G as in Gammon (v. t.) To make bacon of; to salt and dry in smoke.,
G as in Gammon (n.) Backgammon.,
G as in Gammon (n.) An imposition or hoax; humbug.,
G as in Gammon (v. t.) To beat in the game of backgammon, before an antagonist has been able to get his "men" or counters home and withdraw any of them from the board; as, to gammon a person.,
G as in Gammon (v. t.) To impose on; to hoax; to cajole.,
G as in Gammon (v. t.) To fasten (a bowsprit) to the stem of a vessel by lashings of rope or chain, or by a band of iron.,
G as in Gammoning (n.) The lashing or iron band by which the bowsprit of a vessel is secured to the stem to opposite the lifting action of the forestays.,
G as in Gammoning (n.) The act of imposing upon or hoaxing a person.,
G as in Gamogenesis (n.) The production of offspring by the union of parents of different sexes; sexual reproduction; -- the opposite of agamogenesis.,
G as in Gamogenetic (a.) Relating to gamogenesis.,
G as in Gamomorphism (n.) That stage of growth or development in an organism, in which the reproductive elements are generated and matured in preparation for propagating the species.,
G as in Gamopetalous (a.) Having the petals united or joined so as to form a tube or cup; monopetalous.,
G as in Gamophyllous (a.) Composed of leaves united by their edges (coalescent).,
G as in Gamosepalous (a.) Formed of united sepals; monosepalous.,
G as in Gamut (n.) The scale.,
G as in Gamy (a.) Having the flavor of game, esp. of game kept uncooked till near the condition of tainting; high-flavored.,
G as in Gamy (a.) Showing an unyielding spirit to the last; plucky; furnishing sport; as, a gamy trout.,
G as in Gan (v.) Began; commenced.,
G as in Ganch (n.) To drop from a high place upon sharp stakes or hooks, as the Turks dropped malefactors, by way of punishment.,
G as in Gander (n.) The male of any species of goose.,
G as in Gane (v. i.) To yawn; to gape.,
G as in Ganesa (n.) The Hindoo god of wisdom or prudence.,
G as in Gang (v. i.) To go; to walk.,
G as in Gang (v. i.) A going; a course.,
G as in Gang (v. i.) A number going in company; hence, a company, or a number of persons associated for a particular purpose; a group of laborers under one foreman; a squad; as, a gang of sailors; a chain gang; a gang of thieves.,
G as in Gang (v. i.) A combination of similar implements arranged so as, by acting together, to save time or labor; a set; as, a gang of saws, or of plows.,
G as in Gang (v. i.) A set; all required for an outfit; as, a new gang of stays.,
G as in Gang (v. i.) The mineral substance which incloses a vein; a matrix; a gangue.,
G as in Ganger (n.) One who oversees a gang of workmen.,
G as in Gangetic (a.) Pertaining to, or inhabiting, the Ganges; as, the Gangetic shark.,
G as in Gang-flower (n.) The common English milkwort (Polygala vulgaris), so called from blossoming in gang week.,
G as in Gangion (n.) A short line attached to a trawl. See Trawl, n.,
G as in Gangliac (a.) Alt. of Ganglial,
G as in Ganglial (a.) Relating to a ganglion; ganglionic.,
G as in Gangliate (a.) Alt. of Gangliated,
G as in Gangliated (a.) Furnished with ganglia; as, the gangliated cords of the sympathetic nervous system.,
G as in Gangliform (a.) Alt. of Ganglioform,
G as in Ganglioform (a.) Having the form of a ganglion.,
G as in Ganglia (pl. ) of Ganglion,
G as in Ganglions (pl. ) of Ganglion,
G as in Ganglion (n.) A mass or knot of nervous matter, including nerve cells, usually forming an enlargement in the course of a nerve.,
G as in Ganglion (n.) A node, or gland in the lymphatic system; as, a lymphatic ganglion.,
G as in Ganglion (n.) A globular, hard, indolent tumor, situated somewhere on a tendon, and commonly formed by the effusion of a viscid fluid into it; -- called also weeping sinew.,
G as in Ganglionary (a.) Ganglionic.,
G as in Ganglionic (a.) Pertaining to, containing, or consisting of, ganglia or ganglion cells; as, a ganglionic artery; the ganglionic columns of the spinal cord.,
G as in Gangrel (v. i.) Wandering; vagrant.,
G as in Gangrenate (v. t.) To gangrene.,
G as in Gangrene (n.) A term formerly restricted to mortification of the soft tissues which has not advanced so far as to produce complete loss of vitality; but now applied to mortification of the soft parts in any stage.,
G as in Gangrened (imp. & p. p.) of Gangrene,
G as in Gangrening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gangrene,
G as in Gangrene (v. t. & i.) To produce gangrene in; to be affected with gangrene.,
G as in Gangrenescent (a.) Tending to mortification or gangrene.,
G as in Gangrenous (a.) Affected by, or produced by, gangrene; of the nature of gangrene.,
G as in Gangue (n.) The mineral or earthy substance associated with metallic ore.,
G as in Gangway (v. i.) A passage or way into or out of any inclosed place; esp., a temporary way of access formed of planks.,
G as in Gangway (v. i.) In the English House of Commons, a narrow aisle across the house, below which sit those who do not vote steadly either with the government or with the opposition.,
G as in Gangway (v. i.) The opening through the bulwarks of a vessel by which persons enter or leave it.,
G as in Gangway (v. i.) That part of the spar deck of a vessel on each side of the booms, from the quarter-deck to the forecastle; -- more properly termed the waist.,
G as in Ganil (n.) A kind of brittle limestone.,
G as in Ganister (n.) Alt. of Gannister,
G as in Gannister (n.) A refractory material consisting of crushed or ground siliceous stone, mixed with fire clay; -- used for lining Bessemer converters; also used for macadamizing roads.,
G as in Ganja (n.) The dried hemp plant, used in India for smoking. It is extremely narcotic and intoxicating.,
G as in Gannet (n.) One of several species of sea birds of the genus Sula, allied to the pelicans.,
G as in Ganocephala (n. pl.) A group of fossil amphibians allied to the labyrinthodonts, having the head defended by bony, sculptured plates, as in some ganoid fishes.,
G as in Ganocephalous (a.) Of or pertaining to the Ganocephala.,
G as in Ganoid (a.) Of or pertaining to Ganoidei. -- n. One of the Ganoidei.,
G as in Ganoidal (a.) Ganoid.,
G as in Ganoidei (n. pl.) One of the subclasses of fishes. They have an arterial cone and bulb, spiral intestinal valve, and the optic nerves united by a chiasma. Many of the species are covered with bony plates, or with ganoid scales; others have cycloid scales.,
G as in Ganoidian (a. & n.) Ganoid.,
G as in Ganoine (n.) A peculiar bony tissue beneath the enamel of a ganoid scale.,
G as in Gansa (n.) Same as Ganza.,
G as in Gantlet (n.) A military punishment formerly in use, wherein the offender was made to run between two files of men facing one another, who struck him as he passed.,
G as in Gantlet (n.) A glove. See Gauntlet.,
G as in Gantline (n.) A line rigged to a mast; -- used in hoisting rigging; a girtline.,
G as in Gantlope (n.) See Gantlet.,
G as in Gantry (n.) See Gauntree.,
G as in Ganza (n.) A kind of wild goose, by a flock of which a virtuoso was fabled to be carried to the lunar world.,
G as in Gaol (n.) A place of confinement, especially for minor offenses or provisional imprisonment; a jail.,
G as in Gaoler (n.) The keeper of a jail. See Jailer.,
G as in Gap (n.) An opening in anything made by breaking or parting; as, a gap in a fence; an opening for a passage or entrance; an opening which implies a breach or defect; a vacant space or time; a hiatus; a mountain pass.,
G as in Gap (v. t.) To notch, as a sword or knife.,
G as in Gap (v. t.) To make an opening in; to breach.,
G as in Gaped (imp. & p. p.) of Gape,
G as in Gaping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gape,
G as in Gape (v. i.) To open the mouth wide,
G as in Gape (v. i.) Expressing a desire for food; as, young birds gape.,
G as in Gape (v. i.) Indicating sleepiness or indifference; to yawn.,
G as in Gape (v. i.) To pen or part widely; to exhibit a gap, fissure, or hiatus.,
G as in Gape (v. i.) To long, wait eagerly, or cry aloud for something; -- with for, after, or at.,
G as in Gape (n.) The act of gaping; a yawn.,
G as in Gape (n.) The width of the mouth when opened, as of birds, fishes, etc.,
G as in The gapes () A fit of yawning.,
G as in The gapes () A disease of young poultry and other birds, attended with much gaping. It is caused by a parasitic nematode worm (Syngamus trachealis), in the windpipe, which obstructs the breathing. See Gapeworm.,
G as in Gaper (n.) One who gapes.,
G as in Gaper (n.) A European fish. See 4th Comber.,
G as in Gaper (n.) A large edible clam (Schizothaerus Nuttalli), of the Pacific coast; -- called also gaper clam.,
G as in Gaper (n.) An East Indian bird of the genus Cymbirhynchus, related to the broadbills.,
G as in Gapeseed (n.) Any strange sight.,
G as in Gapesing (n.) Act of gazing about; sightseeing.,
G as in Gapeworm (n.) The parasitic worm that causes the gapes in birds. See Illustration in Appendix.,
G as in Gapingstock (n.) One who is an object of open-mouthed wonder.,
G as in Gap-toothed (a.) Having interstices between the teeth.,
G as in Gar (v.) Any slender marine fish of the genera Belone and Tylosurus. See Garfish.,
G as in Gar (v.) The gar pike. See Alligator gar (under Alligator), and Gar pike.,
G as in Gar (n.) To cause; to make.,
G as in Garancin (n.) An extract of madder by sulphuric acid. It consists essentially of alizarin.,
G as in Garb (n.) Clothing in general.,
G as in Garb (n.) The whole dress or suit of clothes worn by any person, especially when indicating rank or office; as, the garb of a clergyman or a judge.,
G as in Garb (n.) Costume; fashion; as, the garb of a gentleman in the 16th century.,
G as in Garb (n.) External appearance, as expressive of the feelings or character; looks; fashion or manner, as of speech.,
G as in Garb (n.) A sheaf of grain (wheat, unless otherwise specified).,
G as in Garb (v. t.) To clothe; array; deck.,
G as in Garbage (n.) Offal, as the bowels of an animal or fish; refuse animal or vegetable matter from a kitchen; hence, anything worthless, disgusting, or loathsome.,
G as in Garbage (v. t.) To strip of the bowels; to clean.,
G as in Garbed (a.) Dressed; habited; clad.,
G as in Garbel (n.) Same as Garboard.,
G as in Garbel (v. t.) Anything sifted, or from which the coarse parts have been taken.,
G as in Garbled (imp. & p. p.) of Garble,
G as in Garbling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Garble,
G as in Garble (v. t.) To sift or bolt, to separate the fine or valuable parts of from the coarse and useless parts, or from dros or dirt; as, to garble spices.,
G as in Garble (v. t.) To pick out such parts of as may serve a purpose; to mutilate; to pervert; as, to garble a quotation; to garble an account.,
G as in Garble (n.) Refuse; rubbish.,
G as in Garble (n.) Impurities separated from spices, drugs, etc.; -- also called garblings.,
G as in Garbler (n.) One who garbles.,
G as in Garboard (n.) One of the planks next the keel on the outside, which form a garboard strake.,
G as in Garboil (n.) Tumult; disturbance; disorder.,
G as in Garcinia (n.) A genus of plants, including the mangosteen tree (Garcinia Mangostana), found in the islands of the Indian Archipelago; -- so called in honor of Dr. Garcin.,
G as in Gard (n.) Garden.,
G as in Gard (v. & n.) See Guard.,
G as in Gardant (a.) Turning the head towards the spectator, but not the body; -- said of a lion or other beast.,
G as in Garden (n.) A piece of ground appropriated to the cultivation of herbs, fruits, flowers, or vegetables.,
G as in Garden (n.) A rich, well-cultivated spot or tract of country.,
G as in Gardened (imp. & p. p.) of Garden,
G as in Gardening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Garden,
G as in Garden (v. i.) To lay out or cultivate a garden; to labor in a garden; to practice horticulture.,
G as in Garden (v. t.) To cultivate as a garden.,
G as in Gardener (n.) One who makes and tends a garden; a horticulturist.,
G as in Gardenia (n.) A genus of plants, some species of which produce beautiful and fragrant flowers; Cape jasmine; -- so called in honor of Dr. Alexander Garden.,
G as in Gardening (n.) The art of occupation of laying out and cultivating gardens; horticulture.,
G as in Gardenless (a.) Destitute of a garden.,
G as in Gardenly (a.) Like a garden.,
G as in Gardenship (n.) Horticulture.,
G as in Gardon (n.) A European cyprinoid fish; the id.,
G as in Gardyloo (n.) An old cry in throwing water, slops, etc., from the windows in Edingburgh.,
G as in Gare (n.) Coarse wool on the legs of sheep.,
G as in Garefowl (n.) The great auk; also, the razorbill. See Auk.,
G as in Garfish (n.) A European marine fish (Belone vulgaris); -- called also gar, gerrick, greenback, greenbone, gorebill, hornfish, longnose, mackerel guide, sea needle, and sea pike.,
G as in Garfish (n.) One of several species of similar fishes of the genus Tylosurus, of which one species (T. marinus) is common on the Atlantic coast. T. Caribbaeus, a very large species, and T. crassus, are more southern; -- called also needlefish. Many of the common names of the European garfish are also applied to the American species.,
G as in Gargalize (v. t.) To gargle; to rinse.,
G as in Garganey (n.) A small European duck (Anas querquedula); -- called also cricket teal, and summer teal.,
G as in Gargantuan (a.) Characteristic of Gargantua, a gigantic, wonderful personage; enormous; prodigious; inordinate.,
G as in Gargarism (n.) A gargle.,
G as in Gargarize (v. t.) To gargle; to rinse or wash, as the mouth and throat.,
G as in Garget (n.) The throat.,
G as in Garget (n.) A diseased condition of the udders of cows, etc., arising from an inflammation of the mammary glands.,
G as in Garget (n.) A distemper in hogs, indicated by staggering and loss of appetite.,
G as in Garget (n.) See Poke.,
G as in Gargil (n.) A distemper in geese, affecting the head.,
G as in Gargle (n.) See Gargoyle.,
G as in Garggled (imp. & p. p.) of Gargle,
G as in Gargling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gargle,
G as in Gargle (v. t.) To wash or rinse, as the mouth or throat, particular the latter, agitating the liquid (water or a medicinal preparation) by an expulsion of air from the lungs.,
G as in Gargle (v. t.) To warble; to sing as if gargling,
G as in Gargle (n.) A liquid, as water or some medicated preparation, used to cleanse the mouth and throat, especially for a medical effect.,
G as in Gargol (n.) A distemper in swine; garget.,
G as in Gargoulette (n.) A water cooler or jug with a handle and spout; a gurglet.,
G as in Gargoyle (n.) A spout projecting from the roof gutter of a building, often carved grotesquely.,
G as in Gargyle (n.) See Gargoyle.,
G as in Garibaldi (n.) A jacket worn by women; -- so called from its resemblance in shape to the red shirt worn by the Italians patriot Garibaldi.,
G as in Garibaldi (n.) A California market fish (Pomancentrus rubicundus) of a deep scarlet color.,
G as in Garish (a.) Showy; dazzling; ostentatious; attracting or exciting attention.,
G as in Garish (a.) Gay to extravagance; flighty.,
G as in Garland (n.) The crown of a king.,
G as in Garland (n.) A wreath of chaplet made of branches, flowers, or feathers, and sometimes of precious stones, to be worn on the head like a crown; a coronal; a wreath.,
G as in Garland (n.) The top; the thing most prized.,
G as in Garland (n.) A book of extracts in prose or poetry; an anthology.,
G as in Garland (n.) A sort of netted bag used by sailors to keep provision in.,
G as in Garland (n.) A grommet or ring of rope lashed to a spar for convenience in handling.,
G as in Garlanded (imp. & p. p.) of Garland,
G as in Garlanding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Garland,
G as in Garland (v. t.) To deck with a garland.,
G as in Garlandless (a.) Destitute of a garland.,
G as in Garlic (n.) A plant of the genus Allium (A. sativum is the cultivated variety), having a bulbous root, a very strong smell, and an acrid, pungent taste. Each root is composed of several lesser bulbs, called cloves of garlic, inclosed in a common membranous coat, and easily separable.,
G as in Garlic (n.) A kind of jig or farce.,
G as in Garlicky (a.) Like or containing garlic.,
G as in Garment (n.) Any article of clothing, as a coat, a gown, etc.,
G as in Garmented (p. a.) Having on a garment; attired; enveloped, as with a garment.,
G as in Garmenture (n.) Clothing; dress.,
G as in Garner (n.) A granary; a building or place where grain is stored for preservation.,
G as in Garnered (imp. & p. p.) of Garner,
G as in Garnering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Garner,
G as in Garner (v. t.) To gather for preservation; to store, as in a granary; to treasure.,
G as in Garnet (n.) A mineral having many varieties differing in color and in their constituents, but with the same crystallization (isometric), and conforming to the same general chemical formula. The commonest color is red, the luster is vitreous, and the hardness greater than that of quartz. The dodecahedron and trapezohedron are the common forms.,
G as in Garnet (n.) A tackle for hoisting cargo in our out.,
G as in Garnetiferous (a.) Containing garnets.,
G as in Garnierite (n.) An amorphous mineral of apple-green color; a hydrous silicate of nickel and magnesia. It is an important ore of nickel.,
G as in Garnished (imp. & p. p.) of Garnish,
G as in Garnishing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Garnish,
G as in Garnish (v. t.) To decorate with ornamental appendages; to set off; to adorn; to embellish.,
G as in Garnish (v. t.) To ornament, as a dish, with something laid about it; as, a dish garnished with parsley.,
G as in Garnish (v. t.) To furnish; to supply.,
G as in Garnish (v. t.) To fit with fetters.,
G as in Garnish (v. t.) To warn by garnishment; to give notice to; to garnishee. See Garnishee, v. t.,
G as in Garnish (n.) Something added for embellishment; decoration; ornament; also, dress; garments, especially such as are showy or decorated.,
G as in Garnish (n.) Something set round or upon a dish as an embellishment. See Garnish, v. t., 2.,
G as in Garnish (v. t.) Fetters.,
G as in Garnish (v. t.) A fee; specifically, in English jails, formerly an unauthorized fee demanded by the old prisoners of a newcomer.,
G as in Garnishee (n.) One who is garnished; a person upon whom garnishment has been served in a suit by a creditor against a debtor, such person holding property belonging to the debtor, or owing him money.,
G as in Garnisheed (imp. & p. p.) of Garnishee,
G as in Garnisheeing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Garnishee,
G as in Garnishee (v. t.) To make (a person) a garnishee; to warn by garnishment; to garnish.,
G as in Garnishee (v. t.) To attach (the fund or property sought to be secured by garnishment); to trustee.,
G as in Garnisher (n.) One who, or that which, garnishes.,
G as in Garnishment (n.) Ornament; embellishment; decoration.,
G as in Garnishment (n.) Warning, or legal notice, to one to appear and give information to the court on any matter.,
G as in Garnishment (n.) Warning to a person in whose hands the effects of another are attached, not to pay the money or deliver the goods to the defendant, but to appear in court and give information as garnishee.,
G as in Garnishment (n.) A fee. See Garnish, n., 4.,
G as in Garniture (v. t.) That which garnishes; ornamental appendage; embellishment; furniture; dress.,
G as in Garookuh (n.) A small fishing vessel met with in the Persian Gulf.,
G as in Garous (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, garum.,
G as in Gar pike () Alt. of Garpike,
G as in Garpike () See under Gar.,
G as in Garran (n.) See Galloway.,
G as in Garret (n.) A turret; a watchtower.,
G as in Garret (n.) That part of a house which is on the upper floor, immediately under or within the roof; an attic.,
G as in Garreted (a.) Protected by turrets.,
G as in Garreteer (n.) One who lives in a garret; a poor author; a literary hack.,
G as in Garreting (n.) Small splinters of stone inserted into the joints of coarse masonry.,
G as in Garrison (n.) A body of troops stationed in a fort or fortified town.,
G as in Garrison (n.) A fortified place, in which troops are quartered for its security.,
G as in Garrisoned (imp. & p. p.) of Garrison,
G as in Garrisoning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Garrison,
G as in Garrison (v. t.) To place troops in, as a fortification, for its defense; to furnish with soldiers; as, to garrison a fort or town.,
G as in Garrison (v. t.) To secure or defend by fortresses manned with troops; as, to garrison a conquered territory.,
G as in Garron (n.) Same as Garran.,
G as in Garrot (n.) A stick or small wooden cylinder used for tightening a bandage, in order to compress the arteries of a limb.,
G as in Garrot (n.) The European golden-eye.,
G as in Garrote (n.) A Spanish mode of execution by strangulation, with an iron collar affixed to a post and tightened by a screw until life become extinct; also, the instrument by means of which the punishment is inflicted.,
G as in Garroted (imp. & p. p.) of Garrote,
G as in Garroting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Garrote,
G as in Garrote (v. t.) To strangle with the garrote; hence, to seize by the throat, from behind, with a view to strangle and rob.,
G as in Garroter (n.) One who seizes a person by the throat from behind, with a view to strangle and rob him.,
G as in Garrulity (n.) Talkativeness; loquacity.,
G as in Garrulous (a.) Talking much, especially about commonplace or trivial things; talkative; loquacious.,
G as in Garrulous (a.) Having a loud, harsh note; noisy; -- said of birds; as, the garrulous roller.,
G as in Garrupa (n.) One of several species of California market fishes, of the genus Sebastichthys; -- called also rockfish. See Rockfish.,
G as in Garter (n.) A band used to prevent a stocking from slipping down on the leg.,
G as in Garter (n.) The distinguishing badge of the highest order of knighthood in Great Britain, called the Order of the Garter, instituted by Edward III.; also, the Order itself.,
G as in Garter (n.) Same as Bendlet.,
G as in Gartered (imp. & p. p.) of Garter,
G as in Gartering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Garter,
G as in Garter (v. t.) To bind with a garter.,
G as in Garter (v. t.) To invest with the Order of the Garter.,
G as in Garth (n.) A close; a yard; a croft; a garden; as, a cloister garth.,
G as in Garth (n.) A dam or weir for catching fish.,
G as in Garth (n.) A hoop or band.,
G as in Garum (n.) A sauce made of small fish. It was prized by the ancients.,
G as in Garvie (n.) The sprat; -- called also garvie herring, and garvock.,
G as in Gases (pl. ) of Gas,
G as in Gas (n.) An aeriform fluid; -- a term used at first by chemists as synonymous with air, but since restricted to fluids supposed to be permanently elastic, as oxygen, hydrogen, etc., in distinction from vapors, as steam, which become liquid on a reduction of temperature. In present usage, since all of the supposed permanent gases have been liquified by cold and pressure, the term has resumed nearly its original signification, and is applied to any substance in the elastic or aeriform state.,
G as in Gas (n.) A complex mixture of gases, of which the most important constituents are marsh gas, olefiant gas, and hydrogen, artificially produced by the destructive distillation of gas coal, or sometimes of peat, wood, oil, resin, etc. It gives a brilliant light when burned, and is the common gas used for illuminating purposes.,
G as in Gas (n.) Laughing gas.,
G as in Gas (n.) Any irrespirable aeriform fluid.,
G as in Gasalier (n.) A chandelier arranged to burn gas.,
G as in Gas-burner (n.) The jet piece of a gas fixture where the gas is burned as it escapes from one or more minute orifices.,
G as in Gascoines (n. pl.) See Gaskins, 1.,
G as in Gascon (a.) Of or pertaining to Gascony, in France, or to the Gascons; also, braggart; swaggering.,
G as in Gascon (n.) A native of Gascony; a boaster; a bully. See Gasconade.,
G as in Gasconade (n.) A boast or boasting; a vaunt; a bravado; a bragging; braggodocio.,
G as in Gasconaded (imp. & p. p.) of Gasconade,
G as in Gasconading (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gasconade,
G as in Gasconade (v. i.) To boast; to brag; to bluster.,
G as in Gasconader (n.) A great boaster; a blusterer.,
G as in Gascoynes (n. pl.) Gaskins.,
G as in Gaseity (n.) State of being gaseous.,
G as in Gaseous (a.) In the form, or of the nature, of gas, or of an aeriform fluid.,
G as in Gaseous (a.) Lacking substance or solidity; tenuous.,
G as in Gashed (imp. & p. p.) of Gash,
G as in Gashing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gash,
G as in Gash (v. t.) To make a gash, or long, deep incision in; -- applied chiefly to incisions in flesh.,
G as in Gash (n.) A deep and long cut; an incision of considerable length and depth, particularly in flesh.,
G as in Gashful (a.) Full of gashes; hideous; frightful.,
G as in Gasification (n.) The act or process of converting into gas.,
G as in Gasiform (a.) Having a form of gas; gaseous.,
G as in Gasified (imp. & p. p.) of Gasify,
G as in Gasifying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gasify,
G as in Gasify (v. t.) To convert into gas, or an aeriform fluid, as by the application of heat, or by chemical processes.,
G as in Gasify (v. i.) To become gas; to pass from a liquid to a gaseous state.,
G as in Gasket (n.) A line or band used to lash a furled sail securely. Sea gaskets are common lines; harbor gaskets are plaited and decorated lines or bands. Called also casket.,
G as in Gasket (n.) The plaited hemp used for packing a piston, as of the steam engine and its pumps.,
G as in Gasket (n.) Any ring or washer of packing.,
G as in Gaskins (n.pl.) Loose hose or breeches; galligaskins.,
G as in Gaskins (n.pl.) Packing of hemp.,
G as in Gaskins (n.pl.) A horse's thighs.,
G as in Gaslight (n.) The light yielded by the combustion of illuminating gas.,
G as in Gaslight (n.) A gas jet or burner.,
G as in Gasogen (n.) An apparatus for the generation of gases, or for impregnating a liquid with a gas, or a gas with a volatile liquid.,
G as in Gasogen (n.) A volatile hydrocarbon, used as an illuminant, or for charging illuminating gas.,
G as in Gasolene (n.) See Gasoline.,
G as in Gasolier (n.) Same as Gasalier.,
G as in Gasoline (n.) A highly volatile mixture of fluid hydrocarbons, obtained from petroleum, as also by the distillation of bituminous coal. It is used in making air gas, and in giving illuminating power to water gas. See Carburetor.,
G as in Gasometer (n.) An apparatus for holding and measuring of gas; in gas works, a huge iron cylinder closed at one end and having the other end immersed in water, in which it is made to rise or fall, according to the volume of gas it contains, or the pressure required.,
G as in Gasometric (a.) Alt. of Gasometrical,
G as in Gasometrical (a.) Of or pertaining to the measurement of gases; as, gasometric analysis.,
G as in Gasometry (n.) The art or practice of measuring gases; also, the science which treats of the nature and properties of these elastic fluids.,
G as in Gasoscope (n.) An apparatus for detecting the presence of any dangerous gas, from a gas leak in a coal mine or a dwelling house.,
G as in Gasped (imp. & p. p.) of Gasp,
G as in Gasping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gasp,
G as in Gasp (v. i.) To open the mouth wide in catching the breath, or in laborious respiration; to labor for breath; to respire convulsively; to pant violently.,
G as in Gasp (v. i.) To pant with eagerness; to show vehement desire.,
G as in Gasp (v. t.) To emit or utter with gasps; -- with forth, out, away, etc.,
G as in Gasp (n.) The act of opening the mouth convulsively to catch the breath; a labored respiration; a painful catching of the breath.,
G as in Gaspereau (n.) The alewife.,
G as in Gasserian (a.) Relating to Casserio (L. Gasserius), the discover of the Gasserian ganglion.,
G as in Gassing (n.) The process of passing cotton goods between two rollers and exposing them to numerous minute jets of gas to burn off the small fibers; any similar process of singeing.,
G as in Gassing (n.) Boasting; insincere or empty talk.,
G as in Gassy (a.) Full of gas; like gas. Hence: [Colloq.] Inflated; full of boastful or insincere talk.,
G as in Gast (v. t.) To make aghast; to frighten; to terrify. See Aghast.,
G as in Gaster (v. t.) To gast.,
G as in Gasteromycetes (n. pl.) An order of fungi, in which the spores are borne inside a sac called the peridium, as in the puffballs.,
G as in Gasteropod (n.) Same as Gastropod.,
G as in Gasteropoda (n. pl.) Same as Gastropoda.,
G as in Gasteropodous (a.) Same as Gastropodous.,
G as in Gastful (a.) Alt. of Gastly,
G as in Gastly (a.) See Ghastful, Ghastly.,
G as in Gastight (a.) So tightly fitted as to preclude the escape of gas; impervious to gas.,
G as in Gastness (n.) See Ghastness.,
G as in Gastornis (n.) A genus of large eocene birds from the Paris basin.,
G as in Gastraea (n.) A primeval larval form; a double-walled sac from which, according to the hypothesis of Haeckel, man and all other animals, that in the first stages of their individual evolution pass through a two-layered structural stage, or gastrula form, must have descended. This idea constitutes the Gastraea theory of Haeckel. See Gastrula.,
G as in Gastralgia (n.) Pain in the stomach or epigastrium, as in gastric disorders.,
G as in Gastric (a.) Of, pertaining to, or situated near, the stomach; as, the gastric artery.,
G as in Gastriloquist (n.) One who appears to speak from his stomach; a ventriloquist.,
G as in Gastriloquous (a.) Ventriloquous.,
G as in Gastriloquy (n.) A voice or utterance which appears to proceed from the stomach; ventriloquy.,
G as in Gastritis (n.) Inflammation of the stomach, esp. of its mucuos membrane.,
G as in Gastro- () A combining form from the Gr. /, /, the stomach, or belly; as in gastrocolic, gastrocele, gastrotomy.,
G as in Gastrocnemius (n.) The muscle which makes the greater part of the calf of the leg.,
G as in Gastrocolic (a.) Pertaining to both the stomach and the colon; as, the gastrocolic, or great, omentum.,
G as in Gastrodisc (n.) That part of blastoderm where the hypoblast appears like a small disk on the inner face of the epibladst.,
G as in Gastroduodenal (a.) Pertaining to the stomach and duodenum; as, the gastroduodenal artery.,
G as in Gastroduodenitis (n.) Inflammation of the stomach and duodenum. It is one of the most frequent causes of jaundice.,
G as in Gastroelytrotomy (n.) The operation of cutting into the upper part of the vagina, through the abdomen (without opening the peritoneum), for the purpose of removing a fetus. It is a substitute for the Caesarean operation, and less dangerous.,
G as in Gastroenteric (a.) Gastrointestinal.,
G as in Gastroenteritis (n.) Inflammation of the lining membrane of the stomach and the intestines.,
G as in Gastroepiploic (a.) Of or pertaining to the stomach and omentum.,
G as in Gastrohepatic (a.) Pertaining to the stomach and liver; hepatogastric; as, the gastrohepatic, or lesser, omentum.,
G as in Gastrohysterotomy (n.) Caesarean section. See under Caesarean.,
G as in Gastrointestinal (a.) Of or pertaining to the stomach and intestines; gastroenteric.,
G as in Gastrolith (n.) See Crab's eyes, under Crab.,
G as in Gastrology (n.) The science which treats of the structure and functions of the stomach; a treatise of the stomach.,
G as in Gastromalacia (n.) A softening of the coats of the stomach; -- usually a post-morten change.,
G as in Gastromancy (n.) A kind of divination, by means of words seemingly uttered from the stomach.,
G as in Gastromancy (n.) A species of divination, by means of glasses or other round, transparent vessels, in the center of which figures are supposed to appear by magic art.,
G as in Gastromyces (n.) The fungoid growths sometimes found in the stomach; such as Torula, etc.,
G as in Gastromyth (n.) One whose voice appears to proceed from the stomach; a ventriloquist.,
G as in Gastronome (n.) Alt. of Gastronomer,
G as in Gastronomer (n.) One fond of good living; an epicure.,
G as in Gastronomic (a.) Alt. of Gastronomical,
G as in Gastronomical (a.) Pertaining to gastromony.,
G as in Gastronomist (n.) A gastromomer.,
G as in Gastronomy (n.) The art or science of good eating; epicurism; the art of good cheer.,
G as in Gastrophrenic (a.) Pertaining to the stomach and diaphragm; as, the gastrophrenic ligament.,
G as in Gastropneumatic (a.) Pertaining to the alimentary canal and air passages, and to the cavities connected with them; as, the gastropneumatic mucuos membranes.,
G as in Gastropod (n.) One of the Gastropoda.,
G as in Gastropoda (n. pl.) One of the classes of Mollusca, of great extent. It includes most of the marine spiral shells, and the land and fresh-water snails. They generally creep by means of a flat, muscular disk, or foot, on the ventral side of the body. The head usually bears one or two pairs of tentacles. See Mollusca.,
G as in Gastropodous (a.) Of or pertaining to the Gastropoda.,
G as in Gastroraphy (n.) The operation of sewing up wounds of the abdomen.,
G as in Gastroscope (n.) An instrument for viewing or examining the interior of the stomach.,
G as in Gastroscopic (a.) Of or pertaining to gastroscopy.,
G as in Gastroscopy (n.) Examination of the abdomen or stomach, as with the gastroscope.,
G as in Gastrosplenic (n.) Pertaining to the stomach and spleen; as, the gastrosplenic ligament.,
G as in Gastrostege (n.) One of the large scales on the belly of a serpent.,
G as in Gastrostomy (n.) The operation of making a permanent opening into the stomach, for the introduction of food.,
G as in Gastrotomy (n.) A cutting into, or opening of, the abdomen or the stomach.,
G as in Gastrotricha (n. pl.) A group of small wormlike animals, having cilia on the ventral side. The group is regarded as an ancestral or synthetic one, related to rotifers and annelids.,
G as in Gastrotrocha (n.) A form of annelid larva having cilia on the ventral side.,
G as in Gastrovascular (a.) Having the structure, or performing the functions, both of digestive and circulatory organs; as, the gastrovascular cavity of c/lenterates.,
G as in Gastrulae (pl. ) of Gastrula,
G as in Gastrula (n.) An embryonic form having its origin in the invagination or pushing in of the wall of the planula or blastula (the blastosphere) on one side, thus giving rise to a double-walled sac, with one opening or mouth (the blastopore) which leads into the cavity (the archenteron) lined by the inner wall (the hypoblast). See Illust. under Invagination. In a more general sense, an ideal stage in embryonic development. See Gastraea.,
G as in Gastrula (a.) Of or pertaining to a gastrula.,
G as in Gastrulation (n.) The process of invagination, in embryonic development, by which a gastrula is formed.,
G as in Gastrura (n. pl.) See Stomatopoda.,
G as in Gastrurous (a.) Pertaining to the Gastrura.,
G as in Gat () imp. of Get.,
G as in Gate (n.) A large door or passageway in the wall of a city, of an inclosed field or place, or of a grand edifice, etc.; also, the movable structure of timber, metal, etc., by which the passage can be closed.,
G as in Gate (n.) An opening for passage in any inclosing wall, fence, or barrier; or the suspended framework which closes or opens a passage. Also, figuratively, a means or way of entrance or of exit.,
G as in Gate (n.) A door, valve, or other device, for stopping the passage of water through a dam, lock, pipe, etc.,
G as in Gate (n.) The places which command the entrances or access; hence, place of vantage; power; might.,
G as in Gate (n.) In a lock tumbler, the opening for the stump of the bolt to pass through or into.,
G as in Gate (n.) The channel or opening through which metal is poured into the mold; the ingate.,
G as in Gate (n.) The waste piece of metal cast in the opening; a sprue or sullage piece.,
G as in Gate (v. t.) To supply with a gate.,
G as in Gate (v. t.) To punish by requiring to be within the gates at an earlier hour than usual.,
G as in Gate (n.) A way; a path; a road; a street (as in Highgate).,
G as in Gate (n.) Manner; gait.,
G as in Gated (a.) Having gates.,
G as in Gatehouse (n.) A house connected or associated with a gate.,
G as in Gateless (a.) Having no gate.,
G as in Gateman (n.) A gate keeper; a gate tender.,
G as in Gatepost (n.) A post to which a gate is hung; -- called also swinging / hinging post.,
G as in Gatepost (n.) A post against which a gate closes; -- called also shutting post.,
G as in Gateway (n.) A passage through a fence or wall; a gate; also, a frame, arch, etc., in which a gate in hung, or a structure at an entrance or gate designed for ornament or defense.,
G as in Gatewise (adv.) In the manner of a gate.,
G as in Gathered (imp. & p. p.) of Gather,
G as in Gathering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gather,
G as in Gather (v. t.) To bring together; to collect, as a number of separate things, into one place, or into one aggregate body; to assemble; to muster; to congregate.,
G as in Gather (v. t.) To pick out and bring together from among what is of less value; to collect, as a harvest; to harvest; to cull; to pick off; to pluck.,
G as in Gather (v. t.) To accumulate by collecting and saving little by little; to amass; to gain; to heap up.,
G as in Gather (v. t.) To bring closely together the parts or particles of; to contract; to compress; to bring together in folds or plaits, as a garment; also, to draw together, as a piece of cloth by a thread; to pucker; to plait; as, to gather a ruffle.,
G as in Gather (v. t.) To derive, or deduce, as an inference; to collect, as a conclusion, from circumstances that suggest, or arguments that prove; to infer; to conclude.,
G as in Gather (v. t.) To gain; to win.,
G as in Gather (v. t.) To bring together, or nearer together, in masonry, as where the width of a fireplace is rapidly diminished to the width of the flue, or the like.,
G as in Gather (v. t.) To haul in; to take up; as, to gather the slack of a rope.,
G as in Gather (v. i.) To come together; to collect; to unite; to become assembled; to congregate.,
G as in Gather (v. i.) To grow larger by accretion; to increase.,
G as in Gather (v. i.) To concentrate; to come to a head, as a sore, and generate pus; as, a boil has gathered.,
G as in Gather (v. i.) To collect or bring things together.,
G as in Gather (n.) A plait or fold in cloth, made by drawing a thread through it; a pucker.,
G as in Gather (n.) The inclination forward of the axle journals to keep the wheels from working outward.,
G as in Gather (n.) The soffit or under surface of the masonry required in gathering. See Gather, v. t., 7.,
G as in Gatherable (a.) Capable of being gathered or collected; deducible from premises.,
G as in Gatherer (n.) One who gathers or collects.,
G as in Gatherer (n.) An attachment for making gathers in the cloth.,
G as in Gathering (n.) The act of collecting or bringing together.,
G as in Gathering (n.) That which is gathered, collected, or brought together,
G as in Gathering (n.) A crowd; an assembly; a congregation.,
G as in Gathering (n.) A charitable contribution; a collection.,
G as in Gathering (n.) A tumor or boil suppurated or maturated; an abscess.,
G as in Gathering (a.) Assembling; collecting; used for gathering or concentrating.,
G as in Gatling gun () An American machine gun, consisting of a cluster of barrels which, being revolved by a crank, are automatically loaded and fired.,
G as in Gatten tree () A name given to the small trees called guelder-rose (Viburnum Opulus), cornel (Cornus sanguinea), and spindle tree (Euonymus Europaeus).,
G as in Gat-toothed (a.) Goat-toothed; having a lickerish tooth; lustful; wanton.,
G as in Gauche (n.) Left handed; hence, awkward; clumsy.,
G as in Gauche (n.) Winding; twisted; warped; -- applied to curves and surfaces.,
G as in Gaucherie (n.) An awkward action; clumsiness; boorishness.,
G as in Gauchos (pl. ) of Gaucho,
G as in Gaucho (n.) One of the native inhabitants of the pampas, of Spanish-American descent. They live mostly by rearing cattle.,
G as in Gaud (n.) Trick; jest; sport.,
G as in Gaud (n.) Deceit; fraud; artifice; device.,
G as in Gaud (n.) An ornament; a piece of worthless finery; a trinket.,
G as in Gaud (n.) To sport or keep festival.,
G as in Gauded (imp. & p. p.) of Gaud,
G as in Gauding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gaud,
G as in Gaud (v. t.) To bedeck gaudily; to decorate with gauds or showy trinkets or colors; to paint.,
G as in Gaud-day (n.) See Gaudy, a feast.,
G as in Gaudery (n.) Finery; ornaments; ostentatious display.,
G as in Gaudful (a.) Joyful; showy.,
G as in Gaudily (adv.) In a gaudy manner.,
G as in Gaudiness (n.) The quality of being gaudy.,
G as in Gaudish (a.) Gaudy.,
G as in Gaudless (a.) Destitute of ornament.,
G as in Gaudy (superl.) Ostentatiously fine; showy; gay, but tawdry or meretricious.,
G as in Gaudy (superl.) Gay; merry; festal.,
G as in Gaudies (pl. ) of Gaudy,
G as in Gaudy (n.) One of the large beads in the rosary at which the paternoster is recited.,
G as in Gaudy (n.) A feast or festival; -- called also gaud-day and gaudy day.,
G as in Gaudygreen (a. / n.) Light green.,
G as in Gauffer (v. t.) To plait, crimp, or flute; to goffer, as lace. See Goffer.,
G as in Gauffering (n.) A mode of plaiting or fluting.,
G as in Gauffre (n.) A gopher, esp. the pocket gopher.,
G as in Gauged (imp. & p. p.) of Gauge,
G as in Gauging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gauge,
G as in Gauge (v. t.) To measure or determine with a gauge.,
G as in Gauge (v. t.) To measure or to ascertain the contents or the capacity of, as of a pipe, barrel, or keg.,
G as in Gauge (v. t.) To measure the dimensions of, or to test the accuracy of the form of, as of a part of a gunlock.,
G as in Gauge (v. t.) To draw into equidistant gathers by running a thread through it, as cloth or a garment.,
G as in Gauge (v. t.) To measure the capacity, character, or ability of; to estimate; to judge of.,
G as in Gauge (n.) A measure; a standard of measure; an instrument to determine dimensions, distance, or capacity; a standard.,
G as in Gauge (n.) Measure; dimensions; estimate.,
G as in Gauge (n.) Any instrument for ascertaining or regulating the dimensions or forms of things; a templet or template; as, a button maker's gauge.,
G as in Gauge (n.) Any instrument or apparatus for measuring the state of a phenomenon, or for ascertaining its numerical elements at any moment; -- usually applied to some particular instrument; as, a rain gauge; a steam gauge.,
G as in Gauge (n.) Relative positions of two or more vessels with reference to the wind; as, a vessel has the weather gauge of another when on the windward side of it, and the lee gauge when on the lee side of it.,
G as in Gauge (n.) The depth to which a vessel sinks in the water.,
G as in Gauge (n.) The distance between the rails of a railway.,
G as in Gauge (n.) The quantity of plaster of Paris used with common plaster to accelerate its setting.,
G as in Gauge (n.) That part of a shingle, slate, or tile, which is exposed to the weather, when laid; also, one course of such shingles, slates, or tiles.,
G as in Gaugeable (a.) Capable of being gauged.,
G as in Gauged (p. a.) Tested or measured by, or conformed to, a gauge.,
G as in Gauger (n.) One who gauges; an officer whose business it is to ascertain the contents of casks.,
G as in Gauger-ship (n.) The office of a gauger.,
G as in Gauging rod () See Gauge rod, under Gauge, n.,
G as in Gaul (n.) The Anglicized form of Gallia, which in the time of the Romans included France and Upper Italy (Transalpine and Cisalpine Gaul).,
G as in Gaul (n.) A native or inhabitant of Gaul.,
G as in Gaulish (a.) Pertaining to ancient France, or Gaul; Gallic.,
G as in Gault (n.) A series of beds of clay and marl in the South of England, between the upper and lower greensand of the Cretaceous period.,
G as in Gaultheria (n.) A genus of ericaceous shrubs with evergreen foliage, and, often, edible berries. It includes the American winter-green (Gaultheria procumbens), and the larger-fruited salal of Northwestern America (Gaultheria Shallon).,
G as in Gaunt (a.) Attenuated, as with fasting or suffering; lean; meager; pinched and grim.,
G as in Gauntlet (n.) See Gantlet.,
G as in Gauntlet (n.) A glove of such material that it defends the hand from wounds.,
G as in Gauntlet (n.) A long glove, covering the wrist.,
G as in Gauntlet (n.) A rope on which hammocks or clothes are hung for drying.,
G as in Gauntletted (a.) Wearing a gauntlet.,
G as in Gauntly (adv.) In a gaunt manner; meagerly.,
G as in Gauntree (n.) Alt. of Gauntry,
G as in Gauntry (n.) A frame for supporting barrels in a cellar or elsewhere.,
G as in Gauntry (n.) A scaffolding or frame carrying a crane or other structure.,
G as in Gaur (n.) An East Indian species of wild cattle (Bibos gauris), of large size and an untamable disposition.,
G as in Gaure (v. i.) To gaze; to stare.,
G as in Gauze (n.) A very thin, slight, transparent stuff, generally of silk; also, any fabric resembling silk gauze; as, wire gauze; cotton gauze.,
G as in Gauze (a.) Having the qualities of gauze; thin; light; as, gauze merino underclothing.,
G as in Gauziness (n.) The quality of being gauzy; flimsiness.,
G as in Gauzy (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, gauze; thin and slight as gauze.,
G as in Gave () imp. of Give.,
G as in Gavel (n.) A gable.,
G as in Gavel (n.) A small heap of grain, not tied up into a bundle.,
G as in Gavel (n.) The mallet of the presiding officer in a legislative body, public assembly, court, masonic body, etc.,
G as in Gavel (n.) A mason's setting maul.,
G as in Gavel (n.) Tribute; toll; custom. [Obs.] See Gabel.,
G as in Gavelet (n.) An ancient special kind of cessavit used in Kent and London for the recovery of rent.,
G as in Gavelkind (n.) A tenure by which land descended from the father to all his sons in equal portions, and the land of a brother, dying without issue, descended equally to his brothers. It still prevails in the county of Kent.,
G as in Gaveloche (n.) Same as Gavelock.,
G as in Gavelock (n.) A spear or dart.,
G as in Gavelock (n.) An iron crow or lever.,
G as in Gaverick (n.) The European red gurnard (Trigla cuculus).,
G as in Gaviae (n. pl.) The division of birds which includes the gulls and terns.,
G as in Gavial (n.) A large Asiatic crocodilian (Gavialis Gangeticus); -- called also nako, and Gangetic crocodile.,
G as in Gavot (n.) A kind of difficult dance; a dance tune, the air of which has two brisk and lively, yet dignified, strains in common time, each played twice over.,
G as in Gawby (n.) A baby; a dunce.,
G as in Gawk (n.) A cuckoo.,
G as in Gawk (n.) A simpleton; a booby; a gawky.,
G as in Gawk (v. i.) To act like a gawky.,
G as in Gawky (superl.) Foolish and awkward; clumsy; clownish; as, gawky behavior. -- n. A fellow who is awkward from being overgrown, or from stupidity, a gawk.,
G as in Gawn (n.) A small tub or lading vessel.,
G as in Gawntree (n.) See Gauntree.,
G as in Gay (superl.) Excited with merriment; manifesting sportiveness or delight; inspiring delight; livery; merry.,
G as in Gay (superl.) Brilliant in colors; splendid; fine; richly dressed.,
G as in Gay (superl.) Loose; dissipated; lewd.,
G as in Gay (n.) An ornament,
G as in Gayal (n.) A Southern Asiatic species of wild cattle (Bibos frontalis).,
G as in Gaydiang (n.) A vessel of Anam, with two or three masts, lofty triangular sails, and in construction somewhat resembling a Chinese junk.,
G as in Gayeties (pl. ) of Gayety,
G as in Gayety (a.) The state of being gay; merriment; mirth; acts or entertainments prompted by, or inspiring, merry delight; -- used often in the plural; as, the gayeties of the season.,
G as in Gayety (a.) Finery; show; as, the gayety of dress.,
G as in Gaylussite (n.) A yellowish white, translucent mineral, consisting of the carbonates of lime and soda, with water.,
G as in Gayly (adv.) With mirth and frolic; merrily; blithely; gleefully.,
G as in Gayly (adv.) Finely; splendidly; showily; as, ladies gayly dressed; a flower gayly blooming.,
G as in Gayne (v. i.) To avail.,
G as in Gayness (n.) Gayety; finery.,
G as in Gaysome (a.) Full of gayety. Mir. for Mag.,
G as in Gaytre (n.) The dogwood tree.,
G as in Gazed (imp. & p. p.) of Gaze,
G as in Gazing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gaze,
G as in Gaze (v. i.) To fixx the eyes in a steady and earnest look; to look with eagerness or curiosity, as in admiration, astonishment, or with studious attention.,
G as in Gaze (v. t.) To view with attention; to gaze on .,
G as in Gaze (n.) A fixed look; a look of eagerness, wonder, or admiration; a continued look of attention.,
G as in Gaze (n.) The object gazed on.,
G as in Gazeebo (n.) A summerhouse so situated as to command an extensive prospect.,
G as in Gazeful (a.) Gazing.,
G as in Gazehound (n.) A hound that pursues by the sight rather than by the scent.,
G as in Gazel (n.) The black currant; also, the wild plum.,
G as in Gazel (n.) See Gazelle.,
G as in Gazelle (n.) One of several small, swift, elegantly formed species of antelope, of the genus Gazella, esp. G. dorcas; -- called also algazel, corinne, korin, and kevel. The gazelles are celebrated for the luster and soft expression of their eyes.,
G as in Gazement (n.) View.,
G as in Gazer (n.) One who gazes.,
G as in Gazet (n.) A Venetian coin, worth about three English farthings, or one and a half cents.,
G as in Gazette (n.) A newspaper; a printed sheet published periodically; esp., the official journal published by the British government, and containing legal and state notices.,
G as in Gazetted (imp. & p. p.) of Gazette,
G as in Gazetting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gazette,
G as in Gazette (v. t.) To announce or publish in a gazette; to announce officially, as an appointment, or a case of bankruptcy.,
G as in Gazetteer (n.) A writer of news, or an officer appointed to publish news by authority.,
G as in Gazetteer (n.) A newspaper; a gazette.,
G as in Gazetteer (n.) A geographical dictionary; a book giving the names and descriptions, etc., of many places.,
G as in Gazetteer (n.) An alphabetical descriptive list of anything.,
G as in Gazingstock (n.) A person or thing gazed at with scorn or abhorrence; an object of curiosity or contempt.,
G as in Gazogene (n.) A portable apparatus for making soda water or aerated liquids on a small scale.,
G as in Gazon (n.) One of the pieces of sod used to line or cover parapets and the faces of earthworks.,
G as in Ge- () An Anglo-Saxon prefix. See Y-.,
G as in Geal (v. i.) To congeal.,
G as in Gean (n.) A species of cherry tree common in Europe (Prunus avium); also, the fruit, which is usually small and dark in color.,
G as in Geanticlinal (n.) An upward bend or flexure of a considerable portion of the earth's crust, resulting in the formation of a class of mountain elevations called anticlinoria; -- opposed to geosynclinal.,
G as in Gear (n.) Clothing; garments; ornaments.,
G as in Gear (n.) Goods; property; household stuff.,
G as in Gear (n.) Whatever is prepared for use or wear; manufactured stuff or material.,
G as in Gear (n.) The harness of horses or cattle; trapping.,
G as in Gear (n.) Warlike accouterments.,
G as in Gear (n.) Manner; custom; behavior.,
G as in Gear (n.) Business matters; affairs; concern.,
G as in Gear (n.) A toothed wheel, or cogwheel; as, a spur gear, or a bevel gear; also, toothed wheels, collectively.,
G as in Gear (n.) An apparatus for performing a special function; gearing; as, the feed gear of a lathe.,
G as in Gear (n.) Engagement of parts with each other; as, in gear; out of gear.,
G as in Gear (n.) See 1st Jeer (b).,
G as in Gear (n.) Anything worthless; stuff; nonsense; rubbish.,
G as in Geared (imp. & p. p.) of Gear,
G as in Gearing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gear,
G as in Gear (v. t.) To dress; to put gear on; to harness.,
G as in Gear (v. t.) To provide with gearing.,
G as in Gear (v. i.) To be in, or come into, gear.,
G as in Gearing (n.) Harness.,
G as in Gearing (n.) The parts by which motion imparted to one portion of an engine or machine is transmitted to another, considered collectively; as, the valve gearing of locomotive engine; belt gearing; esp., a train of wheels for transmitting and varying motion in machinery.,
G as in Geason (a.) Rare; wonderful.,
G as in Geat (n.) The channel or spout through which molten metal runs into a mold in casting.,
G as in Gecarcinian (n.) A land crab of the genus Gecarcinus, or of allied genera.,
G as in Geck (n.) Scorn, derision, or contempt.,
G as in Geck (n.) An object of scorn; a dupe; a gull.,
G as in Geck (n.) To deride; to scorn; to mock.,
G as in Geck (n.) To cheat; trick, or gull.,
G as in Geck (v. i.) To jeer; to show contempt.,
G as in Geckoes (pl. ) of Gecko,
G as in Gecko (n.) Any lizard of the family Geckonidae. The geckoes are small, carnivorous, mostly nocturnal animals with large eyes and vertical, elliptical pupils. Their toes are generally expanded, and furnished with adhesive disks, by which they can run over walls and ceilings. They are numerous in warm countries, and a few species are found in Europe and the United States. See Wall gecko, Fanfoot.,
G as in Geckotian (n.) A gecko.,
G as in Ged (n.) Alt. of Gedd,
G as in Gedd (n.) The European pike.,
G as in Geed (imp. & p. p.) of Gee,
G as in Geeing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gee,
G as in Gee (v. i.) To agree; to harmonize.,
G as in Gee (v. i.) To turn to the off side, or from the driver (i.e., in the United States, to the right side); -- said of cattle, or a team; used most frequently in the imperative, often with off, by drivers of oxen, in directing their teams, and opposed to haw, or hoi.,
G as in Gee (v. t.) To cause (a team) to turn to the off side, or from the driver.,
G as in Geer () Alt. of Geering,
G as in Geering () See Gear, Gearing.,
G as in Geese (n.) pl. of Goose.,
G as in Geest (n.) Alluvial matter on the surface of land, not of recent origin.,
G as in Geet (n.) Jet.,
G as in Geez (n.) The original native name for the ancient Ethiopic language or people. See Ethiopic.,
G as in Gehenna (n.) The valley of Hinnom, near Jerusalem, where some of the Israelites sacrificed their children to Moloch, which, on this account, was afterward regarded as a place of abomination, and made a receptacle for all the refuse of the city, perpetual fires being kept up in order to prevent pestilential effluvia. In the New Testament the name is transferred, by an easy metaphor, to Hell.,
G as in Geic (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, earthy or vegetable mold.,
G as in Gein (n.) See Humin.,
G as in Geissler tube () A glass tube provided with platinum electrodes, and containing some gas under very low tension, which becomes luminous when an electrical discharge is passed through it; -- so called from the name of a noted maker in germany. It is called also Plucker tube, from the German physicist who devised it.,
G as in Geitonogamy (n.) Fertilization of flowers by pollen from other flowers on the same plant.,
G as in Gelable (a.) Capable of being congealed; capable of being converted into jelly.,
G as in Gelada (n.) A baboon (Gelada Ruppelli) of Abyssinia, remarkable for the length of the hair on the neck and shoulders of the adult male.,
G as in Gelastic (a.) Pertaining to laughter; used in laughing.,
G as in Gelatification (n.) The formation of gelatin.,
G as in Gelatigenous (n.) Producing, or yielding, gelatin; gelatiniferous; as, the gelatigeneous tissues.,
G as in Gelatin (n.) Alt. of Gelatine,
G as in Gelatine (n.) Animal jelly; glutinous material obtained from animal tissues by prolonged boiling. Specifically (Physiol. Chem.), a nitrogeneous colloid, not existing as such in the animal body, but formed by the hydrating action of boiling water on the collagen of various kinds of connective tissue (as tendons, bones, ligaments, etc.). Its distinguishing character is that of dissolving in hot water, and forming a jelly on cooling. It is an important ingredient of calf's-foot jelly, isinglass, glue, etc. It is used as food, but its nutritious qualities are of a low order.,
G as in Gelatinated (imp. & p. p.) of Gelatinate,
G as in Gelatinating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gelatinate,
G as in Gelatinate (v. t.) To convert into gelatin, or into a substance resembling jelly.,
G as in Gelatinate (v. i.) To be converted into gelatin, or into a substance like jelly.,
G as in Gelatination (n.) The act of process of converting into gelatin, or a substance like jelly.,
G as in Gelatine (n.) Same as Gelatin.,
G as in Gelatiniferous (a.) Yielding gelatin on boiling with water; capable of gelatination.,
G as in Gelatiniform (a.) Having the form of gelatin.,
G as in Gelatinization (n.) Same as Gelatination.,
G as in Gelatinize (v. t.) To convert into gelatin or jelly. Same as Gelatinate, v. t.,
G as in Gelatinize (v. t.) To coat, or otherwise treat, with gelatin.,
G as in Gelatinize (v. i.) Same as Gelatinate, v. i.,
G as in Gelatinous (a.) Of the nature and consistence of gelatin or the jelly; resembling jelly; viscous.,
G as in Gelation (n.) The process of becoming solid by cooling; a cooling and solidifying.,
G as in Geld (n.) Money; tribute; compensation; ransom.,
G as in Gelded (imp. & p. p.) of Geld,
G as in Gelding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Geld,
G as in Geld (v. t.) To castrate; to emasculate.,
G as in Geld (v. t.) To deprive of anything essential.,
G as in Geld (v. t.) To deprive of anything exceptionable; as, to geld a book, or a story; to expurgate.,
G as in Geldable (a.) Capable of being gelded.,
G as in Geldable (a.) Liable to taxation.,
G as in Gelder (n.) One who gelds or castrates.,
G as in Gelder-rose (n.) Same as Guelder-rose.,
G as in Gelding (v. t.) A castrated animal; -- usually applied to a horse, but formerly used also of the human male.,
G as in Gelding (p. pr. a. & vb. n.) from Geld, v. t.,
G as in Gelid (a.) Cold; very cold; frozen.,
G as in Gelidity (n.) The state of being gelid.,
G as in Gelidly (adv.) In a gelid manner; coldly.,
G as in Gelidness (n.) The state of being gelid; gelidity.,
G as in Gelly (n.) Jelly.,
G as in Geloscopy (n.) Divination by means of laughter.,
G as in Gelose (n.) An amorphous, gummy carbohydrate, found in Gelidium, agar-agar, and other seaweeds.,
G as in Gelsemic (a.) Gelseminic.,
G as in Gelsemine (n.) An alkaloid obtained from the yellow jasmine (Gelsemium sempervirens), as a bitter white semicrystalline substance; -- called also gelsemia.,
G as in Gelseminic (n.) Pertaining to, or derived from, the yellow jasmine (Gelsemium sempervirens); as, gelseminic acid, a white crystalline substance resembling esculin.,
G as in Gelsemium (n.) A genus of climbing plants. The yellow (false) jasmine (Gelsemium sempervirens) is a native of the Southern United States. It has showy and deliciously fragrant flowers.,
G as in Gelsemium (n.) The root of the yellow jasmine, used in malarial fevers, etc.,
G as in Gelt (n.) Trubute, tax.,
G as in Gelt (v. t.) A gelding.,
G as in Gelt (n.) Gilding; tinsel.,
G as in Gem (n.) A bud.,
G as in Gem (n.) A precious stone of any kind, as the ruby, emerald, topaz, sapphire, beryl, spinel, etc., especially when cut and polished for ornament; a jewel.,
G as in Gem (n.) Anything of small size, or expressed within brief limits, which is regarded as a gem on account of its beauty or value, as a small picture, a verse of poetry, a witty or wise saying.,
G as in Gemmed (imp. & p. p.) of Gem,
G as in Gemming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gem,
G as in Gem (v. t.) To put forth in the form of buds.,
G as in Gem (v. t.) To adorn with gems or precious stones.,
G as in Gem (v. t.) To embellish or adorn, as with gems; as, a foliage gemmed with dewdrops.,
G as in Gemara (n.) The second part of the Talmud, or the commentary on the Mishna (which forms the first part or text).,
G as in Gemaric (a.) Pertaining to the Gemara.,
G as in Gemarist (n.) One versed in the Gemara, or adhering to its teachings.,
G as in Gemel (a.) Coupled; paired.,
G as in Gemel (n.) One of the twins.,
G as in Gemel (n.) One of the barrulets placed parallel and closed to each other. Cf. Bars gemel, under Gemel, a.,
G as in Gemellipa-rous (a.) Producing twins.,
G as in Geminal (a.) A pair.,
G as in Geminate (a.) In pairs or twains; two together; binate; twin; as, geminate flowers.,
G as in Geminate (v. t.) To double.,
G as in Gemination (n.) A doubling; duplication; repetition.,
G as in Gemini (n. pl.) A constellation of the zodiac, containing the two bright stars Castor and Pollux; also, the third sign of the zodiac, which the sun enters about May 20th.,
G as in Geminiflorous (a.) Having the flowers arranged in pairs.,
G as in Geminous (a.) Double; in pairs.,
G as in Geminy (n.) Twins; a pair; a couple.,
G as in Gemitores (n. pl.) A division of birds including the true pigeons.,
G as in Gemmae (pl. ) of Gemma,
G as in Gemma (n.) A leaf bud, as distinguished from a flower bud.,
G as in Gemma (n.) A bud spore; one of the small spores or buds in the reproduction of certain Protozoa, which separate one at a time from the parent cell.,
G as in Gemmaceous (a.) Of or pertaining to gems or to gemmae; of the nature of, or resembling, gems or gemmae.,
G as in Gemmary (a.) Of or pertaining to gems.,
G as in Gemmary (n.) A receptacle for jewels or gems; a jewel house; jewels or gems, collectively.,
G as in Gemmate (a.) Having buds; reproducing by buds.,
G as in Gemmated (a.) Having buds; adorned with gems or jewels.,
G as in Gemmation (n.) The formation of a new individual, either animal or vegetable, by a process of budding; an asexual method of reproduction; gemmulation; gemmiparity. See Budding.,
G as in Gemmation (n.) The arrangement of buds on the stalk; also, of leaves in the bud.,
G as in Gemmeous (a.) Pertaining to gems; of the nature of gems; resembling gems.,
G as in Gemmiferous (a.) Producing gems or buds,
G as in Gemmiferous (a.) multiplying by buds.,
G as in Gemmification (n.) The production of a bud or gem.,
G as in Gemmiflorate (a.) Having flowers like buds.,
G as in Gemminess (n.) The state or quality of being gemmy; spruceness; smartness.,
G as in Gemmipara (n. pl.) Alt. of Gemmipares,
G as in Gemmipares (n. pl.) Animals which increase by budding, as hydroids.,
G as in Gemmiparity (n.) Reproduction by budding; gemmation. See Budding.,
G as in Gemmiparous (a.) Producing buds; reproducing by buds. See Gemmation, 1.,
G as in Gemmosity (n.) The quality or characteristics of a gem or jewel.,
G as in Gemmulation (n.) See Gemmation.,
G as in Gemmule (n.) A little leaf bud, as the plumule between the cotyledons.,
G as in Gemmule (n.) One of the buds of mosses.,
G as in Gemmule (n.) One of the reproductive spores of algae.,
G as in Gemmule (n.) An ovule.,
G as in Gemmule (n.) A bud produced in generation by gemmation.,
G as in Gemmule (n.) One of the imaginary granules or atoms which, according to Darwin's hypothesis of pangenesis, are continually being thrown off from every cell or unit, and circulate freely throughout the system, and when supplied with proper nutriment multiply by self-division and ultimately develop into cells like those from which they were derived. They are supposed to be transmitted from the parent to the offspring, but are often transmitted in a dormant state during many generations and are then developed. See Pangenesis.,
G as in Gemmuliferous (a.) Bearing or producing gemmules or buds.,
G as in Gemmy (n.) Full of gems; bright; glittering like a gem.,
G as in Gemmy (n.) Spruce; smart.,
G as in Gemote (v. t.) A meeting; -- used in combination, as, Witenagemote, an assembly of the wise men.,
G as in Gems (n.) The chamois.,
G as in Gemsbok (n.) A South African antelope (Oryx Capensis), having long, sharp, nearly straight horns.,
G as in Gems-horn (n.) An organ stop with conical tin pipes.,
G as in Gemul (n.) A small South American deer (Furcifer Chilensis), with simple forked horns.,
G as in -gen () A suffix used in scientific words in the sense of producing, generating: as, amphigen, amidogen, halogen.,
G as in -gen () A suffix meaning produced, generated; as, exogen.,
G as in Gena () The cheek; the feathered side of the under mandible of a bird.,
G as in Gena () The part of the head to which the jaws of an insect are attached.,
G as in Genappe (n.) A worsted yarn or cord of peculiar smoothness, used in the manufacture of braid, fringe, etc.,
G as in Gendarmes (pl. ) of Gendarme,
G as in Gens d'armes (pl. ) of Gendarme,
G as in Gendarme (n.) One of a body of heavy cavalry.,
G as in Gendarme (n.) An armed policeman in France.,
G as in Gendarmery (n.) The body of gendarmes.,
G as in Gender (n.) Kind; sort.,
G as in Gender (n.) Sex, male or female.,
G as in Gender (n.) A classification of nouns, primarily according to sex; and secondarily according to some fancied or imputed quality associated with sex.,
G as in Gendered (imp. & p. p.) of Gender,
G as in Gendering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gender,
G as in Gender (n.) To beget; to engender.,
G as in Gender (v. i.) To copulate; to breed.,
G as in Genderless (a.) Having no gender.,
G as in Geneagenesis (n.) Alternate generation. See under Generation.,
G as in Genealogic (a.) Genealogical.,
G as in Genealogical (a.) Of or pertaining to genealogy; as, a genealogical table; genealogical order.,
G as in Genealogist (n.) One who traces genealogies or the descent of persons or families.,
G as in Genealogize (v. i.) To investigate, or relate the history of, descents.,
G as in Genealogies (pl. ) of Genealogy,
G as in Genealogy (n.) An account or history of the descent of a person or family from an ancestor; enumeration of ancestors and their children in the natural order of succession; a pedigree.,
G as in Genealogy (n.) Regular descent of a person or family from a progenitor; pedigree; lineage.,
G as in Genearch (n.) The chief of a family or tribe.,
G as in Genera (n. pl.) See Genus.,
G as in Generability (n.) Capability of being generated.,
G as in Generable (a.) Capable of being generated or produced.,
G as in General (a.) Relating to a genus or kind; pertaining to a whole class or order; as, a general law of animal or vegetable economy.,
G as in General (a.) Comprehending many species or individuals; not special or particular; including all particulars; as, a general inference or conclusion.,
G as in General (a.) Not restrained or limited to a precise import; not specific; vague; indefinite; lax in signification; as, a loose and general expression.,
G as in General (a.) Common to many, or the greatest number; widely spread; prevalent; extensive, though not universal; as, a general opinion; a general custom.,
G as in General (a.) Having a relation to all; common to the whole; as, Adam, our general sire.,
G as in General (a.) As a whole; in gross; for the most part.,
G as in General (a.) Usual; common, on most occasions; as, his general habit or method.,
G as in General (a.) The whole; the total; that which comprehends or relates to all, or the chief part; -- opposed to particular.,
G as in General (a.) One of the chief military officers of a government or country; the commander of an army, of a body of men not less than a brigade. In European armies, the highest military rank next below field marshal.,
G as in General (a.) The roll of the drum which calls the troops together; as, to beat the general.,
G as in General (a.) The chief of an order of monks, or of all the houses or congregations under the same rule.,
G as in General (a.) The public; the people; the vulgar.,
G as in Generalia (n. pl.) Generalities; general terms.,
G as in Generalissimo (a.) The chief commander of an army; especially, the commander in chief of an army consisting of two or more grand divisions under separate commanders; -- a title used in most foreign countries.,
G as in Generalities (pl. ) of Generality,
G as in Generality (n.) The state of being general; the quality of including species or particulars.,
G as in Generality (n.) That which is general; that which lacks specificalness, practicalness, or application; a general or vague statement or phrase.,
G as in Generality (n.) The main body; the bulk; the greatest part; as, the generality of a nation, or of mankind.,
G as in Generalizable (a.) Capable of being generalized, or reduced to a general form of statement, or brought under a general rule.,
G as in Generalization (n.) The act or process of generalizing; the act of bringing individuals or particulars under a genus or class; deduction of a general principle from particulars.,
G as in Generalization (n.) A general inference.,
G as in Generalized (imp. & p. p.) of Generalize,
G as in Generalizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Generalize,
G as in Generalize (v. t.) To bring under a genus or under genera; to view in relation to a genus or to genera.,
G as in Generalize (v. t.) To apply to other genera or classes; to use with a more extensive application; to extend so as to include all special cases; to make universal in application, as a formula or rule.,
G as in Generalize (v. t.) To derive or deduce (a general conception, or a general principle) from particulars.,
G as in Generalize (v. i.) To form into a genus; to view objects in their relations to a genus or class; to take general or comprehensive views.,
G as in Generalized (a.) Comprising structural characters which are separated in more specialized forms; synthetic; as, a generalized type.,
G as in Generalizer (n.) One who takes general or comprehensive views.,
G as in Generally (adv.) In general; commonly; extensively, though not universally; most frequently.,
G as in Generally (adv.) In a general way, or in general relation; in the main; upon the whole; comprehensively.,
G as in Generally (adv.) Collectively; as a whole; without omissions.,
G as in Generalness (n.) The condition or quality of being general; frequency; commonness.,
G as in Generalship (n.) The office of a general; the exercise of the functions of a general; -- sometimes, with the possessive pronoun, the personality of a general.,
G as in Generalship (n.) Military skill in a general officer or commander.,
G as in Generalship (n.) Fig.: Leadership; management.,
G as in Generalty (n.) Generality.,
G as in Generant (a.) Generative; producing,
G as in Generant (a.) acting as a generant.,
G as in Generant (n.) That which generates.,
G as in Generant (n.) A generatrix.,
G as in Generated (imp. & p. p.) of Generate,
G as in Generating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Generate,
G as in Generate (v. t.) To beget; to procreate; to propagate; to produce (a being similar to the parent); to engender; as, every animal generates its own species.,
G as in Generate (v. t.) To cause to be; to bring into life.,
G as in Generate (v. t.) To originate, especially by a vital or chemical process; to produce; to cause.,
G as in Generate (v. t.) To trace out, as a line, figure, or solid, by the motion of a point or a magnitude of inferior order.,
G as in Generation (n.) The act of generating or begetting; procreation, as of animals.,
G as in Generation (n.) Origination by some process, mathematical, chemical, or vital; production; formation; as, the generation of sounds, of gases, of curves, etc.,
G as in Generation (n.) That which is generated or brought forth; progeny; offspiring.,
G as in Generation (n.) A single step or stage in the succession of natural descent; a rank or remove in genealogy. Hence: The body of those who are of the same genealogical rank or remove from an ancestor; the mass of beings living at one period; also, the average lifetime of man, or the ordinary period of time at which one rank follows another, or father is succeeded by child, usually assumed to be one third of a century; an age.,
G as in Generation (n.) Race; kind; family; breed; stock.,
G as in Generation (n.) The formation or production of any geometrical magnitude, as a line, a surface, a solid, by the motion, in accordance with a mathematical law, of a point or a magnitude; as, the generation of a line or curve by the motion of a point, of a surface by a line, a sphere by a semicircle, etc.,
G as in Generation (n.) The aggregate of the functions and phenomene which attend reproduction.,
G as in Generative (a.) Having the power of generating, propagating, originating, or producing.,
G as in Generator (n.) One who, or that which, generates, begets, causes, or produces.,
G as in Generator (n.) An apparatus in which vapor or gas is formed from a liquid or solid by means of heat or chemical process, as a steam boiler, gas retort, or vessel for generating carbonic acid gas, etc.,
G as in Generator (n.) The principal sound or sounds by which others are produced; the fundamental note or root of the common chord; -- called also generating tone.,
G as in Generatrices (pl. ) of Generatrix,
G as in Generatrixes (pl. ) of Generatrix,
G as in Generatrix (n.) That which generates; the point, or the mathematical magnitude, which, by its motion, generates another magnitude, as a line, surface, or solid; -- called also describent.,
G as in Generic (a.) Alt. of Generical,
G as in Generical (a.) Pertaining to a genus or kind; relating to a genus, as distinct from a species, or from another genus; as, a generic description; a generic difference; a generic name.,
G as in Generical (a.) Very comprehensive; pertaining or appropriate to large classes or their characteristics; -- opposed to specific.,
G as in Generically (adv.) With regard to a genus, or an extensive class; as, an animal generically distinct from another, or two animals or plants generically allied.,
G as in Genericalness (n.) The quality of being generic.,
G as in Generification (n.) The act or process of generalizing.,
G as in Generosity (n.) Noble birth.,
G as in Generosity (n.) The quality of being noble; noble-mindedness.,
G as in Generosity (n.) Liberality in giving; munificence.,
G as in Generous (a.) Of honorable birth or origin; highborn.,
G as in Generous (a.) Exhibiting those qualities which are popularly reregarded as belonging to high birth; noble; honorable; magnanimous; spirited; courageous.,
G as in Generous (a.) Open-handed; free to give; not close or niggardly; munificent; as, a generous friend or father.,
G as in Generous (a.) Characterized by generosity; abundant; overflowing; as, a generous table.,
G as in Generous (a.) Full of spirit or strength; stimulating; exalting; as, generous wine.,
G as in Genesee epoch () The closing subdivision of the Hamilton period in the American Devonian system; -- so called because the formations of this period crop out in Genesee, New York.,
G as in Genesial (a.) Of or relating to generation.,
G as in Genesiolgy (n.) The doctrine or science of generation.,
G as in Genesis (n.) The act of producing, or giving birth or origin to anything; the process or mode of originating; production; formation; origination.,
G as in Genesis (n.) The first book of the Old Testament; -- so called by the Greek translators, from its containing the history of the creation of the world and of the human race.,
G as in Genesis (n.) Same as Generation.,
G as in Genet (n.) Alt. of Genette,
G as in Genette (n.) One of several species of small Carnivora of the genus Genetta, allied to the civets, but having the scent glands less developed, and without a pouch.,
G as in Genette (n.) The fur of the common genet (Genetta vulgaris); also, any skin dressed in imitation of this fur.,
G as in Genet (n.) A small-sized, well-proportioned, Spanish horse; a jennet.,
G as in Genethliac (a.) Pertaining to nativities; calculated by astrologers; showing position of stars at one's birth.,
G as in Genethliac (n.) A birthday poem.,
G as in Genethliac (n.) One skilled in genethliacs.,
G as in Genethliacal (a.) Genethliac.,
G as in Genethliacs (n.) The science of calculating nativities, or predicting the future events of life from the stars which preside at birth.,
G as in Genethlialogy (n.) Divination as to the destinies of one newly born; the act or art of casting nativities; astrology.,
G as in Genethliatic (n.) One who calculates nativities.,
G as in Genetic (a.) Same as Genetical.,
G as in Genetical (a.) Pertaining to, concerned with, or determined by, the genesis of anything, or its natural mode of production or development.,
G as in Genetically (adv.) In a genetical manner.,
G as in Geneva (n.) The chief city of Switzerland.,
G as in Geneva (n.) A strongly alcoholic liquor, flavored with juniper berries; -- made in Holland; Holland gin; Hollands.,
G as in Genevan (a.) Of or pertaining to Geneva, in Switzerland; Genevese.,
G as in Genevan (n.) A native or inhabitant of Geneva.,
G as in Genevan (n.) A supported of Genevanism.,
G as in Genevanism (n.) Strict Calvinism.,
G as in Genevese (a.) Of or pertaining to Geneva, in Switzerland; Genevan.,
G as in Genevese (n. sing. & pl.) A native or inhabitant of Geneva; collectively, the inhabitants of Geneva; people of Geneva.,
G as in Genial (a.) Same as Genian.,
G as in Genial (a.) Contributing to, or concerned in, propagation or production; generative; procreative; productive.,
G as in Genial (a.) Contributing to, and sympathizing with, the enjoyment of life; sympathetically cheerful and cheering; jovial and inspiring joy or happiness; exciting pleasure and sympathy; enlivening; kindly; as, she was of a cheerful and genial disposition.,
G as in Genial (a.) Belonging to one's genius or natural character; native; natural; inborn.,
G as in Genial (a.) Denoting or marked with genius; belonging to the higher nature.,
G as in Geniality (n.) The quality of being genial; sympathetic cheerfulness; warmth of disposition and manners.,
G as in Genially (adv.) By genius or nature; naturally.,
G as in Genially (adv.) Gayly; cheerfully.,
G as in Genialness (n.) The quality of being genial.,
G as in Genian (a.) Of or pertaining to the chin; mental; as, the genian prominence.,
G as in Geniculate (a.) Bent abruptly at an angle, like the knee when bent; as, a geniculate stem; a geniculate ganglion; a geniculate twin crystal.,
G as in Geniculated (imp. & p. p.) of Geniculate,
G as in Geniculating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Geniculate,
G as in Geniculate (v. t.) To form joints or knots on.,
G as in Geniculated (a.) Same as Geniculate.,
G as in Geniculation (n.) The act of kneeling.,
G as in Geniculation (n.) The state of being bent abruptly at an angle.,
G as in Genie (n.) See Genius.,
G as in Genio (n.) A man of a particular turn of mind.,
G as in Geniohyoid (a.) Of or pertaining to the chin and hyoid bone; as, the geniohyoid muscle.,
G as in Genipap (n.) The edible fruit of a West Indian tree (Genipa Americana) of the order Rubiaceae. It is oval in shape, as a large as a small orange, of a pale greenish color, and with dark purple juice.,
G as in Genista (n.) A genus of plants including the common broom of Western Europe.,
G as in Genital (a.) Pertaining to generation, or to the generative organs.,
G as in Genitals (a.) The organs of generation; the sexual organs; the private parts.,
G as in Geniting (n.) A species of apple that ripens very early.,
G as in Genitival (a.) Possessing genitive from; pertaining to, or derived from, the genitive case; as, a genitival adverb.,
G as in Genitive (a.) Of or pertaining to that case (as the second case of Latin and Greek nouns) which expresses source or possession. It corresponds to the possessive case in English.,
G as in Genitive (n.) The genitive case.,
G as in Genitocrural (a.) Pertaining to the genital organs and the thigh; -- applied especially to one of the lumbar nerves.,
G as in Genitor (n.) One who begets; a generator; an originator.,
G as in Genitor (n.) The genitals.,
G as in Genitourinary (a.) See Urogenital.,
G as in Geniture (n.) Generation; procreation; birth.,
G as in Geniuses (pl. ) of Genius,
G as in Genii (pl. ) of Genius,
G as in Genius (n.) A good or evil spirit, or demon, supposed by the ancients to preside over a man's destiny in life; a tutelary deity; a supernatural being; a spirit, good or bad. Cf. Jinnee.,
G as in Genius (n.) The peculiar structure of mind with whoch each individual is endowed by nature; that disposition or aptitude of mind which is peculiar to each man, and which qualifies him for certain kinds of action or special success in any pursuit; special taste, inclination, or disposition; as, a genius for history, for poetry, or painting.,
G as in Genius (n.) Peculiar character; animating spirit, as of a nation, a religion, a language.,
G as in Genius (n.) Distinguished mental superiority; uncommon intellectual power; especially, superior power of invention or origination of any kind, or of forming new combinations; as, a man of genius.,
G as in Genius (n.) A man endowed with uncommon vigor of mind; a man of superior intellectual faculties; as, Shakespeare was a rare genius.,
G as in Genoese (a.) Of or pertaining to Genoa, a city of Italy.,
G as in Genoese (n. sing. & pl.) A native or inhabitant of Genoa; collectively, the people of Genoa.,
G as in Genouillere (n.) A metal plate covering the knee.,
G as in Genouillere (n.) That part of a parapet which lies between the gun platform and the bottom of an embrasure.,
G as in -genous () A suffix signifying producing, yielding; as, alkaligenous; endogenous.,
G as in Genre (n.) A style of painting, sculpture, or other imitative art, which illustrates everyday life and manners.,
G as in Gentes (pl. ) of Gens,
G as in Gens (a.) A clan or family connection, embracing several families of the same stock, who had a common name and certain common religious rites; a subdivision of the Roman curia or tribe.,
G as in Gens (a.) A minor subdivision of a tribe, among American aborigines. It includes those who have a common descent, and bear the same totem.,
G as in Gent (a.) Gentle; noble; of gentle birth.,
G as in Gent (a.) Neat; pretty; fine; elegant.,
G as in Genteel (a.) Possessing or exhibiting the qualities popularly regarded as belonging to high birth and breeding; free from vulgarity, or lowness of taste or behavior; adapted to a refined or cultivated taste; polite; well-bred; as, genteel company, manners, address.,
G as in Genteel (a.) Graceful in mien or form; elegant in appearance, dress, or manner; as, the lady has a genteel person. Law.,
G as in Genteel (a.) Suited to the position of lady or a gentleman; as, to live in a genteel allowance.,
G as in Genteelish (a.) Somewhat genteel.,
G as in Genteelly (adv.) In a genteel manner.,
G as in Genteelness (n.) The quality of being genteel.,
G as in Genterie (n.) Alt. of Gentrie,
G as in Gentrie (n.) Nobility of birth or of character; gentility.,
G as in Gentian (n.) Any one of a genus (Gentiana) of herbaceous plants with opposite leaves and a tubular four- or five-lobed corolla, usually blue, but sometimes white, yellow, or red. See Illust. of Capsule.,
G as in Gentianaceous (a.) Of or pertaining to a natural order of plants (Gentianaceae) of which the gentian is the type.,
G as in Gentianella (n.) A kind of blue color.,
G as in Gentianic (a.) Pertaining to or derived from the gentian; as, gentianic acid.,
G as in Gentianine (n.) A bitter, crystallizable substance obtained from gentian.,
G as in Gentianose (n.) A crystallizable, sugarlike substance, with a slightly sweetish taste, obtained from the gentian.,
G as in Gentil (a. & n.) Gentle.,
G as in Gentile (a.) One of a non-Jewish nation; one neither a Jew nor a Christian; a worshiper of false gods; a heathen.,
G as in Gentile (a.) Belonging to the nations at large, as distinguished from the Jews; ethnic; of pagan or heathen people.,
G as in Gentile (a.) Denoting a race or country; as, a gentile noun or adjective.,
G as in Gentile-falcon (n.) See Falcon-gentil.,
G as in Gentilesse (a.) Gentleness; courtesy; kindness; nobility.,
G as in Gentilish (a.) Heathenish; pagan.,
G as in Gentilism (n.) Hethenism; paganism; the worship of false gods.,
G as in Gentilism (n.) Tribal feeling; devotion to one's gens.,
G as in Gentilitial (a.) Alt. of Gentilitious,
G as in Gentilitious (a.) Peculiar to a people; national.,
G as in Gentilitious (a.) Hereditary; entailed on a family.,
G as in Gentility (n.) Good extraction; dignity of birth.,
G as in Gentility (n.) The quality or qualities appropriate to those who are well born, as self-respect, dignity, courage, courtesy, politeness of manner, a graceful and easy mien and behavior, etc.; good breeding.,
G as in Gentility (n.) The class in society who are, or are expected to be, genteel; the gentry.,
G as in Gentility (n.) Paganism; heathenism.,
G as in Gentilize (v. i.) To live like a gentile or heathen.,
G as in Gentilize (v. i.) To act the gentleman; -- with it (see It, 5).,
G as in Gentilize (v. i.) To render gentile or gentlemanly; as, to gentilize your unworthy sones.,
G as in Gentilly (a.) In a gentle or hoble manner; frankly.,
G as in Gentiopikrin (n.) A bitter, yellow, crystalline substance, regarded as a glucoside, and obtained from the gentian.,
G as in Gentisin (n.) A tasteless, yellow, crystalline substance, obtained from the gentian; -- called also gentianin.,
G as in Gentle (superl.) Well-born; of a good family or respectable birth, though not noble.,
G as in Gentle (superl.) Quiet and refined in manners; not rough, harsh, or stern; mild; meek; bland; amiable; tender; as, a gentle nature, temper, or disposition; a gentle manner; a gentle address; a gentle voice.,
G as in Gentle (superl.) A compellative of respect, consideration, or conciliation; as, gentle reader.,
G as in Gentle (superl.) Not wild, turbulent, or refractory; quiet and docile; tame; peaceable; as, a gentle horse.,
G as in Gentle (superl.) Soft; not violent or rough; not strong, loud, or disturbing; easy; soothing; pacific; as, a gentle touch; a gentle gallop .,
G as in Gentle (n.) One well born; a gentleman.,
G as in Gentle (n.) A trained falcon. See Falcon-gentil.,
G as in Gentle (n.) A dipterous larva used as fish bait.,
G as in Gentle (v. t.) To make genteel; to raise from the vulgar; to ennoble.,
G as in Gentle (v. t.) To make smooth, cozy, or agreeable.,
G as in Gentle (v. t.) To make kind and docile, as a horse.,
G as in Gentlefolk (n. pl.) Alt. of Gentlefolks,
G as in Gentlefolks (n. pl.) Persons of gentle or good family and breeding.,
G as in Gentle-hearted (a.) Having a kind or gentle disposition.,
G as in Gentlemen (pl. ) of Gentleman,
G as in Gentleman (n.) A man well born; one of good family; one above the condition of a yeoman.,
G as in Gentleman (n.) One of gentle or refined manners; a well-bred man.,
G as in Gentleman (n.) One who bears arms, but has no title.,
G as in Gentleman (n.) The servant of a man of rank.,
G as in Gentleman (n.) A man, irrespective of condition; -- used esp. in the plural (= citizens; people), in addressing men in popular assemblies, etc.,
G as in Gentlemanhood (n.) The qualities or condition of a gentleman.,
G as in Gentlemanlike (a.) Alt. of Gentlemanly,
G as in Gentlemanly (a.) Of, pertaining to, resembling, or becoming, a gentleman; well-behaved; courteous; polite.,
G as in Gentlemanliness (n.) The state of being gentlemanly; gentlemanly conduct or manners.,
G as in Gentlemanship (n.) The carriage or quality of a gentleman.,
G as in Gentleness (n.) The quality or state of being gentle, well-born, mild, benevolent, docile, etc.; gentility; softness of manners, disposition, etc.; mildness.,
G as in Gentleship (n.) The deportment or conduct of a gentleman.,
G as in Gentlesse (n.) Gentilesse; gentleness.,
G as in Gentlewomen (pl. ) of Gentlewoman,
G as in Gentlewoman (n.) A woman of good family or of good breeding; a woman above the vulgar.,
G as in Gentlewoman (n.) A woman who attends a lady of high rank.,
G as in Gently (adv.) In a gentle manner.,
G as in Gentoos (pl. ) of Gentoo,
G as in Gentoo (n.) A native of Hindostan; a Hindoo.,
G as in Gentry (a.) Birth; condition; rank by birth.,
G as in Gentry (a.) People of education and good breeding; in England, in a restricted sense, those between the nobility and the yeomanry.,
G as in Gentry (a.) Courtesy; civility; complaisance.,
G as in Genty (a.) Neat; trim.,
G as in Genua (pl. ) of Genu,
G as in Genu (n.) The knee.,
G as in Genu (n.) The kneelike bend, in the anterior part of the callosum of the brain.,
G as in Genuflected (imp. & p. p.) of Genuflect,
G as in Genuflecting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Genuflect,
G as in Genuflect (v. i.) To bend the knee, as in worship.,
G as in Genuflection (n.) The act of bending the knee, particularly in worship.,
G as in Genuine (a.) Belonging to, or proceeding from, the original stock; native; hence, not counterfeit, spurious, false, or adulterated; authentic; real; natural; true; pure; as, a genuine text; a genuine production; genuine materials.,
G as in Genera (pl. ) of Genus,
G as in Genus (n.) A class of objects divided into several subordinate species; a class more extensive than a species; a precisely defined and exactly divided class; one of the five predicable conceptions, or sorts of terms.,
G as in Genus (n.) An assemblage of species, having so many fundamental points of structure in common, that in the judgment of competent scientists, they may receive a common substantive name. A genus is not necessarily the lowest definable group of species, for it may often be divided into several subgenera. In proportion as its definition is exact, it is natural genus; if its definition can not be made clear, it is more or less an artificial genus.,
G as in Genys (n.) See Gonys.,
G as in Geocentric (a.) Alt. of Geocentrical,
G as in Geocentrical (a.) Having reference to the earth as center; in relation to or seen from the earth, -- usually opposed to heliocentric, as seen from the sun; as, the geocentric longitude or latitude of a planet.,
G as in Geocentrical (a.) Having reference to the center of the earth.,
G as in Geocentrically (adv.) In a geocentric manner.,
G as in Geocronite (n.) A lead-gray or grayish blue mineral with a metallic luster, consisting of sulphur, antimony, and lead, with a small proportion of arsenic.,
G as in Geocyclic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or illustrating, the revolutions of the earth; as, a geocyclic machine.,
G as in Geocyclic (a.) Circling the earth periodically.,
G as in Geode (n.) A nodule of stone, containing a cavity, lined with crystals or mineral matter.,
G as in Geode (n.) The cavity in such a nodule.,
G as in Geodephagous (a.) Living in the earth; -- applied to the ground beetles.,
G as in Geodesic (a.) Alt. of Geodesical,
G as in Geodesical (a.) Of or pertaining to geodesy; geodetic.,
G as in Geodesic (n.) A geodetic line or curve.,
G as in Geodesist (n.) One versed in geodesy.,
G as in Geodesy (n.) That branch of applied mathematics which determines, by means of observations and measurements, the figures and areas of large portions of the earth's surface, or the general figure and dimenshions of the earth; or that branch of surveying in which the curvature of the earth is taken into account, as in the surveys of States, or of long lines of coast.,
G as in Geodetic (a.) Alt. of Geodetical,
G as in Geodetical (a.) Of or pertaining to geodesy; obtained or determined by the operations of geodesy; engaged in geodesy; geodesic; as, geodetic surveying; geodetic observers.,
G as in Geodetically (adv.) In a geodetic manner; according to geodesy.,
G as in Geodetics (n.) Same as Geodesy.,
G as in Geodiferous (a.) Producing geodes; containing geodes.,
G as in Geoduck (n.) A gigantic clam (Glycimeris generosa) of the Pacific coast of North America, highly valued as an article of food.,
G as in Geognosis (n.) Knowledge of the earth.,
G as in Geognost (n.) One versed in geognosy; a geologist.,
G as in Geognostic (a.) Alt. of Geognostical,
G as in Geognostical (a.) Of or pertaining to geognosy, or to a knowledge of the structure of the earth; geological.,
G as in Geognosy (n.) That part of geology which treats of the materials of the earth's structure, and its general exterior and interior constitution.,
G as in Geogonic (a.) Alt. of Geogonical,
G as in Geogonical (a.) Of or pertaining to geogony, or to the formation of the earth.,
G as in Geogony (n.) The branch of science which treats of the formation of the earth.,
G as in Geographer (n.) One versed in geography.,
G as in Geographic (a.) Alt. of Geographical,
G as in Geographical (a.) Of or pertaining to geography.,
G as in Geographically (adv.) In a geographical manner or method; according to geography.,
G as in Geographies (pl. ) of Geography,
G as in Geography (n.) The science which treats of the world and its inhabitants; a description of the earth, or a portion of the earth, including its structure, fetures, products, political divisions, and the people by whom it is inhabited.,
G as in Geography (n.) A treatise on this science.,
G as in Geolatry (n.) The worship of the earth.,
G as in Geologer (n.) Alt. of Geologian,
G as in Geologian (n.) A geologist.,
G as in Geologic (a.) Alt. of Geological,
G as in Geological (a.) Of or pertaining to geology, or the science of the earth.,
G as in Geologically (adv.) In a geological manner.,
G as in Geologist (n.) One versed in the science of geology.,
G as in Geologized (imp. & p. p.) of Geologize,
G as in Geologizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Geologize,
G as in Geologize (v. i.) To study geology or make geological investigations in the field; to discourse as a geologist.,
G as in Geologies (pl. ) of Geology,
G as in Geology (n.) The science which treats: (a) Of the structure and mineral constitution of the globe; structural geology. (b) Of its history as regards rocks, minerals, rivers, valleys, mountains, climates, life, etc.; historical geology. (c) Of the causes and methods by which its structure, features, changes, and conditions have been produced; dynamical geology. See Chart of The Geological Series.,
G as in Geology (n.) A treatise on the science.,
G as in Geomalism (n.) The tendency of an organism to respond, during its growth, to the force of gravitation.,
G as in Geomancer (n.) One who practices, or is versed in, geomancy.,
G as in Geomancy (n.) A kind of divination by means of figures or lines, formed by little dots or points, originally on the earth, and latterly on paper.,
G as in Geomantic (a.) Alt. of Geomantical,
G as in Geomantical (a.) Pertaining or belonging to geomancy.,
G as in Geometer (n.) One skilled in geometry; a geometrician; a mathematician.,
G as in Geometer (n.) Any species of geometrid moth; a geometrid.,
G as in Geometral (a.) Pertaining to geometry.,
G as in Geometric (a.) Alt. of Geometrical,
G as in Geometrical (a.) Pertaining to, or according to the rules or principles of, geometry; determined by geometry; as, a geometrical solution of a problem.,
G as in Geometrically (adv.) According to the rules or laws of geometry.,
G as in Geometrician (n.) One skilled in geometry; a geometer; a mathematician.,
G as in Geometrid (a.) Pertaining or belonging to the Geometridae.,
G as in Geometrid (n.) One of numerous genera and species of moths, of the family Geometridae; -- so called because their larvae (called loopers, measuring worms, spanworms, and inchworms) creep in a looping manner, as if measuring. Many of the species are injurious to agriculture, as the cankerworms.,
G as in Geometrized (imp. & p. p.) of Geometrize,
G as in Geometrizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Geometrize,
G as in Geometrize (v. i.) To investigate or apprehend geometrical quantities or laws; to make geometrical constructions; to proceed in accordance with the principles of geometry.,
G as in Geometries (pl. ) of Geometry,
G as in Geometry (n.) That branch of mathematics which investigates the relations, properties, and measurement of solids, surfaces, lines, and angles; the science which treats of the properties and relations of magnitudes; the science of the relations of space.,
G as in Geometry (n.) A treatise on this science.,
G as in Geophagism (n.) The act or habit of eating earth. See Dirt eating, under Dirt.,
G as in Geophagist (n.) One who eats earth, as dirt, clay, chalk, etc.,
G as in Geophagous (a.) Earth-eating.,
G as in Geophila (n. pl.) The division of Mollusca which includes the land snails and slugs.,
G as in Geoponic (a.) Alt. of Geoponical,
G as in Geoponical (a.) Pertaining to tillage of the earth, or agriculture.,
G as in Geoponics (n.) The art or science of cultivating the earth; agriculture.,
G as in Georama (n.) A hollow globe on the inner surface of which a map of the world is depicted, to be examined by one standing inside.,
G as in Geordie (n.) A name given by miners to George Stephenson's safety lamp.,
G as in George (n.) A figure of St. George (the patron saint of England) on horseback, appended to the collar of the Order of the Garter. See Garter.,
G as in George (n.) A kind of brown loaf.,
G as in George noble () A gold noble of the time of Henry VIII. See Noble, n.,
G as in Georgian (a.) Of or pertaining to Georgia, in Asia, or to Georgia, one of the United States.,
G as in Georgian (a.) Of or relating to the reigns of the four Georges, kings of Great Britan; as, the Georgian era.,
G as in Georgian (n.) A native of, or dweller in, Georgia.,
G as in Georgic (a.) A rural poem; a poetical composition on husbandry, containing rules for cultivating lands, etc.; as, the Georgics of Virgil.,
G as in Georgic (a.) Alt. of Georgical,
G as in Georgical (a.) Relating to agriculture and rural affairs.,
G as in Georgium Sidus () The planet Uranus, so named by its discoverer, Sir W. Herschel.,
G as in Geoscopy (n.) Knowledge of the earth, ground, or soil, obtained by inspection.,
G as in Geoselenic (a.) Pertaining to the earth and moon; belonging to the joint action or mutual relations of the earth and moon; as, geoselenic phenomena.,
G as in Geostatic (a.) Relating to the pressure exerted by earth or similar substance.,
G as in Geosynclinal (n.) the downward bend or subsidence of the earth's crust, which allows of the gradual accumulation of sediment, and hence forms the first step in the making of a mountain range; -- opposed to geanticlinal.,
G as in Geothermometer (n.) A thermometer specially constructed for measuring temperetures at a depth below the surface of the ground.,
G as in Geotic (a.) Belonging to earth; terrestrial.,
G as in Geotropic (a.) Relating to, or showing, geotropism.,
G as in Geotropism (n.) A disposition to turn or incline towards the earth; the influence of gravity in determining the direction of growth of an organ.,
G as in Gephyrea (n. pl.) An order of marine Annelida, in which the body is imperfectly, or not at all, annulated externally, and is mostly without setae.,
G as in Gephyrean (a.) Belonging to the Gephyrea. -- n. One of the Gerphyrea.,
G as in Gephyreoid (a. & n.) Gephyrean.,
G as in Gepound (n.) See Gipoun.,
G as in Gerah (n.) A small coin and weight; 1-20th of a shekel.,
G as in Geraniaceous (a.) Of or pertaining to a natural order of pants (Geraniaceae) which includes the genera Geranium, Pelargonium, and many others.,
G as in Geraniine (n.) Alt. of Geranine,
G as in Geranine (n.) A valuable astringent obtained from the root of the Geranium maculatum or crane's-bill.,
G as in Geranine (n.) A liquid terpene, obtained from the crane's-bill (Geranium maculatum), and having a peculiar mulberry odor.,
G as in Geranium (n.) A genus of plants having a beaklike tours or receptacle, around which the seed capsules are arranged, and membranous projections, or stipules, at the joints. Most of the species have showy flowers and a pungent odor. Called sometimes crane's-bill.,
G as in Geranium (n.) A cultivated pelargonium.,
G as in Gerant (n.) The manager or acting partner of a company, joint-stock association, etc.,
G as in Gerbe (n.) A kind of ornamental firework.,
G as in Gerbil (n.) Alt. of Gerbille,
G as in Gerbille (n.) One of several species of small, jumping, murine rodents, of the genus Gerbillus. In their leaping powers they resemble the jerboa. They inhabit Africa, India, and Southern Europe.,
G as in Gerboa (n.) The jerboa.,
G as in Gere (n.) Gear.,
G as in Gerent (a.) Bearing; carrying.,
G as in Gerfalcon (n.) See Gyrfalcon.,
G as in Gerful (a.) Changeable; capricious.,
G as in Gerland (n.) Alt. of Gerlond,
G as in Gerlond (n.) A garland.,
G as in Gerlind (n.) A salmon returning from the sea the second time.,
G as in Germ (n.) That which is to develop a new individual; as, the germ of a fetus, of a plant or flower, and the like; the earliest form under which an organism appears.,
G as in Germ (n.) That from which anything springs; origin; first principle; as, the germ of civil liberty.,
G as in Germ (v. i.) To germinate.,
G as in Germain (a.) See Germane.,
G as in German (a.) Nearly related; closely akin.,
G as in Germans (pl. ) of German,
G as in German (n.) A native or one of the people of Germany.,
G as in German (n.) The German language.,
G as in German (n.) A round dance, often with a waltz movement, abounding in capriciosly involved figures.,
G as in German (n.) A social party at which the german is danced.,
G as in German (n.) Of or pertaining to Germany.,
G as in Germander (n.) A plant of the genus Teucrium (esp. Teucrium Chamaedrys or wall germander), mintlike herbs and low shrubs.,
G as in Germane (a.) Literally, near akin; hence, closely allied; appropriate or fitting; relevant.,
G as in Germanic (a.) Pertaining to, or containing, germanium.,
G as in Germanic (n.) Of or pertaining to Germany; as, the Germanic confederacy.,
G as in Germanic (n.) Teutonic.,
G as in Germanism (n.) An idiom of the German language.,
G as in Germanism (n.) A characteristic of the Germans; a characteristic German mode, doctrine, etc.; rationalism.,
G as in Germanium (n.) A rare element, recently discovered (1885), in a silver ore (argyrodite) at Freiberg. It is a brittle, silver-white metal, chemically intermediate between the metals and nonmetals, resembles tin, and is in general identical with the predicted ekasilicon. Symbol Ge. Atomic weight 72.3.,
G as in Germanization (n.) The act of Germanizing.,
G as in Germanized (imp. & p. p.) of Germanize,
G as in Germanizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Germanize,
G as in Germanize (v. t.) To make German, or like what is distinctively German; as, to Germanize a province, a language, a society.,
G as in Germanize (v. i.) To reason or write after the manner of the Germans.,
G as in Germarium (n.) An organ in which the ova are developed in certain Turbellaria.,
G as in Germens (pl. ) of Germen,
G as in Germina (pl. ) of Germen,
G as in Germen (n.) See Germ.,
G as in Germicidal (a.) Germicide.,
G as in Germicide (a.) Destructive to germs; -- applied to any agent which has a destructive action upon living germs, particularly bacteria, or bacterial germs, which are considered the cause of many infectious diseases.,
G as in Germicide (n.) A germicide agent.,
G as in Germinal (a.) Pertaining or belonging to a germ; as, the germinal vesicle.,
G as in Germinal (n.) The seventh month of the French republican calendar [1792 -- 1806]. It began March 21 and ended April 19. See VendEmiaire.,
G as in Germinant (a.) Sprouting; sending forth germs or buds.,
G as in Germinated (imp. & p. p.) of Germinate,
G as in Germinating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Germinate,
G as in Germinate (v. i.) To sprout; to bud; to shoot; to begin to vegetate, as a plant or its seed; to begin to develop, as a germ.,
G as in Germinate (v. t.) To cause to sprout.,
G as in Germination (n.) The process of germinating; the beginning of vegetation or growth in a seed or plant; the first development of germs, either animal or vegetable.,
G as in Germinative (a.) Pertaining to germination; having power to bud or develop.,
G as in Germiparity (n.) Reproduction by means of germs.,
G as in Germless (a.) Without germs.,
G as in Germogen (n.) A polynuclear mass of protoplasm, not divided into separate cells, from which certain ova are developed.,
G as in Germogen (n.) The primitive cell in certain embryonic forms.,
G as in Germ plasm () See Plasmogen, and Idioplasm.,
G as in Germule (n.) A small germ.,
G as in Gern (v. t.) To grin or yawn.,
G as in Gerner (n.) A garner.,
G as in Gerocomia (n.) See Gerocomy.,
G as in Gerocomical (a.) Pertaining to gerocomy.,
G as in Gerocomy (n.) That part of medicine which treats of regimen for old people.,
G as in Gerontes (n. pl.) Magistrates in Sparta, who with the ephori and kings, constituted the supreme civil authority.,
G as in Gerontocracy (n.) Government by old men.,
G as in Geropigia (n.) A mixture composed of unfermented grape juice, brandy, sugar, etc., for adulteration of wines.,
G as in -gerous () A suffix signifying bearing, producing; as, calcigerous; dentigerous.,
G as in Gerrymandered (imp. & p. p.) of Gerrymander,
G as in Gerrymandering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gerrymander,
G as in Gerrymander (v. t.) To divide (a State) into districts for the choice of representatives, in an unnatural and unfair way, with a view to give a political party an advantage over its opponent.,
G as in Gerund (n.) A kind of verbal noun, having only the four oblique cases of the singular number, and governing cases like a participle.,
G as in Gerund (n.) A verbal noun ending in -e, preceded by to and usually denoting purpose or end; -- called also the dative infinitive; as, "Ic haebbe mete to etanne" (I have meat to eat.) In Modern English the name has been applied to verbal or participal nouns in -ing denoting a transitive action; e. g., by throwing a stone.,
G as in Gerundial (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, a gerund; as, a gerundial use.,
G as in Gerundive (a.) Pertaining to, or partaking of, the nature of the gerund; gerundial.,
G as in Gerundive (n.) The future passive participle; as, amandus, i. e., to be loved.,
G as in Gerundively (adv.) In the manner of a gerund; as, or in place of, a gerund.,
G as in Gery (a.) Changeable; fickle.,
G as in Gesling (n.) A gosling.,
G as in Gesse (v. t. & i.) To guess.,
G as in Gest (n.) A guest.,
G as in Gest (n.) Something done or achieved; a deed or an action; an adventure.,
G as in Gest (n.) An action represented in sports, plays, or on the stage; show; ceremony.,
G as in Gest (n.) A tale of achievements or adventures; a stock story.,
G as in Gest (n.) Gesture; bearing; deportment.,
G as in Gest (n.) A stage in traveling; a stop for rest or lodging in a journey or progress; a rest.,
G as in Gest (n.) A roll recting the several stages arranged for a royal progress. Many of them are extant in the herald's office.,
G as in Gestant (a.) Bearing within; laden; burdened; pregnant.,
G as in Gestation (n.) The act of wearing (clothes or ornaments).,
G as in Gestation (n.) The act of carrying young in the womb from conception to delivery; pregnancy.,
G as in Gestation (n.) Exercise in which one is borne or carried, as on horseback, or in a carriage, without the exertion of his own powers; passive exercise.,
G as in Gestatory (a.) Pertaining to gestation or pregnancy.,
G as in Gestatory (a.) Capable of being carried or worn.,
G as in Geste (v. i.) To tell stories or gests.,
G as in Gestic (a.) Pertaining to deeds or feats of arms; legendary.,
G as in Gestic (a.) Relating to bodily motion; consisting of gestures; -- said especially with reference to dancing.,
G as in Gesticulated (imp. & p. p.) of Gesticulate,
G as in Gesticulating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gesticulate,
G as in Gesticulate (v. i.) To make gestures or motions, as in speaking; to use postures.,
G as in Gesticulate (v. t.) To represent by gesture; to act.,
G as in Gesticulation (n.) The act of gesticulating, or making gestures to express passion or enforce sentiments.,
G as in Gesticulation (n.) A gesture; a motion of the body or limbs in speaking, or in representing action or passion, and enforcing arguments and sentiments.,
G as in Gesticulation (n.) Antic tricks or motions.,
G as in Gesticulator (n.) One who gesticulates.,
G as in Gesticulatory (a.) Representing by, or belonging to, gestures.,
G as in Gestour (n.) A reciter of gests or legendary tales; a story-teller.,
G as in Gestural (a.) Relating to gesture.,
G as in Gesture (n.) Manner of carrying the body; position of the body or limbs; posture.,
G as in Gesture (n.) A motion of the body or limbs expressive of sentiment or passion; any action or posture intended to express an idea or a passion, or to enforce or emphasize an argument, assertion, or opinion.,
G as in Gestured (imp. & p. p.) of Gesture,
G as in Gesturing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gesture,
G as in Gesture (v. t.) To accompany or illustrate with gesture or action; to gesticulate.,
G as in Gesture (v. i.) To make gestures; to gesticulate.,
G as in Gestureless (a.) Free from gestures.,
G as in Gesturement (n.) Act of making gestures; gesturing.,
G as in Get (n.) Jet, the mineral.,
G as in Get (n.) Fashion; manner; custom.,
G as in Get (n.) Artifice; contrivance.,
G as in Got (imp.) of Get,
G as in Gat () of Get,
G as in Got (p. p.) of Get,
G as in Gotten () of Get,
G as in Getting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Get,
G as in Get (v. t.) To procure; to obtain; to gain possession of; to acquire; to earn; to obtain as a price or reward; to come by; to win, by almost any means; as, to get favor by kindness; to get wealth by industry and economy; to get land by purchase, etc.,
G as in Get (v. t.) Hence, with have and had, to come into or be in possession of; to have.,
G as in Get (v. t.) To beget; to procreate; to generate.,
G as in Get (v. t.) To obtain mental possession of; to learn; to commit to memory; to memorize; as to get a lesson; also with out; as, to get out one's Greek lesson.,
G as in Get (v. t.) To prevail on; to induce; to persuade.,
G as in Get (v. t.) To procure to be, or to cause to be in any state or condition; -- with a following participle.,
G as in Get (v. t.) To betake; to remove; -- in a reflexive use.,
G as in Get (v. i.) To make acquisition; to gain; to profit; to receive accessions; to be increased.,
G as in Get (v. i.) To arrive at, or bring one's self into, a state, condition, or position; to come to be; to become; -- with a following adjective or past participle belonging to the subject of the verb; as, to get sober; to get awake; to get beaten; to get elected.,
G as in Get (n.) Offspring; progeny; as, the get of a stallion.,
G as in Geten () p. p. of Get.,
G as in Geth () the original third pers. sing. pres. of Go.,
G as in Get-penny (n.) Something which gets or gains money; a successful affair.,
G as in Gettable (a.) That may be obtained.,
G as in Getter (n.) One who gets, gains, obtains, acquires, begets, or procreates.,
G as in Getterup (n.) One who contrives, makes, or arranges for, anything, as a book, a machine, etc.,
G as in Getting (n.) The act of obtaining or acquiring; acquisition.,
G as in Getting (n.) That which is got or obtained; gain; profit.,
G as in Get-up (n.) General composition or structure; manner in which the parts of a thing are combined; make-up; style of dress, etc.,
G as in Gewgaw (n.) A showy trifle; a toy; a splendid plaything; a pretty but worthless bauble.,
G as in Gewgaw (a.) Showy; unreal; pretentious.,
G as in Geyser (n.) A boiling spring which throws forth at frequent intervals jets of water, mud, etc., driven up by the expansive power of steam.,
G as in Geyserite (n.) A loose hydrated form of silica, a variety of opal, deposited in concretionary cauliflowerlike masses, around some hot springs and geysers.,
G as in Gharry (n.) Any wheeled cart or carriage.,
G as in Ghast (a.) To strike aghast; to affright.,
G as in Ghastful (a.) Fit to make one aghast; dismal.,
G as in Ghastliness (n.) The state of being ghastly; a deathlike look.,
G as in Ghastly (superl.) Like a ghost in appearance; deathlike; pale; pallid; dismal.,
G as in Ghastly (superl.) Horrible; shocking; dreadful; hideous.,
G as in Ghastly (adv.) In a ghastly manner; hideously.,
G as in Ghastness (n.) Ghastliness.,
G as in Ghat (n.) Alt. of Ghaut,
G as in Ghaut (n.) A pass through a mountain.,
G as in Ghaut (n.) A range of mountains.,
G as in Ghaut (n.) Stairs descending to a river; a landing place; a wharf.,
G as in Ghawazi (n. pl.) Egyptian dancing girls, of a lower sort than the almeh.,
G as in Gheber Ghebre (n.) A worshiper of fire; a Zoroastrian; a Parsee.,
G as in Ghee (n.) Butter clarified by boiling, and thus converted into a kind of oil.,
G as in Gherkin (n.) A kind of small, prickly cucumber, much used for pickles.,
G as in Gherkin (n.) See Sea gherkin.,
G as in Ghess (v. t. & i.) See Guess.,
G as in Ghetto (n.) The Jews'quarter in an Italian town or city.,
G as in Ghibelline (n.) One of a faction in Italy, in the 12th and 13th centuries, which favored the German emperors, and opposed the Guelfs, or adherents of the poses.,
G as in Ghole (n.) See Ghoul.,
G as in Ghost (n.) The spirit; the soul of man.,
G as in Ghost (n.) The disembodied soul; the soul or spirit of a deceased person; a spirit appearing after death; an apparition; a specter.,
G as in Ghost (n.) Any faint shadowy semblance; an unsubstantial image; a phantom; a glimmering; as, not a ghost of a chance; the ghost of an idea.,
G as in Ghost (n.) A false image formed in a telescope by reflection from the surfaces of one or more lenses.,
G as in Ghost (v. i.) To die; to expire.,
G as in Ghost (v. t.) To appear to or haunt in the form of an apparition.,
G as in Ghostfish (n.) A pale unspotted variety of the wrymouth.,
G as in Ghostless (a.) Without life or spirit.,
G as in Ghostlike (a.) Like a ghost; ghastly.,
G as in Ghostliness (n.) The quality of being ghostly.,
G as in Ghostly (a.) Relating to the soul; not carnal or secular; spiritual; as, a ghostly confessor.,
G as in Ghostly (a.) Of or pertaining to apparitions.,
G as in Ghostly (adv.) Spiritually; mystically.,
G as in Ghostology (n.) Ghost lore.,
G as in Ghoul (n.) An imaginary evil being among Eastern nations, which was supposed to feed upon human bodies.,
G as in Ghoulish (a.) Characteristic of a ghoul; vampirelike; hyenalike.,
G as in Ghyll (n.) A ravine. See Gill a woody glen.,
G as in Giallolino (n.) A term variously employed by early writers on art, though commonly designating the yellow oxide of lead, or massicot.,
G as in Giambeux (n. pl.) Greaves; armor for the legs.,
G as in Giant (n.) A man of extraordinari bulk and stature.,
G as in Giant (n.) A person of extraordinary strength or powers, bodily or intellectual.,
G as in Giant (n.) Any animal, plant, or thing, of extraordinary size or power.,
G as in Giant (a.) Like a giant; extraordinary in size, strength, or power; as, giant brothers; a giant son.,
G as in Giantess (n.) A woman of extraordinary size.,
G as in Giantize (v. i.) To play the giant.,
G as in Giantly (a.) Appropriate to a giant.,
G as in Giantry (n.) The race of giants.,
G as in Giantship (n.) The state, personality, or character, of a giant; -- a compellation for a giant.,
G as in Giaour (n.) An infidel; -- a term applied by Turks to disbelievers in the Mohammedan religion, especially Christrians.,
G as in Gib (n.) A male cat; a tomcat.,
G as in Gib (v. i.) To act like a cat.,
G as in Gib (n.) A piece or slip of metal or wood, notched or otherwise, in a machine or structure, to hold other parts in place or bind them together, or to afford a bearing surface; -- usually held or adjusted by means of a wedge, key, or screw.,
G as in Gibbed (imp. & p. p.) of Gib,
G as in Gibbing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gib,
G as in Gib (v. t.) To secure or fasten with a gib, or gibs; to provide with a gib, or gibs.,
G as in Gib (v. i.) To balk. See Jib, v. i.,
G as in Gibbartas (n.) One of several finback whales of the North Atlantic; -- called also Jupiter whale.,
G as in Gibber (n.) A balky horse.,
G as in Gibbered (imp. & p. p.) of Gibber,
G as in Gibbering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gibber,
G as in Gibber (v. i.) To speak rapidly and inarticulately.,
G as in Gibberish (v. i.) Rapid and inarticulate talk; unintelligible language; unmeaning words; jargon.,
G as in Gibberish (a.) Unmeaning; as, gibberish language.,
G as in Gibbet (n.) A kind of gallows; an upright post with an arm projecting from the top, on which, formerly, malefactors were hanged in chains, and their bodies allowed to remain asa warning.,
G as in Gibbet (n.) The projecting arm of a crane, from which the load is suspended; the jib.,
G as in Gibbeted (imp. & p. p.) of Gibbet,
G as in Gibbeting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gibbet,
G as in Gibbet (v. t.) To hang and expose on a gibbet.,
G as in Gibbet (v. t.) To expose to infamy; to blacken.,
G as in Gibbier (n.) Wild fowl; game.,
G as in Gibbon (n.) Any arboreal ape of the genus Hylobates, of which many species and varieties inhabit the East Indies and Southern Asia. They are tailless and without cheek pouches, and have very long arms, adapted for climbing.,
G as in Gib boom () See Jib boom.,
G as in Gibbose (a.) Humped; protuberant; -- said of a surface which presents one or more large elevations.,
G as in Gibbostity (n.) The state of being gibbous or gibbose; gibbousness.,
G as in Gibbous (a.) Swelling by a regular curve or surface; protuberant; convex; as, the moon is gibbous between the half-moon and the full moon.,
G as in Gibbous (a.) Hunched; hump-backed.,
G as in Gibbsite (n.) A hydrate of alumina.,
G as in Gib-cat (n.) A male cat, esp. an old one. See lst Gib. n.,
G as in Gibed (imp. & p. p.) of Gibe,
G as in Gibing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gibe,
G as in Gibe (v. i.) To cast reproaches and sneering expressions; to rail; to utter taunting, sarcastic words; to flout; to fleer; to scoff.,
G as in Gibe (v. i.) To reproach with contemptuous words; to deride; to scoff at; to mock.,
G as in Gibe (n.) An expression of sarcastic scorn; a sarcastic jest; a scoff; a taunt; a sneer.,
G as in Gibel (n.) A kind of carp (Cyprinus gibelio); -- called also Prussian carp.,
G as in Giber (n.) One who utters gibes.,
G as in Gibfish (n.) The male of the salmon.,
G as in Gibingly (adv.) In a gibing manner; scornfully.,
G as in Giblet (a.) Made of giblets; as, a giblet pie.,
G as in Giblets (n. pl.) The inmeats, or edible viscera (heart, gizzard, liver, etc.), of poultry.,
G as in Gibstaff (n.) A staff to guage water, or to push a boat.,
G as in Gibstaff (n.) A staff formerly used in fighting beasts on the stage.,
G as in Gid (a.) A disease of sheep, characterized by vertigo; the staggers. It is caused by the presence of the C/nurus, a larval tapeworm, in the brain. See C/nurus.,
G as in Giddily (adv.) In a giddy manner.,
G as in Giddiness (n.) The quality or state of being giddy.,
G as in Giddy (superl.) Having in the head a sensation of whirling or reeling about; having lost the power of preserving the balance of the body, and therefore wavering and inclined to fall; lightheaded; dizzy.,
G as in Giddy (superl.) Promoting or inducing giddiness; as, a giddy height; a giddy precipice.,
G as in Giddy (superl.) Bewildering on account of rapid turning; running round with celerity; gyratory; whirling.,
G as in Giddy (superl.) Characterized by inconstancy; unstable; changeable; fickle; wild; thoughtless; heedless.,
G as in Giddy (v. i.) To reel; to whirl.,
G as in Giddy (v. t.) To make dizzy or unsteady.,
G as in Giddy-head (n.) A person without thought fulness, prudence, or judgment.,
G as in Giddy-headed (a.) Thoughtless; unsteady.,
G as in Giddy-paced (a.) Moving irregularly; flighty; fickle.,
G as in Gie (v. t.) To guide. See Gye .,
G as in Gie (v. t.) To give.,
G as in Gier-eagle (n.) A bird referred to in the Bible (Lev. xi. 18and Deut. xiv. 17) as unclean, probably the Egyptian vulture (Neophron percnopterus).,
G as in Gier-falcon (n.) The gyrfalcon.,
G as in Gieseckite (n.) A mineral occurring in greenish gray six-sided prisms, having a greasy luster. It is probably a pseudomorph after elaeolite.,
G as in Gif (conj.) If.,
G as in Giffard injector () See under Injector.,
G as in Giffgaff (n.) Mutial accommodation; mutual giving.,
G as in Giffy (n.) See Jiffy.,
G as in Gift (v. t.) Anything given; anything voluntarily transferred by one person to another without compensation; a present; an offering.,
G as in Gift (v. t.) The act, right, or power of giving or bestowing; as, the office is in the gift of the President.,
G as in Gift (v. t.) A bribe; anything given to corrupt.,
G as in Gift (v. t.) Some quality or endowment given to man by God; a preeminent and special talent or aptitude; power; faculty; as, the gift of wit; a gift for speaking.,
G as in Gift (v. t.) A voluntary transfer of real or personal property, without any consideration. It can be perfected only by deed, or in case of personal property, by an actual delivery of possession.,
G as in Gifted (imp. & p. p.) of Gift,
G as in Gifting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gift,
G as in Gift (v. t.) To endow with some power or faculty.,
G as in Giftedness (n.) The state of being gifted.,
G as in Gig (n.) A fiddle.,
G as in Gig (v. t.) To engender.,
G as in Gig (n.) A kind of spear or harpoon. See Fishgig.,
G as in Gig (v. t.) To fish with a gig.,
G as in Gig (n.) A playful or wanton girl; a giglot.,
G as in Gig (n.) A top or whirligig; any little thing that is whirled round in play.,
G as in Gig (n.) A light carriage, with one pair of wheels, drawn by one horse; a kind of chaise.,
G as in Gig (n.) A long, light rowboat, generally clinkerbuilt, and designed to be fast; a boat appropriated to the use of the commanding officer; as, the captain's gig.,
G as in Gig (n.) A rotatory cylinder, covered with wire teeth or teasels, for teaseling woolen cloth.,
G as in Gigantean (a.) Like a giant; mighty; gigantic.,
G as in Gigantesque (a.) Befitting a giant; bombastic; magniloquent.,
G as in Gigantic (a.) Of extraordinary size; like a giant.,
G as in Gigantic (a.) Such as a giant might use, make, or cause; immense; tremendous; extraordinarly; as, gigantic deeds; gigantic wickedness.,
G as in Gigantical (a.) Bulky, big.,
G as in Giganticide (n.) The act of killing, or one who kills, a giant.,
G as in Gigantine (a.) Gigantic.,
G as in Gigantology (n.) An account or description of giants.,
G as in Gigantomachy (n.) A war of giants; especially, the fabulous war of the giants against heaven.,
G as in Gide (n.) Alt. of Guide,
G as in Guide (n.) The leather strap by which the shield of a knight was slung across the shoulder, or across the neck and shoulder.,
G as in Gigeria (pl. ) of Gigerium,
G as in Gigerium (n.) The muscular stomach, or gizzard, of birds.,
G as in Gigget (n.) Same as Gigot.,
G as in Giggled (imp. & p. p.) of Giggle,
G as in Giggling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Giggle,
G as in Giggle (v. t.) To laugh with short catches of the breath or voice; to laugh in a light, affected, or silly manner; to titter with childish levity.,
G as in Giggle (n.) A kind of laugh, with short catches of the voice or breath; a light, silly laugh.,
G as in Giggler (n.) One who giggles or titters.,
G as in Giggly (a.) Prone to giggling.,
G as in Giggot (n.) See Gigot.,
G as in Giggyng (n.) The act of fastending the gige or leather strap to the shield.,
G as in Giglot (n.) Alt. of Giglet,
G as in Giglet (n.) A wanton; a lascivious or light, giddy girl.,
G as in Giglot (a.) Giddi; light; inconstant; wanton.,
G as in Gigot (n.) Alt. of Giggot,
G as in Giggot (n.) A leg of mutton.,
G as in Giggot (n.) A small piece of flesh; a slice.,
G as in Gila monster () A large tuberculated lizard (Heloderma suspectum) native of the dry plains of Arizona, New Mexico, etc. It is the only lizard known to have venomous teeth.,
G as in Gilded (imp. & p. p.) of Gild,
G as in Gilt () of Gild,
G as in Gilding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gild,
G as in Gild (v. t.) To overlay with a thin covering of gold; to cover with a golden color; to cause to look like gold.,
G as in Gild (v. t.) To make attractive; to adorn; to brighten.,
G as in Gild (v. t.) To give a fair but deceptive outward appearance to; to embellish; as, to gild a lie.,
G as in Gild (v. t.) To make red with drinking.,
G as in Gildale (v. t.) A drinking bout in which every one pays an equal share.,
G as in Gilden (a.) Gilded.,
G as in Gilder (n.) One who gilds; one whose occupation is to overlay with gold.,
G as in Gilder (n.) A Dutch coin. See Guilder.,
G as in Guilding (n.) The art or practice of overlaying or covering with gold leaf; also, a thin coating or wash of gold, or of that which resembles gold.,
G as in Guilding (n.) Gold in leaf, powder, or liquid, for application to any surface.,
G as in Guilding (n.) Any superficial coating or appearance, as opposed to what is solid and genuine.,
G as in Gile (n.) Guile.,
G as in Gill (n.) An organ for aquatic respiration; a branchia.,
G as in Gill (n.) The radiating, gill-shaped plates forming the under surface of a mushroom.,
G as in Gill (n.) The fleshy flap that hangs below the beak of a fowl; a wattle.,
G as in Gill (n.) The flesh under or about the chin.,
G as in Gill (n.) One of the combs of closely ranged steel pins which divide the ribbons of flax fiber or wool into fewer parallel filaments.,
G as in Gill (n.) A two-wheeled frame for transporting timber.,
G as in Gill (n.) A leech.,
G as in Gill (n.) A woody glen; a narrow valley containing a stream.,
G as in Gill (n.) A measure of capacity, containing one fourth of a pint.,
G as in Gill (n.) A young woman; a sweetheart; a flirting or wanton girl.,
G as in Gill (n.) The ground ivy (Nepeta Glechoma); -- called also gill over the ground, and other like names.,
G as in Gill (n.) Malt liquor medicated with ground ivy.,
G as in Gill-flirt (n.) A thoughtless, giddy girl; a flirt-gill.,
G as in Gillhouse (n.) A shop where gill is sold.,
G as in Gillian (n.) A girl; esp., a wanton; a gill.,
G as in Gillie Gilly (n.) A boy or young man; a manservant; a male attendant, in the Scottish Highlands.,
G as in Gillyflower (n.) A name given by old writers to the clove pink (Dianthus Caryophyllus) but now to the common stock (Matthiola incana), a cruciferous plant with showy and fragrant blossoms, usually purplish, but often pink or white.,
G as in Gillyflower (n.) A kind of apple, of a roundish conical shape, purplish red color, and having a large core.,
G as in Gilour (n.) A guiler; deceiver.,
G as in Gilse (n.) See Grilse.,
G as in Gilt (v. t.) A female pig, when young.,
G as in Gilt () imp. & p. p. of Gild.,
G as in Gilt (p. p. & a.) Gilded; covered with gold; of the color of gold; golden yellow.,
G as in Gilt (n.) Gold, or that which resembles gold, laid on the surface of a thing; gilding.,
G as in Gilt (n.) Money.,
G as in Gilt-edge (a.) Alt. of Gilt-edged,
G as in Gilt-edged (a.) Having a gilt edge; as, gilt-edged paper.,
G as in Gilt-edged (a.) Of the best quality; -- said of negotiable paper, etc.,
G as in Gilthead (n.) A marine fish.,
G as in Gilthead (n.) The Pagrus, / Chrysophrys, auratus, a valuable food fish common in the Mediterranean (so named from its golden-colored head); -- called also giltpoll.,
G as in Gilthead (n.) The Crenilabrus melops, of the British coasts; -- called also golden maid, conner, sea partridge.,
G as in Giltif (a.) Guilty.,
G as in Gilttail (n.) A yellow-tailed worm or larva.,
G as in Gim (a.) Neat; spruce.,
G as in Gimbal (n.) Alt. of Gimbals,
G as in Gimbals (n.) A contrivance for permitting a body to incline freely in all directions, or for suspending anything, as a barometer, ship's compass, chronometer, etc., so that it will remain plumb, or level, when its support is tipped, as by the rolling of a ship. It consists of a ring in which the body can turn on an axis through a diameter of the ring, while the ring itself is so pivoted to its support that it can turn about a diameter at right angles to the first.,
G as in Gimblet (n. & v.) See Gimlet.,
G as in Gimcrack (n.) A trivial mechanism; a device; a toy; a pretty thing.,
G as in Gimlet (n.) A small tool for boring holes. It has a leading screw, a grooved body, and a cross handle.,
G as in Gimleted (imp. & p. p.) of Gimlet,
G as in Gimleting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gimlet,
G as in Gimlet (v. t.) To pierce or make with a gimlet.,
G as in Gimlet (v. t.) To turn round (an anchor) by the stock, with a motion like turning a gimlet.,
G as in Gimmal (n.) Joined work whose parts move within each other; a pair or series of interlocked rings.,
G as in Gimmal (n.) A quaint piece of machinery; a gimmer.,
G as in Gommal (a.) Made or consisting of interlocked ring/ or links; as, gimmal mail.,
G as in Gimmer (n.) Alt. of Gimmor,
G as in Gimmor (n.) A piece of mechanism; mechanical device or contrivance; a gimcrack.,
G as in Gimp (a.) Smart; spruce; trim; nice.,
G as in Gimp (n.) A narrow ornamental fabric of silk, woolen, or cotton, often with a metallic wire, or sometimes a coarse cord, running through it; -- used as trimming for dresses, furniture, etc.,
G as in Gimp (v. t.) To notch; to indent; to jag.,
G as in Gin (n.) Against; near by; towards; as, gin night.,
G as in Gin (conj.) If.,
G as in Gan (imp. & p. p.) of Gin,
G as in Gon () of Gin,
G as in Gun () of Gin,
G as in Ginning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gin,
G as in Gin (v. i.) To begin; -- often followed by an infinitive without to; as, gan tell. See Gan.,
G as in Gin (n.) A strong alcoholic liquor, distilled from rye and barley, and flavored with juniper berries; -- also called Hollands and Holland gin, because originally, and still very extensively, manufactured in Holland. Common gin is usually flavored with turpentine.,
G as in Gin (n.) Contrivance; artifice; a trap; a snare.,
G as in Gin (n.) A machine for raising or moving heavy weights, consisting of a tripod formed of poles united at the top, with a windlass, pulleys, ropes, etc.,
G as in Gin (n.) A hoisting drum, usually vertical; a whim.,
G as in Gin (n.) A machine for separating the seeds from cotton; a cotton gin.,
G as in Ginned (imp. & p. p.) of Gin,
G as in Ginning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gin,
G as in Gin (v. t.) To catch in a trap.,
G as in Gin (v. t.) To clear of seeds by a machine; as, to gin cotton.,
G as in Ging (n.) Same as Gang, n., 2.,
G as in Gingal (n.) See Jingal.,
G as in Ginger (n.) A plant of the genus Zingiber, of the East and West Indies. The species most known is Z. officinale.,
G as in Ginger (n.) The hot and spicy rootstock of Zingiber officinale, which is much used in cookery and in medicine.,
G as in Gingerbread (n.) A kind of plain sweet cake seasoned with ginger, and sometimes made in fanciful shapes.,
G as in Gingerly (adv.) Cautiously; timidly; fastidiously; daintily.,
G as in Gingerness (n.) Cautiousness; tenderness.,
G as in Gingham (n.) A kind of cotton or linen cloth, usually in stripes or checks, the yarn of which is dyed before it is woven; -- distinguished from printed cotton or prints.,
G as in Ginging (n.) The lining of a mine shaft with stones or bricks to prevent caving.,
G as in Gingival (a.) Of or pertaining to the gums.,
G as in Gingle (n. & v.) See Jingle.,
G as in Ginglyform (a.) Ginglymoid.,
G as in Ginglymodi (n.) An order of ganoid fishes, including the modern gar pikes and many allied fossil forms. They have rhombic, ganoid scales, a heterocercal tail, paired fins without an axis, fulcra on the fins, and a bony skeleton, with the vertebrae convex in front and concave behind, forming a ball and socket joint. See Ganoidel.,
G as in Ginglymoid (a.) Alt. of Ginglymoidal,
G as in Ginglymoidal (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, a ginglymus, or hinge joint; ginglyform.,
G as in Ginglymi (pl. ) of Ginglymus,
G as in Ginglymus (n.) A hinge joint; an articulation, admitting of flexion and extension, or motion in two directions only, as the elbow and the ankle.,
G as in Ginhouse (n.) A building where cotton is ginned.,
G as in Ginkgoes (pl. ) of Ginkgo,
G as in Ginkgo (n.) A large ornamental tree (Ginkgo biloba) from China and Japan, belonging to the Yew suborder of Coniferae. Its leaves are so like those of some maidenhair ferns, that it is also called the maidenhair tree.,
G as in Ginn (pl. ) of Ginnee,
G as in Ginnee (n.) See Jinnee.,
G as in Ginnet (n.) See Genet, a horse.,
G as in Ginning (v. i.) Beginning.,
G as in Ginny-carriage (n.) A small, strong carriage for conveying materials on a railroad.,
G as in Ginseng (n.) A plant of the genus Aralia, the root of which is highly valued as a medicine among the Chinese. The Chinese plant (Aralia Schinseng) has become so rare that the American (A. quinquefolia) has largely taken its place, and its root is now an article of export from America to China. The root, when dry, is of a yellowish white color, with a sweetness in the taste somewhat resembling that of licorice, combined with a slight aromatic bitterness.,
G as in Ginshop (n.) A shop or barroom where gin is sold as a beverage.,
G as in Gip (v. t.) To take out the entrails of (herrings).,
G as in Gip (n.) A servant. See Gyp.,
G as in Gipoun (n.) A short cassock.,
G as in Gipser (n.) Alt. of Gipsire,
G as in Gipsire (n.) A kind of pouch formerly worn at the girdle.,
G as in Gipsy (n. a.) See Gypsy.,
G as in Gipsyism (n.) See Gypsyism.,
G as in Giraffe (n.) An African ruminant (Camelopardalis giraffa) related to the deers and antelopes, but placed in a family by itself; the camelopard. It is the tallest of animals, being sometimes twenty feet from the hoofs to the top of the head. Its neck is very long, and its fore legs are much longer than its hind legs.,
G as in Girandole (n.) An ornamental branched candlestick.,
G as in Girandole (n.) A flower stand, fountain, or the like, of branching form.,
G as in Girandole (n.) A kind of revolving firework.,
G as in Girandole (n.) A series of chambers in defensive mines.,
G as in Girasole Girasol (n.) See Heliotrope.,
G as in Girasole Girasol (n.) A variety of opal which is usually milk white, bluish white, or sky blue; but in a bright light it reflects a reddish color.,
G as in Gird (n.) A stroke with a rod or switch; a severe spasm; a twinge; a pang.,
G as in Gird (n.) A cut; a sarcastic remark; a gibe; a sneer.,
G as in Gird (v.) To strike; to smite.,
G as in Gird (v.) To sneer at; to mock; to gibe.,
G as in Gird (v. i.) To gibe; to sneer; to break a scornful jest; to utter severe sarcasms.,
G as in Girt (imp. & p. p.) of Gird,
G as in Girded () of Gird,
G as in Girding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gird,
G as in Gird (v. t.) To encircle or bind with any flexible band.,
G as in Gird (v. t.) To make fast, as clothing, by binding with a cord, girdle, bandage, etc.,
G as in Gird (v. t.) To surround; to encircle, or encompass.,
G as in Gird (v. t.) To clothe; to swathe; to invest.,
G as in Gird (v. t.) To prepare; to make ready; to equip; as, to gird one's self for a contest.,
G as in Girder (n.) One who girds; a satirist.,
G as in Girder (n.) One who, or that which, girds.,
G as in Girder (n.) A main beam; a stright, horizontal beam to span an opening or carry weight, such as ends of floor beams, etc.; hence, a framed or built-up member discharging the same office, technically called a compound girder. See Illusts. of Frame, and Doubleframed floor, under Double.,
G as in Girding (n.) That with which one is girded; a girdle.,
G as in Girdle (n.) A griddle.,
G as in Girdle (n.) That which girds, encircles, or incloses; a circumference; a belt; esp., a belt, sash, or article of dress encircling the body usually at the waist; a cestus.,
G as in Girdle (n.) The zodiac; also, the equator.,
G as in Girdle (n.) The line ofgreatest circumference of a brilliant-cut diamond, at which it is grasped by the setting. See Illust. of Brilliant.,
G as in Girdle (n.) A thin bed or stratum of stone.,
G as in Girdle (n.) The clitellus of an earthworm.,
G as in Girdled (imp. & p. p.) of Girdle,
G as in Girdling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Girdle,
G as in Girdle (v. t.) To bind with a belt or sash; to gird.,
G as in Girdle (v. t.) To inclose; to environ; to shut in.,
G as in Girdle (v. t.) To make a cut or gnaw a groove around (a tree, etc.) through the bark and alburnum, thus killing it.,
G as in Girdler (n.) One who girdles.,
G as in Girdler (n.) A maker of girdles.,
G as in Girdler (n.) An American longicorn beetle (Oncideres cingulatus) which lays its eggs in the twigs of the hickory, and then girdles each branch by gnawing a groove around it, thus killing it to provide suitable food for the larvae.,
G as in Girdlestead (n.) That part of the body where the girdle is worn.,
G as in Girdlestead (n.) The lap.,
G as in Gire (n.) See Gyre.,
G as in Girkin (n.) See Gherkin.,
G as in Girl (n.) A young person of either sex; a child.,
G as in Girl (n.) A female child, from birth to the age of puberty; a young maiden.,
G as in Girl (n.) A female servant; a maidservant.,
G as in Girl (n.) A roebuck two years old.,
G as in Girlhood (n.) State or time of being a girl.,
G as in Girlish (a.) Like, or characteristic of, a girl; of or pertaining to girlhood; innocent; artless; immature; weak; as, girlish ways; girlish grief.,
G as in Girlond (n.) A garland; a prize.,
G as in Girn (n.) To grin.,
G as in Girondist (n.) A member of the moderate republican party formed in the French legislative assembly in 1791. The Girondists were so called because their leaders were deputies from the department of La Gironde.,
G as in Girondist (a.) Of or pertaining to the Girondists.,
G as in Girrock (n.) A garfish.,
G as in Girt () imp. & p. p. of Gird.,
G as in Girted (imp. & p. p.) of Girt,
G as in Girting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Girt,
G as in Girt (v.) To gird; to encircle; to invest by means of a girdle; to measure the girth of; as, to girt a tree.,
G as in Girt (a.) Bound by a cable; -- used of a vessel so moored by two anchors that she swings against one of the cables by force of the current or tide.,
G as in Girt (n.) Same as Girth.,
G as in Girth (n.) A band or strap which encircles the body; especially, one by which a saddle is fastened upon the back of a horse.,
G as in Girth (n.) The measure round the body, as at the waist or belly; the circumference of anything.,
G as in Girth (n.) A small horizontal brace or girder.,
G as in Girth (v. t.) To bind as with a girth.,
G as in Girtline (n.) A gantline.,
G as in Gisarm (n.) A weapon with a scythe-shaped blade, and a separate long sharp point, mounted on a long staff and carried by foot soldiers.,
G as in Gise (v. t.) To feed or pasture.,
G as in Gise (n.) Guise; manner.,
G as in Gisle (n.) A pledge.,
G as in Gismondine (n.) Alt. of Gismondite,
G as in Gismondite (n.) A native hydrated silicate of alumina, lime, and potash, first noticed near Rome.,
G as in Gist (n.) A resting place.,
G as in Gist (n.) The main point, as of a question; the point on which an action rests; the pith of a matter; as, the gist of a question.,
G as in Git (n.) See Geat.,
G as in Gite (n.) A gown.,
G as in Gith (n.) The corn cockle; also anciently applied to the Nigella, or fennel flower.,
G as in Gittern (n.) An instrument like a guitar.,
G as in Gittern (v. i.) To play on gittern.,
G as in Gittith (n.) A musical instrument, of unknown character, supposed by some to have been used by the people of Gath, and thence obtained by David. It is mentioned in the title of Psalms viii., lxxxi., and lxxxiv.,
G as in Guist (n.) Same as Joust.,
G as in Giusto (a.) In just, correct, or suitable time.,
G as in Gave (imp.) of Give,
G as in Given (p. p.) of Give,
G as in Giving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Give,
G as in Give (n.) To bestow without receiving a return; to confer without compensation; to impart, as a possession; to grant, as authority or permission; to yield up or allow.,
G as in Give (n.) To yield possesion of; to deliver over, as property, in exchange for something; to pay; as, we give the value of what we buy.,
G as in Give (n.) To yield; to furnish; to produce; to emit; as, flint and steel give sparks.,
G as in Give (n.) To communicate or announce, as advice, tidings, etc.; to pronounce; to render or utter, as an opinion, a judgment, a sentence, a shout, etc.,
G as in Give (n.) To grant power or license to; to permit; to allow; to license; to commission.,
G as in Give (n.) To exhibit as a product or result; to produce; to show; as, the number of men, divided by the number of ships, gives four hundred to each ship.,
G as in Give (n.) To devote; to apply; used reflexively, to devote or apply one's self; as, the soldiers give themselves to plunder; also in this sense used very frequently in the past participle; as, the people are given to luxury and pleasure; the youth is given to study.,
G as in Give (n.) To set forth as a known quantity or a known relation, or as a premise from which to reason; -- used principally in the passive form given.,
G as in Give (n.) To allow or admit by way of supposition.,
G as in Give (n.) To attribute; to assign; to adjudge.,
G as in Give (n.) To excite or cause to exist, as a sensation; as, to give offense; to give pleasure or pain.,
G as in Give (n.) To pledge; as, to give one's word.,
G as in Give (n.) To cause; to make; -- with the infinitive; as, to give one to understand, to know, etc.,
G as in Give (v. i.) To give a gift or gifts.,
G as in Give (v. i.) To yield to force or pressure; to relax; to become less rigid; as, the earth gives under the feet.,
G as in Give (v. i.) To become soft or moist.,
G as in Give (v. i.) To move; to recede.,
G as in Give (v. i.) To shed tears; to weep.,
G as in Give (v. i.) To have a misgiving.,
G as in Give (v. i.) To open; to lead.,
G as in Given () p. p. & a. from Give, v.,
G as in Given (v.) Granted; assumed; supposed to be known; set forth as a known quantity, relation, or premise.,
G as in Given (v.) Disposed; inclined; -- used with an adv.; as, virtuously given.,
G as in Given (adv.) Stated; fixed; as, in a given time.,
G as in Giver (n.) One who gives; a donor; a bestower; a grantor; one who imparts or distributes.,
G as in Gives (n.) Fetters.,
G as in Giving (n.) The act of bestowing as a gift; a conferring or imparting.,
G as in Giving (n.) A gift; a benefaction.,
G as in Giving (n.) The act of softening, breaking, or yielding.,
G as in Gizzard (n.) The second, or true, muscular stomach of birds, in which the food is crushed and ground, after being softened in the glandular stomach (crop), or lower part of the esophagus; the gigerium.,
G as in Gizzard (n.) A thick muscular stomach found in many invertebrate animals.,
G as in Gizzard (n.) A stomach armed with chitinous or shelly plates or teeth, as in certain insects and mollusks.,
G as in Glabell/ (pl. ) of Glabella,
G as in Glabella (n.) The space between the eyebrows, also including the corresponding part of the frontal bone; the mesophryon.,
G as in Glabella (pl. ) of Glabellum,
G as in Glabellum (n.) The median, convex lobe of the head of a trilobite. See Trilobite.,
G as in Glabrate (a.) Becoming smooth or glabrous from age.,
G as in Glabreate (v. t.) Alt. of Glabriate,
G as in Glabriate (v. t.) To make smooth, plain, or bare.,
G as in Glabrity (n.) Smoothness; baldness.,
G as in Glabrous (a.) Smooth; having a surface without hairs or any unevenness.,
G as in Glacial (a.) Pertaining to ice or to its action; consisting of ice; frozen; icy; esp., pertaining to glaciers; as, glacial phenomena.,
G as in Glacial (a.) Resembling ice; having the appearance and consistency of ice; -- said of certain solid compounds; as, glacial phosphoric or acetic acids.,
G as in Glacialist (n.) One who attributes the phenomena of the drift, in geology, to glaciers.,
G as in Glaciate (v. i.) To turn to ice.,
G as in Glaciate (v. t.) To convert into, or cover with, ice.,
G as in Glaciate (v. t.) To produce glacial effects upon, as in the scoring of rocks, transportation of loose material, etc.,
G as in Glaciation (n.) Act of freezing.,
G as in Glaciation (n.) That which is formed by freezing; ice.,
G as in Glaciation (n.) The process of glaciating, or the state of being glaciated; the production of glacial phenomena.,
G as in Glacier (n.) An immense field or stream of ice, formed in the region of perpetual snow, and moving slowly down a mountain slope or valley, as in the Alps, or over an extended area, as in Greenland.,
G as in Glacious (a.) Pertaining to, consisting of or resembling, ice; icy.,
G as in Glacis (n.) A gentle slope, or a smooth, gently sloping bank; especially (Fort.), that slope of earth which inclines from the covered way toward the exterior ground or country (see Illust. of Ravelin).,
G as in Glad (superl.) Pleased; joyous; happy; cheerful; gratified; -- opposed to sorry, sorrowful, or unhappy; -- said of persons, and often followed by of, at, that, or by the infinitive, and sometimes by with, introducing the cause or reason.,
G as in Glad (superl.) Wearing a gay or bright appearance; expressing or exciting joy; producing gladness; exhilarating.,
G as in Gladded (imp. & p. p.) of Glad,
G as in Gladding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Glad,
G as in Glad (v. t.) To make glad; to cheer; to gladden; to exhilarate.,
G as in Glad (v. i.) To be glad; to rejoice.,
G as in Gladdened (imp. & p. p.) of Gladden,
G as in Gladdening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gladden,
G as in Gladden (v. t.) To make glad; to cheer; to please; to gratify; to rejoice; to exhilarate.,
G as in Gladden (v. i.) To be or become glad; to rejoice.,
G as in Gladder (n.) One who makes glad.,
G as in Glade (n.) An open passage through a wood; a grassy open or cleared space in a forest.,
G as in Glade (n.) An everglade.,
G as in Glade (n.) An opening in the ice of rivers or lakes, or a place left unfrozen; also, smooth ice.,
G as in Gladen (n.) Sword grass; any plant with sword-shaped leaves, esp. the European Iris foetidissima.,
G as in Gladeye (n.) The European yellow-hammer.,
G as in Gladful (a.) Full of gladness; joyful; glad.,
G as in Gladiate (a.) Sword-shaped; resembling a sword in form, as the leaf of the iris, or of the gladiolus.,
G as in Gladiator (n.) Originally, a swordplayer; hence, one who fought with weapons in public, either on the occasion of a funeral ceremony, or in the arena, for public amusement.,
G as in Gladiator (n.) One who engages in any fierce combat or controversy.,
G as in Gladiatorial (a.) Alt. of Gladiatorian,
G as in Gladiatorian (a.) Of or pertaining to gladiators, or to contests or combatants in general.,
G as in Gladiatorism (n.) The art or practice of a gladiator.,
G as in Gladiatorship (n.) Conduct, state, or art, of a gladiator.,
G as in Gladiatory (a.) Gladiatorial.,
G as in Gladiature (n.) Swordplay; fencing; gladiatorial contest.,
G as in Gladiole (n.) A lilylike plant, of the genus Gladiolus; -- called also corn flag.,
G as in Gladioli (pl. ) of Gladiolus,
G as in Gladioluses (pl. ) of Gladiolus,
G as in Gladiolus (n.) A genus of plants having bulbous roots and gladiate leaves, and including many species, some of which are cultivated and valued for the beauty of their flowers; the corn flag; the sword lily.,
G as in Gladiolus (n.) The middle portion of the sternum in some animals; the mesosternum.,
G as in Gladii (pl. ) of Gladius,
G as in Gladius (n.) The internal shell, or pen, of cephalopods like the squids.,
G as in Gladly (a.) Preferably; by choice.,
G as in Gladly (a.) With pleasure; joyfully; cheerfully; eagerly.,
G as in Gladness (n.) State or quality of being glad; pleasure; joyful satisfaction; cheerfulness.,
G as in Gladship (n.) A state of gladness.,
G as in Gladsome (a.) Pleased; joyful; cheerful.,
G as in Gladsome (a.) Causing joy, pleasure, or cheerfulness; having the appearance of gayety; pleasing.,
G as in Gladstone (n.) A four-wheeled pleasure carriage with two inside seats, calash top, and seats for driver and footman.,
G as in Gladwyn (n.) See Gladen.,
G as in Glair (a.) The white of egg. It is used as a size or a glaze in bookbinding, for pastry, etc.,
G as in Glair (a.) Any viscous, transparent substance, resembling the white of an egg.,
G as in Glair (a.) A broadsword fixed on a pike; a kind of halberd.,
G as in Glaired (imp. & p. p.) of Glair,
G as in Glairing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Glair,
G as in Glair (v. t.) To smear with the white of an egg.,
G as in Glaire (n.) See Glair.,
G as in Glaireous (a.) Glairy; covered with glair.,
G as in Glairin (n.) A glairy viscous substance, which forms on the surface of certain mineral waters, or covers the sides of their inclosures; -- called also baregin.,
G as in Glairy (a.) Like glair, or partaking of its qualities; covered with glair; viscous and transparent; slimy.,
G as in Glaive (n.) A weapon formerly used, consisting of a large blade fixed on the end of a pole, whose edge was on the outside curve; also, a light lance with a long sharp-pointed head.,
G as in Glaive (n.) A sword; -- used poetically and loosely.,
G as in Glama (n.) A copious gummy secretion of the humor of the eyelids, in consequence of some disorder; blearedness; lippitude.,
G as in Glamour (n.) A charm affecting the eye, making objects appear different from what they really are.,
G as in Glamour (n.) Witchcraft; magic; a spell.,
G as in Glamour (n.) A kind of haze in the air, causing things to appear different from what they really are.,
G as in Glamour (n.) Any artificial interest in, or association with, an object, through which it appears delusively magnified or glorified.,
G as in Glamourie (n.) Glamour.,
G as in Glance (n.) A sudden flash of light or splendor.,
G as in Glance (n.) A quick cast of the eyes; a quick or a casual look; a swift survey; a glimpse.,
G as in Glance (n.) An incidental or passing thought or allusion.,
G as in Glance (n.) A name given to some sulphides, mostly dark-colored, which have a brilliant metallic luster, as the sulphide of copper, called copper glance.,
G as in Glanced (imp. & p. p.) of Glance,
G as in Glancing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Glance,
G as in Glance (v. i.) To shoot or emit a flash of light; to shine; to flash.,
G as in Glance (v. i.) To strike and fly off in an oblique direction; to dart aside. "Your arrow hath glanced".,
G as in Glance (v. i.) To look with a sudden, rapid cast of the eye; to snatch a momentary or hasty view.,
G as in Glance (v. i.) To make an incidental or passing reflection; to allude; to hint; -- often with at.,
G as in Glance (v. i.) To move quickly, appearing and disappearing rapidly; to be visible only for an instant at a time; to move interruptedly; to twinkle.,
G as in Glance (v. t.) To shoot or dart suddenly or obliquely; to cast for a moment; as, to glance the eye.,
G as in Glance (v. t.) To hint at; to touch lightly or briefly.,
G as in Glancing (a.) Shooting, as light.,
G as in Glancing (a.) Flying off (after striking) in an oblique direction; as, a glancing shot.,
G as in Glancingly (adv.) In a glancing manner; transiently; incidentally; indirectly.,
G as in Gland (n.) An organ for secreting something to be used in, or eliminated from, the body; as, the sebaceous glands of the skin; the salivary glands of the mouth.,
G as in Gland (n.) An organ or part which resembles a secreting, or true, gland, as the ductless, lymphatic, pineal, and pituitary glands, the functions of which are very imperfectly known.,
G as in Gland (n.) A special organ of plants, usually minute and globular, which often secretes some kind of resinous, gummy, or aromatic product.,
G as in Gland (n.) Any very small prominence.,
G as in Gland (n.) The movable part of a stuffing box by which the packing is compressed; -- sometimes called a follower. See Illust. of Stuffing box, under Stuffing.,
G as in Gland (n.) The crosspiece of a bayonet clutch.,
G as in Glandage (n.) A feeding on nuts or mast.,
G as in Glandered (a.) Affected with glanders; as, a glandered horse.,
G as in Glanderous (a.) Of or pertaining to glanders; of the nature of glanders.,
G as in Glanders (n.) A highly contagious and very destructive disease of horses, asses, mules, etc., characterized by a constant discharge of sticky matter from the nose, and an enlargement and induration of the glands beneath and within the lower jaw. It may transmitted to dogs, goats, sheep, and to human beings.,
G as in Glandiferous (a.) Bearing acorns or other nuts; as, glandiferous trees.,
G as in Glandiform (a.) Having the form of a gland or nut; resembling a gland.,
G as in Glandular (a.) Containing or supporting glands; consisting of glands; pertaining to glands.,
G as in Glandulation (n.) The situation and structure of the secretory vessels in plants.,
G as in Glandule (n.) A small gland or secreting vessel.,
G as in Glanduliferous (a.) Bearing glandules.,
G as in Glandulose (a.) Same as Glandulous.,
G as in Glandulosity (n.) Quality of being glandulous; a collection of glands.,
G as in Glandulous (a.) Containing glands; consisting of glands; pertaining to glands; resembling glands.,
G as in Glandes (pl. ) of Glans,
G as in Glans (n.) The vascular body which forms the apex of the penis, and the extremity of the clitoris.,
G as in Glans (n.) The acorn or mast of the oak and similar fruits.,
G as in Glans (n.) Goiter.,
G as in Glans (n.) A pessary.,
G as in Glared (imp. & p. p.) of Glare,
G as in Glaring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Glare,
G as in Glare (v. i.) To shine with a bright, dazzling light.,
G as in Glare (v. i.) To look with fierce, piercing eyes; to stare earnestly, angrily, or fiercely.,
G as in Glare (v. i.) To be bright and intense, as certain colors; to be ostentatiously splendid or gay.,
G as in Glare (v. t.) To shoot out, or emit, as a dazzling light.,
G as in Glare (n.) A bright, dazzling light; splendor that dazzles the eyes; a confusing and bewildering light.,
G as in Glare (n.) A fierce, piercing look or stare.,
G as in Glare (n.) A viscous, transparent substance. See Glair.,
G as in Glare (n.) A smooth, bright, glassy surface; as, a glare of ice.,
G as in Glare (n.) Smooth and bright or translucent; -- used almost exclusively of ice; as, skating on glare ice.,
G as in Glareous (a.) Glairy.,
G as in Glariness (n.) Alt. of Glaringness,
G as in Glaringness (n.) A dazzling luster or brilliancy.,
G as in Glaring (a.) Clear; notorious; open and bold; barefaced; as, a glaring crime.,
G as in Glary (a.) Of a dazzling luster; glaring; bright; shining; smooth.,
G as in Glass (v. t.) A hard, brittle, translucent, and commonly transparent substance, white or colored, having a conchoidal fracture, and made by fusing together sand or silica with lime, potash, soda, or lead oxide. It is used for window panes and mirrors, for articles of table and culinary use, for lenses, and various articles of ornament.,
G as in Glass (v. t.) Any substance having a peculiar glassy appearance, and a conchoidal fracture, and usually produced by fusion.,
G as in Glass (v. t.) Anything made of glass.,
G as in Glass (v. t.) A looking-glass; a mirror.,
G as in Glass (v. t.) A vessel filled with running sand for measuring time; an hourglass; and hence, the time in which such a vessel is exhausted of its sand.,
G as in Glass (v. t.) A drinking vessel; a tumbler; a goblet; hence, the contents of such a vessel; especially; spirituous liquors; as, he took a glass at dinner.,
G as in Glass (v. t.) An optical glass; a lens; a spyglass; -- in the plural, spectacles; as, a pair of glasses; he wears glasses.,
G as in Glass (v. t.) A weatherglass; a barometer.,
G as in Glassed (imp. & p. p.) of Glass,
G as in Glassing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Glass,
G as in Glass (v. t.) To reflect, as in a mirror; to mirror; -- used reflexively.,
G as in Glass (v. t.) To case in glass.,
G as in Glass (v. t.) To cover or furnish with glass; to glaze.,
G as in Glass (v. t.) To smooth or polish anything, as leater, by rubbing it with a glass burnisher.,
G as in Glass-crab (n.) The larval state (Phyllosoma) of the genus Palinurus and allied genera. It is remarkable for its strange outlines, thinness, and transparency. See Phyllosoma.,
G as in Glassen (a.) Glassy; glazed.,
G as in Glasseye (n.) A fish of the great lakes; the wall-eyed pike.,
G as in Glasseye (n.) A species of blindness in horses in which the eye is bright and the pupil dilated; a sort of amaurosis.,
G as in Glass-faced (a.) Mirror-faced; reflecting the sentiments of another.,
G as in Glassfuls (pl. ) of Glassful,
G as in Glassful (n.) The contents of a glass; as much of anything as a glass will hold.,
G as in Glassful (a.) Glassy; shining like glass.,
G as in Glass-gazing (a.) Given to viewing one's self in a glass or mirror; finical.,
G as in Glasshouse (n.) A house where glass is made; a commercial house that deals in glassware.,
G as in Glassily (adv.) So as to resemble glass.,
G as in Glassiness (n.) The quality of being glassy.,
G as in Glassite (n.) A member of a Scottish sect, founded in the 18th century by John Glass, a minister of the Established Church of Scotland, who taught that justifying faith is "no more than a simple assent to the divine testimone passively recived by the understanding." The English and American adherents of this faith are called Sandemanians, after Robert Sandeman, the son-in-law and disciple of Glass.,
G as in Glass maker (n.) Alt. of Glassmaker,
G as in Glassmaker (n.) One who makes, or manufactures, glass.,
G as in Glass-rope (n.) A remarkable vitreous sponge, of the genus Hyalonema, first brought from Japan. It has a long stem, consisting of a bundle of long and large, glassy, siliceous fibers, twisted together.,
G as in Glass-snail (n.) A small, transparent, land snail, of the genus Vitrina.,
G as in Glass-snake (n.) A long, footless lizard (Ophiosaurus ventralis), of the Southern United States; -- so called from its fragility, the tail easily breaking into small pieces. It grows to the length of three feet. The name is applied also to similar species found in the Old World.,
G as in Glass-sponge (n.) A siliceous sponge, of the genus Hyalonema, and allied genera; -- so called from their glassy fibers or spicules; -- called also vitreous sponge. See Glass-rope, and Euplectella.,
G as in Glassware (n.) Ware, or articles collectively, made of glass.,
G as in Glasswork (n.) Manufacture of glass; articles or ornamentation made of glass.,
G as in Glasswort (n.) A seashore plant of the Spinach family (Salicornia herbacea), with succulent jointed stems; also, a prickly plant of the same family (Salsola Kali), both formerly burned for the sake of the ashes, which yield soda for making glass and soap.,
G as in Glassy (a.) Made of glass; vitreous; as, a glassy substance.,
G as in Glassy (a.) Resembling glass in its properties, as in smoothness, brittleness, or transparency; as, a glassy stream; a glassy surface; the glassy deep.,
G as in Glassy (a.) Dull; wanting life or fire; lackluster; -- said of the eyes.,
G as in Glasstonbury thorn () A variety of the common hawthorn.,
G as in Glasynge (n.) Glazing or glass.,
G as in Glauberite (n.) A mineral, consisting of the sulphates of soda and lime.,
G as in Glauber's salt () Alt. of Glauber's salts,
G as in Glauber's salts () Sulphate of soda, a well-known cathartic. It is a white crystalline substance, with a cooling, slightly bitter taste, and is commonly called "salts.",
G as in Glaucescent (a.) Having a somewhat glaucous appearance or nature; becoming glaucous.,
G as in Glaucic (a.) Of or pertaining to the Glaucium or horned poppy; -- formerly applied to an acid derived from it, now known to be fumaric acid.,
G as in Glaucine (a.) Glaucous or glaucescent.,
G as in Glaucine (n.) An alkaloid obtained from the plant Glaucium, as a bitter, white, crystalline substance.,
G as in Glaucodot (n.) A metallic mineral having a grayish tin-white color, and containing cobalt and iron, with sulphur and arsenic.,
G as in Glaucoma (n.) Dimness or abolition of sight, with a diminution of transparency, a bluish or greenish tinge of the refracting media of the eye, and a hard inelastic condition of the eyeball, with marked increase of tension within the eyeball.,
G as in Glaucomatous (a.) Having the nature of glaucoma.,
G as in Glaucometer (n.) See Gleucometer.,
G as in Glauconite (n.) The green mineral characteristic of the greensand of the chalk and other formations. It is a hydrous silicate of iron and potash. See Greensand.,
G as in Glaucophane (n.) A mineral of a dark bluish color, related to amphibole. It is characteristic of certain crystalline rocks.,
G as in Glaucosis (n.) Same as Glaucoma.,
G as in Glaucous (a.) Of a sea-green color; of a dull green passing into grayish blue.,
G as in Glaucous (a.) Covered with a fine bloom or fine white powder easily rubbed off, as that on a blue plum, or on a cabbage leaf.,
G as in Glaucus (n.) A genus of nudibranchiate mollusks, found in the warmer latitudes, swimming in the open sea. These mollusks are beautifully colored with blue and silvery white.,
G as in Glaum (v. i.) To grope with the hands, as in the dark.,
G as in Glave (n.) See Glaive.,
G as in Glaver (v. i.) To prate; to jabber; to babble.,
G as in Glaver (v. i.) To flatter; to wheedle.,
G as in Glaverer (n.) A flatterer.,
G as in Glaymore (n.) A claymore.,
G as in Glased (imp. & p. p.) of Glase,
G as in Glazing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Glase,
G as in Glase (v. t.) To furnish (a window, a house, a sash, a ease, etc.) with glass.,
G as in Glase (v. t.) To incrust, cover, or overlay with a thin surface, consisting of, or resembling, glass; as, to glaze earthenware; hence, to render smooth, glasslike, or glossy; as, to glaze paper, gunpowder, and the like.,
G as in Glase (v. t.) To apply thinly a transparent or semitransparent color to (another color), to modify the effect.,
G as in Glaze (v. i.) To become glazed of glassy.,
G as in Glaze (n.) The vitreous coating of pottery or porcelain; anything used as a coating or color in glazing. See Glaze, v. t., 3.,
G as in Glaze (v. t.) Broth reduced by boiling to a gelatinous paste, and spread thinly over braised dishes.,
G as in Glaze (v. t.) A glazing oven. See Glost oven.,
G as in Glazen (a.) Resembling glass; glasslike; glazed.,
G as in Glazer (n.) One who applies glazing, as in pottery manufacture, etc.; one who gives a glasslike or glossy surface to anything; a calenderer or smoother of cloth, paper, and the like.,
G as in Glazer (n.) A tool or machine used in glazing, polishing, smoothing, etc.; amoung cutlers and lapidaries, a wooden wheel covered with emery, or having a band of lead and tin alloy, for polishing cutlery, etc.,
G as in Glazier (n.) One whose business is to set glass.,
G as in Glazing (n.) The act or art of setting glass; the art of covering with a vitreous or glasslike substance, or of polishing or rendering glossy.,
G as in Glazing (n.) The glass set, or to be set, in a sash, frame. etc.,
G as in Glazing (n.) The glass, glasslike, or glossy substance with which any surface is incrusted or overlaid; as, the glazing of pottery or porcelain, or of paper.,
G as in Glazing (n.) Transparent, or semitransparent, colors passed thinly over other colors, to modify the effect.,
G as in Glazy (a.) Having a glazed appearance; -- said of the fractured surface of some kinds of pin iron.,
G as in Glead (n.) A live coal. See Gleed.,
G as in Gleam (v. i.) To disgorge filth, as a hawk.,
G as in Gleam (n.) A shoot of light; a small stream of light; a beam; a ray; a glimpse.,
G as in Gleam (n.) Brightness; splendor.,
G as in Gleamed (imp. & p. p.) of Gleam,
G as in Gleaming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gleam,
G as in Gleam (v. t.) To shoot, or dart, as rays of light; as, at the dawn, light gleams in the east.,
G as in Gleam (v. t.) To shine; to cast light; to glitter.,
G as in Gleam (v. t.) To shoot out (flashes of light, etc.).,
G as in Gleamy (a.) Darting beams of light; casting light in rays; flashing; coruscating.,
G as in Gleaned (imp. & p. p.) of Glean,
G as in Gleaning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Glean,
G as in Glean (v. t.) To gather after a reaper; to collect in scattered or fragmentary parcels, as the grain left by a reaper, or grapes left after the gathering.,
G as in Glean (v. t.) To gather from (a field or vineyard) what is left.,
G as in Glean (v. t.) To collect with patient and minute labor; to pick out; to obtain.,
G as in Glean (v. i.) To gather stalks or ears of grain left by reapers.,
G as in Glean (v. i.) To pick up or gather anything by degrees.,
G as in Glean (n.) A collection made by gleaning.,
G as in Glean (n.) Cleaning; afterbirth.,
G as in Gleaner (n.) One who gathers after reapers.,
G as in Gleaner (n.) One who gathers slowly with labor.,
G as in Gleaning (n.) The act of gathering after reapers; that which is collected by gleaning.,
G as in Glebe (n.) A lump; a clod.,
G as in Glebe (n.) Turf; soil; ground; sod.,
G as in Glebe (n.) The land belonging, or yielding revenue, to a parish church or ecclesiastical benefice.,
G as in Glebeless (a.) Having no glebe.,
G as in Glebosity (n.) The quality of being glebous.,
G as in Glebous (a.) Alt. of Gleby,
G as in Gleby (a.) Pertaining to the glebe; turfy; cloddy; fertile; fruitful.,
G as in Glede (v. i.) The common European kite (Milvus ictinus). This name is also sometimes applied to the buzzard.,
G as in Glede (n.) A live coal.,
G as in Glee (n.) Music; minstrelsy; entertainment.,
G as in Glee (n.) Joy; merriment; mirth; gayety; paricularly, the mirth enjoyed at a feast.,
G as in Glee (n.) An unaccompanied part song for three or more solo voices. It is not necessarily gleesome.,
G as in Gleed (v. i.) A live or glowing coal; a glede.,
G as in Gleeful (a.) Merry; gay; joyous.,
G as in Gleek (n.) A jest or scoff; a trick or deception.,
G as in Gleek (n.) An enticing look or glance.,
G as in Gleek (v. i.) To make sport; to gibe; to sneer; to spend time idly.,
G as in Gleek (n.) A game at cards, once popular, played by three persons.,
G as in Gleek (n.) Three of the same cards held in the same hand; -- hence, three of anything.,
G as in Gleemen (pl. ) of Gleeman,
G as in Gleeman (n.) A name anciently given to an itinerant minstrel or musician.,
G as in Gleen (v. i.) To glisten; to gleam.,
G as in Gleesome (a.) Merry; joyous; gleeful.,
G as in Gleet (n.) A transparent mucous discharge from the membrane of the urethra, commonly an effect of gonorrhea.,
G as in Gleet (v. i.) To flow in a thin, limpid humor; to ooze, as gleet.,
G as in Gleet (v. i.) To flow slowly, as water.,
G as in Gleety (a.) Ichorous; thin; limpid.,
G as in Gleg (a.) Quick of perception; alert; sharp.,
G as in Gleire (n.) Alt. of Gleyre,
G as in Gleyre (n.) See Glair.,
G as in Glen (n.) A secluded and narrow valley; a dale; a depression between hills.,
G as in Glenlivat (n.) Alt. of Glenlivet,
G as in Glenlivet (n.) A kind of Scotch whisky, named from the district in which it was first made.,
G as in Glenoid (a.) Having the form of a smooth and shallow depression; socketlike; -- applied to several articular surfaces of bone; as, the glenoid cavity, or fossa, of the scapula, in which the head of the humerus articulates.,
G as in Glenoidal (a.) Glenoid.,
G as in Glent (n. & v.) See Glint.,
G as in Gleucometer (n.) An instrument for measuring the specific gravity and ascertaining the quantity of sugar contained in must.,
G as in Glew (n.) See Glue.,
G as in Gley (v. i.) To squint; to look obliquely; to overlook things.,
G as in Gley (adv.) Asquint; askance; obliquely.,
G as in Gliadin (n.) Vegetable glue or gelatin; glutin. It is one of the constituents of wheat gluten, and is a tough, amorphous substance, which resembles animal glue or gelatin.,
G as in Glib (superl.) Smooth; slippery; as, ice is glib.,
G as in Glib (superl.) Speaking or spoken smoothly and with flippant rapidity; fluent; voluble; as, a glib tongue; a glib speech.,
G as in Glib (v. t.) To make glib.,
G as in Glib (n.) A thick lock of hair, hanging over the eyes.,
G as in Glib (v. t.) To castrate; to geld; to emasculate.,
G as in Gilbbery (a.) Slippery; changeable.,
G as in Gilbbery (a.) Moving easily; nimble; voluble.,
G as in Glibly (adv.) In a glib manner; as, to speak glibly.,
G as in Glibness (n.) The quality of being glib.,
G as in Glicke (n.) An ogling look.,
G as in Glidden () p. p. of Glide.,
G as in Glidder (a.) Alt. of Gliddery,
G as in Gliddery (a.) Giving no sure footing; smooth; slippery.,
G as in Glide (n.) The glede or kite.,
G as in Glided (imp. & p. p.) of Glide,
G as in Gliding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Glide,
G as in Glide (v. i.) To move gently and smoothly; to pass along without noise, violence, or apparent effort; to pass rapidly and easily, or with a smooth, silent motion, as a river in its channel, a bird in the air, a skater over ice.,
G as in Glide (v. i.) To pass with a glide, as the voice.,
G as in Glide (n.) The act or manner of moving smoothly, swiftly, and without labor or obstruction.,
G as in Glide (n.) A transitional sound in speech which is produced by the changing of the mouth organs from one definite position to another, and with gradual change in the most frequent cases; as in passing from the begining to the end of a regular diphthong, or from vowel to consonant or consonant to vowel in a syllable, or from one component to the other of a double or diphthongal consonant (see Guide to Pronunciation, // 19, 161, 162). Also (by Bell and others), the vanish (or brief final element) or the brief initial element, in a class of diphthongal vowels, or the brief final or initial part of some consonants (see Guide to Pronunciation, // 18, 97, 191).,
G as in Gliden () p. p. of Glide.,
G as in Glider (n.) One who, or that which, glides.,
G as in Glidingly (adv.) In a gliding manner.,
G as in Gliff (n.) A transient glance; an unexpected view of something that startles one; a sudden fear.,
G as in Gliff (n.) A moment: as, for a gliff.,
G as in Glike (n.) A sneer; a flout.,
G as in Glim (n.) Brightness; splendor.,
G as in Glim (n.) A light or candle.,
G as in Glimmered (imp. & p. p.) of Glimmer,
G as in Glimmering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Glimmer,
G as in Glimmer (v. i.) To give feeble or scattered rays of light; to shine faintly; to show a faint, unsteady light; as, the glimmering dawn; a glimmering lamp.,
G as in Glimmer (n.) A faint, unsteady light; feeble, scattered rays of light; also, a gleam.,
G as in Glimmer (n.) Mica. See Mica.,
G as in Glimmering (n.) Faint, unsteady light; a glimmer.,
G as in Glimmering (n.) A faint view or idea; a glimpse; an inkling.,
G as in Glimpse (n.) A sudden flash; transient luster.,
G as in Glimpse (n.) A short, hurried view; a transitory or fragmentary perception; a quick sight.,
G as in Glimpse (n.) A faint idea; an inkling.,
G as in Glimpsed (imp. & p. p.) of Glimpse,
G as in Glimpsing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Glimpse,
G as in Glimpse (v. i.) to appear by glimpses; to catch glimpses.,
G as in Glimpse (v. t.) To catch a glimpse of; to see by glimpses; to have a short or hurried view of.,
G as in Glint (n.) A glimpse, glance, or gleam.,
G as in Glinted (imp. & p. p.) of Glint,
G as in Glinting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Glint,
G as in Glint (v. i.) To glance; to peep forth, as a flower from the bud; to glitter.,
G as in Glint (v. t.) To glance; to turn; as, to glint the eye.,
G as in Glioma (n.) A tumor springing from the neuroglia or connective tissue of the brain, spinal cord, or other portions of the nervous system.,
G as in Glires (n. pl.) An order of mammals; the Rodentia.,
G as in Glissade (n.) A sliding, as down a snow slope in the Alps.,
G as in Glissando (n. & a.) A gliding effect; gliding.,
G as in Glissette (n.) The locus described by any point attached to a curve that slips continuously on another fixed curve, the movable curve having no rotation at any instant.,
G as in Glist (n.) Glimmer; mica.,
G as in Glistened (imp. & p. p.) of Glisten,
G as in Glistening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Glisten,
G as in Glisten (v. i.) To sparkle or shine; especially, to shine with a mild, subdued, and fitful luster; to emit a soft, scintillating light; to gleam; as, the glistening stars.,
G as in Glistered (imp. & p. p.) of Glister,
G as in Glistering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Glister,
G as in Glister (v. i.) To be bright; to sparkle; to be brilliant; to shine; to glisten; to glitter.,
G as in Glister (n.) Glitter; luster.,
G as in Glisteringly (adv.) In a glistering manner.,
G as in Glittered (imp. & p. p.) of Glitter,
G as in Glittering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Glitter,
G as in Glitter (v. i.) To sparkle with light; to shine with a brilliant and broken light or showy luster; to gleam; as, a glittering sword.,
G as in Glitter (v. i.) To be showy, specious, or striking, and hence attractive; as, the glittering scenes of a court.,
G as in Glitter (n.) A bright, sparkling light; brilliant and showy luster; brilliancy; as, the glitter of arms; the glitter of royal equipage.,
G as in Glitterand (a.) Glittering.,
G as in Glitteringly (adv.) In a glittering manner.,
G as in Gloam (v. i.) To begin to grow dark; to grow dusky.,
G as in Gloam (v. i.) To be sullen or morose.,
G as in Gloam (n.) The twilight; gloaming.,
G as in Gloaming (n.) Twilight; dusk; the fall of the evening.,
G as in Gloaming (n.) Sullenness; melancholy.,
G as in Gloar (v. i.) To squint; to stare.,
G as in Gloated (imp. & p. p.) of Gloat,
G as in Gloating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gloat,
G as in Gloat (v. i.) To look steadfastly; to gaze earnestly; -- usually in a bad sense, to gaze with malignant satisfaction, passionate desire, lust, or avarice.,
G as in Globard (n.) A glowworm.,
G as in Globate (a.) Alt. of Globated,
G as in Globated (a.) Having the form of a globe; spherical.,
G as in Globe (n.) A round or spherical body, solid or hollow; a body whose surface is in every part equidistant from the center; a ball; a sphere.,
G as in Globe (n.) Anything which is nearly spherical or globular in shape; as, the globe of the eye; the globe of a lamp.,
G as in Globe (n.) The earth; the terraqueous ball; -- usually preceded by the definite article.,
G as in Globe (n.) A round model of the world; a spherical representation of the earth or heavens; as, a terrestrial or celestial globe; -- called also artificial globe.,
G as in Globe (n.) A body of troops, or of men or animals, drawn up in a circle; -- a military formation used by the Romans, answering to the modern infantry square.,
G as in Globed (imp. & p. p.) of Globe,
G as in Globing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Globe,
G as in Globe (v. t.) To gather or form into a globe.,
G as in Globefish (n.) A plectognath fish of the genera Diodon, Tetrodon, and allied genera. The globefishes can suck in water or air and distend the body to a more or less globular form. Called also porcupine fish, and sea hedgehog. See Diodon.,
G as in Globeflower (n.) A plant of the genus Trollius (T. Europaeus), found in the mountainous parts of Europe, and producing handsome globe-shaped flowers.,
G as in Globeflower (n.) The American plant Trollius laxus.,
G as in Globe-shaped (a.) Shaped like a globe.,
G as in Globiferous (a.) Having a round or globular tip.,
G as in Globigerin/ (pl. ) of Globigerina,
G as in Globigerina (n.) A genus of small Foraminifera, which live abundantly at or near the surface of the sea. Their dead shells, falling to the bottom, make up a large part of the soft mud, generally found in depths below 3,000 feet, and called globigerina ooze. See Illust. of Foraminifera.,
G as in Globose (a.) Having a rounded form resembling that of a globe; globular, or nearly so; spherical.,
G as in Globosely (adv.) In a globular manner; globularly.,
G as in Globosity (n.) Sphericity.,
G as in Globous (a.) Spherical.,
G as in Globular (a.) Globe-shaped; having the form of a ball or sphere; spherical, or nearly so; as, globular atoms.,
G as in Globularity (n.) The state of being globular; globosity; sphericity.,
G as in Globularly (adv.) Spherically.,
G as in Globularness (n.) Sphericity; globosity.,
G as in Globule (n.) A little globe; a small particle of matter, of a spherical form.,
G as in Globule (n.) A minute spherical or rounded structure; as blood, lymph, and pus corpuscles, minute fungi, spores, etc.,
G as in Globule (n.) A little pill or pellet used by homeopathists.,
G as in Globulet (n.) A little globule.,
G as in Globuliferous (a.) Bearing globules; in geology, used of rocks, and denoting a variety of concretionary structure, where the concretions are isolated globules and evenly distributed through the texture of the rock.,
G as in Globulimeter (n.) An instrument for measuring the number of red blood corpuscles in the blood.,
G as in Globulin (n.) An albuminous body, insoluble in water, but soluble in dilute solutions of salt. It is present in the red blood corpuscles united with haematin to form haemoglobin. It is also found in the crystalline lens of the eye, and in blood serum, and is sometimes called crystallin. In the plural the word is applied to a group of proteid substances such as vitellin, myosin, fibrinogen, etc., all insoluble in water, but soluble in dilute salt solutions.,
G as in Globulite (n.) A rudimentary form of crystallite, spherical in shape.,
G as in Globulous (a.) Globular; spherical; orbicular.,
G as in Globy (a.) Resembling, or pertaining to, a globe; round; orbicular.,
G as in Glochidiate (a.) Having barbs; as, glochidiate bristles.,
G as in Glochidia (pl. ) of Glochidium,
G as in Glochidium (n.) The larva or young of the mussel, formerly thought to be a parasite upon the parent's gills.,
G as in Glode () imp. of Glide.,
G as in Glombe (v. i.) Alt. of Glome,
G as in Glome (v. i.) To gloom; to look gloomy, morose, or sullen.,
G as in Glome (n.) Gloom.,
G as in Glome (n.) One of the two prominences at the posterior extremity of the frog of the horse's foot.,
G as in Glomerate (a.) Gathered together in a roundish mass or dense cluster; conglomerate.,
G as in Glomerated (imp. & p. p.) of Glomerate,
G as in Glomerating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Glomerate,
G as in Glomerate (v. t. & i.) To gather or wind into a ball; to collect into a spherical form or mass, as threads.,
G as in Glomeration (n.) The act of forming or gathering into a ball or round mass; the state of being gathered into a ball; conglomeration.,
G as in Glomeration (n.) That which is formed into a ball; a ball.,
G as in Glomerous (a.) Gathered or formed into a ball or round mass.,
G as in Glomerule (n.) A head or dense cluster of flowers, formed by condensation of a cyme, as in the flowering dogwood.,
G as in Glomerule (n.) A glomerulus.,
G as in Glomeruli (pl. ) of Glomerulus,
G as in Glomerulus (n.) The bunch of looped capillary blood vessels in a Malpighian capsule of the kidney.,
G as in Glomuliferous (a.) Having small clusters of minutely branched coral-like excrescences.,
G as in Glonoin (n.) Alt. of Glonoine,
G as in Glonoine (n.) Same as Nitroglycerin; -- called also oil of glonoin.,
G as in Glonoine (n.) A dilute solution of nitroglycerin used as a neurotic.,
G as in Gloom (n.) Partial or total darkness; thick shade; obscurity; as, the gloom of a forest, or of midnight.,
G as in Gloom (n.) A shady, gloomy, or dark place or grove.,
G as in Gloom (n.) Cloudiness or heaviness of mind; melancholy; aspect of sorrow; low spirits; dullness.,
G as in Gloom (n.) In gunpowder manufacture, the drying oven.,
G as in Gloomed (imp. & p. p.) of Gloom,
G as in Glooming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gloom,
G as in Gloom (v. i.) To shine or appear obscurely or imperfectly; to glimmer.,
G as in Gloom (v. i.) To become dark or dim; to be or appear dismal, gloomy, or sad; to come to the evening twilight.,
G as in Gloom (v. t.) To render gloomy or dark; to obscure; to darken.,
G as in Gloom (v. t.) To fill with gloom; to make sad, dismal, or sullen.,
G as in Gloomily (adv.) In a gloomy manner.,
G as in Gloominess (n.) State of being gloomy.,
G as in Glooming (n.) Twilight (of morning or evening); the gloaming.,
G as in Gloomth (n.) Gloom.,
G as in Gloomy (superl.) Imperfectly illuminated; dismal through obscurity or darkness; dusky; dim; clouded; as, the cavern was gloomy.,
G as in Gloomy (superl.) Affected with, or expressing, gloom; melancholy; dejected; as, a gloomy temper or countenance.,
G as in Gloppen (v. t. & i.) To surprise or astonish; to be startled or astonished.,
G as in Glore (v. i.) To glare; to glower.,
G as in Gloria (n.) A doxology (beginning Gloria Patri, Glory be to the Father), sung or said at the end of the Psalms in the service of the Roman Catholic and other churches.,
G as in Gloria (n.) A portion of the Mass (Gloria in Excelsis Deo, Glory be to God on high), and also of the communion service in some churches. In the Episcopal Church the version in English is used.,
G as in Gloria (n.) The musical setting of a gloria.,
G as in Gloriation (n.) Boast; a triumphing.,
G as in Gloried (a.) Illustrious; honorable; noble.,
G as in Glorification (n.) The act of glorifyng or of giving glory to.,
G as in Glorification (n.) The state of being glorifed; as, the glorification of Christ after his resurrection.,
G as in Glorified (imp. & p. p.) of Glorify,
G as in Glorifying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Glorify,
G as in Glorify (v. t.) To make glorious by bestowing glory upon; to confer honor and distinction upon; to elevate to power or happiness, or to celestial glory.,
G as in Glorify (v. t.) To make glorious in thought or with the heart, by ascribing glory to; to asknowledge the excellence of; to render homage to; to magnify in worship; to adore.,
G as in Gloriole (n.) An aureole.,
G as in Gloriosa (n.) A genus of climbing plants with very showy lilylike blossoms, natives of India.,
G as in Glorioser (n.) A boaster.,
G as in Glorioso (n.) A boaster.,
G as in Glorious (n.) Exhibiting attributes, qualities, or acts that are worthy of or receive glory; noble; praiseworthy; excellent; splendid; illustrious; inspiring admiration; as, glorious deeds.,
G as in Glorious (n.) Eager for glory or distinction; haughty; boastful; ostentatious; vainglorious.,
G as in Glorious (n.) Ecstatic; hilarious; elated with drink.,
G as in Glory (n.) Praise, honor, admiration, or distinction, accorded by common consent to a person or thing; high reputation; honorable fame; renown.,
G as in Glory (n.) That quality in a person or thing which secures general praise or honor; that which brings or gives renown; an object of pride or boast; the occasion of praise; excellency; brilliancy; splendor.,
G as in Glory (n.) Pride; boastfulness; arrogance.,
G as in Glory (n.) The presence of the Divine Being; the manifestations of the divine nature and favor to the blessed in heaven; celestial honor; heaven.,
G as in Glory (n.) An emanation of light supposed to proceed from beings of peculiar sanctity. It is represented in art by rays of gold, or the like, proceeding from the head or body, or by a disk, or a mere line.,
G as in Gloried (imp. & p. p.) of Glory,
G as in Glorying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Glory,
G as in Glory (n.) To exult with joy; to rejoice.,
G as in Glory (n.) To boast; to be proud.,
G as in Glose (n. & v.) See Gloze.,
G as in Gloser (n.) See Glosser.,
G as in Gloss (n.) Brightness or luster of a body proceeding from a smooth surface; polish; as, the gloss of silk; cloth is calendered to give it a gloss.,
G as in Gloss (n.) A specious appearance; superficial quality or show.,
G as in Glossed (imp. & p. p.) of Gloss,
G as in Glossing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gloss,
G as in Gloss (v. t.) To give a superficial luster or gloss to; to make smooth and shining; as, to gloss cloth.,
G as in Gloss (n.) A foreign, archaic, technical, or other uncommon word requiring explanation.,
G as in Gloss (n.) An interpretation, consisting of one or more words, interlinear or marginal; an explanatory note or comment; a running commentary.,
G as in Gloss (n.) A false or specious explanation.,
G as in Gloss (v. t.) To render clear and evident by comments; to illustrate; to explain; to annotate.,
G as in Gloss (v. t.) To give a specious appearance to; to render specious and plausible; to palliate by specious explanation.,
G as in Gloss (v. i.) To make comments; to comment; to explain.,
G as in Gloss (v. i.) To make sly remarks, or insinuations.,
G as in Gloss/ (pl. ) of Glossa,
G as in Glossa (n.) The tongue, or lingua, of an insect. See Hymenoptera.,
G as in Glossal (a.) Of or pertaining to the tongue; lingual.,
G as in Glossanthrax (n.) A disease of horses and cattle accompanied by carbuncles in the mouth and on the tongue.,
G as in Glossarial (a.) Of or pertaining to glosses or to a glossary; containing a glossary.,
G as in Glossarially (adv.) In the manner of a glossary.,
G as in Glossarist (n.) A writer of glosses or of a glossary; a commentator; a scholiast.,
G as in Gossaries (pl. ) of Glossary,
G as in Glossary (n.) A collection of glosses or explanations of words and passages of a work or author; a partial dictionary of a work, an author, a dialect, art, or science, explaining archaic, technical, or other uncommon words.,
G as in Glossata (n. pl.) The Lepidoptera.,
G as in Glossator (n.) A writer of glosses or comments; a commentator.,
G as in Glosser (n.) A polisher; one who gives a luster.,
G as in Glosser (n.) A writer of glosses; a scholiast; a commentator.,
G as in Glossic (n.) A system of phonetic spelling based upon the present values of English letters, but invariably using one symbol to represent one sound only.,
G as in Glossily (adv.) In a glossy manner.,
G as in Glossiness (n.) The condition or quality of being glossy; the luster or brightness of a smooth surface.,
G as in Glossist (n.) A writer of comments.,
G as in Glossitis (n.) Inflammation of the tongue.,
G as in Glossly (adv.) Like gloss; specious.,
G as in Glossocomon (n.) A kind of hoisting winch.,
G as in Glossoepiglottic (a.) Pertaining to both tongue and epiglottis; as, glossoepiglottic folds.,
G as in Glossographer (n.) A writer of a glossary; a commentator; a scholiast.,
G as in Glossographical (a.) Of or pertaining to glossography.,
G as in Glossography (n.) The writing of glossaries, glosses, or comments for illustrating an author.,
G as in Glossohyal (a.) Pertaining to both the hyoidean arch and the tongue; -- applied to the anterior segment of the hyoidean arch in many fishes. -- n. The glossohyal bone or cartilage; lingual bone; entoglossal bone.,
G as in Glossolalia (n.) Alt. of Glossolaly,
G as in Glossolaly (n.) The gift of tongues. Farrar.,
G as in Glossological (a.) Of or pertaining to glossology.,
G as in Glassologist (n.) One who defines and explains terms; one who is versed in glossology.,
G as in Glossology (n.) The definition and explanation of terms; a glossary.,
G as in Glossology (n.) The science of language; comparative philology; linguistics; glottology.,
G as in Glossopharyngeal (a.) Pertaining to both the tongue and the pharynx; -- applied especially to the ninth pair of cranial nerves, which are distributed to the pharynx and tongue. -- n. One of the glossopharyngeal nerves.,
G as in Glossy (superl.) Smooth and shining; reflecting luster from a smooth surface; highly polished; lustrous; as, glossy silk; a glossy surface.,
G as in Glossy (superl.) Smooth; specious; plausible; as, glossy deceit.,
G as in Glost oven () An oven in which glazed pottery is fired; -- also called glaze kiln, or glaze.,
G as in Glottal (a.) Of or pertaining to, or produced by, the glottis; glottic.,
G as in Glottic (a.) Alt. of Glottidean,
G as in Glottidean (a.) Of or pertaining to the glottis; glottal.,
G as in Glottis (n.) The opening from the pharynx into the larynx or into the trachea. See Larynx.,
G as in Glottological (a.) Of or pertaining to glottology.,
G as in Glottologist (n.) A linguist; a philologist.,
G as in Glottology (n.) The science of tongues or languages; comparative philology; glossology.,
G as in Glout (v. i.) To pout; to look sullen.,
G as in Glout (v. t.) To view attentively; to gloat on; to stare at.,
G as in Glove (n.) A cover for the hand, or for the hand and wrist, with a separate sheath for each finger. The latter characteristic distinguishes the glove from the mitten.,
G as in Glove (n.) A boxing glove.,
G as in Gloved (imp. & p. p.) of Glove,
G as in Gloving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Glove,
G as in Glove (v. t.) To cover with, or as with, a glove.,
G as in Glover (n.) One whose trade it is to make or sell gloves.,
G as in Glowed (imp. & p. p.) of Glow,
G as in Glowing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Glow,
G as in Glow (v. i.) To shine with an intense or white heat; to give forth vivid light and heat; to be incandescent.,
G as in Glow (v. i.) To exhibit a strong, bright color; to be brilliant, as if with heat; to be bright or red with heat or animation, with blushes, etc.,
G as in Glow (v. i.) To feel hot; to have a burning sensation, as of the skin, from friction, exercise, etc.; to burn.,
G as in Glow (v. i.) To feel the heat of passion; to be animated, as by intense love, zeal, anger, etc.; to rage, as passior; as, the heart glows with love, zeal, or patriotism.,
G as in Glow (v. t.) To make hot; to flush.,
G as in Glow (n.) White or red heat; incandscence.,
G as in Glow (n.) Brightness or warmth of color; redness; a rosy flush; as, the glow of health in the cheeks.,
G as in Glow (n.) Intense excitement or earnestness; vehemence or heat of passion; ardor.,
G as in Glow (n.) Heat of body; a sensation of warmth, as that produced by exercise, etc.,
G as in Glowbard (n.) The glowworm.,
G as in Glowered (imp. & p. p.) of Glower,
G as in Glowering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Glower,
G as in Glower (v. i.) to look intently; to stare angrily or with a scowl.,
G as in Glowingly (adv.) In a glowing manner; with ardent heat or passion.,
G as in Glowlamp (n.) An aphlogistic lamp. See Aphlogistic.,
G as in Glowlamp (n.) An incandescent lamp. See Incandescent, a.,
G as in Glowworm (n.) A coleopterous insect of the genus Lampyris; esp., the wingless females and larvae of the two European species (L. noctiluca, and L. splendidula), which emit light from some of the abdominal segments.,
G as in Gloxinia (n.) American genus of herbaceous plants with very handsome bell-shaped blossoms; -- named after B. P. Gloxin, a German botanist.,
G as in Glozed (imp. & p. p.) of Gloze,
G as in Glozing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gloze,
G as in Gloze (v. i.) To flatter; to wheedle; to fawn; to talk smoothly.,
G as in Gloze (v. i.) To give a specious or false meaning; to ministerpret.,
G as in Gloze (v. t.) To smooth over; to palliate.,
G as in Gloze (n.) Flattery; adulation; smooth speech.,
G as in Gloze (n.) Specious show; gloss.,
G as in Glozer (n.) A flatterer.,
G as in Glucic (a.) Pertaining to, or obtained from, sugar; as, glucic acid.,
G as in Glucina (n.) A white or gray tasteless powder, the oxide of the element glucinum; -- formerly called glucine.,
G as in Glucinic (a.) Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, glucinum; as, glucinic oxide.,
G as in Glucinum (n.) A rare metallic element, of a silver white color, and low specific gravity (2.1), resembling magnesium. It never occurs naturally in the free state, but is always combined, usually with silica or alumina, or both; as in the minerals phenacite, chrysoberyl, beryl or emerald, euclase, and danalite. It was named from its oxide glucina, which was known long before the element was isolated. Symbol Gl. Atomic weight 9.1. Called also beryllium.,
G as in Glucogen (n.) See Glycogen.,
G as in Glucogenesis (n.) Glycogenesis.,
G as in Gluconic (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, glucose.,
G as in Glucose (n.) A variety of sugar occurring in nature very abundantly, as in ripe grapes, and in honey, and produced in great quantities from starch, etc., by the action of heat and acids. It is only about half as sweet as cane sugar. Called also dextrose, grape sugar, diabetic sugar, and starch sugar. See Dextrose.,
G as in Glucose (n.) Any one of a large class of sugars, isometric with glucose proper, and including levulose, galactose, etc.,
G as in Glucose (n.) The trade name of a sirup, obtained as an uncrystallizable reside in the manufacture of glucose proper, and containing, in addition to some dextrose or glucose, also maltose, dextrin, etc. It is used as a cheap adulterant of sirups, beers, etc.,
G as in Glucoside (n.) One of a large series of amorphous or crystalline substances, occurring very widely distributed in plants, rarely in animals, and regarded as influental agents in the formation and disposition of the sugars. They are frequently of a bitter taste, but, by the action of ferments, or of dilute acids and alkalies, always break down into some characteristic substance (acid, aldehyde, alcohol, phenole, or alkaloid) and glucose (or some other sugar); hence the name. They are of the nature of complex and compound ethers, and ethereal salts of the sugar carbohydrates.,
G as in Glucosuria (n.) A condition in which glucose is discharged in the urine; diabetes mellitus.,
G as in Glue (n.) A hard brittle brownish gelatin, obtained by boiling to a jelly the skins, hoofs, etc., of animals. When gently heated with water, it becomes viscid and tenaceous, and is used as a cement for uniting substances. The name is also given to other adhesive or viscous substances.,
G as in Glued (imp. & p. p.) of Glue,
G as in Gluing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Glue,
G as in Glue (n.) To join with glue or a viscous substance; to cause to stick or hold fast, as if with glue; to fix or fasten.,
G as in Gluepot (n.) A utensil for melting glue, consisting of an inner pot holding the glue, immersed in an outer one containing water which is heated to soften the glue.,
G as in Gluer (n.) One who cements with glue.,
G as in Gluey (a.) Viscous; glutinous; of the nature of, or like, glue.,
G as in Glueyness (n.) Viscidity.,
G as in Gluish (a.) Somewhat gluey.,
G as in Glum (n.) Sullenness.,
G as in Glum (a.) Moody; silent; sullen.,
G as in Glum (v. i.) To look sullen; to be of a sour countenance; to be glum.,
G as in Glumaceous (a.) Having glumes; consisting of glumes.,
G as in Glumal (a.) Characterized by a glume, or having the nature of a glume.,
G as in Glume (n.) The bracteal covering of the flowers or seeds of grain and grasses; esp., an outer husk or bract of a spikelt.,
G as in Glumella (n.) Alt. of Glumelle,
G as in Glumelle (n.) One of the pelets or inner chaffy scales of the flowers or spikelets of grasses.,
G as in Glumly (adv.) In a glum manner; sullenly; moodily.,
G as in Glummy (a.) dark; gloomy; dismal.,
G as in Glumness (n.) Moodiness; sullenness.,
G as in Glump (v. i.) To manifest sullenness; to sulk.,
G as in Glumpy (a.) Glum; sullen; sulky.,
G as in Glunch (a.) Frowning; sulky; sullen.,
G as in Glunch (n.) A sullen, angry look; a look of disdain or dislike.,
G as in Glutted (imp. & p. p.) of Glut,
G as in Glutting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Glut,
G as in Glut (v. t.) To swallow, or to swallow greedlly; to gorge.,
G as in Glut (v. t.) To fill to satiety; to satisfy fully the desire or craving of; to satiate; to sate; to cloy.,
G as in Glut (v. i.) To eat gluttonously or to satiety.,
G as in Glut (n.) That which is swallowed.,
G as in Glut (n.) Plenty, to satiety or repletion; a full supply; hence, often, a supply beyond sufficiency or to loathing; over abundance; as, a glut of the market.,
G as in Glut (n.) Something that fills up an opening; a clog.,
G as in Glut (n.) A wooden wedge used in splitting blocks.,
G as in Glut (n.) A piece of wood used to fill up behind cribbing or tubbing.,
G as in Glut (n.) A bat, or small piece of brick, used to fill out a course.,
G as in Glut (n.) An arched opening to the ashpit of a klin.,
G as in Glut (n.) A block used for a fulcrum.,
G as in Glut (n.) The broad-nosed eel (Anguilla latirostris), found in Europe, Asia, the West Indies, etc.,
G as in Glutaconic (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, an acid intermediate between glutaric and aconitic acids.,
G as in Glutaeus (n.) The great muscle of the buttock in man and most mammals, and the corresponding muscle in many lower animals.,
G as in Glutamic (a.) Of or pertaining to gluten.,
G as in Glutaric (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid so called; as, glutaric ethers.,
G as in Glutazine (n.) A nitrogenous substance, forming a heavy, sandy powder, white or nearly so. It is a derivative of pyridine.,
G as in Gluteal (a.) Pertaining to, or in the region of, the glutaeus.,
G as in Gluten (n.) The viscid, tenacious substance which gives adhesiveness to dough.,
G as in Gluteus (n.) Same as Glut/us.,
G as in Glutin (n.) Same as Gliadin.,
G as in Glutin (n.) Sometimes synonymous with Gelatin.,
G as in Glutinated (imp. & p. p.) of Glutinate,
G as in Glutinating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Glutinate,
G as in Glutinate (v. t.) To unite with glue; to cement; to stick together.,
G as in Glutination (n.) The act of uniting with glue; sticking together.,
G as in Glutinative (a.) Having the quality of cementing; tenacious; viscous; glutinous.,
G as in Glutinosity (n.) The quality of being glutinous; viscousness.,
G as in Glutinous (a.) Of the nature of glue; resembling glue; viscous; viscid; adhesive; gluey.,
G as in Glutinous (a.) Havig a moist and adhesive or sticky surface, as a leaf or gland.,
G as in Glutinousness (n.) The quality of being glutinous.,
G as in Glutton (n.) One who eats voraciously, or to excess; a gormandizer.,
G as in Glutton (n.) Fig.: One who gluts himself.,
G as in Glutton (n.) A carnivorous mammal (Gulo luscus), of the family Mustelidae, about the size of a large badger. It was formerly believed to be inordinately voracious, whence the name; the wolverene. It is a native of the northern parts of America, Europe, and Asia.,
G as in Glutton (a.) Gluttonous; greedy; gormandizing.,
G as in Glutton (v. t. & i.) To glut; to eat voraciously.,
G as in Gluttonish (a.) Gluttonous; greedy.,
G as in Gluttonized (imp. & p. p.) of Gluttonize,
G as in Gluttonizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gluttonize,
G as in Gluttonize (v. i.) To eat to excess; to eat voraciously; to gormandize.,
G as in Gluttonous (a.) Given to gluttony; eating to excess; indulging the appetite; voracious; as, a gluttonous age.,
G as in Gluttonies (pl. ) of Gluttony,
G as in Gluttony (n.) Excess in eating; extravagant indulgence of the appetite for food; voracity.,
G as in Glycerate (n.) A salt of glyceric acid.,
G as in Glyceric (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, glycerin.,
G as in Glyceride (n.) A compound ether (formed from glycerin). Some glycerides exist ready formed as natural fats, others are produced artificially.,
G as in Glycerin (n.) Alt. of Glycerine,
G as in Glycerine (n.) An oily, viscous liquid, C3H5(OH)3, colorless and odorless, and with a hot, sweetish taste, existing in the natural fats and oils as the base, combined with various acids, as oleic, margaric, stearic, and palmitic. It is a triatomic alcohol, and hence is also called glycerol. See Note under Gelatin.,
G as in Glycerite (n.) A medicinal preparation made by mixing or dissolving a substance in glycerin.,
G as in Glycerol (n.) Same as Glycerin.,
G as in Clycerole (n.) Same as Glycerite.,
G as in Glyceryl (n.) A compound radical, C3H5, regarded as the essential radical of glycerin. It is metameric with allyl. Called also propenyl.,
G as in Glycide (n.) A colorless liquid, obtained from certain derivatives of glycerin, and regarded as a partially dehydrated glycerin; -- called also glycidic alcohol.,
G as in Glycidic (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, glycide; as, glycidic acid.,
G as in Glycin (n.) Same as Glycocoll.,
G as in Glycocholate (n.) A salt of glycocholic acid; as, sodium glycocholate.,
G as in Glycocholic (a.) Pertaining to, or composed of, glycocoll and cholic acid.,
G as in Glycocin (n.) Same as Glycocoll.,
G as in Glycocoll (n.) A crystalline, nitrogenous substance, with a sweet taste, formed from hippuric acid by boiling with hydrochloric acid, and present in bile united with cholic acid. It is also formed from gelatin by decomposition with acids. Chemically, it is amido-acetic acid. Called also glycin, and glycocin.,
G as in Glycogen (n.) A white, amorphous, tasteless substance resembling starch, soluble in water to an opalescent fluid. It is found abundantly in the liver of most animals, and in small quantity in other organs and tissues, particularly in the embryo. It is quickly changed into sugar when boiled with dilute sulphuric or hydrochloric acid, and also by the action of amylolytic ferments.,
G as in Glycogenic (a.) Pertaining to, or caused by, glycogen; as, the glycogenic function of the liver.,
G as in Glycogeny (n.) Alt. of Glycogenesis,
G as in Glycogenesis (n.) The production or formation of sugar from gycogen, as in the liver.,
G as in Glycol (n.) A thick, colorless liquid, C2H4(OH)2, of a sweetish taste, produced artificially from certain ethylene compounds. It is a diacid alcohol, intermediate between ordinary ethyl alcohol and glycerin.,
G as in Glycol (n.) Any one of the large class of diacid alcohols, of which glycol proper is the type.,
G as in Glycolic (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, glycol; as, glycolic ether; glycolic acid.,
G as in Glycolide (n.) A white amorphous powder, C4H4O, obtained by heating and dehydrating glycolic acid.,
G as in Glycoluric (a.) Pertaining to, derived from, glycol and urea; as, glycoluric acid, which is called also hydantoic acid.,
G as in Glycoluril (n.) A white, crystalline, nitrogenous substance, obtained by the reduction of allantoin.,
G as in Glycolyl (n.) A divalent, compound radical, CO.CH2, regarded as the essential radical of glycolic acid, and a large series of related compounds.,
G as in Glyconian (a. & n.) Glyconic.,
G as in Glyconic (a.) Consisting of a spondee, a choriamb, and a pyrrhic; -- applied to a kind of verse in Greek and Latin poetry.,
G as in Glyconic (n.) A glyconic verse.,
G as in Glyconin (n.) An emulsion of glycerin and the yolk of eggs, used as an ointment, as a vehicle for medicines, etc.,
G as in Glycosine (n.) An organic base, C6H6N4, produced artificially as a white, crystalline powder, by the action of ammonia on glyoxal.,
G as in Glycosuria (n.) Same as Glucosuria.,
G as in Glycyrrhiza (n.) A genus of papilionaceous herbaceous plants, one species of which (G. glabra), is the licorice plant, the roots of which have a bittersweet mucilaginous taste.,
G as in Glycyrrhiza (n.) The root of Glycyrrhiza glabra (liquorice root), used as a demulcent, etc.,
G as in Glycyrrhizimic (a.) From, or pertaining to, glycyrrhizin; as, glycyrrhizimic acid.,
G as in Glycyrrhizin (n.) A glucoside found in licorice root (Glycyrrhiza), in monesia bark (Chrysophyllum), in the root of the walnut, etc., and extracted as a yellow, amorphous powder, of a bittersweet taste.,
G as in Glyn (n.) Alt. of Glynne,
G as in Glynne (n.) A glen. See Glen. [Obs. singly, but occurring often in locative names in Ireland, as Glen does in Scotland.],
G as in Glyoxal (n.) A white, amorphous, deliquescent powder, (CO.H)2, obtained by the partial oxidation of glycol. It is a double aldehyde, between glycol and oxalic acid.,
G as in Glyoxalic (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, an aldehyde acid, intermediate between glycol and oxalic acid.,
G as in Glyoxaline (n.) A white, crystalline, organic base, C3H4N2, produced by the action of ammonia on glyoxal, and forming the origin of a large class of derivatives hence, any one of the series of which glyoxaline is a type; -- called also oxaline.,
G as in Glyoxime (n.) A white, crystalline, nitrogenous substance, produced by the action of hydroxylamine on glyoxal, and belonging to the class of oximes; also, any one of a group of substances resembling glyoxime proper, and of which it is a type. See Oxime.,
G as in Glyph (n.) A sunken channel or groove, usually vertical. See Triglyph.,
G as in Glyphic (a.) Of or pertaining to sculpture or carving of any sort, esp. to glyphs.,
G as in Glyphograph (n.) A plate made by glyphography, or an impression taken from such a plate.,
G as in Glyphographic (a.) Of or pertaining to glyphography.,
G as in Glyphography (n.) A process similar to etching, in which, by means of voltaic electricity, a raised copy of a drawing is made, so that it can be used to print from.,
G as in Glyptic (a.) Of or pertaining to gem engraving.,
G as in Glyptic (a.) Figured; marked as with figures.,
G as in Glyptics (n.) The art of engraving on precious stones.,
G as in Glyptodon (n.) An extinct South American quaternary mammal, allied to the armadillos. It was as large as an ox, was covered with tessellated scales, and had fluted teeth.,
G as in Glyptodont (n.) One of a family (Glyptodontidae) of extinct South American edentates, of which Glyptodon is the type. About twenty species are known.,
G as in Glyptographic (a.) Relating to glyptography, or the art of engraving on precious stones.,
G as in Glyptography (n.) The art or process of engraving on precious stones.,
G as in Glyptotheca (n.) A building or room devoted to works of sculpture.,
G as in Glyster (n.) Same as Clyster.,
G as in Gmelinite (n.) A rhombohedral zeolitic mineral, related in form and composition to chabazite.,
G as in Gnaphalium (n.) A genus of composite plants with white or colored dry and persistent involucres; a kind of everlasting.,
G as in Gnar (n.) A knot or gnarl in wood; hence, a tough, thickset man; -- written also gnarr.,
G as in Gnarred (imp. & p. p.) of Gnar,
G as in Gnarring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gnar,
G as in Gnar (v. i.) To gnarl; to snarl; to growl; -- written also gnarr.,
G as in Gnarled (imp. & p. p.) of Gnarl,
G as in Gnarling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gnarl,
G as in Gnarl (v. i.) To growl; to snarl.,
G as in Gnarl (n.) a knot in wood; a large or hard knot, or a protuberance with twisted grain, on a tree.,
G as in Gnarled (a.) Knotty; full of knots or gnarls; twisted; crossgrained.,
G as in Gnarly (a.) Full of knots; knotty; twisted; crossgrained.,
G as in Gnashed (imp. & p. p.) of Gnash,
G as in Gnashing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gnash,
G as in Gnash (v. t.) To strike together, as in anger or pain; as, to gnash the teeth.,
G as in Gnash (v. i.) To grind or strike the teeth together.,
G as in Gnashingly (adv.) With gnashing.,
G as in Gnat (n.) A blood-sucking dipterous fly, of the genus Culex, undergoing a metamorphosis in water. The females have a proboscis armed with needlelike organs for penetrating the skin of animals. These are wanting in the males. In America they are generally called mosquitoes. See Mosquito.,
G as in Gnat (n.) Any fly resembling a Culex in form or habits; esp., in America, a small biting fly of the genus Simulium and allies, as the buffalo gnat, the black fly, etc.,
G as in Gnathic (a.) Of or pertaining to the jaw.,
G as in Gnathidia (pl. ) of Gnathidium,
G as in Gnathidium (n.) The ramus of the lower jaw of a bird as far as it is naked; -- commonly used in the plural.,
G as in Gnathite (n.) Any one of the mouth appendages of the Arthropoda. They are known as mandibles, maxillae, and maxillipeds.,
G as in Gnathonic (a.) Alt. of Gnathonical,
G as in Gnathonical (a.) Flattering; deceitful.,
G as in Gnathopod (n.) A gnathopodite or maxilliped. See Maxilliped.,
G as in Gnathopodite (n.) Any leglike appendage of a crustacean, when modified wholly, or in part, to serve as a jaw, esp. one of the maxillipeds.,
G as in Gnathastegite (n.) One of a pair of broad plates, developed from the outer maxillipeds of crabs, and forming a cover for the other mouth organs.,
G as in Gnathostoma (n. pl.) A comprehensive division of vertebrates, including all that have distinct jaws, in contrast with the leptocardians and marsipobranchs (Cyclostoma), which lack them.,
G as in GnathothecAe (pl. ) of Gnathotheca,
G as in Gnathotheca (n.) The horney covering of the lower mandible of a bird.,
G as in Gnatling (n.) A small gnat.,
G as in Gnatworm (n.) The aquatic larva of a gnat; -- called also, colloquially, wiggler.,
G as in Gnawed (imp. & p. p.) of Gnaw,
G as in Gnawing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gnaw,
G as in Gnaw (v. t.) To bite, as something hard or tough, which is not readily separated or crushed; to bite off little by little, with effort; to wear or eat away by scraping or continuous biting with the teeth; to nibble at.,
G as in Gnaw (v. t.) To bite in agony or rage.,
G as in Gnaw (v. t.) To corrode; to fret away; to waste.,
G as in Gnaw (v. i.) To use the teeth in biting; to bite with repeated effort, as in eating or removing with the teethsomething hard, unwiedly, or unmanageable.,
G as in Gnawer (n.) One who, or that which, gnaws.,
G as in Gnawer (n.) A rodent.,
G as in Gneiss (n.) A crystalline rock, consisting, like granite, of quartz, feldspar, and mica, but having these materials, especially the mica, arranged in planes, so that it breaks rather easily into coarse slabs or flags. Hornblende sometimes takes the place of the mica, and it is then called hornblendic / syenitic gneiss. Similar varieties of related rocks are also called gneiss.,
G as in Gneissic (a.) Relating to, or resembling, gneiss; consisting of gneiss.,
G as in Gneissoid (a.) Resembling gneiss; having some of the characteristics of gneiss; -- applied to rocks of an intermediate character between granite and gneiss, or mica slate and gneiss.,
G as in Gneissose (a.) Having the structure of gneiss.,
G as in Gnew () imp. of Gnaw.,
G as in Gnide (v. t.) To rub; to bruise; to break in pieces.,
G as in Gnof (n.) Churl; curmudgeon.,
G as in Gnome (n.) An imaginary being, supposed by the Rosicrucians to inhabit the inner parts of the earth, and to be the guardian of mines, quarries, etc.,
G as in Gnome (n.) A dwarf; a goblin; a person of small stature or misshapen features, or of strange appearance.,
G as in Gnome (n.) A small owl (Glaucidium gnoma) of the Western United States.,
G as in Gnome (n.) A brief reflection or maxim.,
G as in Gnomic (a.) Alt. of Gnomical,
G as in Gnomical (a.) Sententious; uttering or containing maxims, or striking detached thoughts; aphoristic.,
G as in Gnomical (a.) Gnomonical.,
G as in Gnomically (adv.) In a gnomic, didactic, or sententious manner.,
G as in Gnomologic (a.) Alt. of Gnomological,
G as in Gnomological (a.) Pertaining to, of the nature of, or resembling, a gnomology.,
G as in Gnomology (n.) A collection of, or a treatise on, maxims, grave sentences, or reflections.,
G as in Gnomon (n.) The style or pin, which by its shadow, shows the hour of the day. It is usually set parallel to the earth's axis.,
G as in Gnomon (n.) A style or column erected perpendicularly to the horizon, formerly used in astronomocal observations. Its principal use was to find the altitude of the sun by measuring the length of its shadow.,
G as in Gnomon (n.) The space included between the boundary lines of two similar parallelograms, the one within the other, with an angle in common; as, the gnomon bcdefg of the parallelograms ac and af. The parallelogram bf is the complement of the parallelogram df.,
G as in Gnomon (n.) The index of the hour circle of a globe.,
G as in Gnomonic (a.) Alt. of Gnomonical,
G as in Gnomonical (a.) Of or pertaining to the gnomon, or the art of dialing.,
G as in Gnomonically (adv.) According to the principles of the gnomonic projection.,
G as in Gnomonics (n.) The art or science of dialing, or of constructing dials to show the hour of the day by the shadow of a gnomon.,
G as in Gnomonist (n.) One skilled in gnomonics.,
G as in Gnomonology (n.) A treatise on gnomonics.,
G as in Gnoscopine (n.) An alkaloid existing in small quantities in opium.,
G as in Gnosis (n.) The deeper wisdom; knowledge of spiritual truth, such as was claimed by the Gnostics.,
G as in Gnostic (a.) Knowing; wise; shrewd.,
G as in Gnostic (a.) Of or pertaining to Gnosticism or its adherents; as, the Gnostic heresy.,
G as in Gnostic (n.) One of the so-called philosophers in the first ages of Christianity, who claimed a true philosophical interpretation of the Christian religion. Their system combined Oriental theology and Greek philosophy with the doctrines of Christianity. They held that all natures, intelligible, intellectual, and material, are derived from the Deity by successive emanations, which they called Eons.,
G as in Gnosticism (n.) The system of philosophy taught by the Gnostics.,
G as in Gnow (imp.) Gnawed.,
G as in Gnu (n.) One of two species of large South African antelopes of the genus Catoblephas, having a mane and bushy tail, and curved horns in both sexes.,
G as in Go (p. p.) Gone.,
G as in Went (imp.) of Go,
G as in Gone (p. p.) of Go,
G as in Going (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Go,
G as in Go (v. i.) To pass from one place to another; to be in motion; to be in a state not motionless or at rest; to proceed; to advance; to make progress; -- used, in various applications, of the movement of both animate and inanimate beings, by whatever means, and also of the movements of the mind; also figuratively applied.,
G as in Go (v. i.) To move upon the feet, or step by step; to walk; also, to walk step by step, or leisurely.,
G as in Go (v. i.) To be passed on fron one to another; to pass; to circulate; hence, with for, to have currency; to be taken, accepted, or regarded.,
G as in Go (v. i.) To proceed or happen in a given manner; to fare; to move on or be carried on; to have course; to come to an issue or result; to succeed; to turn out.,
G as in Go (v. i.) To proceed or tend toward a result, consequence, or product; to tend; to conduce; to be an ingredient; to avail; to apply; to contribute; -- often with the infinitive; as, this goes to show.,
G as in Go (v. i.) To apply one's self; to set one's self; to undertake.,
G as in Go (v. i.) To proceed by a mental operation; to pass in mind or by an act of the memory or imagination; -- generally with over or through.,
G as in Go (v. i.) To be with young; to be pregnant; to gestate.,
G as in Go (v. i.) To move from the person speaking, or from the point whence the action is contemplated; to pass away; to leave; to depart; -- in opposition to stay and come.,
G as in Go (v. i.) To pass away; to depart forever; to be lost or ruined; to perish; to decline; to decease; to die.,
G as in Go (v. i.) To reach; to extend; to lead; as, a line goes across the street; his land goes to the river; this road goes to New York.,
G as in Go (v. i.) To have recourse; to resort; as, to go to law.,
G as in Go (v. t.) To take, as a share in an enterprise; to undertake or become responsible for; to bear a part in.,
G as in Go (v. t.) To bet or wager; as, I'll go you a shilling.,
G as in Go (n.) Act; working; operation.,
G as in Go (n.) A circumstance or occurrence; an incident.,
G as in Go (n.) The fashion or mode; as, quite the go.,
G as in Go (n.) Noisy merriment; as, a high go.,
G as in Go (n.) A glass of spirits.,
G as in Go (n.) Power of going or doing; energy; vitality; perseverance; push; as, there is no go in him.,
G as in Go (n.) That condition in the course of the game when a player can not lay down a card which will not carry the aggregate count above thirty-one.,
G as in Goa (n.) A species of antelope (Procapra picticauda), inhabiting Thibet.,
G as in Goad (v. t.) A pointed instrument used to urge on a beast; hence, any necessity that urges or stimulates.,
G as in Goaded (imp. & p. p.) of Goad,
G as in Goading (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Goad,
G as in Goad (v. t.) To prick; to drive with a goad; hence, to urge forward, or to rouse by anything pungent, severe, irritating, or inflaming; to stimulate.,
G as in Goafs (pl. ) of Goaf,
G as in Goaves (pl. ) of Goaf,
G as in Goaf (n.) That part of a mine from which the mineral has been partially or wholly removed; the waste left in old workings; -- called also gob .,
G as in Goal (n.) The mark set to bound a race, and to or around which the constestants run, or from which they start to return to it again; the place at which a race or a journey is to end.,
G as in Goal (n.) The final purpose or aim; the end to which a design tends, or which a person aims to reach or attain.,
G as in Goal (n.) A base, station, or bound used in various games; in football, a line between two posts across which the ball must pass in order to score; also, the act of kicking the ball over the line between the goal posts.,
G as in Goa powder () A bitter powder (also called araroba) found in the interspaces of the wood of a Brazilian tree (Andira araroba) and used as a medicine. It is the material from which chrysarobin is obtained.,
G as in Goar (n.) Same as lst Gore.,
G as in Goarish (a.) Patched; mean.,
G as in Goat (n.) A hollow-horned ruminant of the genus Capra, of several species and varieties, esp. the domestic goat (C. hircus), which is raised for its milk, flesh, and skin.,
G as in Goatee (n.) A part of a man's beard on the chin or lower lip which is allowed to grow, and trimmed so as to resemble the beard of a goat.,
G as in Goatfish (n.) A fish of the genus Upeneus, inhabiting the Gulf of Mexico. It is allied to the surmullet.,
G as in Goatherd (n.) One who tends goats.,
G as in Goatish (a.) Characteristic of a goat; goatlike.,
G as in Goatlike (a.) Like a goat; goatish.,
G as in Goatskin (n.) The skin of a goat, or leather made from it.,
G as in Goatskin (a.) Made of the skin of a goat.,
G as in Goatsucker (n.) One of several species of insectivorous birds, belonging to Caprimulgus and allied genera, esp. the European species (Caprimulgus Europaeus); -- so called from the mistaken notion that it sucks goats. The European species is also goat-milker, goat owl, goat chaffer, fern owl, night hawk, nightjar, night churr, churr-owl, gnat hawk, and dorhawk.,
G as in Goaves (n.) Old workings. See Goaf.,
G as in Gob (n.) Same as Goaf.,
G as in Gob (n.) A little mass or collection; a small quantity; a mouthful.,
G as in Gob (n.) The mouth.,
G as in Gobbet (n.) A mouthful; a lump; a small piece.,
G as in Gobbet (v. t.) To swallow greedily; to swallow in gobbets.,
G as in Gobbetly (adv.) In pieces.,
G as in Gobbing (n.) The refuse thrown back into the excavation after removing the coal. It is called also gob stuff.,
G as in Gobbing (n.) The process of packing with waste rock; stowing.,
G as in Gobbled (imp. & p. p.) of Gobble,
G as in Gobbling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gobble,
G as in Gobble (v. t.) To swallow or eat greedily or hastily; to gulp.,
G as in Gobble (v. t.) To utter (a sound) like a turkey cock.,
G as in Gobble (v. i.) To eat greedily.,
G as in Gobble (v. i.) To make a noise like that of a turkey cock.,
G as in Gobble (n.) A noise made in the throat.,
G as in Gobbler (n.) A turkey cock; a bubbling Jock.,
G as in Gobelin (a.) Pertaining to tapestry produced in the so-called Gobelin works, which have been maintained by the French Government since 1667.,
G as in Gobemouche (n.) Literally, a fly swallower; hence, once who keeps his mouth open; a boor; a silly and credulous person.,
G as in Gobet (n.) See Gobbet.,
G as in Go-between (n.) An intermediate agent; a broker; a procurer; -- usually in a disparaging sense.,
G as in Gobioid (a.) Like, or pertaining to, the goby, or the genus Gobius.,
G as in Gobioid (n.) A gobioid fish.,
G as in Goblet (n.) A kind of cup or drinking vessel having a foot or standard, but without a handle.,
G as in Goblin (n.) An evil or mischievous spirit; a playful or malicious elf; a frightful phantom; a gnome.,
G as in Gobline (n.) One of the ropes or chains serving as stays for the dolphin striker or the bowsprit; -- called also gobrope and gaubline.,
G as in Goblinize (v. t.) To transform into a goblin.,
G as in Gobies (pl. ) of Goby,
G as in Goby (n.) One of several species of small marine fishes of the genus Gobius and allied genera.,
G as in Go-by (n.) A passing without notice; intentional neglect; thrusting away; a shifting off; adieu; as, to give a proposal the go-by.,
G as in Gocart (n.) A framework moving on casters, designed to support children while learning to walk.,
G as in God (a. & n.) Good.,
G as in God (n.) A being conceived of as possessing supernatural power, and to be propitiated by sacrifice, worship, etc.; a divinity; a deity; an object of worship; an idol.,
G as in God (n.) The Supreme Being; the eternal and infinite Spirit, the Creator, and the Sovereign of the universe; Jehovah.,
G as in God (n.) A person or thing deified and honored as the chief good; an object of supreme regard.,
G as in God (n.) Figuratively applied to one who wields great or despotic power.,
G as in God (v. t.) To treat as a god; to idolize.,
G as in Godchild (n.) One for whom a person becomes sponsor at baptism, and whom he promises to see educated as a Christian; a godson or goddaughter. See Godfather.,
G as in Goddaughter (n.) A female for whom one becomes sponsor at baptism.,
G as in Goddess (n.) A female god; a divinity, or deity, of the female sex.,
G as in Goddess (n.) A woman of superior charms or excellence.,
G as in Gode (a. & n.) Good.,
G as in Godelich (a.) Goodly.,
G as in Godfather (n.) A man who becomes sponsor for a child at baptism, and makes himself a surety for its Christian training and instruction.,
G as in Godfather (v. t.) To act as godfather to; to take under one's fostering care.,
G as in God-fearing (a.) Having a reverential and loving feeling towards God; religious.,
G as in Godhead (n.) Godship; deity; divinity; divine nature or essence; godhood.,
G as in Godhead (n.) The Deity; God; the Supreme Being.,
G as in Godhead (n.) A god or goddess; a divinity.,
G as in Godhood (n.) Divine nature or essence; deity; godhead.,
G as in Godild () A corruption of God yield, i. e., God reward or bless.,
G as in Godless (a.) Having, or acknowledging, no God; without reverence for God; impious; wicked.,
G as in Godlike (a.) Resembling or befitting a god or God; divine; hence, preeminently good; as, godlike virtue.,
G as in Godlily (adv.) Righteously.,
G as in Godliness (n.) Careful observance of, or conformity to, the laws of God; the state or quality of being godly; piety.,
G as in Godling (n.) A diminutive god.,
G as in Godly (n.) Pious; reverencing God, and his character and laws; obedient to the commands of God from love for, and reverence of, his character; conformed to God's law; devout; righteous; as, a godly life.,
G as in Godly (adv.) Piously; devoutly; righteously.,
G as in Godlyhead (n.) Goodness.,
G as in Godmother (n.) A woman who becomes sponsor for a child in baptism. See Godfather,
G as in Godown (n.) A warehouse.,
G as in Godroon (n.) An ornament produced by notching or carving a rounded molding.,
G as in Godsend (n.) Something sent by God; an unexpected acquisiton or piece of good fortune.,
G as in Godship (n.) The rank or character of a god; deity; divinity; a god or goddess.,
G as in Godsib (n.) A gossip.,
G as in Godson (n.) A male for whom one has stood sponsor in baptism. See Godfather.,
G as in Godspeed (n.) Success; prosperous journeying; -- a contraction of the phrase, "God speed you.",
G as in Godward (adv.) Toward God.,
G as in Godwit (n.) One of several species of long-billed, wading birds of the genus Limosa, and family Tringidae. The European black-tailed godwit (Limosa limosa), the American marbled godwit (L. fedoa), the Hudsonian godwit (L. haemastica), and others, are valued as game birds. Called also godwin.,
G as in Goel (a.) Yellow.,
G as in Goeland (n.) A white tropical tern (Cygis candida).,
G as in Goemin (n.) A complex mixture of several substances extracted from Irish moss.,
G as in Goen () p. p. of Go.,
G as in Goer (n.) One who, or that which, goes; a runner or walker,
G as in Goer (n.) A foot.,
G as in Goer (n.) A horse, considered in reference to his gait; as, a good goer; a safe goer.,
G as in Goety (n.) Invocation of evil spirits; witchcraft.,
G as in Goff (n.) A silly clown.,
G as in Goff (n.) A game. See Golf.,
G as in Goffered (imp. & p. p.) of Goffer,
G as in Goffering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Goffer,
G as in Goffer (v. t.) To plait, flute, or crimp. See Gauffer.,
G as in Gog (n.) Haste; ardent desire to go.,
G as in Goggled (imp. & p. p.) of Goggle,
G as in Goggling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Goggle,
G as in Goggle (v. i.) To roll the eyes; to stare.,
G as in Goggle (a.) Full and rolling, or staring; -- said of the eyes.,
G as in Goggle (v. i.) A strained or affected rolling of the eye.,
G as in Goggle (v. i.) A kind of spectacles with short, projecting eye tubes, in the front end of which are fixed plain glasses for protecting the eyes from cold, dust, etc.,
G as in Goggle (v. i.) Colored glasses for relief from intense light.,
G as in Goggle (v. i.) A disk with a small aperture, to direct the sight forward, and cure squinting.,
G as in Goggle (v. i.) Any screen or cover for the eyes, with or without a slit for seeing through.,
G as in Goggled (a.) Prominent; staring, as the eye.,
G as in Goggle-eye (n.) One of two or more species of American fresh-water fishes of the family Centrarchidae, esp. Chaenobryttus antistius, of Lake Michigan and adjacent waters, and Ambloplites rupestris, of the Great Lakes and Mississippi Valley; -- so called from their prominent eyes.,
G as in Goggle-eye (n.) The goggler.,
G as in Goggle-eyed (a.) Having prominent and distorted or rolling eyes.,
G as in Goggler (n.) A carangoid oceanic fish (Trachurops crumenophthalmus), having very large and prominent eyes; -- called also goggle-eye, big-eyed scad, and cicharra.,
G as in Goglet (n.) See Gurglet.,
G as in Going (n.) The act of moving in any manner; traveling; as, the going is bad.,
G as in Going (n.) Departure.,
G as in Going (n.) Pregnancy; gestation; childbearing.,
G as in Going (n.) Course of life; behavior; doings; ways.,
G as in Goiter (n.) Alt. of Goitre,
G as in Goitre (n.) An enlargement of the thyroid gland, on the anterior part of the neck; bronchocele. It is frequently associated with cretinism, and is most common in mountainous regions, especially in certain parts of Switzerland.,
G as in Goitered (a.) Alt. of Goitred,
G as in Goitred (a.) Affected with goiter.,
G as in Goitrous (a.) Pertaining to the goiter; affected with the goiter; of the nature of goiter or bronchocele.,
G as in Gold (n.) Alt. of Goolde,
G as in Golde (n.) Alt. of Goolde,
G as in Goolde (n.) An old English name of some yellow flower, -- the marigold (Calendula), according to Dr. Prior, but in Chaucer perhaps the turnsole.,
G as in Gold (v. t.) A metallic element, constituting the most precious metal used as a common commercial medium of exchange. It has a characteristic yellow color, is one of the heaviest substances known (specific gravity 19.32), is soft, and very malleable and ductile. It is quite unalterable by heat, moisture, and most corrosive agents, and therefore well suited for its use in coin and jewelry. Symbol Au (Aurum). Atomic weight 196.7.,
G as in Gold (v. t.) Money; riches; wealth.,
G as in Gold (v. t.) A yellow color, like that of the metal; as, a flower tipped with gold.,
G as in Gold (v. t.) Figuratively, something precious or pure; as, hearts of gold.,
G as in Gold-beaten (a.) Gilded.,
G as in Gold-beating (n.) The art or process of reducing gold to extremely thin leaves, by beating with a hammer.,
G as in Gold-bound (a.) Encompassed with gold.,
G as in Goldcrest (n.) The European golden-crested kinglet (Regulus cristatus, or R. regulus); -- called also golden-crested wren, and golden wren. The name is also sometimes applied to the American golden-crested kinglet. See Kinglet.,
G as in Goldcup (n.) The cuckoobud.,
G as in Golden (a.) Made of gold; consisting of gold.,
G as in Golden (a.) Having the color of gold; as, the golden grain.,
G as in Golden (a.) Very precious; highly valuable; excellent; eminently auspicious; as, golden opinions.,
G as in Golden-eye (n.) A duck (Glaucionetta clangula), found in Northern Europe, Asia, and America. The American variety (var. Americana) is larger. Called whistler, garrot, gowdy, pied widgeon, whiteside, curre, and doucker. Barrow's golden-eye of America (G. Islandica) is less common.,
G as in Goden ly (adv.) In golden terms or a golden manner; splendidly; delightfully.,
G as in Golden-rod (n.) A tall herb (Solidago Virga-aurea), bearing yellow flowers in a graceful elongated cluster. The name is common to all the species of the genus Solidago.,
G as in Goldfinch (n.) A beautiful bright-colored European finch (Carduelis elegans). The name refers to the large patch of yellow on the wings. The front of the head and throat are bright red; the nape, with part of the wings and tail, black; -- called also goldspink, goldie, fool's coat, drawbird, draw-water, thistle finch, and sweet William.,
G as in Goldfinch (n.) The yellow-hammer.,
G as in Goldfinch (n.) A small American finch (Spinus tristis); the thistle bird.,
G as in Goldfinny (n.) One of two or more species of European labroid fishes (Crenilabrus melops, and Ctenolabrus rupestris); -- called also goldsinny, and goldney.,
G as in Goldfish (n.) A small domesticated cyprinoid fish (Carassius auratus); -- so named from its color. It is native of China, and is said to have been introduced into Europe in 1691. It is often kept as an ornament, in small ponds or glass globes. Many varieties are known. Called also golden fish, and golden carp. See Telescope fish, under Telescope.,
G as in Goldfish (n.) A California marine fish of an orange or red color; the garibaldi.,
G as in Gold-hammer (n.) The yellow-hammer.,
G as in Goldie (n.) The European goldfinch.,
G as in Goldie (n.) The yellow-hammer.,
G as in Goldilocks (n.) Same as Goldylocks.,
G as in Goldin (n.) Alt. of Golding,
G as in Golding (n.) A conspicuous yellow flower, commonly the corn marigold (Chrysanthemum segetum).,
G as in Goldless (a.) Destitute of gold.,
G as in Goldney (n.) See Gilthead.,
G as in Goldseed (n.) Dog's-tail grass.,
G as in Goldsinny (n.) See Goldfinny.,
G as in Goldsmith (n.) An artisan who manufactures vessels and ornaments, etc., of gold.,
G as in Goldsmith (n.) A banker.,
G as in Goldtit (n.) See Verdin.,
G as in Goldylocks (n.) A plant of several species of the genus Chrysocoma; -- so called from the tufts of yellow flowers which terminate the stems; also, the Ranunculus auricomus, a kind of buttercup.,
G as in Golet (n.) The gullet.,
G as in Golet (n.) A California trout. See Malma.,
G as in Golf (n.) A game played with a small ball and a bat or club crooked at the lower end. He who drives the ball into each of a series of small holes in the ground and brings it into the last hole with the fewest strokes is the winner.,
G as in Golfer (n.) One who plays golf.,
G as in Golgotha (n.) Calvary. See the Note under Calvary.,
G as in Goliard (n.) A buffoon in the Middle Ages, who attended rich men's tables to make sport for the guests by ribald stories and songs.,
G as in Goliardery (n.) The satirical or ribald poetry of the Goliards.,
G as in Goliath beetle () Any species of Goliathus, a genus of very large and handsome African beetles.,
G as in Goll (n.) A hand, paw, or claw.,
G as in Goloe-shoe (n.) A galoche.,
G as in Golore (n.) See Galore.,
G as in Goloshe (n.) See Galoche.,
G as in Goltschut (n.) A small ingot of gold.,
G as in Goltschut (n.) A silver ingot, used in Japan as money.,
G as in Golyardeys (n.) A buffoon. See Gollard.,
G as in Goman (n.) A husband; a master of a family.,
G as in Gomarist (n.) Alt. of Gomarite,
G as in Gomarite (n.) One of the followers of Francis Gomar or Gomarus, a Dutch disciple of Calvin in the 17th century, who strongly opposed the Arminians.,
G as in Gombo (n.) See Gumbo.,
G as in Gome (n.) A man.,
G as in Gome (n.) The black grease on the axle of a cart or wagon wheel; -- called also gorm. See Gorm.,
G as in Gomer (n.) A Hebrew measure. See Homer.,
G as in Gomer (n.) A conical chamber at the breech of the bore in heavy ordnance, especially in mortars; -- named after the inventor.,
G as in Gommelin (n.) See Dextrin.,
G as in Gomphiasis (n.) A disease of the teeth, which causes them to loosen and fall out of their sockets.,
G as in Gomphosis (n.) A form of union or immovable articulation where a hard part is received into the cavity of a bone, as the teeth into the jaws.,
G as in Gomuti (n.) A black, fibrous substance resembling horsehair, obtained from the leafstalks of two kinds of palms, Metroxylon Sagu, and Arenga saccharifera, of the Indian islands. It is used for making cordage. Called also ejoo.,
G as in Gon () imp. & p. p. of Go.,
G as in Gonads (pl. ) of Gonad,
G as in Gonad (n.) One of the masses of generative tissue primitively alike in both sexes, but giving rise to either an ovary or a testis; a generative gland; a germ gland.,
G as in Gonakie (n.) An African timber tree (Acacia Adansonii).,
G as in Gonangia (pl. ) of Gonangium,
G as in Gonangiums (pl. ) of Gonangium,
G as in Gonangium (n.) See Gonotheca.,
G as in Gondola (n.) A long, narrow boat with a high prow and stern, used in the canals of Venice. A gondola is usually propelled by one or two oarsmen who stand facing the prow, or by poling. A gondola for passengers has a small open cabin amidships, for their protection against the sun or rain. A sumptuary law of Venice required that gondolas should be painted black, and they are customarily so painted now.,
G as in Gondola (n.) A flat-bottomed boat for freight.,
G as in Gondola (n.) A long platform car, either having no sides or with very low sides, used on railroads.,
G as in Gondolet (n.) A small gondola.,
G as in Gondolier (n.) A man who rows a gondola.,
G as in Gone () p. p. of Go.,
G as in Goneness (n.) A state of exhaustion; faintness, especially as resulting from hunger.,
G as in Gonfalon (n.) Alt. of Gonfanon,
G as in Gonfanon (n.) The ensign or standard in use by certain princes or states, such as the mediaeval republics of Italy, and in more recent times by the pope.,
G as in Gonfanon (n.) A name popularly given to any flag which hangs from a crosspiece or frame instead of from the staff or the mast itself.,
G as in Gonfalonier (n.) He who bears the gonfalon; a standard bearer,
G as in Gonfalonier (n.) An officer at Rome who bears the standard of the Church.,
G as in Gonfalonier (n.) The chief magistrate of any one of several republics in mediaeveal Italy.,
G as in Gonfalonier (n.) A Turkish general, and standard keeper.,
G as in Gong (n.) A privy or jakes.,
G as in Gong (n.) An instrument, first used in the East, made of an alloy of copper and tin, shaped like a disk with upturned rim, and producing, when struck, a harsh and resounding noise.,
G as in Gong (n.) A flat saucerlike bell, rung by striking it with a small hammer which is connected with it by various mechanical devices; a stationary bell, used to sound calls or alarms; -- called also gong bell.,
G as in Goniatite (n.) One of an extinct genus of fossil cephalopods, allied to the Ammonites. The earliest forms are found in the Devonian formation, the latest, in the Triassic.,
G as in Gonidial (a.) Pertaining to, or containing, gonidia.,
G as in Gonidial (a.) Of or pertaining to the angles of the mouth; as, a gonidial groove of an actinian.,
G as in Gonidium (n.) A special groove or furrow at one or both angles of the mouth of many Anthozoa.,
G as in Gonidia (pl. ) of Gonidium,
G as in Gonidium (n.) A component cell of the yellowish green layer in certain lichens.,
G as in Gonimia (n. pl.) Bluish green granules which occur in certain lichens, as Collema, Peltigera, etc., and which replace the more usual gonidia.,
G as in Gonimous (a.) Pertaining to, or containing, gonidia or gonimia, as that part of a lichen which contains the green or chlorophyll-bearing cells.,
G as in Goniometer (n.) An instrument for measuring angles, especially the angles of crystals, or the inclination of planes.,
G as in Goniometric (a.) Alt. of Goniometrical,
G as in Goniometrical (a.) Pertaining to, or determined by means of, a goniometer; trigonometric.,
G as in Goniometry (n.) The art of measuring angles; trigonometry.,
G as in Gonoblastid (n.) A reproductive bud of a hydroid; a simple gonophore.,
G as in Gonoblastidia (pl. ) of Gonoblastidium,
G as in Gonoblastidium (n.) A blastostyle.,
G as in Gonocalyx (n.) The bell of a sessile gonozooid.,
G as in Gonochorism (n.) Separation of the sexes in different individuals; -- opposed to hermaphroditism.,
G as in Gonochorism (n.) In ontogony, differentiation of male and female individuals from embryos having the same rudimentary sexual organs.,
G as in Gonochorism (n.) In phylogeny, the evolution of distinct sexes in species previously hermaphrodite or sexless.,
G as in Gonococcus (n.) A vegetable microorganism of the genus Micrococcus, occurring in the secretion in gonorrhea. It is believed by some to constitute the cause of this disease.,
G as in Gonoph (n.) A pickpocket or thief.,
G as in Gonophore (n.) A sexual zooid produced as a medusoid bud upon a hydroid, sometimes becoming a free hydromedusa, sometimes remaining attached. See Hydroidea, and Illusts. of Athecata, Campanularian, and Gonosome.,
G as in Gonophore (n.) A lengthened receptacle, bearing the stamens and carpels in a conspicuous manner.,
G as in Gonorrhea (n.) Alt. of Gonorrhoea,
G as in Gonorrhoea (n.) A contagious inflammatory disease of the genitourinary tract, affecting especially the urethra and vagina, and characterized by a mucopurulent discharge, pain in urination, and chordee; clap.,
G as in Gonorrheal (a.) Alt. of Gonorrhoeal,
G as in Gonorrhoeal (a.) Of or pertaining to gonorrhea; as, gonorrheal rheumatism.,
G as in Gonosome (n.) The reproductive zooids of a hydroid colony, collectively.,
G as in Gonothec/ (pl. ) of Gonotheca,
G as in Gonotheca (n.) A capsule developed on certain hydroids (Thecaphora), inclosing the blastostyle upon which the medusoid buds or gonophores are developed; -- called also gonangium, and teleophore. See Hydroidea, and Illust. of Campanularian.,
G as in Gonozooid (n.) A sexual zooid, or medusoid bud of a hydroid; a gonophore. See Hydroidea, and Illust. of Campanularian.,
G as in Gonydial (a.) Pertaining to the gonys of a bird's beak.,
G as in Gonys (n.) The keel or lower outline of a bird's bill, so far as the mandibular rami are united.,
G as in Goober (n.) A peanut.,
G as in Good (superl.) Possessing desirable qualities; adapted to answer the end designed; promoting success, welfare, or happiness; serviceable; useful; fit; excellent; admirable; commendable; not bad, corrupt, evil, noxious, offensive, or troublesome, etc.,
G as in Good (superl.) Possessing moral excellence or virtue; virtuous; pious; religious; -- said of persons or actions.,
G as in Good (superl.) Kind; benevolent; humane; merciful; gracious; polite; propitious; friendly; well-disposed; -- often followed by to or toward, also formerly by unto.,
G as in Good (superl.) Serviceable; suited; adapted; suitable; of use; to be relied upon; -- followed especially by for.,
G as in Good (superl.) Clever; skillful; dexterous; ready; handy; -- followed especially by at.,
G as in Good (superl.) Adequate; sufficient; competent; sound; not fallacious; valid; in a commercial sense, to be depended on for the discharge of obligations incurred; having pecuniary ability; of unimpaired credit.,
G as in Good (superl.) Real; actual; serious; as in the phrases in good earnest; in good sooth.,
G as in Good (superl.) Not small, insignificant, or of no account; considerable; esp., in the phrases a good deal, a good way, a good degree, a good share or part, etc.,
G as in Good (superl.) Not lacking or deficient; full; complete.,
G as in Good (superl.) Not blemished or impeached; fair; honorable; unsullied; as in the phrases a good name, a good report, good repute, etc.,
G as in Good (n.) That which possesses desirable qualities, promotes success, welfare, or happiness, is serviceable, fit, excellent, kind, benevolent, etc.; -- opposed to evil.,
G as in Good (n.) Advancement of interest or happiness; welfare; prosperity; advantage; benefit; -- opposed to harm, etc.,
G as in Good (n.) Wares; commodities; chattels; -- formerly used in the singular in a collective sense. In law, a comprehensive name for almost all personal property as distinguished from land or real property.,
G as in Good (adv.) Well, -- especially in the phrase as good, with a following as expressed or implied; equally well with as much advantage or as little harm as possible.,
G as in Good (v. t.) To make good; to turn to good.,
G as in Good (v. t.) To manure; to improve.,
G as in Good-by (n. / interj.) Alt. of Good-bye,
G as in Good-bye (n. / interj.) Farewell; a form of address used at parting. See the last Note under By, prep.,
G as in Good-den (interj.) A form of salutation.,
G as in Good-fellowship (n.) Agreeable companionship; companionableness.,
G as in Goodgeon (n.) Same as Gudgeon, 5.,
G as in Good-humored (a.) Having a cheerful spirit and demeanor; good-tempered. See Good-natured.,
G as in Good-humoredly (adv.) With a cheerful spirit; in a cheerful or good-tempered manner.,
G as in Goodish (a.) Rather good than the contrary; not actually bad; tolerable.,
G as in Goodless (a.) Having no goods.,
G as in Goodlich (a.) Goodly.,
G as in Goodliness (n.) Beauty of form; grace; elegance; comeliness.,
G as in Good-looking (a.) Handsome.,
G as in Goodly (adv.) Excellently.,
G as in Goodly (superl.) Pleasant; agreeable; desirable.,
G as in Goodly (superl.) Of pleasing appearance or character; comely; graceful; as, a goodly person; goodly raiment, houses.,
G as in Goodly (superl.) Large; considerable; portly; as, a goodly number.,
G as in Goodlyhead (n.) Alt. of Goodlyhood,
G as in Goodlyhood (n.) Goodness; grace; goodliness.,
G as in Goodman (n.) A familiar appellation of civility, equivalent to "My friend", "Good sir", "Mister;" -- sometimes used ironically.,
G as in Goodman (n.) A husband; the master of a house or family; -- often used in speaking familiarly.,
G as in Good-natured (a.) Naturally mild in temper; not easily provoked.,
G as in Good-naturedly (adv.) With maldness of temper.,
G as in Goodness (n.) The quality of being good in any of its various senses; excellence; virtue; kindness; benevolence; as, the goodness of timber, of a soil, of food; goodness of character, of disposition, of conduct, etc.,
G as in Good now () An exclamation of wonder, surprise, or entreaty.,
G as in Goods (n. pl.) See Good, n., 3.,
G as in Goodship (n.) Favor; grace.,
G as in Good-tempered (a.) Having a good temper; not easily vexed. See Good-natured.,
G as in Goodwife (n.) The mistress of a house.,
G as in Goodies (pl. ) of Goody,
G as in Goody (n.) A bonbon, cake, or the like; -- usually in the pl.,
G as in Goody (n.) An American fish; the lafayette or spot.,
G as in Goodies (pl. ) of Goody,
G as in Goody (n.) Goodwife; -- a low term of civility or sport.,
G as in Gode-year (n.) The venereal disease; -- often used as a mild oath.,
G as in Goody-goody (a.) Mawkishly or weakly good; exhibiting goodness with silliness.,
G as in Goodyship (n.) The state or quality of a goody or goodwife,
G as in Gooroo (n.) Alt. of Guru,
G as in Guru (n.) A spiritual teacher, guide, or confessor amoung the Hindoos.,
G as in Goosander (n.) A species of merganser (M. merganser) of Northern Europe and America; -- called also merganser, dundiver, sawbill, sawneb, shelduck, and sheldrake. See Merganser.,
G as in Geese (pl. ) of Goose,
G as in Goose (n.) Any large web-footen bird of the subfamily Anserinae, and belonging to Anser, Branta, Chen, and several allied genera. See Anseres.,
G as in Goose (n.) Any large bird of other related families, resembling the common goose.,
G as in Goose (n.) A tailor's smoothing iron, so called from its handle, which resembles the neck of a goose.,
G as in Goose (n.) A silly creature; a simpleton.,
G as in Goose (n.) A game played with counters on a board divided into compartments, in some of which a goose was depicted.,
G as in Gooseberries (pl. ) of Gooseberry,
G as in Gooseberry (a.) Any thorny shrub of the genus Ribes; also, the edible berries of such shrub. There are several species, of which Ribes Grossularia is the one commonly cultivated.,
G as in Gooseberry (a.) A silly person; a goose cap.,
G as in Goosefish (n.) See Angler.,
G as in Goosefoot (n.) A genus of herbs (Chenopodium) mostly annual weeds; pigweed.,
G as in Gooseries (pl. ) of Goosery,
G as in Goosery (n.) A place for keeping geese.,
G as in Goosery (n.) The characteristics or actions of a goose; silliness.,
G as in Goosewing (n.) One of the clews or lower corners of a course or a topsail when the middle part or the rest of the sail is furled.,
G as in Goosewinged (a.) Having a "goosewing.",
G as in Goosewinged (a.) Said of a fore-and-aft rigged vessel with foresail set on one side and mainsail on the other; wing and wing.,
G as in Goosish (a.) Like a goose; foolish.,
G as in Goost (n.) Ghost; spirit.,
G as in Goot (n.) A goat.,
G as in Go-out (n.) A sluice in embankments against the sea, for letting out the land waters, when the tide is out.,
G as in Gopher (n.) One of several North American burrowing rodents of the genera Geomys and Thomomys, of the family Geomyidae; -- called also pocket gopher and pouched rat. See Pocket gopher, and Tucan.,
G as in Gopher (n.) One of several western American species of the genus Spermophilus, of the family Sciuridae; as, the gray gopher (Spermophilus Franklini) and the striped gopher (S. tridecemlineatus); -- called also striped prairie squirrel, leopard marmot, and leopard spermophile. See Spermophile.,
G as in Gopher (n.) A large land tortoise (Testudo Carilina) of the Southern United States, which makes extensive burrows.,
G as in Gopher (n.) A large burrowing snake (Spilotes Couperi) of the Southern United States.,
G as in Gopher wood () A species of wood used in the construction of Noah's ark.,
G as in Goracco (n.) A paste prepared from tobacco, and smoked in hookahs in Western India.,
G as in Goral (n.) An Indian goat antelope (Nemorhedus goral), resembling the chamois.,
G as in Goramy (n.) Same as Gourami.,
G as in Gor-bellied (a.) Bog-bellied.,
G as in Gor-belly (n.) A prominent belly; a big-bellied person.,
G as in Gorce (n.) A pool of water to keep fish in; a wear.,
G as in Gorcock (n.) The moor cock, or red grouse. See Grouse.,
G as in Gorcrow (n.) The carrion crow; -- called also gercrow.,
G as in Gord (n.) An instrument of gaming; a sort of dice.,
G as in Gordiacea (n. pl.) A division of nematoid worms, including the hairworms or hair eels (Gordius and Mermis). See Gordius, and Illustration in Appendix.,
G as in Gordian (a.) Pertaining to Gordius, king of Phrygia, or to a knot tied by him; hence, intricate; complicated; inextricable.,
G as in Gordian (a.) Pertaining to the Gordiacea.,
G as in Gordian (n.) One of the Gordiacea.,
G as in Gordius (n.) A genus of long, slender, nematoid worms, parasitic in insects until near maturity, when they leave the insect, and live in water, in which they deposit their eggs; -- called also hair eel, hairworm, and hair snake, from the absurd, but common and widely diffused, notion that they are metamorphosed horsehairs.,
G as in Gore (n.) Dirt; mud.,
G as in Gore (n.) Blood; especially, blood that after effusion has become thick or clotted.,
G as in Gore (v.) A wedgeshaped or triangular piece of cloth, canvas, etc., sewed into a garment, sail, etc., to give greater width at a particular part.,
G as in Gore (v.) A small traingular piece of land.,
G as in Gore (v.) One of the abatements. It is made of two curved lines, meeting in an acute angle in the fesse point.,
G as in Gored (imp. & p. p.) of Gore,
G as in Goring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gore,
G as in Gore (v. t.) To pierce or wound, as with a horn; to penetrate with a pointed instrument, as a spear; to stab.,
G as in Gore (v. t.) To cut in a traingular form; to piece with a gore; to provide with a gore; as, to gore an apron.,
G as in Gorebill (n.) The garfish.,
G as in Gorflies (pl. ) of Gorfly,
G as in Gorfly (n.) A dung fly.,
G as in Gorge (n.) The throat; the gullet; the canal by which food passes to the stomach.,
G as in Gorge (n.) A narrow passage or entrance,
G as in Gorge (n.) A defile between mountains.,
G as in Gorge (n.) The entrance into a bastion or other outwork of a fort; -- usually synonymous with rear. See Illust. of Bastion.,
G as in Gorge (n.) That which is gorged or swallowed, especially by a hawk or other fowl.,
G as in Gorge (n.) A filling or choking of a passage or channel by an obstruction; as, an ice gorge in a river.,
G as in Gorge (n.) A concave molding; a cavetto.,
G as in Gorge (n.) The groove of a pulley.,
G as in Gorged (imp. & p. p.) of Gorge,
G as in Gorging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gorge,
G as in Gorge (n.) To swallow; especially, to swallow with greediness, or in large mouthfuls or quantities.,
G as in Gorge (n.) To glut; to fill up to the throat; to satiate.,
G as in Gorge (v. i.) To eat greedily and to satiety.,
G as in Gorged (a.) Having a gorge or throat.,
G as in Gorged (a.) Bearing a coronet or ring about the neck.,
G as in Gorged (a.) Glutted; fed to the full.,
G as in Gorgelet (n.) A small gorget, as of a humming bird.,
G as in Gorgeous (n.) Imposing through splendid or various colors; showy; fine; magnificent.,
G as in Gorgerin (n.) In some columns, that part of the capital between the termination of the shaft and the annulet of the echinus, or the space between two neck moldings; -- called also neck of the capital, and hypotrachelium. See Illust. of Column.,
G as in Gorget (n.) A piece of armor, whether of chain mail or of plate, defending the throat and upper part of the breast, and forming a part of the double breastplate of the 14th century.,
G as in Gorget (n.) A piece of plate armor covering the same parts and worn over the buff coat in the 17th century, and without other steel armor.,
G as in Gorget (n.) A small ornamental plate, usually crescent-shaped, and of gilded copper, formerly hung around the neck of officers in full uniform in some modern armies.,
G as in Gorget (n.) A ruff worn by women.,
G as in Gorget (n.) A cutting instrument used in lithotomy.,
G as in Gorget (n.) A grooved instrunent used in performing various operations; -- called also blunt gorget.,
G as in Gorget (n.) A crescent-shaped, colored patch on the neck of a bird or mammal.,
G as in Gorgon (n.) One of three fabled sisters, Stheno, Euryale, and Medusa, with snaky hair and of terrific aspect, the sight of whom turned the beholder to stone. The name is particularly given to Medusa.,
G as in Gorgon (n.) Anything very ugly or horrid.,
G as in Gorgon (n.) The brindled gnu. See Gnu.,
G as in Gorgon (a.) Like a Gorgon; very ugly or terrific; as, a Gorgon face.,
G as in Gorgonacea (n. pl.) See Gorgoniacea.,
G as in Gorgonean (a.) See Gorgonian, 1.,
G as in Gorgoneia (pl. ) of Gorgoneion,
G as in Gorgoneion (n.) A mask carved in imitation of a Gorgon's head.,
G as in Gorgonia (n.) A genus of Gorgoniacea, formerly very extensive, but now restricted to such species as the West Indian sea fan (Gorgonia flabellum), sea plume (G. setosa), and other allied species having a flexible, horny axis.,
G as in Gorgonia (n.) Any slender branched gorgonian.,
G as in Gorgoniacea (n. pl.) One of the principal divisions of Alcyonaria, including those forms which have a firm and usually branched axis, covered with a porous crust, or c/nenchyma, in which the polyp cells are situated.,
G as in Gorgonian (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, a Gorgon; terrifying into stone; terrific.,
G as in Gorgonian (a.) Pertaining to the Gorgoniacea; as, gorgonian coral.,
G as in Gorgonian (n.) One of the Gorgoniacea.,
G as in Gorgonize (v. t.) To have the effect of a Gorgon upon; to turn into stone; to petrify.,
G as in Gorhen (n.) The female of the gorcock.,
G as in Gorilla (n.) A large, arboreal, anthropoid ape of West Africa. It is larger than a man, and is remarkable for its massive skeleton and powerful muscles, which give it enormous strength. In some respects its anatomy, more than that of any other ape, except the chimpanzee, resembles that of man.,
G as in Goring (n.) Alt. of Goring cloth,
G as in Goring cloth (n.) A piece of canvas cut obliquely to widen a sail at the foot.,
G as in Gorm (n.) Axle grease. See Gome.,
G as in Gorm (v. t.) To daub, as the hands or clothing, with gorm; to daub with anything sticky.,
G as in Gorma (n.) The European cormorant.,
G as in Gormand (n.) A greedy or ravenous eater; a luxurious feeder; a gourmand.,
G as in Gormand (a.) Gluttonous; voracious.,
G as in Gormander (n.) See Gormand, n.,
G as in Gormandism (n.) Gluttony.,
G as in Gormandized (imp. & p. p.) of Gormandize,
G as in Gormandizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gormandize,
G as in Gormandize (v. i. & t.) To eat greedily; to swallow voraciously; to feed ravenously or like a glutton.,
G as in Gormandizer (n.) A greedy, voracious eater; a gormand; a glutton.,
G as in Goroon shell () A large, handsome, marine, univalve shell (Triton femorale).,
G as in Gorse (n.) Furze. See Furze.,
G as in Gory (a.) Covered with gore or clotted blood.,
G as in Gory (a.) Bloody; murderous.,
G as in Goshawk (n.) Any large hawk of the genus Astur, of which many species and varieties are known. The European (Astur palumbarius) and the American (A. atricapillus) are the best known species. They are noted for their powerful flight, activity, and courage. The Australian goshawk (A. Novae-Hollandiae) is pure white.,
G as in Gosherd (n.) One who takes care of geese.,
G as in Goslet (n.) One of several species of pygmy geese, of the genus Nettepus. They are about the size of a teal, and inhabit Africa, India, and Australia.,
G as in Gosling (n.) A young or unfledged goose.,
G as in Gosling (n.) A catkin on nut trees and pines.,
G as in Gospel (v.) Glad tidings; especially, the good news concerning Christ, the Kingdom of God, and salvation.,
G as in Gospel (v.) One of the four narratives of the life and death of Jesus Christ, written by Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John.,
G as in Gospel (v.) A selection from one of the gospels, for use in a religious service; as, the gospel for the day.,
G as in Gospel (v.) Any system of religious doctrine; sometimes, any system of political doctrine or social philosophy; as, this political gospel.,
G as in Gospel (v.) Anything propounded or accepted as infallibly true; as, they took his words for gospel.,
G as in Gospel (a.) Accordant with, or relating to, the gospel; evangelical; as, gospel righteousness.,
G as in Gospel (v. t.) To instruct in the gospel.,
G as in Gospeler (n.) One of the four evangelists.,
G as in Gospeler (n.) A follower of Wyclif, the first English religious reformer; hence, a Puritan.,
G as in Gospeler (n.) A priest or deacon who reads the gospel at the altar during the communion service.,
G as in Gospelized (imp. & p. p.) of Gospelize,
G as in Gospelizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gospelize,
G as in Gospelize (v. t.) To form according to the gospel; as, a command gospelized to us.,
G as in Gospelize (v. t.) To instruct in the gospel; to evangelize; as, to gospelize the savages.,
G as in Goss (n.) Gorse.,
G as in Gossamer (n.) A fine, filmy substance, like cobwebs, floating in the air, in calm, clear weather, especially in autumn. It is seen in stubble fields and on furze or low bushes, and is formed by small spiders.,
G as in Gossamer (n.) Any very thin gauzelike fabric; also, a thin waterproof stuff.,
G as in Gossamer (n.) An outer garment, made of waterproof gossamer.,
G as in Gossamery (a.) Like gossamer; flimsy.,
G as in Gossan (n.) Decomposed rock, usually reddish or ferruginous (owing to oxidized pyrites), forming the upper part of a metallic vein.,
G as in Gossaniferous (a.) Containing or producing gossan.,
G as in Gossat (n.) A small British marine fish (Motella tricirrata); -- called also whistler and three-bearded rockling.,
G as in Gossib (n.) A gossip.,
G as in Gossip (n.) A sponsor; a godfather or a godmother.,
G as in Gossip (n.) A friend or comrade; a companion; a familiar and customary acquaintance.,
G as in Gossip (n.) One who runs house to house, tattling and telling news; an idle tattler.,
G as in Gossip (n.) The tattle of a gossip; groundless rumor.,
G as in Gossip (v. t.) To stand sponsor to.,
G as in Gossiped (imp. & p. p.) of Gossip,
G as in Gossiping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gossip,
G as in Gossip (v. i.) To make merry.,
G as in Gossip (v. i.) To prate; to chat; to talk much.,
G as in Gossip (v. i.) To run about and tattle; to tell idle tales.,
G as in Gossiper (n.) One given to gossip.,
G as in Gossiprede (n.) The relationship between a person and his sponsors.,
G as in Gossipry (n.) Spiritual relationship or affinity; gossiprede; special intimacy.,
G as in Gossipry (n.) Idle talk; gossip.,
G as in Gossipy (a.) Full of, or given to, gossip.,
G as in Gossoon (n.) A boy; a servant.,
G as in Gossypium (n.) A genus of plants which yield the cotton of the arts. The species are much confused. G. herbaceum is the name given to the common cotton plant, while the long-stapled sea-island cotton is produced by G. Barbadense, a shrubby variety. There are several other kinds besides these.,
G as in Got () imp. & p. p. of Get. See Get.,
G as in Gote (n.) A channel for water.,
G as in Goter (n.) a gutter.,
G as in Goth (n.) One of an ancient Teutonic race, who dwelt between the Elbe and the Vistula in the early part of the Christian era, and who overran and took an important part in subverting the Roman empire.,
G as in Goth (n.) One who is rude or uncivilized; a barbarian; a rude, ignorant person.,
G as in Gothamist (n.) A wiseacre; a person deficient in wisdom; -- so called from Gotham, in Nottinghamshire, England, noted for some pleasant blunders.,
G as in Gothamite (n.) A gothamist.,
G as in Gothamite (n.) An inhabitant of New York city.,
G as in Gothic (a.) Pertaining to the Goths; as, Gothic customs; also, rude; barbarous.,
G as in Gothic (a.) Of or pertaining to a style of architecture with pointed arches, steep roofs, windows large in proportion to the wall spaces, and, generally, great height in proportion to the other dimensions -- prevalent in Western Europe from about 1200 to 1475 a. d. See Illust. of Abacus, and Capital.,
G as in Gothic (n.) The language of the Goths; especially, the language of that part of the Visigoths who settled in Moesia in the 4th century. See Goth.,
G as in Gothic (n.) A kind of square-cut type, with no hair lines.,
G as in Gothic (n.) The style described in Gothic, a., 2.,
G as in Gothicism (n.) A Gothic idiom.,
G as in Gothicism (n.) Conformity to the Gothic style of architecture.,
G as in Gothicism (n.) Rudeness of manners; barbarousness.,
G as in Gothicized (imp. & p. p.) of Gothicize,
G as in Gothicizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gothicize,
G as in Gothicize (v. t.) To make Gothic; to bring back to barbarism.,
G as in Gothite (n.) Alt. of Goethite,
G as in Goethite (n.) A hydrous oxide of iron, occurring in prismatic crystals, also massive, with a fibrous, reniform, or stalactitic structure. The color varies from yellowish to blackish brown.,
G as in Gotten () p. p. of Get.,
G as in Gouache (n.) A method of painting with opaque colors, which have been ground in water and mingled with a preparation of gum; also, a picture thus painted.,
G as in Goud (n.) Woad.,
G as in Goudron (n.) a small fascine or fagot, steeped in wax, pitch, and glue, used in various ways, as for igniting buildings or works, or to light ditches and ramparts.,
G as in Gouge (n.) A chisel, with a hollow or semicylindrical blade, for scooping or cutting holes, channels, or grooves, in wood, stone, etc.; a similar instrument, with curved edge, for turning wood.,
G as in Gouge (n.) A bookbinder's tool for blind tooling or gilding, having a face which forms a curve.,
G as in Gouge (n.) An incising tool which cuts forms or blanks for gloves, envelopes, etc. from leather, paper, etc.,
G as in Gouge (n.) Soft material lying between the wall of a vein aud the solid vein.,
G as in Gouge (n.) The act of scooping out with a gouge, or as with a gouge; a groove or cavity scooped out, as with a gouge.,
G as in Gouge (n.) Imposition; cheat; fraud; also, an impostor; a cheat; a trickish person.,
G as in Gouged (imp. & p. p.) of Bouge,
G as in Gouging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bouge,
G as in Bouge (v. t.) To scoop out with a gouge.,
G as in Bouge (v. t.) To scoop out, as an eye, with the thumb nail; to force out the eye of (a person) with the thumb.,
G as in Bouge (v. t.) To cheat in a bargain; to chouse.,
G as in Gouger (n.) See Plum Gouger.,
G as in Gougeshell (n.) A sharp-edged, tubular, marine shell, of the genus Vermetus; also, the pinna. See Vermetus.,
G as in Goujere (n.) The venereal disease.,
G as in Gouland (n.) See Golding.,
G as in Goulards extract () An aqueous solution of the subacetate of lead, used as a lotion in cases of inflammation. Goulard's cerate is a cerate containing this extract.,
G as in Gour (n.) A fire worshiper; a Gheber or Gueber.,
G as in Gour (n.) See Koulan.,
G as in Goura (n.) One of several species of large, crested ground pigeons of the genus Goura, inhabiting New Guinea and adjacent islands. The Queen Victoria pigeon (Goura Victoria) and the crowned pigeon (G. coronata) are among the beat known species.,
G as in Gourami (n.) A very largo East Indian freshwater fish (Osphromenus gorami), extensively reared in artificial ponds in tropical countries, and highly valued as a food fish. Many unsuccessful efforts have been made to introduce it into Southern Europe.,
G as in Gourd (n.) A fleshy, three-celled, many-seeded fruit, as the melon, pumpkin, cucumber, etc., of the order Cucurbitaceae; and especially the bottle gourd (Lagenaria vulgaris) which occurs in a great variety of forms, and, when the interior part is removed, serves for bottles, dippers, cups, and other dishes.,
G as in Gourd (n.) A dipper or other vessel made from the shell of a gourd; hence, a drinking vessel; a bottle.,
G as in Gourd (n.) A false die. See Gord.,
G as in Gourd (n.) Alt. of Gourde,
G as in Gourde (n.) A silver dollar; -- so called in Cuba, Hayti, etc.,
G as in Gourdiness (n.) The state of being gourdy.,
G as in Gourd tree () A tree (the Crescentia Cujete, or calabash tree) of the West Indies and Central America.,
G as in Gourdworm (n.) The fluke of sheep. See Fluke.,
G as in Gourdy (a.) Swelled in the legs.,
G as in Gourmand (n.) A greedy or ravenous eater; a glutton. See Gormand.,
G as in Gourmet (n.) A connoisseur in eating and drinking; an epicure.,
G as in Gournet (n.) A fish. See Gurnet.,
G as in Gout (n.) A drop; a clot or coagulation.,
G as in Gout (n.) A constitutional disease, occurring by paroxysms. It consists in an inflammation of the fibrous and ligamentous parts of the joints, and almost always attacks first the great toe, next the smaller joints, after which it may attack the greater articulations. It is attended with various sympathetic phenomena, particularly in the digestive organs. It may also attack internal organs, as the stomach, the intestines, etc.,
G as in Gout (n.) A disease of cornstalks. See Corn fly, under Corn.,
G as in Gout (n.) Taste; relish.,
G as in Goutily (adv.) In a gouty manner.,
G as in Goutiness (n.) The state of being gouty; gout.,
G as in Goutweed (n.) Alt. of Goutwort,
G as in Goutwort (n.) A coarse umbelliferous plant of Europe (Aegopodium Podagraria); -- called also bishop's weed, ashweed, and herb gerard.,
G as in Gouty (a.) Diseased with, or subject to, the gout; as, a gouty person; a gouty joint.,
G as in Gouty (a.) Pertaining to the gout.,
G as in Gouty (a.) Swollen, as if from gout.,
G as in Gouty (a.) Boggy; as, gouty land.,
G as in Gove (n.) A mow; a rick for hay.,
G as in Governed (imp. & p. p.) of Govern,
G as in Governing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Govern,
G as in Govern (v. t.) To direct and control, as the actions or conduct of men, either by established laws or by arbitrary will; to regulate by authority.,
G as in Govern (v. t.) To regulate; to influence; to direct; to restrain; to manage; as, to govern the life; to govern a horse.,
G as in Govern (v. t.) To require to be in a particular case; as, a transitive verb governs a noun in the objective case; or to require (a particular case); as, a transitive verb governs the objective case.,
G as in Govern (v. i.) To exercise authority; to administer the laws; to have the control.,
G as in Governability (n.) Governableness.,
G as in Governable (a.) Capable of being governed, or subjected to authority; controllable; manageable; obedient.,
G as in Governableness (n.) The quality of being governable; manageableness.,
G as in Governal (n.) Alt. of Governail,
G as in Governail (n.) Management; mastery.,
G as in Governance (n.) Exercise of authority; control; government; arrangement.,
G as in Governante (n.) A governess.,
G as in Governess (n.) A female governor; a woman invested with authority to control and direct; especially, one intrusted with the care and instruction of children, -- usually in their homes.,
G as in Governing (a.) Holding the superiority; prevalent; controlling; as, a governing wind; a governing party in a state.,
G as in Governing (a.) Requiring a particular case.,
G as in Government (n.) The act of governing; the exercise of authority; the administration of laws; control; direction; regulation; as, civil, church, or family government.,
G as in Government (n.) The mode of governing; the system of polity in a state; the established form of law.,
G as in Government (n.) The right or power of governing; authority.,
G as in Government (n.) The person or persons authorized to administer the laws; the ruling power; the administration.,
G as in Government (n.) The body politic governed by one authority; a state; as, the governments of Europe.,
G as in Government (n.) Management of the limbs or body.,
G as in Government (n.) The influence of a word in regard to construction, requiring that another word should be in a particular case.,
G as in Governmental (a.) Pertaining to government; made by government; as, governmental duties.,
G as in Governor (n.) One who governs; especially, one who is invested with the supreme executive authority in a State; a chief ruler or magistrate; as, the governor of Pennsylvania.,
G as in Governor (n.) One who has the care or guardianship of a young man; a tutor; a guardian.,
G as in Governor (n.) A pilot; a steersman.,
G as in Governor (n.) A contrivance applied to steam engines, water wheels, and other machinery, to maintain nearly uniform speed when the resistances and motive force are variable.,
G as in Governor general () A governor who has lieutenant or deputy governors under him; as, the governor general of Canada, of India.,
G as in Governorship (n.) The office of a governor.,
G as in Gowan (n.) The daisy, or mountain daisy.,
G as in Gowan (n.) Decomposed granite.,
G as in Gowany (a.) Having, abounding in, or decked with, daisies.,
G as in Gowd (n.) Gold; wealth.,
G as in Gowden (a.) Golden.,
G as in Gowdie (n.) See Dragont.,
G as in Gowdnook (n.) The saury pike; -- called also gofnick.,
G as in Gowk (v. t.) To make a, booby of one); to stupefy.,
G as in Gowk (n.) The European cuckoo; -- called also gawky.,
G as in Gowk (n.) A simpleton; a gawk or gawky.,
G as in Gowl (v. i.) To howl.,
G as in Gown (n.) A loose, flowing upper garment,
G as in Gown (n.) The ordinary outer dress of a woman; as, a calico or silk gown.,
G as in Gown (n.) The official robe of certain professional men and scholars, as university students and officers, barristers, judges, etc.; hence, the dress of peace; the dress of civil officers, in distinction from military.,
G as in Gown (n.) A loose wrapper worn by gentlemen within doors; a dressing gown.,
G as in Gown (n.) Any sort of dress or garb.,
G as in Gowned (p. a.) Dressed in a gown; clad.,
G as in -men (pl. ) of Gownman,
G as in Gownsman (n.) Alt. of Gownman,
G as in Gownman (n.) One whose professional habit is a gown, as a divine or lawyer, and particularly a member of an English university; hence, a civilian, in distinction from a soldier.,
G as in Gozzard (n.) See Gosherd.,
G as in Graafian (a.) Pertaining to, or discovered by, Regnier de Graaf, a Dutch physician.,
G as in Graal (n.) See Grail., a dish.,
G as in Grab (n.) A vessel used on the Malabar coast, having two or three masts.,
G as in Grabbed (imp. & p. p.) of Grab,
G as in Grabbing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Grab,
G as in Grab (v. t. & i.) To gripe suddenly; to seize; to snatch; to clutch.,
G as in Grab (n.) A sudden grasp or seizure.,
G as in Grab (n.) An instrument for clutching objects for the purpose of raising them; -- specially applied to devices for withdrawing drills, etc., from artesian and other wells that are drilled, bored, or driven.,
G as in Grabber (n.) One who seizes or grabs.,
G as in Grabbled (imp. & p. p.) of Grabble,
G as in Grabbling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Grabble,
G as in Grabble (v. i.) To grope; to feel with the hands.,
G as in Grabble (v. i.) To lie prostrate on the belly; to sprawl on the ground; to grovel.,
G as in Grace (n.) The exercise of love, kindness, mercy, favor; disposition to benefit or serve another; favor bestowed or privilege conferred.,
G as in Grace (n.) The divine favor toward man; the mercy of God, as distinguished from His justice; also, any benefits His mercy imparts; divine love or pardon; a state of acceptance with God; enjoyment of the divine favor.,
G as in Grace (n.) The prerogative of mercy execised by the executive, as pardon.,
G as in Grace (n.) The same prerogative when exercised in the form of equitable relief through chancery.,
G as in Grace (n.) Fortune; luck; -- used commonly with hard or sorry when it means misfortune.,
G as in Grace (n.) Inherent excellence; any endowment or characteristic fitted to win favor or confer pleasure or benefit.,
G as in Grace (n.) Beauty, physical, intellectual, or moral; loveliness; commonly, easy elegance of manners; perfection of form.,
G as in Grace (n.) Graceful and beautiful females, sister goddesses, represented by ancient writers as the attendants sometimes of Apollo but oftener of Venus. They were commonly mentioned as three in number; namely, Aglaia, Euphrosyne, and Thalia, and were regarded as the inspirers of the qualities which give attractiveness to wisdom, love, and social intercourse.,
G as in Grace (n.) The title of a duke, a duchess, or an archbishop, and formerly of the king of England.,
G as in Grace (n.) Thanks.,
G as in Grace (n.) A petition for grace; a blessing asked, or thanks rendered, before or after a meal.,
G as in Grace (n.) Ornamental notes or short passages, either introduced by the performer, or indicated by the composer, in which case the notation signs are called grace notes, appeggiaturas, turns, etc.,
G as in Grace (n.) An act, vote, or decree of the government of the institution; a degree or privilege conferred by such vote or decree.,
G as in Grace (n.) A play designed to promote or display grace of motion. It consists in throwing a small hoop from one player to another, by means of two sticks in the hands of each. Called also grace hoop or hoops.,
G as in Graced (imp. & p. p.) of Grace,
G as in Gracing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Grace,
G as in Grace (v. t.) To adorn; to decorate; to embellish and dignify.,
G as in Grace (v. t.) To dignify or raise by an act of favor; to honor.,
G as in Grace (v. t.) To supply with heavenly grace.,
G as in Grace (v. t.) To add grace notes, cadenzas, etc., to.,
G as in Graced (a.) Endowed with grace; beautiful; full of graces; honorable.,
G as in Graceful (a.) Displaying grace or beauty in form or action; elegant; easy; agreeable in appearance; as, a graceful walk, deportment, speaker, air, act, speech.,
G as in Graceless (a.) Wanting in grace or excellence; departed from, or deprived of, divine grace; hence, depraved; corrupt.,
G as in Graceless (a.) Unfortunate. Cf. Grace, n., 4.,
G as in Gracile (a.) Alt. of Gracillent,
G as in Gracillent (a.) Slender; thin.,
G as in Gracility (n.) State of being gracilent; slenderness.,
G as in Gracious (a.) Abounding in grace or mercy; manifesting love,. or bestowing mercy; characterized by grace; beneficent; merciful; disposed to show kindness or favor; condescending; as, his most gracious majesty.,
G as in Gracious (a.) Abounding in beauty, loveliness, or amiability; graceful; excellent.,
G as in Gracious (a.) Produced by divine grace; influenced or controlled by the divine influence; as, gracious affections.,
G as in Graciously (adv.) In a gracious manner; courteously; benignantly.,
G as in Graciously (adv.) Fortunately; luckily.,
G as in Graciousness (n.) Quality of being gracious.,
G as in Grackle (n.) One of several American blackbirds, of the family Icteridae; as, the rusty grackle (Scolecophagus Carolinus); the boat-tailed grackle (see Boat-tail); the purple grackle (Quiscalus quiscula, or Q. versicolor). See Crow blackbird, under Crow.,
G as in Grackle (n.) An Asiatic bird of the genus Gracula. See Myna.,
G as in Gradate (v. t.) To grade or arrange (parts in a whole, colors in painting, etc.), so that they shall harmonize.,
G as in Gradate (v. t.) To bring to a certain strength or grade of concentration; as, to gradate a saline solution.,
G as in Gradation (n.) The act of progressing by regular steps or orderly arrangement; the state of being graded or arranged in ranks; as, the gradation of castes.,
G as in Gradation (n.) The act or process of bringing to a certain grade.,
G as in Gradation (n.) Any degree or relative position in an order or series.,
G as in Gradation (n.) A gradual passing from one tint to another or from a darker to a lighter shade, as in painting or drawing.,
G as in Gradation (n.) A diatonic ascending or descending succession of chords.,
G as in Gradation (v. t.) To form with gradations.,
G as in Gradational (a.) By regular steps or gradations; of or pertaining to gradation.,
G as in Gradatory (a.) Proceeding step by step, or by gradations; gradual.,
G as in Gradatory (a.) Suitable for walking; -- said of the limbs of an animal when adapted for walking on land.,
G as in Gradatory (n.) A series of steps from a cloister into a church.,
G as in Grade (n.) A step or degree in any series, rank, quality, order; relative position or standing; as, grades of military rank; crimes of every grade; grades of flour.,
G as in Grade (n.) The rate of ascent or descent; gradient; deviation from a level surface to an inclined plane; -- usually stated as so many feet per mile, or as one foot rise or fall in so many of horizontal distance; as, a heavy grade; a grade of twenty feet per mile, or of 1 in 264.,
G as in Grade (n.) A graded ascending, descending, or level portion of a road; a gradient.,
G as in Grade (n.) The result of crossing a native stock with some better breed. If the crossbreed have more than three fourths of the better blood, it is called high grade.,
G as in Graded (imp. & p. p.) of Grade,
G as in Grading (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Grade,
G as in Grade (v. t.) To arrange in order, steps, or degrees, according to size, quality, rank, etc.,
G as in Grade (v. t.) To reduce to a level, or to an evenly progressive ascent, as the line of a canal or road.,
G as in Grade (v. t.) To cross with some better breed; to improve the blood of.,
G as in Gradely (a.) Decent; orderly.,
G as in Gradely (adv.) Decently; in order.,
G as in Grader (n.) One who grades, or that by means of which grading is done or facilitated.,
G as in Gradient (a.) Moving by steps; walking; as, gradient automata.,
G as in Gradient (a.) Rising or descending by regular degrees of inclination; as, the gradient line of a railroad.,
G as in Gradient (a.) Adapted for walking, as the feet of certain birds.,
G as in Gradient (n.) The rate of regular or graded ascent or descent in a road; grade.,
G as in Gradient (n.) A part of a road which slopes upward or downward; a portion of a way not level; a grade.,
G as in Gradient (n.) The rate of increase or decrease of a variable magnitude, or the curve which represents it; as, a thermometric gradient.,
G as in Gradin (n.) Alt. of Gradine,
G as in Gradine (n.) Any member like a step, as the raised back of an altar or the like; a set raised over another.,
G as in Gradine (n.) A toothed chised by sculptors.,
G as in Grading (n.) The act or method of arranging in or by grade, or of bringing, as the surface of land or a road, to the desired level or grade.,
G as in Gradinos (pl. ) of Gradino,
G as in Gradino (n.) A step or raised shelf, as above a sideboard or altar. Cf. Superaltar, and Gradin.,
G as in Gradual (n.) Proceeding by steps or degrees; advancing, step by step, as in ascent or descent or from one state to another; regularly progressive; slow; as, a gradual increase of knowledge; a gradual decline.,
G as in Gradual (n.) An antiphon or responsory after the epistle, in the Mass, which was sung on the steps, or while the deacon ascended the steps.,
G as in Gradual (n.) A service book containing the musical portions of the Mass.,
G as in Gradual (n.) A series of steps.,
G as in Graduality (n.) The state of being gradual; gradualness.,
G as in Gradually (adv.) In a gradual manner.,
G as in Gradually (adv.) In degree.,
G as in Gradualness (n.) The quality or state of being gradual; regular progression or gradation; slowness.,
G as in Graduated (imp. & p. p.) of Graduate,
G as in Graduating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Graduate,
G as in Graduate (n.) To mark with degrees; to divide into regular steps, grades, or intervals, as the scale of a thermometer, a scheme of punishment or rewards, etc.,
G as in Graduate (n.) To admit or elevate to a certain grade or degree; esp., in a college or university, to admit, at the close of the course, to an honorable standing defined by a diploma; as, he was graduated at Yale College.,
G as in Graduate (n.) To prepare gradually; to arrange, temper, or modify by degrees or to a certain degree; to determine the degrees of; as, to graduate the heat of an oven.,
G as in Graduate (n.) To bring to a certain degree of consistency, by evaporation, as a fluid.,
G as in Graduate (v. i.) To pass by degrees; to change gradually; to shade off; as, sandstone which graduates into gneiss; carnelian sometimes graduates into quartz.,
G as in Graduate (v. i.) To taper, as the tail of certain birds.,
G as in Graduate (v. i.) To take a degree in a college or university; to become a graduate; to receive a diploma.,
G as in Graduate (n.) One who has received an academical or professional degree; one who has completed the prescribed course of study in any school or institution of learning.,
G as in Graduate (n.) A graduated cup, tube, or flask; a measuring glass used by apothecaries and chemists. See under Graduated.,
G as in Graduate (n. & v.) Arranged by successive steps or degrees; graduated.,
G as in Graduated (a.) Marked with, or divided into, degrees; divided into grades.,
G as in Graduated (a.) Tapered; -- said of a bird's tail when the outer feathers are shortest, and the others successively longer.,
G as in Graduateship (n.) State of being a graduate.,
G as in Graduation (n.) The act of graduating, or the state of being graduated; as, graduation of a scale; graduation at a college; graduation in color; graduation by evaporation; the graduation of a bird's tail, etc.,
G as in Graduation (n.) The marks on an instrument or vessel to indicate degrees or quantity; a scale.,
G as in Graduation (n.) The exposure of a liquid in large surfaces to the air, so as to hasten its evaporation.,
G as in Graduator (n.) One who determines or indicates graduation; as, a graduator of instruments.,
G as in Graduator (n.) An instrument for dividing any line, right or curve, into small, regular intervals.,
G as in Graduator (n.) An apparatus for diffusing a solution, as brine or vinegar, over a large surface, for exposure to the air.,
G as in Gradus (n.) A dictionary of prosody, designed as an aid in writing Greek or Latin poetry.,
G as in Graf (n.) A German title of nobility, equivalent to earl in English, or count in French. See Earl.,
G as in Graff (n.) A steward; an overseer.,
G as in Graff (n. & v.) See Graft.,
G as in Graffage (n.) The scarp of a ditch or moat.,
G as in Graffer (n.) a notary or scrivener.,
G as in Graffiti (n. pl.) Inscriptions, figure drawings, etc., found on the walls of ancient sepulchers or ruins, as in the Catacombs, or at Pompeii.,
G as in Graft (n.) A small shoot or scion of a tree inserted in another tree, the stock of which is to support and nourish it. The two unite and become one tree, but the graft determines the kind of fruit.,
G as in Graft (n.) A branch or portion of a tree growing from such a shoot.,
G as in Graft (n.) A portion of living tissue used in the operation of autoplasty.,
G as in Grafted (imp. & p. p.) of Graft,
G as in Grafting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Graft,
G as in Graft (n.) To insert (a graft) in a branch or stem of another tree; to propagate by insertion in another stock; also, to insert a graft upon.,
G as in Graft (n.) To implant a portion of (living flesh or akin) in a lesion so as to form an organic union.,
G as in Graft (n.) To join (one thing) to another as if by grafting, so as to bring about a close union.,
G as in Graft (n.) To cover, as a ring bolt, block strap, splicing, etc., with a weaving of small cord or rope-yarns.,
G as in Graft (v. i.) To insert scions from one tree, or kind of tree, etc., into another; to practice grafting.,
G as in Grafter (n.) One who inserts scions on other stocks, or propagates fruit by ingrafting.,
G as in Grafter (n.) An instrument by which grafting is facilitated.,
G as in Grafter (n.) The original tree from which a scion has been taken for grafting upon another tree.,
G as in Grafting (n.) The act or method of weaving a cover for a ring, rope end, etc.,
G as in Grafting (n.) The transplanting of a portion of flesh or skin to a denuded surface; autoplasty.,
G as in Grafting (n.) A scarfing or endwise attachment of one timber to another.,
G as in Graham bread () Bread made of unbolted wheat flour.,
G as in Grahamite (n.) One who follows the dietetic system of Graham.,
G as in Grail (n.) A book of offices in the Roman Catholic Church; a gradual.,
G as in Grail (n.) A broad, open dish; a chalice; -- only used of the Holy Grail.,
G as in Grail (n.) Small particles of earth; gravel.,
G as in Grail (n.) One of the small feathers of a hawk.,
G as in Graille (n.) A halfround single-cut file or fioat, having one curved face and one straight face, -- used by comb makers.,
G as in Grain (v. & n.) See Groan.,
G as in Grain (n.) A single small hard seed; a kernel, especially of those plants, like wheat, whose seeds are used for food.,
G as in Grain (n.) The fruit of certain grasses which furnish the chief food of man, as corn, wheat, rye, oats, etc., or the plants themselves; -- used collectively.,
G as in Grain (n.) Any small, hard particle, as of sand, sugar, salt, etc.; hence, any minute portion or particle; as, a grain of gunpowder, of pollen, of starch, of sense, of wit, etc.,
G as in Grain (n.) The unit of the English system of weights; -- so called because considered equal to the average of grains taken from the middle of the ears of wheat. 7,000 grains constitute the pound avoirdupois, and 5,760 grains the pound troy. A grain is equal to .0648 gram. See Gram.,
G as in Grain (n.) A reddish dye made from the coccus insect, or kermes; hence, a red color of any tint or hue, as crimson, scarlet, etc.; sometimes used by the poets as equivalent to Tyrian purple.,
G as in Grain (n.) The composite particles of any substance; that arrangement of the particles of any body which determines its comparative roughness or hardness; texture; as, marble, sugar, sandstone, etc., of fine grain.,
G as in Grain (n.) The direction, arrangement, or appearance of the fibers in wood, or of the strata in stone, slate, etc.,
G as in Grain (n.) The fiber which forms the substance of wood or of any fibrous material.,
G as in Grain (n.) The hair side of a piece of leather, or the marking on that side.,
G as in Grain (n.) The remains of grain, etc., after brewing or distillation; hence, any residuum. Also called draff.,
G as in Grain (n.) A rounded prominence on the back of a sepal, as in the common dock. See Grained, a., 4.,
G as in Grain (a.) Temper; natural disposition; inclination.,
G as in Grain (a.) A sort of spice, the grain of paradise.,
G as in Grained (imp. & p. p.) of Grain,
G as in Graining. (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Grain,
G as in Grain (v. t.) To paint in imitation of the grain of wood, marble, etc.,
G as in Grain (v. t.) To form (powder, sugar, etc.) into grains.,
G as in Grain (v. t.) To take the hair off (skins); to soften and raise the grain of (leather, etc.).,
G as in Grain (n.) To yield fruit.,
G as in Grain (n.) To form grains, or to assume a granular ferm, as the result of crystallization; to granulate.,
G as in Grain (n.) A branch of a tree; a stalk or stem of a plant.,
G as in Grain (n.) A tine, prong, or fork.,
G as in Grain (n.) One the branches of a valley or of a river.,
G as in Grain (n.) An iron first speak or harpoon, having four or more barbed points.,
G as in Grain (n.) A blade of a sword, knife, etc.,
G as in Grain (n.) A thin piece of metal, used in a mold to steady a core.,
G as in Grained (a.) Having a grain; divided into small particles or grains; showing the grain; hence, rough.,
G as in Grained (a.) Dyed in grain; ingrained.,
G as in Grained (a.) Painted or stained in imitation of the grain of wood, marble, etc.,
G as in Grained (a.) Having tubercles or grainlike processes, as the petals or sepals of some flowers.,
G as in Grainer (n.) An infusion of pigeon's dung used by tanners to neutralize the effects of lime and give flexibility to skins; -- called also grains and bate.,
G as in Grainer (n.) A knife for taking the hair off skins.,
G as in Grainer (n.) One who paints in imitation of the grain of wood, marble, etc.; also, the brush or tool used in graining.,
G as in Grainfield (n.) A field where grain is grown.,
G as in Graining (n.) Indentation; roughening; milling, as on edges of coins.,
G as in Graining (n.) A process in dressing leather, by which the skin is softened and the grain raised.,
G as in Graining (n.) Painting or staining, in imitation of the grain of wood, atone, etc.,
G as in Graining (n.) The process of separating soap from spent lye, as with salt.,
G as in Graining (n.) A small European fresh-water fish (Leuciscus vulgaris); - called also dobule, and dace.,
G as in Grains (n. pl.) See 5th Grain, n., 2 (b).,
G as in Grains (n.) Pigeon's dung used in tanning. See Grainer. n., 1.,
G as in Grainy (a.) Resembling grains; granular.,
G as in Graip (n.) A dungfork.,
G as in Graith (v. t.) See Greith.,
G as in Graith (n.) Furniture; apparatus or accouterments for work, traveling, war, etc.,
G as in Grakle (n.) See Grackle.,
G as in Grallae (n. pl.) An order of birds which formerly included all the waders. By later writers it is usually restricted to the sandpipers, plovers, and allied forms; -- called also Grallatores.,
G as in Grallatores (n. pl.) See Grallae.,
G as in Grallatorial (a.) Alt. of Grallatory,
G as in Grallatory (a.) Of or pertaining to the Grallatores, or waders.,
G as in Grallic (a.) Pertaining to the Grallae.,
G as in Gralline (a.) Of or pertaining to the Grallae.,
G as in Gralloch (n.) Offal of a deer.,
G as in Gralloch (v. t.) To remove the offal from (a deer).,
G as in -gram () A suffix indicating something drawn or written, a drawing, writing; -- as, monogram, telegram, chronogram.,
G as in Gram (a.) Angry.,
G as in Gram (n.) The East Indian name of the chick-pea (Cicer arietinum) and its seeds; also, other similar seeds there used for food.,
G as in Gram (n.) Alt. of Gramme,
G as in Gramme (n.) The unit of weight in the metric system. It was intended to be exactly, and is very nearly, equivalent to the weight in a vacuum of one cubic centimeter of pure water at its maximum density. It is equal to 15.432 grains. See Grain, n., 4.,
G as in Grama grass () The name of several kinds of pasture grasses found in the Western United States, esp. the Bouteloua oligostachya.,
G as in Gramarye (n.) Necromancy; magic.,
G as in Gramashes (n. pl.) Gaiters reaching to the knee; leggings.,
G as in Grame (a.) Anger; wrath; scorn.,
G as in Grame (a.) Sorrow; grief; misery.,
G as in Gramercy (interj.) A word formerly used to express thankfulness, with surprise; many thanks.,
G as in Graminaceous (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, the grasses; gramineous; as, graminaceous plants.,
G as in Gramineal (a.) Gramineous.,
G as in Gramineous (a.) Like, Or pertaining to, grass. See Grass, n., 2.,
G as in Graminifolious (a.) Bearing leaves resembling those of grass.,
G as in Graminivorous (a.) Feeding or subsisting on grass, and the like food; -- said of horses, cattle, and other animals.,
G as in Grammalogue (n.) Literally, a letter word; a word represented by a logogram; as, it, represented by |, that is, t. pitman.,
G as in Grammar (n.) The science which treats of the principles of language; the study of forms of speech, and their relations to one another; the art concerned with the right use aud application of the rules of a language, in speaking or writing.,
G as in Grammar (n.) The art of speaking or writing with correctness or according to established usage; speech considered with regard to the rules of a grammar.,
G as in Grammar (n.) A treatise on the principles of language; a book containing the principles and rules for correctness in speaking or writing.,
G as in Grammar (n.) treatise on the elements or principles of any science; as, a grammar of geography.,
G as in Grammar (v. i.) To discourse according to the rules of grammar; to use grammar.,
G as in Grammarian (n.) One versed in grammar, or the construction of languages; a philologist.,
G as in Grammarian (n.) One who writes on, or teaches, grammar.,
G as in Grammarianism (n.) The principles, practices, or peculiarities of grammarians.,
G as in Grammarless (a.) Without grammar.,
G as in Grammates (n. pl.) Rudiments; first principles, as of grammar.,
G as in Grammatic (a.) Grammatical.,
G as in Grammatical (a.) Of or pertaining to grammar; of the nature of grammar; as, a grammatical rule.,
G as in Grammatical (a.) According to the rules of grammar; grammatically correct; as, the sentence is not grammatical; the construction is not grammatical.,
G as in Grammaticaster (n.) A petty grammarian; a grammatical pedant or pretender.,
G as in Grammatication (n.) A principle of grammar; a grammatical rule.,
G as in Grammaticism (n.) A point or principle of grammar.,
G as in Grammaticized (imp. & p. p.) of Grammaticize,
G as in Grammaticizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Grammaticize,
G as in Grammaticize (v. t.) To render grammatical.,
G as in Grammatist (n.) A petty grammarian.,
G as in Gramme (n.) Same as Gram the weight.,
G as in Gramme machine () A kind of dynamo-electric machine; -- so named from its French inventor, M. Gramme.,
G as in Grampuses (pl. ) of Grampus,
G as in Grampus (n.) A toothed delphinoid cetacean, of the genus Grampus, esp. G. griseus of Europe and America, which is valued for its oil. It grows to be fifteen to twenty feet long; its color is gray with white streaks. Called also cowfish. The California grampus is G. Stearnsii.,
G as in Grampus (n.) A kind of tongs used in a bloomery.,
G as in Granade (n.) Alt. of Granado,
G as in Granado (n.) See Grenade.,
G as in Granadilla (n.) The fruit of certain species of passion flower (esp. Passiflora quadrangularis) found in Brazil and the West Indies. It is as large as a child's head, and is a good dessert fruit. The fruit of Passiflora edulis is used for flavoring ices.,
G as in Granaries (pl. ) of Granary,
G as in Granary (n.) A storehouse or repository for grain, esp. after it is thrashed or husked; a cornbouse; also (Fig.), a region fertile in grain.,
G as in Granate (n.) See Garnet.,
G as in Granatin (n.) Mannite; -- so called because found in the pomegranate.,
G as in Granatite (n.) See Staurolite.,
G as in Grand (superl.) Of large size or extent; great; extensive; hence, relatively great; greatest; chief; principal; as, a grand mountain; a grand army; a grand mistake.,
G as in Grand (superl.) Great in size, and fine or imposing in appearance or impression; illustrious, dignifled, or noble (said of persons); majestic, splendid, magnificent, or sublime (said of things); as, a grand monarch; a grand lord; a grand general; a grand view; a grand conception.,
G as in Grand (superl.) Having higher rank or more dignity, size, or importance than other persons or things of the same name; as, a grand lodge; a grand vizier; a grand piano, etc.,
G as in Grand (superl.) Standing in the second or some more remote degree of parentage or descent; -- generalIy used in composition; as, grandfather, grandson, grandchild, etc.,
G as in Grandam (n.) An old woman; specifically, a grandmother.,
G as in Grandaunt (n.) The aunt of one's father or mother.,
G as in Grandchild (n.) A son's or daughter's child; a child in the second degree of descent.,
G as in Granddaughter (n.) The daughter of one's son or daughter.,
G as in Grandee (n.) A man of elevated rank or station; a nobleman. In Spain, a nobleman of the first rank, who may be covered in the king's presence.,
G as in Grandeeship (n.) The rank or estate of a grandee; lordship.,
G as in Grandeur (n.) The state or quality of being grand; vastness; greatness; splendor; magnificence; stateliness; sublimity; dignity; elevation of thought or expression; nobility of action.,
G as in Grandevity (n.) Great age; long life.,
G as in Grandevous (a.) Of great age; aged; longlived.,
G as in Grand-ducal (a.) Of or pertaining to a grand duke.,
G as in Grandfather (n.) A father's or mother's father; an ancestor in the next degree above the father or mother in lineal ascent.,
G as in Grandfatherly (a.) Like a grandfather in age or manner; kind; benignant; indulgent.,
G as in Grandific (a.) Making great.,
G as in Grandiloquence (n.) The use of lofty words or phrases; bombast; -- usually in a bad sense.,
G as in Grandiloquent (a.) Speaking in a lofty style; pompous; bombastic.,
G as in Grandiloquous (a.) Grandiloquent.,
G as in Grandinous (a.) Consisting of hail; abounding in hail.,
G as in Grandiose (a.) Impressive or elevating in effect; imposing; splendid; striking; -- in a good sense.,
G as in Grandiose (a.) Characterized by affectation of grandeur or splendor; flaunting; turgid; bombastic; -- in a bad sense; as, a grandiose style.,
G as in Grandiosity (n.) The state or quality of being grandiose,,
G as in Grandity (n.) Grandness.,
G as in Grandly (adv.) In a grand manner.,
G as in Grandma (n.) Alt. of Grandmamma,
G as in Grandmamma (n.) A grandmother.,
G as in Grand mercy () See Gramercy.,
G as in Grandmother (n.) The mother of one's father or mother.,
G as in Grandmotherly (a.) Like a grandmother in age or manner; kind; indulgent.,
G as in Grandnephew (n.) The grandson of one's brother or sister.,
G as in Grandness (n.) Grandeur.,
G as in Grandniece (n.) The granddaughter of one's brother or sister.,
G as in Grandpa (n.) Alt. of Grandpapa,
G as in Grandpapa (n.) A grandfather.,
G as in Grandsire (n.) Specifically, a grandfather; more generally, any ancestor.,
G as in Grandson (n.) A son's or daughter's son.,
G as in Granduncle (n.) A father's or mother's uncle.,
G as in Grane (v. & n.) See Groan.,
G as in Grange (n.) A building for storing grain; a granary.,
G as in Grange (n.) A farmhouse, with the barns and other buildings for farming purposes.,
G as in Grange (n.) A farmhouse of a monastery, where the rents and tithes, paid in grain, were deposited.,
G as in Grange (n.) A farm; generally, a farm with a house at a distance from neighbors.,
G as in Grange (n.) An association of farmers, designed to further their interests, aud particularly to bring producers and consumers, farmers and manufacturers, into direct commercial relations, without intervention of middlemen or traders. The first grange was organized in 1867.,
G as in Granger (n.) A farm steward.,
G as in Granger (n.) A member of a grange.,
G as in Grangerism (n.) The practice of illustrating a particular book by engravings collected from other books.,
G as in Grangerite (n.) One who collects illustrations from various books for the decoration of one book.,
G as in Grangerize (v. t. & i.) To collect (illustrations from books) for decoration of other books.,
G as in Graniferous (a.) Bearing grain, or seeds like grain.,
G as in Graniform (a.) Formed like of corn.,
G as in Granilla (n.) Small grains or dust of cochineal or the coccus insect.,
G as in Granite (n.) A crystalline, granular rock, consisting of quartz, feldspar, and mica, and usually of a whitish, grayish, or flesh-red color. It differs from gneiss in not having the mica in planes, and therefore in being destitute of a schistose structure.,
G as in Granite State () New Hampshire; -- a nickname alluding to its mountains, which are chiefly of granite.,
G as in Granitic (a.) Like granite in composition, color, etc.; having the nature of granite; as, granitic texture.,
G as in Granitic (a.) Consisting of granite; as, granitic mountains.,
G as in Granitical (a.) Granitic.,
G as in Granitification (n.) The act or the process of forming into granite.,
G as in Granitiform (a.) Resembling granite in structure or shape.,
G as in Granitoid (a.) Resembling granite in granular appearance; as, granitoid gneiss; a granitoid pavement.,
G as in Granivorous (a.) Eating grain; feeding or subsisting on seeds; as, granivorous birds.,
G as in Grannam (n.) A grandam.,
G as in Granny (n.) A grandmother; a grandam; familiarly, an old woman.,
G as in Granolithic (n.) A kind of hard artificial stone, used for pavements.,
G as in Granted (imp. & p. p.) of Grant,
G as in Granting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Grant,
G as in Grant (v. t.) To give over; to make conveyance of; to give the possession or title of; to convey; -- usually in answer to petition.,
G as in Grant (v. t.) To bestow or confer, with or without compensation, particularly in answer to prayer or request; to give.,
G as in Grant (v. t.) To admit as true what is not yet satisfactorily proved; to yield belief to; to allow; to yield; to concede.,
G as in Grant (v. i.) To assent; to consent.,
G as in Grant (v. t.) The act of granting; a bestowing or conferring; concession; allowance; permission.,
G as in Grant (v. t.) The yielding or admission of something in dispute.,
G as in Grant (v. t.) The thing or property granted; a gift; a boon.,
G as in Grant (v. t.) A transfer of property by deed or writing; especially, au appropriation or conveyance made by the government; as, a grant of land or of money; also, the deed or writing by which the transfer is made.,
G as in Grantable (a.) Capable of being granted.,
G as in Grantee (n.) The person to whom a grant or conveyance is made.,
G as in Granter (n.) One who grants.,
G as in Grantor (n.) The person by whom a grant or conveyance is made.,
G as in Granular (a.) Consisting of, or resembling, grains; as, a granular substance.,
G as in Granularly (adv.) In a granular form.,
G as in Granulary (a.) Granular.,
G as in Granulated (imp. & p. p.) of Granulate,
G as in Granulating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Granulate,
G as in Granulate (v. t.) To form into grains or small masses; as, to granulate powder, sugar, or metal.,
G as in Granulate (v. t.) To raise in granules or small asperities; to make rough on the surface.,
G as in Granulate (v. i.) To collect or be formed into grains; as, cane juice granulates into sugar.,
G as in Granulate (a.) Alt. of Granulated,
G as in Granulated (a.) Consisting of, or resembling, grains; crystallized in grains; granular; as, granulated sugar.,
G as in Granulated (a.) Having numerous small elevations, as shagreen.,
G as in Granulation (n.) The act or process of forming or crystallizing into grains; as, the granulation of powder and sugar.,
G as in Granulation (n.) The state of being granulated.,
G as in Granulation (n.) One of the small, red, grainlike prominences which form on a raw surface (that of wounds or ulcers), and are the efficient agents in the process of healing.,
G as in Granulation (n.) The act or process of the formation of such prominences.,
G as in Granule (n.) A little grain a small particle; a pellet.,
G as in Granuliferous (a.) Full of granulations.,
G as in Granuliform (a.) Having a granular structure; granular; as, granuliform limestone.,
G as in Granulite (n.) A whitish, granular rock, consisting of feldspar and quartz intimately mixed; -- sometimes called whitestone, and leptynite.,
G as in Granulose (n.) The main constituent of the starch grain or granule, in distinction from the framework of cellulose. Unlike cellulose, it is colored blue by iodine, and is converted into dextrin and sugar by boiling acids and amylolytic ferments.,
G as in Granulous (a.) Full of grains; abounding with granular substances; granular.,
G as in Grape (n.) A well-known edible berry growing in pendent clusters or bunches on the grapevine. The berries are smooth-skinned, have a juicy pulp, and are cultivated in great quantities for table use and for making wine and raisins.,
G as in Grape (n.) The plant which bears this fruit; the grapevine.,
G as in Grape (n.) A mangy tumor on the leg of a horse.,
G as in Grape (n.) Grapeshot.,
G as in Grape fruit () The shaddock.,
G as in Grapeless (a.) Wanting grapes or the flavor of grapes.,
G as in Grapery (n.) A building or inclosure used for the cultivation of grapes.,
G as in Grapeshot (n.) A cluster, usually nine in number, of small iron balls, put together by means of cast-iron circular plates at top and bottom, with two rings, and a central connecting rod, in order to be used as a charge for a cannon. Formerly grapeshot were inclosed in canvas bags.,
G as in Grapestone (n.) A seed of the grape.,
G as in Grapevine (n.) A vine or climbing shrub, of the genus Vitis, having small green flowers and lobed leaves, and bearing the fruit called grapes.,
G as in Graphic (a.) Alt. of Graphical,
G as in Graphical (a.) Of or pertaining to the arts of painting and drawing.,
G as in Graphical (a.) Of or pertaining to the art of writing.,
G as in Graphical (a.) Written or engraved; formed of letters or lines.,
G as in Graphical (a.) Well delineated; clearly and vividly described.,
G as in Graphical (a.) Having the faculty of, or characterized by, clear and impressive description; vivid; as, a graphic writer.,
G as in Graphically (adv.) In a graphic manner; vividly.,
G as in Graphicness (n.) Alt. of Graphicalness,
G as in Graphicalness (n.) The quality or state of being graphic.,
G as in Graphics (n.) The art or the science of drawing; esp. of drawing according to mathematical rules, as in perspective, projection, and the like.,
G as in Graphiscope (n.) See Graphoscope.,
G as in Graphite (n.) Native carbon in hexagonal crystals, also foliated or granular massive, of black color and metallic luster, and so soft as to leave a trace on paper. It is used for pencils (improperly called lead pencils), for crucibles, and as a lubricator, etc. Often called plumbago or black lead.,
G as in Graphitic (a.) Pertaining to, containing, derived from, or resembling, graphite.,
G as in Graphitoid (a.) Alt. of Graphitoidal,
G as in Graphitoidal (a.) Resembling graphite or plumbago.,
G as in Grapholite (n.) Any species of slate suitable to be written on.,
G as in Graphology (n.) The art of judging of a person's character, disposition, and aptitude from his handwriting.,
G as in Graphoscope (n.) An optical instrument for magnifying engravings, photographs, etc., usually having one large lens and two smaller ones.,
G as in Graphotype (n.) A process for producing a design upon a surface in relief so that it can be printed from. Prepared chalk or oxide of zinc is pressed upon a smooth plate by a hydraulic press, and the design is drawn upon this in a peculiar ink which hardens the surface wherever it is applied. The surface is then carefully rubbed or brushed, leaving the lines in relief.,
G as in -graphy () A suffix denoting the art of writing or describing; also, the writing or description itself; a treatise; as, calligraphy, biography, geography.,
G as in Grapnel (n.) A small anchor, with four or five flukes or claws, used to hold boats or small vessels; hence, any instrument designed to grapple or hold; a grappling iron; a grab; -- written also grapline, and crapnel.,
G as in Grappled (imp. & p. p.) of Grapple,
G as in Grappling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Grapple,
G as in Grapple (v. t.) To seize; to lay fast hold of; to attack at close quarters: as, to grapple an antagonist.,
G as in Grapple (v. t.) To fasten, as with a grapple; to fix; to join indissolubly.,
G as in Grapple (v. i.) To use a grapple; to contend in close fight; to attach one's self as if by a grapple, as in wrestling; to close; to seize one another.,
G as in Grapple (v. t.) A seizing or seizure; close hug in contest; the wrestler's hold.,
G as in Grapple (v. t.) An instrument, usually with hinged claws, for seizing and holding fast to an object; a grab.,
G as in Grapple (v. t.) A grappling iron.,
G as in Grapplement (n.) A grappling; close fight or embrace.,
G as in Grappling (n.) A laying fast ho1d of; also, that by which anything is seized and held, a grapnel.,
G as in Grappling (n.) A grapple; a struggle. A match for yards in fight, in grappling for the bear.,
G as in Grapsoid (a.) Pertaining to the genus Grapsus or the family Grapsidae.,
G as in Grapsoid (n.) A grapsoid crab.,
G as in Graptolite (n.) One of numerous species of slender and delicate fossils, of the genus Graptolites and allied genera, found in the Silurian rocks. They belong to an extinct group (Graptolithina) supposed to be hydroids.,
G as in Graptolitic (a.) Of or pertaining to graptolites; containing graptolites; as, a graptolitic slate.,
G as in Grapy (a.) Composed of, or resembling, grapes.,
G as in Grasper (imp. & p. p.) of Grasp,
G as in Qraspine (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Grasp,
G as in Grasp (v. t.) To seize and hold by clasping or embracing with the fingers or arms; to catch to take possession of.,
G as in Grasp (v. t.) To lay hold of with the mind; to become thoroughly acquainted or conversant with; to comprehend.,
G as in Grasp (v. i.) To effect a grasp; to make the motion of grasping; to clutch; to struggle; to strive.,
G as in Grasp (n.) A gripe or seizure of the hand; a seizure by embrace, or infolding in the arms.,
G as in Grasp (n.) Reach of the arms; hence, the power of seizing and holding; as, it was beyond his grasp.,
G as in Grasp (n.) Forcible possession; hold.,
G as in Grasp (n.) Wide-reaching power of intellect to comprehend subjects and hold them under survey.,
G as in Grasp (n.) The handle of a sword or of an oar.,
G as in Graspable (a.) Capable of being grasped.,
G as in Graaper (n.) One who grasps or seizes; one who catches or holds.,
G as in Grasping (a.) Seizing; embracing; catching.,
G as in Grasping (a.) Avaricious; greedy of gain; covetous; close; miserly; as, he is a grasping man.,
G as in Graspless (a.) Without a grasp; relaxed.,
G as in Grass (n.) Popularly: Herbage; the plants which constitute the food of cattle and other beasts; pasture.,
G as in Grass (n.) An endogenous plant having simple leaves, a stem generally jointed and tubular, the husks or glumes in pairs, and the seed single.,
G as in Grass (n.) The season of fresh grass; spring.,
G as in Grass (n.) Metaphorically used for what is transitory.,
G as in Grassed (imp. & p. p.) of Grass,
G as in Grassing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Grass,
G as in Grass (v. t.) To cover with grass or with turf.,
G as in Grass (v. t.) To expose, as flax, on the grass for bleaching, etc.,
G as in Grass (v. t.) To bring to the grass or ground; to land; as, to grass a fish.,
G as in Grass (v. i.) To produce grass.,
G as in Grassation (n.) A wandering about with evil intentions; a rioting.,
G as in Grass-green (a.) Green with grass.,
G as in Grass-green (a.) Of the color of grass; clear and vivid green.,
G as in Grass-grown (a.) Overgrown with grass; as, a grass-grown road.,
G as in Grasshopper (n.) Any jumping, orthopterous insect, of the families Acrididae and Locustidae. The species and genera are very numerous. The former family includes the Western grasshopper or locust (Caloptenus spretus), noted for the great extent of its ravages in the region beyond the Mississippi. In the Eastern United States the red-legged (Caloptenus femurrubrum and C. atlanis) are closely related species, but their ravages are less important. They are closely related to the migratory locusts of the Old World. See Locust.,
G as in Grasshopper (n.) In ordinary square or upright pianos of London make, the escapement lever or jack, so made that it can be taken out and replaced with the key; -- called also the hopper.,
G as in Grassiness (n.) The state of abounding with grass; a grassy state.,
G as in Grassless (a.) Destitute of grass.,
G as in Grassplot (n.) A plot or space covered with grass; a lawn.,
G as in Grass tree () An Australian plant of the genus Xanthorrhoea, having a thick trunk crowned with a dense tuft of pendulous, grasslike leaves, from the center of which arises a long stem, bearing at its summit a dense flower spike looking somewhat like a large cat-tail. These plants are often called "blackboys" from the large trunks denuded and blackened by fire. They yield two kinds of fragrant resin, called Botany-bay gum, and Gum Acaroides.,
G as in Grass tree () A similar Australian plant (Kingia australis).,
G as in Grassy (a.) Covered with grass; abounding with grass; as, a grassy lawn.,
G as in Grassy (a.) Resembling grass; green.,
G as in Grate (a.) Serving to gratify; agreeable.,
G as in Grate (n.) A structure or frame containing parallel or crosed bars, with interstices; a kind of latticework, such as is used ia the windows of prisons and cloisters.,
G as in Grate (n.) A frame or bed, or kind of basket, of iron bars, for holding fuel while burning.,
G as in Grated (imp. & p. p.) of Grate,
G as in Grating (p. pr. &. vb. n.) of Grate,
G as in Grate (v. t.) To furnish with grates; to protect with a grating or crossbars; as, to grate a window.,
G as in Grate (v. t.) To rub roughly or harshly, as one body against another, causing a harsh sound; as, to grate the teeth; to produce (a harsh sound) by rubbing.,
G as in Grate (v. t.) To reduce to small particles by rubbing with anything rough or indented; as, to grate a nutmeg.,
G as in Grate (v. t.) To fret; to irritate; to offend.,
G as in Grate (v. i.) To make a harsh sound by friction.,
G as in Grate (v. i.) To produce the effect of rubbing with a hard rough material; to cause wearing, tearing, or bruising. Hence; To produce exasperation, soreness, or grief; to offend by oppression or importunity.,
G as in Grated (a.) Furnished with a grate or grating; as, grated windows.,
G as in Grateful (a.) Having a due sense of benefits received; kindly disposed toward one from whom a favor has been received; willing to acknowledge and repay, or give thanks for, benefits; as, a grateful heart.,
G as in Grateful (a.) Affording pleasure; pleasing to the senses; gratifying; delicious; as, a grateful present; food grateful to the palate; grateful sleep.,
G as in Grater (a.) One who, or that which, grates; especially, an instrument or utensil with a rough, indented surface, for rubbing off small particles of any substance; as a grater for nutmegs.,
G as in Graticulation (n.) The division of a design or draught into squares, in order the more easily to reproduce it in larger or smaller dimensions.,
G as in Graticule (n.) A design or draught which has been divided into squares, in order to reproduce it in other dimensions.,
G as in Gratification (n.) The act of gratifying, or pleasing, either the mind, the taste, or the appetite; as, the gratification of the palate, of the appetites, of the senses, of the desires, of the heart.,
G as in Gratification (n.) That which affords pleasure; satisfaction; enjoyment; fruition: delight.,
G as in Gratification (n.) A reward; a recompense; a gratuity.,
G as in Glatified (a.) Pleased; indulged according to desire.,
G as in Gratifier (n.) One who gratifies or pleases.,
G as in Gratified (imp. & p. p.) of Gratify,
G as in Gratifying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gratify,
G as in Gratify (v. t.) To please; to give pleasure to; to satisfy; to soothe; to indulge; as, to gratify the taste, the appetite, the senses, the desires, the mind, etc.,
G as in Gratify (v. t.) To requite; to recompense.,
G as in Grating (n.) A partition, covering, or frame of parallel or cross bars; a latticework resembling a window grate; as, the grating of a prison or convent.,
G as in Grating (n.) A system of close equidistant and parallel lines lines or bars, especially lines ruled on a polished surface, used for producing spectra by diffraction; -- called also diffraction grating.,
G as in Grating (n.) The strong wooden lattice used to cover a hatch, admitting light and air; also, a movable Lattice used for the flooring of boats.,
G as in Grating (a.) That grates; making a harsh sound; harsh.,
G as in Grating (n.) A harsh sound caused by attrition.,
G as in Gratiolin (n.) One of the essential principles of the hedge hyssop (Gratiola officinalis).,
G as in Gratis (adv.) For nothing; without fee or recompense; freely; gratuitously.,
G as in Gratitude (a.) The state of being grateful; warm and friendly feeling toward a benefactor; kindness awakened by a favor received; thankfulness.,
G as in Gratuitous (a.) Given without an equivalent or recompense; conferred without valuable consideration; granted without pay, or without claim or merit; not required by justice.,
G as in Gratuitous (a.) Not called for by the circumstances; without reason, cause, or proof; adopted or asserted without any good ground; as, a gratuitous assumption.,
G as in Gtratuities (pl. ) of Gratuity,
G as in Gratuity (n.) Something given freely or without recompense; a free gift; a present.,
G as in Gratuity (n.) Something voluntarily given in return for a favor or service, as a recompense or acknowledgment.,
G as in Grqatulated (imp. & p. p.) of Gratulate,
G as in Gratulating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gratulate,
G as in Gratulate (a.) To salute with declaration of joy; to congratulate.,
G as in Gratulate (a.) Worthy of gratulation.,
G as in Gratulation (n.) The act of gratulating or felicitating; congratulation.,
G as in Gratulatory (a.) Expressing gratulation or joy; congratulatory.,
G as in Graunt (v. & n.) See Grant.,
G as in Grauwacke (n.) Graywacke.,
G as in Gravamina (pl. ) of Gravamen,
G as in Gravamens (pl. ) of Gravamen,
G as in Gravamen (a.) The grievance complained of; the substantial cause of the action; also, in general, the ground or essence of a complaint. Bouvier.,
G as in -grave () A final syllable signifying a ruler, as in landgrave, margrave. See Margrave.,
G as in Grave (v. t.) To clean, as a vessel's bottom, of barnacles, grass, etc., and pay it over with pitch; -- so called because graves or greaves was formerly used for this purpose.,
G as in Grave (superl.) Of great weight; heavy; ponderous.,
G as in Grave (superl.) Of importance; momentous; weighty; influential; sedate; serious; -- said of character, relations, etc.; as, grave deportment, character, influence, etc.,
G as in Grave (superl.) Not light or gay; solemn; sober; plain; as, a grave color; a grave face.,
G as in Grave (superl.) Not acute or sharp; low; deep; -- said of sound; as, a grave note or key.,
G as in Grave (superl.) Slow and solemn in movement.,
G as in Graved (imp.) of Grave,
G as in Graven (p. p.) of Grave,
G as in Graved () of Grave,
G as in Graving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Grave,
G as in Grave (n.) To dig. [Obs.] Chaucer.,
G as in Grave (n.) To carve or cut, as letters or figures, on some hard substance; to engrave.,
G as in Grave (n.) To carve out or give shape to, by cutting with a chisel; to sculpture; as, to grave an image.,
G as in Grave (n.) To impress deeply (on the mind); to fix indelibly.,
G as in Grave (n.) To entomb; to bury.,
G as in Grave (v. i.) To write or delineate on hard substances, by means of incised lines; to practice engraving.,
G as in Grave (n.) An excavation in the earth as a place of burial; also, any place of interment; a tomb; a sepulcher. Hence: Death; destruction.,
G as in Graveclothes (n. pl.) The clothes or dress in which the dead are interred.,
G as in Gravedigger (n.) A digger of graves.,
G as in Gravedigger (n.) See Burying beetle, under Bury, v. t.,
G as in Gravel (n.) Small stones, or fragments of stone; very small pebbles, often intermixed with particles of sand.,
G as in Gravel (n.) A deposit of small calculous concretions in the kidneys and the urinary or gall bladder; also, the disease of which they are a symptom.,
G as in Graveled (imp. & p. p.) of Gravel,
G as in Gravelled () of Gravel,
G as in Graveling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gravel,
G as in Gravelling () of Gravel,
G as in Gravel (v. t.) To cover with gravel; as, to gravel a walk.,
G as in Gravel (v. t.) To run (as a ship) upon the gravel or beach; to run aground; to cause to stick fast in gravel or sand.,
G as in Gravel (v. t.) To check or stop; to embarrass; to perplex.,
G as in Gravel (v. t.) To hurt or lame (a horse) by gravel lodged between the shoe and foot.,
G as in Graveless (a.) Without a grave; unburied.,
G as in Graveling (n.) Alt. of Gravelling,
G as in Gravelling (n.) The act of covering with gravel.,
G as in Gravelling (n.) A layer or coating of gravel (on a path, etc.).,
G as in Graveling (n.) Alt. of Gravelling,
G as in Gravelling (n.) A salmon one or two years old, before it has gone to sea.,
G as in Gravelliness (n.) State of being gravelly.,
G as in Gravelly (a.) Abounding with gravel; consisting of gravel; as, a gravelly soil.,
G as in Gravel-stone (n.) A pebble, or small fragment of stone; a calculus.,
G as in Gravely (adv.) In a grave manner.,
G as in Graven (v. t.) Carved.,
G as in Graveness (n.) The quality of being grave.,
G as in Gravenstein (n.) A kind of fall apple, marked with streaks of deep red and orange, and of excellent flavor and quality.,
G as in Graveolence (n.) A strong and offensive smell; rancidity.,
G as in Graveolent (a.) Having a rank smell.,
G as in Graver (n.) One who graves; an engraver or a sculptor; one whose occupation is te cut letters or figures in stone or other hard material.,
G as in Graver (n.) An ergraving or cutting tool; a burin.,
G as in Gravery (n.) The act, process, or art, of graving or carving; engraving.,
G as in Graves (n. pl.) The sediment of melted tallow. Same as Greaves.,
G as in Graves' disease () Same as Basedow's disease.,
G as in Gravestone (n.) A stone laid over, or erected near, a grave, usually with an inscription, to preserve the memory of the dead; a tombstone.,
G as in Graveyard (n.) A yard or inclosure for the interment of the dead; a cemetery.,
G as in Gravic (a.) Pertaining to, or causing, gravitation; as, gravic forces; gravic attraction.,
G as in Gravid (a.) Being with child; heavy with young; pregnant; fruitful; as, a gravid uterus; gravid piety.,
G as in Gravidated (a.) Made pregnant; big.,
G as in Gravidation (n.) Gravidity.,
G as in Gravidity (n.) The state of being gravidated; pregnancy.,
G as in Gravigrade (a.) Slow-paced.,
G as in Gravigrade (n.) One of the pachyderms.,
G as in Gravimeter (n.) An instrument for ascertaining the specific gravity of bodies.,
G as in Gravimetric (a.) Of or pertaining to measurement by weight; measured by weight.,
G as in Graving (n.) The act of cleaning a ship's bottom.,
G as in Graving (n.) The act or art of carving figures in hard substances, esp. by incision or in intaglio.,
G as in Graving (n.) That which is graved or carved.,
G as in Graving (n.) Impression, as upon the mind or heart.,
G as in Gravitated (imp. & p. p.) of Gravitate,
G as in Gravitating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gravitate,
G as in Gravitate (v. i.) To obey the law of gravitation; to exert a force Or pressure, or tend to move, under the influence of gravitation; to tend in any direction or toward any object.,
G as in Gravitation (n.) The act of gravitating.,
G as in Gravitation (n.) That species of attraction or force by which all bodies or particles of matter in the universe tend toward each other; called also attraction of gravitation, universal gravitation, and universal gravity. See Attraction, and Weight.,
G as in Gravitational (a.) Of or pertaining to the force of gravity; as, gravitational units.,
G as in Gravitative (a.) Causing to gravitate; tending to a center.,
G as in Gravities (pl. ) of Gravity,
G as in Gravity (a.) The state of having weight; beaviness; as, the gravity of lead.,
G as in Gravity (a.) Sobriety of character or demeanor.,
G as in Gravity (a.) Importance, significance, dignity, etc; hence, seriousness; enormity; as, the gravity of an offense.,
G as in Gravity (a.) The tendency of a mass of matter toward a center of attraction; esp., the tendency of a body toward the center of the earth; terrestrial gravitation.,
G as in Gravity (a.) Lowness of tone; -- opposed to acuteness.,
G as in Gravies (pl. ) of Gravy,
G as in Gravy (n.) The juice or other liquid matter that drips from flesh in cooking, made into a dressing for the food when served up.,
G as in Gravy (n.) Liquid dressing for meat, fish, vegetables, etc.,
G as in Gray (superl.) White mixed with black, as the color of pepper and salt, or of ashes, or of hair whitened by age; sometimes, a dark mixed color; as, the soft gray eye of a dove.,
G as in Gray (superl.) Gray-haired; gray-headed; of a gray color; hoary.,
G as in Gray (superl.) Old; mature; as, gray experience. Ames.,
G as in Gray (n.) A gray color; any mixture of white and black; also, a neutral or whitish tint.,
G as in Gray (n.) An animal or thing of gray color, as a horse, a badger, or a kind of salmon.,
G as in Grayback (n.) The California gray whale.,
G as in Grayback (n.) The redbreasted sandpiper or knot.,
G as in Grayback (n.) The dowitcher.,
G as in Grayback (n.) The body louse.,
G as in Graybeard (n.) An old man.,
G as in Grayfly (n.) The trumpet fly.,
G as in Grayhound (n.) See Greyhound.,
G as in Grayish (a.) Somewhat gray.,
G as in Graylag (n.) The common wild gray goose (Anser anser) of Europe, believed to be the wild form of the domestic goose. See Illust. of Goose.,
G as in Grayling (a.) A European fish (Thymallus vulgaris), allied to the trout, but having a very broad dorsal fin; -- called also umber. It inhabits cold mountain streams, and is valued as a game fish.,
G as in Grayling (a.) An American fish of the genus Thymallus, having similar habits to the above; one species (T. Ontariensis), inhabits several streams in Michigan; another (T. montanus), is found in the Yellowstone region.,
G as in Grayness (n.) The quality of being gray.,
G as in Gtraystone (n.) A grayish or greenish compact rock, composed of feldspar and augite, and allied to basalt.,
G as in Graywacke (n.) A conglomerate or grit rock, consisting of rounded pebbles sand firmly united together.,
G as in Grazed (imp. & p. p.) of Graze,
G as in Grazing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Graze,
G as in Graze (v. t.) To feed or supply (cattle, sheep, etc.) with grass; to furnish pasture for.,
G as in Graze (v. t.) To feed on; to eat (growing herbage); to eat grass from (a pasture); to browse.,
G as in Graze (v. t.) To tend (cattle, etc.) while grazing.,
G as in Graze (v. t.) To rub or touch lightly the surface of (a thing) in passing; as, the bullet grazed the wall.,
G as in Graze (v. i.) To eat grass; to feed on growing herbage; as, cattle graze on the meadows.,
G as in Graze (v. i.) To yield grass for grazing.,
G as in Graze (v. i.) To touch something lightly in passing.,
G as in Graze (n.) The act of grazing; the cropping of grass.,
G as in Graze (n.) A light touch; a slight scratch.,
G as in Grazer (n.) One that grazes; a creature which feeds on growing grass or herbage.,
G as in Grazier (n.) One who pastures cattle, and rears them for market.,
G as in Grazing (n.) The act of one who, or that which, grazes.,
G as in Grazing (n.) A pasture; growing grass.,
G as in Grazioso (adv.) Gracefully; smoothly; elegantly.,
G as in Gre (n.) See Gree, a step.,
G as in Gre (n.) See Gree, good will.,
G as in Grease (n.) Animal fat, as tallow or lard, especially when in a soft state; oily or unctuous matter of any kind.,
G as in Grease (n.) An inflammation of a horse's heels, suspending the ordinary greasy secretion of the part, and producing dryness and scurfiness, followed by cracks, ulceration, and fungous excrescences.,
G as in Greased (imp. & p. p.) of Grease,
G as in Greasing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Grease,
G as in Grease (v. t.) To smear, anoint, or daub, with grease or fat; to lubricate; as, to grease the wheels of a wagon.,
G as in Grease (v. t.) To bribe; to corrupt with presents.,
G as in Grease (v. t.) To cheat or cozen; to overreach.,
G as in Grease (v. t.) To affect (a horse) with grease, the disease.,
G as in Greaser (n.) One who, or that which, greases; specifically, a person employed to lubricate the working parts of machinery, engines, carriages, etc.,
G as in Greaser (n.) A nickname sometimes applied in contempt to a Mexican of the lowest type.,
G as in Greasily (adv.) In a greasy manner.,
G as in Greasily (adv.) In a gross or indelicate manner.,
G as in Greasiness (n.) The quality or state of being greasy, oiliness; unctuousness; grossness.,
G as in Greasy (superl.) Composed of, or characterized by, grease; oily; unctuous; as, a greasy dish.,
G as in Greasy (superl.) Smeared or defiled with grease.,
G as in Greasy (superl.) Like grease or oil; smooth; seemingly unctuous to the touch, as is mineral soapstone.,
G as in Greasy (superl.) Fat of body; bulky.,
G as in Greasy (superl.) Gross; indelicate; indecent.,
G as in Greasy (superl.) Affected with the disease called grease; as, the heels of a horse. See Grease, n., 2.,
G as in Great (superl.) Large in space; of much size; big; immense; enormous; expanded; -- opposed to small and little; as, a great house, ship, farm, plain, distance, length.,
G as in Great (superl.) Large in number; numerous; as, a great company, multitude, series, etc.,
G as in Great (superl.) Long continued; lengthened in duration; prolonged in time; as, a great while; a great interval.,
G as in Great (superl.) Superior; admirable; commanding; -- applied to thoughts, actions, and feelings.,
G as in Great (superl.) Endowed with extraordinary powers; uncommonly gifted; able to accomplish vast results; strong; powerful; mighty; noble; as, a great hero, scholar, genius, philosopher, etc.,
G as in Great (superl.) Holding a chief position; elevated: lofty: eminent; distingushed; foremost; principal; as, great men; the great seal; the great marshal, etc.,
G as in Great (superl.) Entitled to earnest consideration; weighty; important; as, a great argument, truth, or principle.,
G as in Great (superl.) Pregnant; big (with young).,
G as in Great (superl.) More than ordinary in degree; very considerable in degree; as, to use great caution; to be in great pain.,
G as in Great (superl.) Older, younger, or more remote, by single generation; -- often used before grand to indicate one degree more remote in the direct line of descent; as, great-grandfather (a grandfather's or a grandmother's father), great-grandson, etc.,
G as in Great (n.) The whole; the gross; as, a contract to build a ship by the great.,
G as in Great-bellied (a.) Having a great belly; bigbellied; pregnant; teeming.,
G as in Greatcoat (n.) An overcoat.,
G as in Greaten (v. t.) To make great; to aggrandize; to cause to increase in size; to expand.,
G as in Greaten (v. i.) To become large; to dilate.,
G as in Great-grandchild (n.) The child of one's grandson or granddaughter.,
G as in Great-granddaughter (n.) A daughter of one's grandson or granddaughter.,
G as in Great-grandfather (n.) The father of one's grandfather or grandmother.,
G as in Great-grandmother (n.) The mother of one's grandfather or grandmother.,
G as in Great-grandson (n.) A son of one's grandson or granddaughter.,
G as in Great-hearted (a.) High-spirited; fearless.,
G as in Great-hearted (a.) Generous; magnanimous; noble.,
G as in Great-heartedness (n.) The quality of being greathearted; high-mindedness; magnanimity.,
G as in Greatly (adv.) In a great degree; much.,
G as in Greatly (adv.) Nobly; illustriously; magnanimously.,
G as in Greatness (n.) The state, condition, or quality of being great; as, greatness of size, greatness of mind, power, etc.,
G as in Greatness (n.) Pride; haughtiness.,
G as in Greave (n.) A grove.,
G as in Greave (n.) Armor for the leg below the knee; -- usually in the plural.,
G as in Greaved (imp. & p. p.) of Greave,
G as in Greaving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Greave,
G as in Greave (v. t.) To clean (a ship's bottom); to grave.,
G as in Greaves (n. pl.) The sediment of melted tallow. It is made into cakes for dogs' food. In Scotland it is called cracklings.,
G as in Grebe (n.) One of several swimming birds or divers, of the genus Colymbus (formerly Podiceps), and allied genera, found in the northern parts of America, Europe, and Asia. They have strong, sharp bills, and lobate toes.,
G as in Grecian (a.) Of or pertaining to Greece; Greek.,
G as in Grecian (n.) A native or naturalized inhabitant of Greece; a Greek.,
G as in Grecian (n.) A jew who spoke Greek; a Hellenist.,
G as in Grecian (n.) One well versed in the Greek language, literature, or history.,
G as in Grecism (n.) An idiom of the Greek language; a Hellenism.,
G as in Grecized (imp. & p. p.) of Grecize,
G as in Grecizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Grecize,
G as in Grecize (v. t.) To render Grecian; also, to cause (a word or phrase in another language) to take a Greek form; as, the name is Grecized.,
G as in Grecize (v. t.) To translate into Greek.,
G as in Grecize (v. i.) Alt. of Grecianize,
G as in Grecianize (v. i.) To conform to the Greek custom, especially in speech.,
G as in Greco-Roman (a.) Having characteristics that are partly Greek and partly Roman; as, Greco-Roman architecture.,
G as in Grecque (n.) An ornament supposed to be of Greek origin, esp. a fret or meander.,
G as in Gree (n.) Good will; favor; pleasure; satisfaction; -- used esp. in such phrases as: to take in gree; to accept in gree; that is, to take favorably.,
G as in Gree (n.) Rank; degree; position.,
G as in Gree (n.) The prize; the honor of the day; as, to bear the gree, i. e., to carry off the prize.,
G as in Gree (v. i.) To agree.,
G as in Grees (pl. ) of Gree,
G as in Greece (pl. ) of Gree,
G as in Grice (pl. ) of Gree,
G as in Grise (pl. ) of Gree,
G as in Grize (pl. ) of Gree,
G as in Gree (n.) A step.,
G as in Greece (n. pl.) See Gree a step.,
G as in Greed (n.) An eager desire or longing; greediness; as, a greed of gain.,
G as in Greedily (adv.) In a greedy manner.,
G as in Greediness (n.) The quality of being greedy; vehement and selfish desire.,
G as in Greedy (superl.) Having a keen appetite for food or drink; ravenous; voracious; very hungry; -- followed by of; as, a lion that is greedy of his prey.,
G as in Greedy (superl.) Having a keen desire for anything; vehemently desirous; eager to obtain; avaricious; as, greedy of gain.,
G as in Greedy-gut (n.) A glutton.,
G as in Greegree (n.) An African talisman or Gri'gri' charm.,
G as in Greek (a.) Of or pertaining to Greece or the Greeks; Grecian.,
G as in Greek (n.) A native, or one of the people, of Greece; a Grecian; also, the language of Greece.,
G as in Greek (n.) A swindler; a knave; a cheat.,
G as in Greek (n.) Something unintelligible; as, it was all Greek to me.,
G as in Greekess (n.) A female Greek.,
G as in Greekish (a.) Peculiar to Greece.,
G as in Greekling (n.) A little Greek, or one of small esteem or pretensions.,
G as in Green (superl.) Having the color of grass when fresh and growing; resembling that color of the solar spectrum which is between the yellow and the blue; verdant; emerald.,
G as in Green (superl.) Having a sickly color; wan.,
G as in Green (superl.) Full of life aud vigor; fresh and vigorous; new; recent; as, a green manhood; a green wound.,
G as in Green (superl.) Not ripe; immature; not fully grown or ripened; as, green fruit, corn, vegetables, etc.,
G as in Green (superl.) Not roasted; half raw.,
G as in Green (superl.) Immature in age or experience; young; raw; not trained; awkward; as, green in years or judgment.,
G as in Green (superl.) Not seasoned; not dry; containing its natural juices; as, green wood, timber, etc.,
G as in Green (n.) The color of growing plants; the color of the solar spectrum intermediate between the yellow and the blue.,
G as in Green (n.) A grassy plain or plat; a piece of ground covered with verdant herbage; as, the village green.,
G as in Green (n.) Fresh leaves or branches of trees or other plants; wreaths; -- usually in the plural.,
G as in Green (n.) pl. Leaves and stems of young plants, as spinach, beets, etc., which in their green state are boiled for food.,
G as in Green (n.) Any substance or pigment of a green color.,
G as in Greened (imp. & p. p.) of Green,
G as in Greening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Green,
G as in Green (v. t.) To make green.,
G as in Green (v. i.) To become or grow green.,
G as in Greenback (n.) One of the legal tender notes of the United States; -- first issued in 1862, and having the devices on the back printed with green ink, to prevent alterations and counterfeits.,
G as in Greenbacker (n.) One of those who supported greenback or paper money, and opposed the resumption of specie payments.,
G as in Greenbone (n.) Any garfish (Belone or Tylosurus).,
G as in Greenbone (n.) The European eelpout.,
G as in Green-broom (n.) A plant of the genus Genista (G. tinctoria); dyer's weed; -- called also greenweed.,
G as in Greencloth (n.) A board or court of justice formerly held in the counting house of the British sovereign's household, composed of the lord steward and his officers, and having cognizance of matters of justice in the household, with power to correct offenders and keep the peace within the verge of the palace, which extends two hundred yards beyond the gates.,
G as in Greenery (n.) Green plants; verdure.,
G as in Green-eyed (a.) Having green eyes.,
G as in Green-eyed (a.) Seeing everything through a medium which discolors or distorts.,
G as in Greenfinch (n.) A European finch (Ligurinus chloris); -- called also green bird, green linnet, green grosbeak, green olf, greeny, and peasweep.,
G as in Greenfinch (n.) The Texas sparrow (Embernagra rufivirgata), in which the general color is olive green, with four rufous stripes on the head.,
G as in Greenfish (n.) See Bluefish, and Pollock.,
G as in Greengage (n.) A kind of plum of medium size, roundish shape, greenish flesh, and delicious flavor. It is called in France Reine Claude, after the queen of Francis I. See Gage.,
G as in Greengill (n.) An oyster which has the gills tinged with a green pigment, said to be due to an abnormal condition of the blood.,
G as in Greengrocer (n.) A retailer of vegetables or fruits in their fresh or green state.,
G as in Greenhead (n.) The mallard.,
G as in Greenhead (n.) The striped bass. See Bass.,
G as in Greenhead (n.) Alt. of Greenhood,
G as in Greenhood (n.) A state of greenness; verdancy.,
G as in Greenhorn (n.) A raw, inexperienced person; one easily imposed upon.,
G as in Greenhouse (n.) A house in which tender plants are cultivated and sheltered from the weather.,
G as in Greening (n.) A greenish apple, of several varieties, among which the Rhode Island greening is the best known for its fine-grained acid flesh and its excellent keeping quality.,
G as in Greenish (a.) Somewhat green; having a tinge of green; as, a greenish yellow.,
G as in Greenlander (n.) A native of Greenland.,
G as in Green-leek (n.) An Australian parrakeet (Polytelis Barrabandi); -- called also the scarlet-breasted parrot.,
G as in Greenlet (n.) l. (Zool.) One of numerous species of small American singing birds, of the genus Vireo, as the solitary, or blue-headed (Vireo solitarius); the brotherly-love (V. Philadelphicus); the warbling greenlet (V. gilvus); the yellow-throated greenlet (V. flavifrons) and others. See Vireo.,
G as in Greenlet (n.) Any species of Cyclorhis, a genus of tropical American birds allied to the tits.,
G as in Greenly (adv.) With a green color; newly; freshly, immaturely.,
G as in Greenly (a.) Of a green color.,
G as in Greenness (n.) The quality of being green; viridity; verdancy; as, the greenness of grass, or of a meadow.,
G as in Greenness (n.) Freshness; vigor; newness.,
G as in Greenness (n.) Immaturity; unripeness; as, the greenness of fruit; inexperience; as, the greenness of youth.,
G as in Greenockite (n.) Native cadmium sulphide, a mineral occurring in yellow hexagonal crystals, also as an earthy incrustation.,
G as in Greenroom (n.) The retiring room of actors and actresses in a theater.,
G as in Greensand (n.) A variety of sandstone, usually imperfectly consolidated, consisting largely of glauconite, a silicate of iron and potash of a green color, mixed with sand and a trace of phosphate of lime.,
G as in Greenshank (n.) A European sandpiper or snipe (Totanus canescens); -- called also greater plover.,
G as in Green-stall (n.) A stall at which greens and fresh vegetables are exposed for sale.,
G as in Greenstone (n.) A name formerly applied rather loosely to certain dark-colored igneous rocks, including diorite, diabase, etc.,
G as in Greensward (n.) Turf green with grass.,
G as in Greenth (n.) The state or quality of being green; verdure.,
G as in Greenweed (n.) See Greenbroom.,
G as in Greenwood (n.) A forest as it appears is spring and summer.,
G as in Greenwood (a.) Pertaining to a greenwood; as, a greenwood shade.,
G as in Greet (a.) Great.,
G as in Greet (v. i.) To weep; to cry; to lament.,
G as in Greet (n.) Mourning.,
G as in Greeted (imp. & p. p.) of Greet,
G as in Greeting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Greet,
G as in Greet (v. t.) To address with salutations or expressions of kind wishes; to salute; to hail; to welcome; to accost with friendship; to pay respects or compliments to, either personally or through the intervention of another, or by writing or token.,
G as in Greet (v. t.) To come upon, or meet, as with something that makes the heart glad.,
G as in Greet (v. t.) To accost; to address.,
G as in Greet (v. i.) To meet and give salutations.,
G as in Greet (n.) Greeting.,
G as in Greeter (n.) One who greets or salutes another.,
G as in Greeter (n.) One who weeps or mourns.,
G as in Greeting (n.) Expression of kindness or joy; salutation at meeting; a compliment from one absent.,
G as in Greeve (n.) See Grieve, an overseer.,
G as in Greeze (n.) A step. See Gree, a step.,
G as in Greffier (n.) A registrar or recorder; a notary.,
G as in Gregal (a.) Pertaining to, or like, a flock.,
G as in Gregarian (a.) Gregarious; belonging to the herd or common sort; common.,
G as in \d8Gregarin\91 (n. pl.) An order of Protozoa, allied to the Rhizopoda, and parasitic in other animals, as in the earthworm, lobster, etc. When adult, they have a small, wormlike body inclosing a nucleus, but without external organs; in one of the young stages, they are amoebiform; -- called also Gregarinida, and Gregarinaria.,
G as in Gregarine (a.) Of or pertaining to the Gregarinae.,
G as in Gregarine (n.) One of the Gregarinae.,
G as in \d8Gregarinida () Gregarinae.,
G as in Gregarious (a.) Habitually living or moving in flocks or herds; tending to flock or herd together; not habitually solitary or living alone.,
G as in Grege (v. t.) Alt. of Gregge,
G as in Gregge (v. t.) To make heavy; to increase.,
G as in Greggoe (n.) Alt. of Grego,
G as in Grego (n.) A short jacket or cloak, made of very thick, coarse cloth, with a hood attached, worn by the Greeks and others in the Levant.,
G as in Gregorian (a.) Pertaining to, or originated by, some person named Gregory, especially one of the popes of that name.,
G as in Greillade (n.) Iron ore in coarse powder, prepared for reduction by the Catalan process.,
G as in Greisen (n.) A crystalline rock consisting of quarts and mica, common in the tin regions of Cornwall and Saxony.,
G as in Greit (v. i.) See Greet, to weep.,
G as in Greith (v. t.) To make ready; -- often used reflexively.,
G as in Greith (v.) Goods; furniture.,
G as in Gremial (a.) Of or pertaining to the lap or bosom.,
G as in Gremial (n.) A bosom friend.,
G as in Gremial (n.) A cloth, often adorned with gold or silver lace, placed on the bishop's lap while he sits in celebrating mass, or in ordaining priests.,
G as in Grenade (n.) A hollow ball or shell of iron filled with powder of other explosive, ignited by means of a fuse, and thrown from the hand among enemies.,
G as in Grenadier (n.) Originaly, a soldier who carried and threw grenades; afterward, one of a company attached to each regiment or battalion, taking post on the right of the line, and wearing a peculiar uniform. In modern times, a member of a special regiment or corps; as, a grenadier of the guard of Napoleon I. one of the regiment of Grenadier Guards of the British army, etc.,
G as in Grenadier (n.) Any marine fish of the genus Macrurus, in which the body and tail taper to a point; they mostly inhabit the deep sea; -- called also onion fish, and rat-tail fish.,
G as in Grenadier (n.) A bright-colored South African grosbeak (Pyromelana orix), having the back red and the lower parts black.,
G as in Grenadillo (n.) A handsome tropical American wood, much used for making flutes and other wind instruments; -- called also Grenada cocos, or cocus, and red ebony.,
G as in Grenadine (n.) A thin gauzelike fabric of silk or wool, for women's wear.,
G as in Grenadine (n.) A trade name for a dyestuff, consisting essentially of impure fuchsine.,
G as in Grenado (n.) Same as Grenade.,
G as in Grene (a.) Green.,
G as in Gres (n.) Grass.,
G as in Gressorial (a.) Alt. of Gressorious,
G as in Gressorious (a.) Adapted for walking; anisodactylous; as the feet of certain birds and insects. See Illust. under Aves.,
G as in Gret (a.) Alt. of Grete,
G as in Grete (a.) Great.,
G as in Gretto () imp. of Greet, to salute.,
G as in Greve (n.) A grove.,
G as in Grew () imp. of Grow.,
G as in Grewsome (a.) Alt. of Gruesome,
G as in Gruesome (a.) Ugly; frightful.,
G as in Grey (a.) See Gray (the correct orthography).,
G as in Greyhound (n.) A slender, graceful breed of dogs, remarkable for keen sight and swiftness. It is one of the oldest varieties known, and is figured on the Egyptian monuments.,
G as in Greylag (n.) See Graylag.,
G as in Gribble (n.) A small marine isopod crustacean (Limnoria lignorum or L. terebrans), which burrows into and rapidly destroys submerged timber, such as the piles of wharves, both in Europe and America.,
G as in Grice (n.) A little pig.,
G as in Grice (n.) See Gree, a step.,
G as in Grid (n.) A grating of thin parallel bars, similar to a gridiron.,
G as in Griddle (n.) An iron plate or pan used for cooking cakes.,
G as in Griddle (n.) A sieve with a wire bottom, used by miners.,
G as in Griddlecake (n.) A cake baked or fried on a griddle, esp. a thin batter cake, as of buckwheat or common flour.,
G as in Grided (imp. & p. p.) of Gride,
G as in Griding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gride,
G as in Gride (e. i.) To cut with a grating sound; to cut; to penetrate or pierce harshly; as, the griding sword.,
G as in Grade (n.) A harsh scraping or cutting; a grating.,
G as in Gridelin (n.) A color mixed of white, and red, or a gray violet.,
G as in Gridiron (n.) A grated iron utensil for broiling flesh and fish over coals.,
G as in Gridiron (n.) An openwork frame on which vessels are placed for examination, cleaning, and repairs.,
G as in Gridiron (n.) A football field.,
G as in Grief (a.) Pain of mind on account of something in the past; mental suffering arising from any cause, as misfortune, loss of friends, misconduct of one's self or others, etc.; sorrow; sadness.,
G as in Grief (a.) Cause of sorrow or pain; that which afficts or distresses; trial; grievance.,
G as in Grief (a.) Physical pain, or a cause of it; malady.,
G as in Griefful (a.) Full of grief or sorrow.,
G as in Griefless (a.) Without grief.,
G as in Griego (n.) See Greggoe.,
G as in Grievable (a.) Lamentable.,
G as in Grievance (v. t.) A cause of uneasiness and complaint; a wrong done and suffered; that which gives ground for remonstrance or resistance, as arising from injustice, tyranny, etc.; injury.,
G as in Grievance (v. t.) Grieving; grief; affliction.,
G as in Grievancer (n.) One who occasions a grievance; one who gives ground for complaint.,
G as in Grieve (n.) Alt. of Greeve,
G as in Greeve (n.) A manager of a farm, or overseer of any work; a reeve; a manorial bailiff.,
G as in Grieved (imp. & p. p.) of Grieve,
G as in Grieving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Grieve,
G as in Grieve (v. t.) To occasion grief to; to wound the sensibilities of; to make sorrowful; to cause to suffer; to afflict; to hurt; to try.,
G as in Grieve (v. t.) To sorrow over; as, to grieve one's fate.,
G as in Grieve (v. i.) To feel grief; to be in pain of mind on account of an evil; to sorrow; to mourn; -- often followed by at, for, or over.,
G as in Griever (n.) One who, or that which, grieves.,
G as in Grieving (a.) Sad; sorrowful; causing grief.,
G as in Grieving (n.) The act of causing grief; the state of being grieved.,
G as in Grievous (a.) Causing grief or sorrow; painful; afflictive; hard to bear; offensive; harmful.,
G as in Grievous (a.) Characterized by great atrocity; heinous; aggravated; flagitious; as, a grievous sin.,
G as in Grievous (a.) Full of, or expressing, grief; showing great sorrow or affliction; as, a grievous cry.,
G as in Griff (n.) Grasp; reach.,
G as in Griff (n.) An arrangement of parallel bars for lifting the hooked wires which raise the warp threads in a loom for weaving figured goods.,
G as in Griffe (n.) The offspring of a mulatto woman and a negro; also, a mulatto.,
G as in Griffin (n.) An Anglo-Indian name for a person just arrived from Europe.,
G as in Griffin (n.) Alt. of Griffon,
G as in Griffon (n.) A fabulous monster, half lion and half eagle. It is often represented in Grecian and Roman works of art.,
G as in Griffon (n.) A representation of this creature as an heraldic charge.,
G as in Griffon (n.) A species of large vulture (Gyps fulvus) found in the mountainous parts of Southern Europe, North Africa, and Asia Minor; -- called also gripe, and grype. It is supposed to be the "eagle" of the Bible. The bearded griffin is the lammergeir.,
G as in Griffon (n.) An English early apple.,
G as in Grig (n.) A cricket or grasshopper.,
G as in Grig (n.) Any small eel.,
G as in Grig (n.) The broad-nosed eel. See Glut.,
G as in Grig (n.) Heath.,
G as in Gril (a.) Harsh; hard; severe; stern; rough.,
G as in Grill (v. t.) A gridiron.,
G as in Grill (v. t.) That which is broiled on a gridiron, as meat, fish, etc.,
G as in Grilled (imp. & p. p.) of Grill,
G as in Grilling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Grill,
G as in Grill (n.) To broil on a grill or gridiron.,
G as in Grill (n.) To torment, as if by broiling.,
G as in Grillade (v. t.) The act of grilling; also, that which is grilled.,
G as in Grillage (n.) A framework of sleepers and crossbeams forming a foundation in marshy or treacherous soil.,
G as in Grille (v. t.) A lattice or grating.,
G as in Grilly (v. t.) To broil; to grill; hence, To harass.,
G as in Grilse (n.) A young salmon after its first return from the sea.,
G as in Grim (Compar.) Of forbidding or fear-inspiring aspect; fierce; stern; surly; cruel; frightful; horrible.,
G as in Grimace (n.) A distortion of the countenance, whether habitual, from affectation, or momentary aad occasional, to express some feeling, as contempt, disapprobation, complacency, etc.; a smirk; a made-up face.,
G as in Grimace (v. i.) To make grimaces; to distort one's face; to make faces.,
G as in Grimaced (a.) Distorted; crabbed.,
G as in Grimalkin (n.) An old cat, esp. a she-cat.,
G as in Grime (n.) Foul matter; dirt, rubbed in; sullying blackness, deeply ingrained.,
G as in Grime (v. t.) To sully or soil deeply; to dirt.,
G as in Grimily (adv.) In a grimy manner.,
G as in Griminess (n.) The state of being grimy.,
G as in Grimly (a.) Grim; hideous; stern.,
G as in Grimly (adv.) In a grim manner; fiercely.,
G as in Grimme (n.) A West African antelope (Cephalophus rufilotus) of a deep bay color, with a broad dorsal stripe of black; -- called also conquetoon.,
G as in Grimness (n.) Fierceness of look; sternness; crabbedness; forbiddingness.,
G as in Grimsir (n.) A stern man.,
G as in Grimy (superl.) Full of grime; begrimed; dirty; foul.,
G as in Grin (n.) A snare; a gin.,
G as in Grinned (imp. & p. p.) of Grin,
G as in Grinning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Grin,
G as in Grin (v. i.) To show the teeth, as a dog; to snarl.,
G as in Grin (v. i.) To set the teeth together and open the lips, or to open the mouth and withdraw the lips from the teeth, so as to show them, as in laughter, scorn, or pain.,
G as in Grin (v. t.) To express by grinning.,
G as in Grin (n.) The act of closing the teeth and showing them, or of withdrawing the lips and showing the teeth; a hard, forced, or sneering smile.,
G as in Ground (imp. & p. p.) of Grind,
G as in Grinding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Grind,
G as in Grind (v. t.) To reduce to powder by friction, as in a mill, or with the teeth; to crush into small fragments; to produce as by the action of millstones.,
G as in Grind (v. t.) To wear down, polish, or sharpen, by friction; to make smooth, sharp, or pointed; to whet, as a knife or drill; to rub against one another, as teeth, etc.,
G as in Grind (v. t.) To oppress by severe exactions; to harass.,
G as in Grind (v. t.) To study hard for examination.,
G as in Grind (v. i.) To perform the operation of grinding something; to turn the millstones.,
G as in Grind (v. i.) To become ground or pulverized by friction; as, this corn grinds well.,
G as in Grind (v. i.) To become polished or sharpened by friction; as, glass grinds smooth; steel grinds to a sharp edge.,
G as in Grind (v. i.) To move with much difficulty or friction; to grate.,
G as in Grind (v. i.) To perform hard aud distasteful service; to drudge; to study hard, as for an examination.,
G as in Grind (n.) The act of reducing to powder, or of sharpening, by friction.,
G as in Grind (n.) Any severe continuous work or occupation; esp., hard and uninteresting study.,
G as in Grind (n.) A hard student; a dig.,
G as in Grinded (p. p.) Ground.,
G as in Grindelia (n.) The dried stems and leaves of tarweed (Grindelia), used as a remedy in asthma and bronchitis.,
G as in Grinder (n.) One who, or that which, grinds.,
G as in Grinder (n.) One of the double teeth, used to grind or masticate the food; a molar.,
G as in Grinder (n.) The restless flycatcher (Seisura inquieta) of Australia; -- called also restless thrush and volatile thrush. It makes a noise like a scissors grinder, to which the name alludes.,
G as in Grindery (n.) Leather workers' materials.,
G as in Grinding (a. & n.) from Grind.,
G as in Grindingly (adv.) In a grinding manner.,
G as in Grindle (n.) The bowfin; -- called also Johnny Grindle.,
G as in Grindle stone () A grindstone.,
G as in Grindlet (n.) A small drain.,
G as in Grindstone (n.) A flat, circular stone, revolving on an axle, for grinding or sharpening tools, or shaping or smoothing objects.,
G as in Grinner (n.) One who grins.,
G as in Grinningly (adv.) In a grinning manner.,
G as in Grint () 3d pers. sing. pres. of Grind, contr. from grindeth.,
G as in Grinte () imp. of Grin, v. i., 1.,
G as in Grinting (n.) Grinding.,
G as in Grip (n.) The griffin.,
G as in Grip (n.) A small ditch or furrow.,
G as in Grip (v. t.) To trench; to drain.,
G as in Grip (v. t.) An energetic or tenacious grasp; a holding fast; strength in grasping.,
G as in Grip (v. t.) A peculiar mode of clasping the hand, by which members of a secret association recognize or greet, one another; as, a masonic grip.,
G as in Grip (v. t.) That by which anything is grasped; a handle or gripe; as, the grip of a sword.,
G as in Grip (v. t.) A device for grasping or holding fast to something.,
G as in Grip (v. t.) To give a grip to; to grasp; to gripe.,
G as in Gripe (n.) A vulture; the griffin.,
G as in Griped (imp. & p. p.) of Gripe,
G as in Griping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gripe,
G as in Gripe (v. t.) To catch with the hand; to clasp closely with the fingers; to clutch.,
G as in Gripe (v. t.) To seize and hold fast; to embrace closely.,
G as in Gripe (v. t.) To pinch; to distress. Specifically, to cause pinching and spasmodic pain to the bowels of, as by the effects of certain purgative or indigestible substances.,
G as in Gripe (v. i.) To clutch, hold, or pinch a thing, esp. money, with a gripe or as with a gripe.,
G as in Gripe (v. i.) To suffer griping pains.,
G as in Gripe (v. i.) To tend to come up into the wind, as a ship which, when sailing closehauled, requires constant labor at the helm.,
G as in Gripe (n.) Grasp; seizure; fast hold; clutch.,
G as in Gripe (n.) That on which the grasp is put; a handle; a grip; as, the gripe of a sword.,
G as in Gripe (n.) A device for grasping or holding anything; a brake to stop a wheel.,
G as in Gripe (n.) Oppression; cruel exaction; affiction; pinching distress; as, the gripe of poverty.,
G as in Gripe (n.) Pinching and spasmodic pain in the intestines; -- chiefly used in the plural.,
G as in Gripe (n.) The piece of timber which terminates the keel at the fore end; the forefoot.,
G as in Gripe (n.) The compass or sharpness of a ship's stern under the water, having a tendency to make her keep a good wind.,
G as in Gripe (n.) An assemblage of ropes, dead-eyes, and hocks, fastened to ringbolts in the deck, to secure the boats when hoisted; also, broad bands passed around a boat to secure it at the davits and prevent swinging.,
G as in Gripeful (a.) Disposed to gripe; extortionate.,
G as in Griper (a.) One who gripes; an oppressor; an extortioner.,
G as in Gripingly (adv.) In a griping or oppressive manner.,
G as in Griman (n.) The man who manipulates a grip.,
G as in Grippe (n.) The influenza or epidemic catarrh.,
G as in Gripper (n.) One who, or that which, grips or seizes.,
G as in Gripper (n.) In printing presses, the fingers or nippers.,
G as in Gripple (n.) A grasp; a gripe.,
G as in Gripple (a.) Griping; greedy; covetous; tenacious.,
G as in Grippleness (n.) The quality of being gripple.,
G as in Gripsack (n.) A traveler's handbag.,
G as in Gris (a.) Gray.,
G as in Gris (a.) A costly kind of fur.,
G as in Gris (n. sing. & pl.) A little pig.,
G as in Grisaille (n.) Decorative painting in gray monochrome; -- used in English especially for painted glass.,
G as in Grisaille (n.) A kind of French fancy dress goods.,
G as in Grisamber (n.) Ambergris.,
G as in Grise (n.) See Grice, a pig.,
G as in Grise (n.) A step (in a flight of stairs); a degree.,
G as in Griseous (a.) Of a light color, or white, mottled with black or brown; grizzled or grizzly.,
G as in Grisette (n.) A French girl or young married woman of the lower class; more frequently, a young working woman who is fond of gallantry.,
G as in Griskin (n.) The spine of a hog.,
G as in Grisled (a.) See Grizzled.,
G as in Grisliness (n.) The quality or state of being grisly; horrid.,
G as in Grisly (a.) Frightful; horrible; dreadful; harsh; as, grisly locks; a grisly specter.,
G as in Grison (n.) A South American animal of the family Mustelidae (Galictis vittata). It is about two feet long, exclusive of the tail. Its under parts are black. Also called South American glutton.,
G as in Grison (n.) A South American monkey (Lagothrix infumatus), said to be gluttonous.,
G as in Grisons (n. pl.) Inhabitants of the eastern Swiss Alps.,
G as in Grisons (n. pl.) The largest and most eastern of the Swiss cantons.,
G as in Grist (n.) Ground corn; that which is ground at one time; as much grain as is carried to the mill at one time, or the meal it produces.,
G as in Grist (n.) Supply; provision.,
G as in Grist (n.) In rope making, a given size of rope, common grist being a rope three inches in circumference, with twenty yarns in each of the three strands.,
G as in Gristle (n.) Cartilage. See Cartilage.,
G as in Gristly (a.) Consisting of, or containing, gristle; like gristle; cartilaginous.,
G as in Gristmill (n.) A mill for grinding grain; especially, a mill for grinding grists, or portions of grain brought by different customers; a custom mill.,
G as in Grit (n.) Sand or gravel; rough, hard particles.,
G as in Grit (n.) The coarse part of meal.,
G as in Grit (n.) Grain, esp. oats or wheat, hulled and coarsely ground; in high milling, fragments of cracked wheat smaller than groats.,
G as in Grit (n.) A hard, coarse-grained siliceous sandstone; as, millstone grit; -- called also gritrock and gritstone. The name is also applied to a finer sharp-grained sandstone; as, grindstone grit.,
G as in Grit (n.) Structure, as adapted to grind or sharpen; as, a hone of good grit.,
G as in Grit (n.) Firmness of mind; invincible spirit; unyielding courage; fortitude.,
G as in Grit (v. i.) To give forth a grating sound, as sand under the feet; to grate; to grind.,
G as in Gritted (imp. & p. p.) of Grit,
G as in Gritting (p. pr. &, vb. n.) of Grit,
G as in Grit (v. t.) To grind; to rub harshly together; to grate; as, to grit the teeth.,
G as in Grith (n.) Peace; security; agreement.,
G as in Gritrock (n.) Alt. of Gritstone,
G as in Gritstone (n.) See Grit, n., 4.,
G as in Grittiness (n.) The quality of being gritty.,
G as in Gritty (a.) Containing sand or grit; consisting of grit; caused by grit; full of hard particles.,
G as in Gritty (a.) Spirited; resolute; unyielding.,
G as in Grivet (n.) A monkey of the upper Nile and Abyssinia (Cercopithecus griseo-viridis), having the upper parts dull green, the lower parts white, the hands, ears, and face black. It was known to the ancient Egyptians. Called also tota.,
G as in Grize (n.) Same as 2d Grise.,
G as in Grizelin (a.) See Gridelin.,
G as in Grizzle (n.) Gray; a gray color; a mixture of white and black.,
G as in Grizzled (a.) Gray; grayish; sprinkled or mixed with gray; of a mixed white and black.,
G as in Grizzly (a.) Somewhat gray; grizzled.,
G as in Grizzlies (pl. ) of Grizzly,
G as in Grizzly (n.) A grizzly bear. See under Grizzly, a.,
G as in Grizzly (a.) In hydraulic mining, gratings used to catch and throw out large stones from the sluices.,
G as in Groaned (imp. & p. p.) of Groan,
G as in Groaning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Groan,
G as in Groan (v. i.) To give forth a low, moaning sound in breathing; to utter a groan, as in pain, in sorrow, or in derision; to moan.,
G as in Groan (v. i.) To strive after earnestly, as with groans.,
G as in Groan (v. t.) To affect by groans.,
G as in Groan (n.) A low, moaning sound; usually, a deep, mournful sound uttered in pain or great distress; sometimes, an expression of strong disapprobation; as, the remark was received with groans.,
G as in Groanful (a.) Agonizing; sad.,
G as in Groat (n.) An old English silver coin, equal to four pence.,
G as in Groat (n.) Any small sum of money.,
G as in Groats (n. pl.) Dried grain, as oats or wheat, hulled and broken or crushed; in high milling, cracked fragments of wheat larger than grits.,
G as in Grocer (n.) A trader who deals in tea, sugar, spices, coffee, fruits, and various other commodities.,
G as in Groceries (pl. ) of Grocery,
G as in Grocery (n.) The commodities sold by grocers, as tea, coffee, spices, etc.; -- in the United States almost always in the plural form, in this sense.,
G as in Grocery (n.) A retail grocer's shop or store.,
G as in Grog (n.) A mixture of spirit and water not sweetened; hence, any intoxicating liquor.,
G as in Groggeries (pl. ) of Groggery,
G as in Groggery (n.) A grogshop.,
G as in Grogginess (n.) State of being groggy.,
G as in Grogginess (n.) Tenderness or stiffness in the foot of a horse, which causes him to move in a hobbling manner.,
G as in Groggy (a.) Overcome with grog; tipsy; unsteady on the legs.,
G as in Groggy (a.) Weakened in a fight so as to stagger; -- said of pugilists.,
G as in Groggy (a.) Moving in a hobbling manner, owing to ten der feet; -- said of a horse.,
G as in Grogram (n.) Alt. of Grogran,
G as in Grogran (n.) A coarse stuff made of silk and mohair, or of coarse silk.,
G as in Grogshop (n.) A shop or room where strong liquors are sold and drunk; a dramshop.,
G as in Groin (n.) The snout of a swine.,
G as in Groin (v. i.) To grunt to growl; to snarl; to murmur.,
G as in Groin (n.) The line between the lower part of the abdomen and the thigh, or the region of this line; the inguen.,
G as in Groin (n.) The projecting solid angle formed by the meeting of two vaults, growing more obtuse as it approaches the summit.,
G as in Groin (n.) The surface formed by two such vaults.,
G as in Groin (n.) A frame of woodwork across a beach to accumulate and retain shingle.,
G as in Groined (imp. & p. p.) of Groin,
G as in Groining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Groin,
G as in Groin (v. t.) To fashion into groins; to build with groins.,
G as in Groined (a.) Built with groins; as, a groined ceiling; a groined vault.,
G as in Gromet (n.) Same as Grommet.,
G as in Gromill (n.) See Gromwell.,
G as in Grommet (n.) A ring formed by twisting on itself a single strand of an unlaid rope; also, a metallic eyelet in or for a sail or a mailbag. Sometimes written grummet.,
G as in Grommet (n.) A ring of rope used as a wad to hold a cannon ball in place.,
G as in Gromwell (n.) A plant of the genus Lithospermum (L. arvense), anciently used, because of its stony pericarp, in the cure of gravel. The German gromwell is the Stellera.,
G as in Grond () obs. imp. of Grind.,
G as in Gronte () obs. imp. of Groan.,
G as in Groom (n.) A boy or young man; a waiter; a servant; especially, a man or boy who has charge of horses, or the stable.,
G as in Groom (n.) One of several officers of the English royal household, chiefly in the lord chamberlain's department; as, the groom of the chamber; the groom of the stole.,
G as in Groom (n.) A man recently married, or about to be married; a bridegroom.,
G as in Groomed (imp. & p. p.) of Groom,
G as in Grooming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Groom,
G as in Groom (v. i.) To tend or care for, or to curry or clean, as a, horse.,
G as in Groomer (n.) One who, or that which, grooms horses; especially, a brush rotated by a flexible or jointed revolving shaft, for cleaning horses.,
G as in Groomsmen (pl. ) of Groomsman,
G as in Groomsman (n.) A male attendant of a bridegroom at his wedding; -- the correlative of bridesmaid.,
G as in Grooper (n.) See Grouper.,
G as in Groove (n.) A furrow, channel, or long hollow, such as may be formed by cutting, molding, grinding, the wearing force of flowing water, or constant travel; a depressed way; a worn path; a rut.,
G as in Groove (n.) Hence: The habitual course of life, work, or affairs; fixed routine.,
G as in Groove (n.) A shaft or excavation.,
G as in Grooved (imp. & p. p.) of Groove,
G as in Groving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Groove,
G as in Groove (v. t.) To cut a groove or channel in; to form into channels or grooves; to furrow.,
G as in Groover (n.) One who or that which grooves.,
G as in Groover (n.) A miner.,
G as in Grooving (n.) The act of forming a groove or grooves; a groove, or collection of grooves.,
G as in Groped (imp. & p. p.) of Grope,
G as in Groping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Grope,
G as in Grope (v. i.) To feel with or use the hands; to handle.,
G as in Grope (v. i.) To search or attempt to find something in the dark, or, as a blind person, by feeling; to move about hesitatingly, as in darkness or obscurity; to feel one's way, as with the hands, when one can not see.,
G as in Grope (v. t.) To search out by feeling in the dark; as, we groped our way at midnight.,
G as in Grope (v. t.) To examine; to test; to sound.,
G as in Groper (n.) One who gropes; one who feels his way in the dark, or searches by feeling.,
G as in Groping-ly (adv.) In a groping manner.,
G as in Gros (n.) A heavy silk with a dull finish; as, gros de Naples; gros de Tours.,
G as in Grosbeak (n.) One of various species of finches having a large, stout beak. The common European grosbeak or hawfinch is Coccothraustes vulgaris.,
G as in Groschen (n.) A small silver coin and money of account of Germany, worth about two cents. It is not included in the new monetary system of the empire.,
G as in Grosgrain (a.) Of a coarse texture; -- applied to silk with a heavy thread running crosswise.,
G as in Gross (superl.) Great; large; bulky; fat; of huge size; excessively large.,
G as in Gross (superl.) Coarse; rough; not fine or delicate.,
G as in Gross (superl.) Not easily aroused or excited; not sensitive in perception or feeling; dull; witless.,
G as in Gross (superl.) Expressing, Or originating in, animal or sensual appetites; hence, coarse, vulgar, low, obscene, or impure.,
G as in Gross (superl.) Thick; dense; not attenuated; as, a gross medium.,
G as in Gross (superl.) Great; palpable; serious; vagrant; shameful; as, a gross mistake; gross injustice; gross negligence.,
G as in Gross (superl.) Whole; entire; total; without deduction; as, the gross sum, or gross amount, the gross weight; -- opposed to net.,
G as in Gross (a.) The main body; the chief part, bulk, or mass.,
G as in Gross (sing. & pl.) The number of twelve dozen; twelve times twelve; as, a gross of bottles; ten gross of pens.,
G as in Grossbeak (n.) See Grosbeak.,
G as in Gross-headed (a.) Thick-skulled; stupid.,
G as in Grossification (n.) The act of making gross or thick, or the state of becoming so.,
G as in Grossification (n.) The swelling of the ovary of plants after fertilization. Henslow.,
G as in Grossly (adv.) In a gross manner; greatly; coarsely; without delicacy; shamefully; disgracefully.,
G as in Grossness (n.) The state or quality of being gross; thickness; corpulence; coarseness; shamefulness.,
G as in Grossular (a.) Pertaining too, or resembling, a gooseberry; as, grossular garnet.,
G as in Grossular (a.) A translucent garnet of a pale green color like that of the gooseberry; -- called also grossularite.,
G as in Grossularia (n.) Same as Grossular.,
G as in Grossulin (n.) A vegetable jelly, resembling pectin, found in gooseberries (Ribes Grossularia) and other fruits.,
G as in Grot (n.) A grotto.,
G as in Grot (n.) Alt. of Grote,
G as in Grote (n.) A groat.,
G as in Grotesgue (a.) Like the figures found in ancient grottoes; grottolike; wildly or strangely formed; whimsical; extravagant; of irregular forms and proportions; fantastic; ludicrous; antic.,
G as in Grotesque (n.) A whimsical figure, or scene, such as is found in old crypts and grottoes.,
G as in Grotesque (n.) Artificial grotto-work.,
G as in Grotesquely (adv.) In a grotesque manner.,
G as in Grotesqueness (n.) Quality of being grotesque.,
G as in Grottoes (pl. ) of Grotto,
G as in Grotto (n.) A natural covered opening in the earth; a cave; also, an artificial recess, cave, or cavernlike apartment.,
G as in Grotto-work (n.) Artificial and ornamental rockwork in imitation of a grotto.,
G as in Ground (n.) The surface of the earth; the outer crust of the globe, or some indefinite portion of it.,
G as in Ground (n.) A floor or pavement supposed to rest upon the earth.,
G as in Ground (n.) Any definite portion of the earth's surface; region; territory; country. Hence: A territory appropriated to, or resorted to, for a particular purpose; the field or place of action; as, a hunting or fishing ground; a play ground.,
G as in Ground (n.) Land; estate; possession; field; esp. (pl.), the gardens, lawns, fields, etc., belonging to a homestead; as, the grounds of the estate are well kept.,
G as in Ground (n.) The basis on which anything rests; foundation. Hence: The foundation of knowledge, belief, or conviction; a premise, reason, or datum; ultimate or first principle; cause of existence or occurrence; originating force or agency; as, the ground of my hope.,
G as in Ground (n.) That surface upon which the figures of a composition are set, and which relieves them by its plainness, being either of one tint or of tints but slightly contrasted with one another; as, crimson Bowers on a white ground.,
G as in Ground (n.) In sculpture, a flat surface upon which figures are raised in relief.,
G as in Ground (n.) In point lace, the net of small meshes upon which the embroidered pattern is applied; as, Brussels ground. See Brussels lace, under Brussels.,
G as in Ground (n.) A gummy composition spread over the surface of a metal to be etched, to prevent the acid from eating except where an opening is made by the needle.,
G as in Ground (n.) One of the pieces of wood, flush with the plastering, to which moldings, etc., are attached; -- usually in the plural.,
G as in Ground (n.) A composition in which the bass, consisting of a few bars of independent notes, is continually repeated to a varying melody.,
G as in Ground (n.) The tune on which descants are raised; the plain song.,
G as in Ground (n.) A conducting connection with the earth, whereby the earth is made part of an electrical circuit.,
G as in Ground (n.) Sediment at the bottom of liquors or liquids; dregs; lees; feces; as, coffee grounds.,
G as in Ground (n.) The pit of a theater.,
G as in Grounded (imp. & p. p.) of Ground,
G as in Grounding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ground,
G as in Ground (v. t.) To lay, set, or run, on the ground.,
G as in Ground (v. t.) To found; to fix or set, as on a foundation, reason, or principle; to furnish a ground for; to fix firmly.,
G as in Ground (v. t.) To instruct in elements or first principles.,
G as in Ground (v. t.) To connect with the ground so as to make the earth a part of an electrical circuit.,
G as in Ground (v. t.) To cover with a ground, as a copper plate for etching (see Ground, n., 5); or as paper or other materials with a uniform tint as a preparation for ornament.,
G as in Ground (v. i.) To run aground; to strike the bottom and remain fixed; as, the ship grounded on the bar.,
G as in Ground () imp. & p. p. of Grind.,
G as in Groundage (n.) A local tax paid by a ship for the ground or space it occupies while in port.,
G as in Groundedly (adv.) In a grounded or firmly established manner.,
G as in Grounden () p. p. of Grind.,
G as in Grounding (n.) The act, method, or process of laying a groundwork or foundation; hence, elementary instruction; the act or process of applying a ground, as of color, to wall paper, cotton cloth, etc.; a basis.,
G as in Groundless (a.) Without ground or foundation; wanting cause or reason for support; not authorized; false; as, groundless fear; a groundless report or assertion.,
G as in Groundling (n.) A fish that keeps at the bottom of the water, as the loach.,
G as in Groundling (n.) A spectator in the pit of a theater, which formerly was on the ground, and without floor or benches.,
G as in Groundly (adv.) Solidly; deeply; thoroughly.,
G as in Groundnut (n.) The fruit of the Arachis hypogaea (native country uncertain); the peanut; the earthnut.,
G as in Groundnut (n.) A leguminous, twining plant (Apios tuberosa), producing clusters of dark purple flowers and having a root tuberous and pleasant to the taste.,
G as in Groundnut (n.) The dwarf ginseng (Aralia trifolia).,
G as in Groundnut (n.) A European plant of the genus Bunium (B. flexuosum), having an edible root of a globular shape and sweet, aromatic taste; -- called also earthnut, earth chestnut, hawknut, and pignut.,
G as in Groundsel (v.) An annual composite plant (Senecio vulgaris), one of the most common and widely distributed weeds on the globe.,
G as in Groundsel (n.) Alt. of Groundsill,
G as in Groundsill (n.) See Ground plate (a), under Ground,
G as in Groundwork (n.) That which forms the foundation or support of anything; the basis; the essential or fundamental part; first principle.,
G as in Group (n.) A cluster, crowd, or throng; an assemblage, either of persons or things, collected without any regular form or arrangement; as, a group of men or of trees; a group of isles.,
G as in Group (n.) An assemblage of objects in a certain order or relation, or having some resemblance or common characteristic; as, groups of strata.,
G as in Group (n.) A variously limited assemblage of animals or plants, having some resemblance, or common characteristics in form or structure. The term has different uses, and may be made to include certain species of a genus, or a whole genus, or certain genera, or even several orders.,
G as in Group (n.) A number of eighth, sixteenth, etc., notes joined at the stems; -- sometimes rather indefinitely applied to any ornament made up of a few short notes.,
G as in Grouped (imp. & p. p.) of Group,
G as in Grouping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Group,
G as in Group (n.) To form a group of; to arrange or combine in a group or in groups, often with reference to mutual relation and the best effect; to form an assemblage of.,
G as in Grouper (n.) One of several species of valuable food fishes of the genus Epinephelus, of the family Serranidae, as the red grouper, or brown snapper (E. morio), and the black grouper, or warsaw (E. nigritus), both from Florida and the Gulf of Mexico.,
G as in Grouper (n.) The tripletail (Lobotes).,
G as in Grouper (n.) In California, the name is often applied to the rockfishes.,
G as in Grouping (n.) The disposal or relative arrangement of figures or objects, as in, drawing, painting, and sculpture, or in ornamental design.,
G as in Grouse (n. sing. & pl.) Any of the numerous species of gallinaceous birds of the family Tetraonidae, and subfamily Tetraoninae, inhabiting Europe, Asia, and North America. They have plump bodies, strong, well-feathered legs, and usually mottled plumage. The group includes the ptarmigans (Lagopus), having feathered feet.,
G as in Grouse (v. i.) To seek or shoot grouse.,
G as in Grouse (v. i.) To complain or grumble.,
G as in Grouser (n.) A pointed timber attached to a boat and sliding vertically, to thrust into the ground as a means of anchorage.,
G as in Grout (n.) Coarse meal; ground malt; pl. groats.,
G as in Grout (n.) Formerly, a kind of beer or ale.,
G as in Grout (n.) Lees; dregs; grounds.,
G as in Grout (n.) A thin, coarse mortar, used for pouring into the joints of masonry and brickwork; also, a finer material, used in finishing the best ceilings. Gwilt.,
G as in Grouted (imp. & p. p.) of Grout,
G as in Grouting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Grout,
G as in Grout (v. t.) To fill up or finish with grout, as the joints between stones.,
G as in Grouthead (n.) See Growthead.,
G as in Grouting (n.) The process of filling in or finishing with grout; also, the grout thus filled in.,
G as in Groutnol (n.) Same as Growthead.,
G as in Grouty (a.) Cross; sulky; sullen.,
G as in Grove (v.) A smaller group of trees than a forest, and without underwood, planted, or growing naturally as if arranged by art; a wood of small extent.,
G as in Groveled (imp. & p. p.) of Grovel,
G as in Grovelled () of Grovel,
G as in Groveling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Grovel,
G as in Grovelling () of Grovel,
G as in Grovel (adv.) To creep on the earth, or with the face to the ground; to lie prone, or move uneasily with the body prostrate on the earth; to lie fiat on one's belly, expressive of abjectness; to crawl.,
G as in Grovel (adv.) To tend toward, or delight in, what is sensual or base; to be low, abject, or mean.,
G as in Groveler (n.) One who grovels; an abject wretch.,
G as in Groveling (a.) Lying prone; low; debased.,
G as in Grovy (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, a grove; situated in, or frequenting, groves.,
G as in Grew (imp.) of Grow,
G as in Grown (p. p.) of Grow,
G as in Growing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Grow,
G as in Grow (v. i.) To increase in size by a natural and organic process; to increase in bulk by the gradual assimilation of new matter into the living organism; -- said of animals and vegetables and their organs.,
G as in Grow (v. i.) To increase in any way; to become larger and stronger; to be augmented; to advance; to extend; to wax; to accrue.,
G as in Grow (v. i.) To spring up and come to matturity in a natural way; to be produced by vegetation; to thrive; to flourish; as, rice grows in warm countries.,
G as in Grow (v. i.) To pass from one state to another; to result as an effect from a cause; to become; as, to grow pale.,
G as in Grow (v. i.) To become attached of fixed; to adhere.,
G as in Grow (v. t.) To cause to grow; to cultivate; to produce; as, to grow a crop; to grow wheat, hops, or tobacco.,
G as in Growable (a.) Capable of growth.,
G as in Growan (n.) A decomposed granite, forming a mass of gravel, as in tin lodes in Cornwall.,
G as in Grower (n.) One who grows or produces; as, a grower of corn; also, that which grows or increases; as, a vine may be a rank or a slow grower.,
G as in Growled (imp. & p. p.) of Growl,
G as in Growling (p. pr. & vb. e.) of Growl,
G as in Growl (v. i.) To utter a deep guttural sound, sa an angry dog; to give forth an angry, grumbling sound.,
G as in Growl (v. t.) To express by growling.,
G as in Growl (n.) The deep, threatening sound made by a surly dog; a grumbling sound.,
G as in Growler (n.) One who growls.,
G as in Growler (n.) The large-mouthed black bass.,
G as in Growler (n.) A four-wheeled cab.,
G as in Growlingly (adv.) In a growling manner.,
G as in Grown () p. p. of Grow.,
G as in Growse (v. i.) To shiver; to have chills.,
G as in Growth (n.) The process of growing; the gradual increase of an animal or a vegetable body; the development from a seed, germ, or root, to full size or maturity; increase in size, number, frequency, strength, etc.; augmentation; advancement; production; prevalence or influence; as, the growth of trade; the growth of power; the growth of intemperance. Idle weeds are fast in growth.,
G as in Growth (n.) That which has grown or is growing; anything produced; product; consequence; effect; result.,
G as in Growthead (n.) A lazy person; a blockhead.,
G as in Growthful (a.) Having capacity of growth.,
G as in Groyne (n.) See Groin.,
G as in Grozing iron () A tool with a hardened steel point, formerly used instead of a diamond for cutting glass.,
G as in Grozing iron () A tool for smoothing the solder joints of lead pipe.,
G as in Grubbed (imp. & p. p.) of Grub,
G as in Grubbing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Grub,
G as in Grub (v. i.) To dig in or under the ground, generally for an object that is difficult to reach or extricate; to be occupied in digging.,
G as in Grub (v. i.) To drudge; to do menial work.,
G as in Grub (v. t.) To dig; to dig up by the roots; to root out by digging; -- followed by up; as, to grub up trees, rushes, or sedge.,
G as in Grub (v. t.) To supply with food.,
G as in Grub (n.) The larva of an insect, especially of a beetle; -- called also grubworm. See Illust. of Goldsmith beetle, under Goldsmith.,
G as in Grub (n.) A short, thick man; a dwarf.,
G as in Grub (n.) Victuals; food.,
G as in Grubber (n.) One who, or that which, grubs; especially, a machine or tool of the nature of a grub ax, grub hook, etc.,
G as in Grubbla (v. t. & i.) To feel or grope in the dark.,
G as in Grubby (a.) Dirty; unclean.,
G as in Grubby (n.) Any species of Cottus; a sculpin.,
G as in Grubworm (n.) See Grub, n., 1.,
G as in Grucche (v. i.) To murmur; to grumble.,
G as in Grudger (imp. & p. p.) of Grudge,
G as in Grudging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Grudge,
G as in Grudge (v. t.) To look upon with desire to possess or to appropriate; to envy (one) the possession of; to begrudge; to covet; to give with reluctance; to desire to get back again; -- followed by the direct object only, or by both the direct and indirect objects.,
G as in Grudge (v. t.) To hold or harbor with malicioua disposition or purpose; to cherish enviously.,
G as in Grudge (v. i.) To be covetous or envious; to show discontent; to murmur; to complain; to repine; to be unwilling or reluctant.,
G as in Grudge (v. i.) To feel compunction or grief.,
G as in Grudge (n.) Sullen malice or malevolence; cherished malice, enmity, or dislike; ill will; an old cause of hatred or quarrel.,
G as in Grudge (n.) Slight symptom of disease.,
G as in Grudgeful (a.) Full of grudge; envious.,
G as in Grudgeons (n. pl.) Alt. of Gurgeons,
G as in Gurgeons (n. pl.) Coarse meal.,
G as in Gruddger (n.) One who grudges.,
G as in Grudgingly (adv.) In a grudging manner.,
G as in Grudgingness (n.) The state or quality of grudging, or of being full of grudge or unwillingness.,
G as in Gruel (n.) A light, liquid food, made by boiling meal of maize, oatmeal, or fiour in water or milk; thin porridge.,
G as in Gruelly (a.) Like gruel; of the consistence of gruel.,
G as in Gruesome (a.) Same as Grewsome.,
G as in Gruf (adv.) Forwards; with one's face to the ground.,
G as in Gruff (superl.) Of a rough or stern manner, voice, or countenance; sour; surly; severe; harsh.,
G as in Grugru palm () A West Indian name for several kinds of palm. See Macaw tree, under Macaw.,
G as in Grugru worm () The larva or grub of a large South American beetle (Calandra palmarum), which lives in the pith of palm trees and sugar cane. It is eaten by the natives, and esteemed a delicacy.,
G as in Grum (a.) Morose; severe of countenance; sour; surly; glum; grim.,
G as in Grum (a.) Low; deep in the throat; guttural; rumbling; as,,
G as in Grunbled (imp. & p. p.) of Grumble,
G as in Grumbling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Grumble,
G as in Grumble (v. i.) To murmur or mutter with discontent; to make ill-natured complaints in a low voice and a surly manner.,
G as in Grumble (v. i.) To growl; to snarl in deep tones; as, a lion grumbling over his prey.,
G as in Grumble (v. i.) To rumble; to make a low, harsh, and heavy sound; to mutter; as, the distant thunder grumbles.,
G as in Grumble (v. t.) To express or utter with grumbling.,
G as in Grumble (n.) The noise of one that grumbles.,
G as in Grumble (n.) A grumbling, discontented disposition.,
G as in Grumbler (n.) One who grumbles.,
G as in Grumblingly (adv.) In a grumbling manner.,
G as in Grume (n.) A thick, viscid fluid; a clot, as of blood.,
G as in Grumbly (adv.) In a grum manner.,
G as in Grumose (a.) Clustered in grains at intervals; grumous.,
G as in Grumous (a.) Resembling or containing grume; thick; concreted; clotted; as, grumous blood.,
G as in Grumous (a.) See Grumose.,
G as in Grumousness (n.) The state of being grumous.,
G as in Grumpily (adv.) In a surly manner; sullenly.,
G as in Grumpy (a.) Surly; dissatisfied; grouty.,
G as in Grundel (n.) A groundling (fish).,
G as in Grundsel (n.) Groundsel.,
G as in Grunted (imp. & p. p.) of Grunt,
G as in Grunting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Grunt,
G as in Grunt (v. t.) To make a deep, short noise, as a hog; to utter a short groan or a deep guttural sound.,
G as in Grunt (n.) A deep, guttural sound, as of a hog.,
G as in Grunt (n.) Any one of several species of American food fishes, of the genus Haemulon, allied to the snappers, as, the black grunt (A. Plumieri), and the redmouth grunt (H. aurolineatus), of the Southern United States; -- also applied to allied species of the genera Pomadasys, Orthopristis, and Pristopoma. Called also pigfish, squirrel fish, and grunter; -- so called from the noise it makes when taken.,
G as in Grunter (n.) One who, or that which, grunts; specifically, a hog.,
G as in Grunter (n.) One of several American marine fishes. See Sea robin, and Grunt, n., 2.,
G as in Grunter (n.) A hook used in lifting a crucible.,
G as in Gruntingly (adv.) In a grunting manner.,
G as in Gruntle (v. i.) To grunt; to grunt repeatedly.,
G as in Gruntling (n.) A young hog.,
G as in Grutch (v.) See Grudge.,
G as in Gruyere cheese () A kind of cheese made at Gruyere, Switzerland. It is a firm cheese containing numerous cells, and is known in the United States as Schweitzerkase.,
G as in Gry (n.) A measure equal to one tenth of a line.,
G as in Gry (n.) Anything very small, or of little value.,
G as in Gryde (v. i.) To gride. See Gride.,
G as in Gryfon (n.) See Griffin.,
G as in Gryllus (n.) A genus of insects including the common crickets.,
G as in Grype (v. t.) To gripe.,
G as in Grype (n.) A vulture; the griffin.,
G as in Gryphaea (n.) A genus of cretaceous fossil shells allied to the oyster.,
G as in Gryphite (n.) A shell of the genus Gryphea.,
G as in Gryphon (n.) The griffin vulture.,
G as in Grysbok (n.) A small South African antelope (Neotragus melanotis). It is speckled with gray and chestnut, above; the under parts are reddish fawn.,
G as in Guacharo (n.) A nocturnal bird of South America and Trinidad (Steatornis Caripensis, or S. steatornis); -- called also oilbird.,
G as in Guachos (pl. ) of Guacho,
G as in Guacho (n.) One of the mixed-blood (Spanish-Indian) inhabitants of the pampas of South America; a mestizo.,
G as in Guacho (n.) An Indian who serves as a messenger.,
G as in Guaco (n.) A plant (Aristolochia anguicida) of Carthagena, used as an antidote to serpent bites.,
G as in Guaco (n.) The Mikania Guaco, of Brazil, used for the same purpose.,
G as in Guaiac (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, guaiacum.,
G as in Guaiac (n.) Guaiacum.,
G as in Guaiacum (n.) A genus of small, crooked trees, growing in tropical America.,
G as in Guaiacum (n.) The heart wood or the resin of the Guaiacum offinale or lignum-vitae, a large tree of the West Indies and Central America. It is much used in medicine.,
G as in Guan (n.) Any one of many species of large gallinaceous birds of Central and South America, belonging to Penelope, Pipile, Ortalis, and allied genera. Several of the species are often domesticated.,
G as in Guana (n.) See Iguana.,
G as in Guanacos (pl. ) of Guanaco,
G as in Guanaco (n.) A South American mammal (Auchenia huanaco), allied to the llama, but of larger size and more graceful form, inhabiting the southern Andes and Patagonia. It is supposed by some to be the llama in a wild state.,
G as in Guanidine (n.) A strongly alkaline base, CN3H5, formed by the oxidation of guanin, and also obtained combined with methyl in the decomposition of creatin. Boiled with dilute sulphuric acid, it yields urea and ammonia.,
G as in Guaniferous (a.) Yielding guano.,
G as in Guanin (n.) A crystalline substance (C5H5N5O) contained in guano. It is also a constituent of the liver, pancreas, and other glands in mammals.,
G as in Guanos (pl. ) of Guano,
G as in Guano (n.) A substance found in great abundance on some coasts or islands frequented by sea fowls, and composed chiefly of their excrement. It is rich in phosphates and ammonia, and is used as a powerful fertilizer.,
G as in Guara (n.) The scarlet ibis. See Ibis.,
G as in Guara (n.) A large-maned wild dog of South America (Canis jubatus) -- named from its cry.,
G as in Guarana (n.) A preparation from the seeds of Paullinia sorbilis, a woody climber of Brazil, used in making an astringent drink, and also in the cure of headache.,
G as in Guaranine (n.) An alkaloid extracted from guarana. Same as Caffeine.,
G as in Guarantees (pl. ) of Guarantee,
G as in Guarantee (n.) In law and common usage: A promise to answer for the payment of some debt, or the performance of some duty, in case of the failure of another person, who is, in the first instance, liable to such payment or performance; an engagement which secures or insures another against a contingency; a warranty; a security. Same as Guaranty.,
G as in Guarantee (n.) One who binds himself to see an undertaking of another performed; a guarantor.,
G as in Guarantee (n.) The person to whom a guaranty is made; -- the correlative of guarantor.,
G as in guaranteed (imp. & p. p.) of Guarantee,
G as in Guaranteeing (p, pr. & vb. n.) of Guarantee,
G as in Guarantee (n.) In law and common usage: to undertake or engage for the payment of (a debt) or the performance of (a duty) by another person; to undertake to secure (a possession, right, claim, etc.) to another against a specified contingency, or at all avents; to give a guarantee concerning; to engage, assure, or secure as a thing that may be depended on; to warrant; as, to guarantee the execution of a treaty.,
G as in Guarantor (n.) One who makes or gives a guaranty; a warrantor; a surety.,
G as in Guarantor (n.) One who engages to secure another in any right or possession.,
G as in Guaranies (pl. ) of Guaranty,
G as in Guaranty (n.) In law and common usage: An undertaking to answer for the payment of some debt, or the performance of some contract or duty, of another, in case of the failure of such other to pay or perform; a guarantee; a warranty; a security.,
G as in Guarantied (imp. & p. p.) of Guaranty,
G as in Guarantying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Guaranty,
G as in Guaranty (n.) In law and common usage: To undertake or engage that another person shall perform (what he has stipulated); to undertake to be answerable for (the debt or default of another); to engage to answer for the performance of (some promise or duty by another) in case of a failure by the latter to perform; to undertake to secure (something) to another, as in the case of a contingency. See Guarantee, v. t.,
G as in Guarded (imp. & p. p.) of Guard,
G as in Gurding (p. pr. &, vb. n.) of Guard,
G as in Guard (n.) To protect from danger; to secure against surprise, attack, or injury; to keep in safety; to defend; to shelter; to shield from surprise or attack; to protect by attendance; to accompany for protection; to care for.,
G as in Guard (n.) To keep watch over, in order to prevent escape or restrain from acts of violence, or the like.,
G as in Guard (n.) To protect the edge of, esp. with an ornamental border; hence, to face or ornament with lists, laces, etc.,
G as in Guard (n.) To fasten by binding; to gird.,
G as in Guard (v. i.) To watch by way of caution or defense; to be caution; to be in a state or position of defense or safety; as, careful persons guard against mistakes.,
G as in Guard (v. t.) One who, or that which, guards from injury, danger, exposure, or attack; defense; protection.,
G as in Guard (v. t.) A man, or body of men, stationed to protect or control a person or position; a watch; a sentinel.,
G as in Guard (v. t.) One who has charge of a mail coach or a railway train; a conductor.,
G as in Guard (v. t.) Any fixture or attachment designed to protect or secure against injury, soiling, or defacement, theft or loss,
G as in Guard (v. t.) That part of a sword hilt which protects the hand.,
G as in Guard (v. t.) Ornamental lace or hem protecting the edge of a garment.,
G as in Guard (v. t.) A chain or cord for fastening a watch to one's person or dress.,
G as in Guard (v. t.) A fence or rail to prevent falling from the deck of a vessel.,
G as in Guard (v. t.) An extension of the deck of a vessel beyond the hull; esp., in side-wheel steam vessels, the framework of strong timbers, which curves out on each side beyond the paddle wheel, and protects it and the shaft against collision.,
G as in Guard (v. t.) A plate of metal, beneath the stock, or the lock frame, of a gun or pistol, having a loop, called a bow, to protect the trigger.,
G as in Guard (v. t.) An interleaved strip at the back, as in a scrap book, to guard against its breaking when filled.,
G as in Guard (v. t.) A posture of defense in fencing, and in bayonet and saber exercise.,
G as in Guard (v. t.) An expression or admission intended to secure against objections or censure.,
G as in Guard (v. t.) Watch; heed; care; attention; as, to keep guard.,
G as in Guard (v. t.) The fibrous sheath which covers the phragmacone of the Belemnites.,
G as in Guardable (v. t.) Capable of being guarded or protected.,
G as in Guardage (v. t.) Wardship,
G as in Guardant (v. t.) Acting as guardian.,
G as in Guardant (v. t.) Same as Gardant.,
G as in Guardant (n.) A guardian.,
G as in Guarded (a.) Cautious; wary; circumspect; as, he was guarded in his expressions; framed or uttered with caution; as, his expressions were guarded.,
G as in Guardenage (n.) Guardianship.,
G as in Guarder (n.) One who guards.,
G as in Guardfish (n.) The garfish.,
G as in Guardful (a.) Cautions; wary; watchful.,
G as in Guardhouse (n.) A building which is occupied by the guard, and in which soldiers are confined for misconduct; hence, a lock-up.,
G as in Guardian (v. t.) One who guards, preserves, or secures; one to whom any person or thing is committed for protection, security, or preservation from injury; a warden.,
G as in Guardian (v. t.) One who has, or is entitled to, the custody of the person or property of an infant, a minor without living parents, or a person incapable of managing his own affairs.,
G as in Guardian (a.) Performing, or appropriate to, the office of a protector; as, a guardian care.,
G as in Guardianage (n.) Guardianship.,
G as in Guardiance (n.) Guardianship.,
G as in Guardianess (n.) A female guardian.,
G as in Guardianless (a.) Without a guardian.,
G as in Guardianship (n.) The office, duty, or care, of a guardian; protection; care; watch.,
G as in Guardless (a.) Without a guard or defense; unguarded.,
G as in Guardroom (n.) The room occupied by the guard during its term of duty; also, a room where prisoners are confined.,
G as in Guards (n. pl.) A body of picked troops; as, "The Household Guards.",
G as in Guardship (n.) Care; protection.,
G as in Guardsmen (pl. ) of Guardsman,
G as in Guardsman (n.) One who guards; a guard.,
G as in Guardsman (n.) A member, either officer or private, of any military body called Guards.,
G as in Guarish (v. t.) To heal.,
G as in Guatemala grass () See Teosinte.,
G as in Guava (n.) A tropical tree, or its fruit, of the genus Psidium. Two varieties are well known, the P. pyriferum, or white guava, and P. pomiferum, or red guava. The fruit or berry is shaped like a pomegranate, but is much smaller. It is somewhat astringent, but makes a delicious jelly.,
G as in Gubernance (n.) Government.,
G as in Gubernate (v. t.) To govern.,
G as in Gubernation (n.) The act of governing; government,
G as in Gubernative (a.) Governing.,
G as in Gubernatorial (a.) Pertaining to a governor, or to government.,
G as in Gudgeon (n.) A small European freshwater fish (Gobio fluviatilis), allied to the carp. It is easily caught and often used for food and for bait. In America the killifishes or minnows are often called gudgeons.,
G as in Gudgeon (n.) What may be got without skill or merit.,
G as in Gudgeon (n.) A person easily duped or cheated.,
G as in Gudgeon (n.) The pin of iron fastened in the end of a wooden shaft or axle, on which it turns; formerly, any journal, or pivot, or bearing, as the pintle and eye of a hinge, but esp. the end journal of a horizontal.,
G as in Gudgeon (n.) A metal eye or socket attached to the sternpost to receive the pintle of the rudder.,
G as in Gudgeon (v. t.) To deprive fraudulently; to cheat; to dupe; to impose upon.,
G as in Gue (n.) A sharper; a rogue.,
G as in Gueber (n.) Alt. of Guebre,
G as in Guebre (n.) Same as Gheber.,
G as in Guelderrose' (n.) A cultivated variety of a species of Viburnum (V. Opulus), bearing large bunches of white flowers; -- called also snowball tree.,
G as in Guelph (n.) Alt. of Guelf,
G as in Guelf (n.) One of a faction in Germany and Italy, in the 12th and 13th centuries, which supported the House of Guelph and the pope, and opposed the Ghibellines, or faction of the German emperors.,
G as in Guelphic (a.) Alt. of Guelfic,
G as in Guelfic (a.) Of or pertaining to the family or the faction of the Guelphs.,
G as in Guenon (n.) One of several long-tailed Oriental monkeys, of the genus Cercocebus, as the green monkey and grivet.,
G as in Gueparde (n.) The cheetah.,
G as in Guerdon (n.) A reward; requital; recompense; -- used in both a good and a bad sense.,
G as in Guerdon (n.) To give guerdon to; to reward; to be a recompense for.,
G as in Guerdonable (a.) Worthy of reward.,
G as in Guerdonless (a.) Without reward or guerdon.,
G as in Guereza (n.) A beautiful Abyssinian monkey (Colobus guereza), having the body black, with a fringe of long, silky, white hair along the sides, and a tuft of the same at the end of the tail. The frontal band, cheeks, and chin are white.,
G as in Guerilla (a.) See Guerrilla.,
G as in Guerite (n.) A projecting turret for a sentry, as at the salient angles of works, or the acute angles of bastions.,
G as in Guernsey lily () A South African plant (Nerine Sarniensis) with handsome lilylike flowers, naturalized on the island of Guernsey.,
G as in Guerrilla (n.) An irregular mode of carrying on war, by the constant attacks of independent bands, adopted in the north of Spain during the Peninsular war.,
G as in Guerrilla (n.) One who carries on, or assists in carrying on, irregular warfare; especially, a member of an independent band engaged in predatory excursions in war time.,
G as in Guerrilla (a.) Pertaining to, or engaged in, warfare carried on irregularly and by independent bands; as, a guerrilla party; guerrilla warfare.,
G as in Guessed (imp. & p. p.) of Guess,
G as in Guessing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Guess,
G as in Guess (v. t.) To form an opinion concerning, without knowledge or means of knowledge; to judge of at random; to conjecture.,
G as in Guess (v. t.) To judge or form an opinion of, from reasons that seem preponderating, but are not decisive.,
G as in Guess (v. t.) To solve by a correct conjecture; to conjecture rightly; as, he who guesses the riddle shall have the ring; he has guessed my designs.,
G as in Guess (v. t.) To hit upon or reproduce by memory.,
G as in Guess (v. t.) To think; to suppose; to believe; to imagine; -- followed by an objective clause.,
G as in Guess (v. i.) To make a guess or random judgment; to conjecture; -- with at, about, etc.,
G as in Guess (n.) An opinion as to anything, formed without sufficient or decisive evidence or grounds; an attempt to hit upon the truth by a random judgment; a conjecture; a surmise.,
G as in Guessable (a.) Capable of being guessed.,
G as in Guesser (n.) One who guesses; one who forms or gives an opinion without means of knowing.,
G as in Guessingly (adv.) By way of conjecture.,
G as in Guessive (a.) Conjectural.,
G as in Guess rope () A guess warp.,
G as in Guess warp () A rope or hawser by which a vessel is towed or warped along; -- so called because it is necessary to guess at the length to be carried in the boat making the attachment to a distant object.,
G as in Guesswork (n.) Work performed, or results obtained, by guess; conjecture.,
G as in Guest (n.) A visitor; a person received and entertained in one's house or at one's table; a visitor entertained without pay.,
G as in Guest (v. t.) To receive or entertain hospitably.,
G as in Guest (v. i.) To be, or act the part of, a guest.,
G as in Guest rope () The line by which a boat makes fast to the swinging boom.,
G as in Guestwise (adv.) In the manner of a guest.,
G as in Gue'vi (n.) One of several very small species and varieties of African antelopes, of the genus Cephalophus, as the Cape guevi or kleeneboc (Cephalophus pygmaea); -- called also pygmy antelope.,
G as in Guffaw (n.) A loud burst of laughter; a horse laugh.,
G as in Guffer (n.) The eelpout; guffer eel.,
G as in Guggle (v. i.) See Gurgle.,
G as in Guhr (n.) A loose, earthy deposit from water, found in the cavities or clefts of rocks, mostly white, but sometimes red or yellow, from a mixture of clay or ocher.,
G as in Guiac (n.) Same as Guaiac.,
G as in Guiacol (n.) A colorless liquid, C6H4,OCH3.OH, resembling the phenols, found as a constituent of woodtar creosote, aud produced by the dry distillation of guaiac resin.,
G as in Guiacum (n.) Same as Guaiacum.,
G as in Guib (n.) A West African antelope (Tragelaphus scriptus), curiously marked with white stripes and spots on a reddish fawn ground, and hence called harnessed antelope; -- called also guiba.,
G as in Guicowar (n.) [Mahratta g/ekw/r, prop., a cowherd.] The title of the sovereign of Guzerat, in Western India; -- generally called the Guicowar of Baroda, which is the capital of the country.,
G as in Guidable (a.) Capable of being guided; willing to be guided or counseled.,
G as in Guidage (n.) The reward given to a guide for services.,
G as in Guidage (n.) Guidance; lead; direction.,
G as in Guidance (n.) The act or result of guiding; the superintendence or assistance of a guide; direction; government; a leading.,
G as in Guided (imp. & p. p.) of Guide,
G as in Guiding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Guide,
G as in Guide (v. t.) To lead or direct in a way; to conduct in a course or path; to pilot; as, to guide a traveler.,
G as in Guide (v. t.) To regulate and manage; to direct; to order; to superintend the training or education of; to instruct and influence intellectually or morally; to train.,
G as in Guide (v. t.) A person who leads or directs another in his way or course, as in a strange land; one who exhibits points of interest to strangers; a conductor; also, that which guides; a guidebook.,
G as in Guide (v. t.) One who, or that which, directs another in his conduct or course of lifo; a director; a regulator.,
G as in Guide (v. t.) Any contrivance, especially one having a directing edge, surface, or channel, for giving direction to the motion of anything, as water, an instrument, or part of a machine, or for directing the hand or eye, as of an operator,
G as in Guide (v. t.) A blade or channel for directing the flow of water to the wheel buckets.,
G as in Guide (v. t.) A grooved director for a probe or knife.,
G as in Guide (v. t.) A strip or device to direct the compositor's eye to the line of copy he is setting.,
G as in Guide (v. t.) A noncommissioned officer or soldier placed on the directiug flank of each subdivision of a column of troops, or at the end of a line, to mark the pivots, formations, marches, and alignments in tactics.,
G as in Guideboard (n.) A board, as upon a guidepost having upon it directions or information as to the road.,
G as in Guidebook (n.) A book of directions and information for travelers, tourists, etc.,
G as in Guideless (a.) Without a guide.,
G as in Guidepost (n.) A post at the fork of a road, with a guideboard on it, to direct travelers.,
G as in Guider (n.) A guide; a director.,
G as in Guideress (n.) A female guide.,
G as in Guidguid (n.) A South American ant bird of the genus Hylactes; -- called also barking bird.,
G as in Guidon (v. t.) A small flag or streamer, as that carried by cavalry, which is broad at one end and nearly pointed at the other, or that used to direct the movements of a body of infantry, or to make signals at sea; also, the flag of a guild or fraternity. In the United States service, each company of cavalry has a guidon.,
G as in Guidon (v. t.) One who carries a flag.,
G as in Guidon (v. t.) One of a community established at Rome, by Charlemagne, to guide pilgrims to the Holy Land.,
G as in Gulge (n.) See Gige.,
G as in Guild (v. t.) An association of men belonging to the same class, or engaged in kindred pursuits, formed for mutual aid and protection; a business fraternity or corporation; as, the Stationers' Guild; the Ironmongers' Guild. They were originally licensed by the government, and endowed with special privileges and authority.,
G as in Guild (v. t.) A guildhall.,
G as in Guild (v. t.) A religious association or society, organized for charitable purposes or for assistance in parish work.,
G as in Guildable (a.) Liable to a tax.,
G as in Guilder (n.) A Dutch silver coin worth about forty cents; -- called also florin and gulden.,
G as in Guildhall (n.) The hall where a guild or corporation usually assembles; a townhall.,
G as in Guile (n.) Craft; deceitful cunning; artifice; duplicity; wile; deceit; treachery.,
G as in Guile (n.) To disguise or conceal; to deceive or delude.,
G as in Guileful (a.) Full of guile; characterized by cunning, deceit, or treachery; guilty.,
G as in Guileless (a.) Free from guile; artless.,
G as in Guilor (n.) A deceiver; one who deludes, or uses guile.,
G as in Guillemet (n.) A quotation mark.,
G as in Guillemot (n.) One of several northern sea birds, allied to the auks. They have short legs, placed far back, and are expert divers and swimmers.,
G as in Guillevat (n.) A vat for fermenting liquors.,
G as in Guilloche (n.) An ornament in the form of two or more bands or strings twisted over each other in a continued series, leaving circular openings which are filled with round ornaments.,
G as in Guilloched (a.) Waved or engine-turned.,
G as in Guillotine (n.) A machine for beheading a person by one stroke of a heavy ax or blade, which slides in vertical guides, is raised by a cord, and let fall upon the neck of the victim.,
G as in Guillotine (n.) Any machine or instrument for cutting or shearing, resembling in its action a guillotine.,
G as in Guillotined (imp. & p. p.) of Guillotine,
G as in Guillotining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Guillotine,
G as in Guillotine (v. t.) To behead with the guillotine.,
G as in Guilt (v. t.) The criminality and consequent exposure to punishment resulting from willful disobedience of law, or from morally wrong action; the state of one who has broken a moral or political law; crime; criminality; offense against right.,
G as in Guilt (v. t.) Exposure to any legal penalty or forfeiture.,
G as in Guiltily (adv.) In a guilty manner.,
G as in Guiltiness (n.) The quality or state of being guilty.,
G as in Guiltless (a.) Free from guilt; innocent.,
G as in Guiltless (a.) Without experience or trial; unacquainted (with).,
G as in Guilt-sick (a.) Made sick by consciousness of guilt.,
G as in Guilty (superl.) Having incurred guilt; criminal; morally delinquent; wicked; chargeable with, or responsible for, something censurable; justly exposed to penalty; -- used with of, and usually followed by the crime, sometimes by the punishment.,
G as in Guilty (superl.) Evincing or indicating guilt; involving guilt; as, a guilty look; a guilty act; a guilty feeling.,
G as in Guilty (superl.) Conscious; cognizant.,
G as in Guilty (superl.) Condemned to payment.,
G as in Guiltylike (adv.) Guiltily.,
G as in Guinea (n.) A district on the west coast of Africa (formerly noted for its export of gold and slaves) after which the Guinea fowl, Guinea grass, Guinea peach, etc., are named.,
G as in Guinea (n.) A gold coin of England current for twenty-one shillings sterling, or about five dollars, but not coined since the issue of sovereigns in 1817.,
G as in Guipure (n.) A term used for lace of different kinds; most properly for a lace of large pattern and heavy material which has no ground or mesh, but has the pattern held together by connecting threads called bars or brides.,
G as in Guirland (n.) See Garland.,
G as in Guise (n.) Customary way of speaking or acting; custom; fashion; manner; behavior; mien; mode; practice; -- often used formerly in such phrases as: at his own guise; that is, in his own fashion, to suit himself.,
G as in Guise (n.) External appearance in manner or dress; appropriate indication or expression; garb; shape.,
G as in Guise (n.) Cover; cloak; as, under the guise of patriotism.,
G as in Guiser (n.) A person in disguise; a masker; a mummer.,
G as in Guitar (n.) A stringed instrument of music resembling the lute or the violin, but larger, and having six strings, three of silk covered with silver wire, and three of catgut, -- played upon with the fingers.,
G as in Guitguit (n.) One of several species of small tropical American birds of the family Coerebidae, allied to the creepers; -- called also quit. See Quit.,
G as in GulAe (pl. ) of Gula,
G as in Gulas (pl. ) of Gula,
G as in Gula (n.) The upper front of the neck, next to the chin; the upper throat.,
G as in Gula (n.) A plate which in most insects supports the submentum.,
G as in Gula (n.) A capping molding. Same as Cymatium.,
G as in Gular (a.) Pertaining to the gula or throat; as, gular plates. See Illust. of Bird, and Bowfin.,
G as in Gulaund (n.) An arctic sea bird.,
G as in Gulch (n.) Act of gulching or gulping.,
G as in Gulch (n.) A glutton.,
G as in Gulch (n.) A ravine, or part of the deep bed of a torrent when dry; a gully.,
G as in Gulch (v. t.) To swallow greedily; to gulp down.,
G as in Guid (n.) A flower. See Gold.,
G as in Gulden (n.) See Guilder.,
G as in Gule (v. t.) To give the color of gules to.,
G as in Gule (n.) The throat; the gullet.,
G as in Gules (n.) The tincture red, indicated in seals and engraved figures of escutcheons by parallel vertical lines. Hence, used poetically for a red color or that which is red.,
G as in Gulf (n.) A hollow place in the earth; an abyss; a deep chasm or basin,,
G as in Gulf (n.) That which swallows; the gullet.,
G as in Gulf (n.) That which swallows irretrievably; a whirlpool; a sucking eddy.,
G as in Gulf (n.) A portion of an ocean or sea extending into the land; a partially land-locked sea; as, the Gulf of Mexico.,
G as in Gulf (n.) A large deposit of ore in a lode.,
G as in Gulfy (a.) Full of whirlpools or gulfs.,
G as in Gulgul (n.) A cement made in India from sea shells, pulverized and mixed with oil, and spread over a ship's bottom, to prevent the boring of worms.,
G as in Gulist (n.) A glutton.,
G as in Gulled (imp. & p. p.) of Gull,
G as in Gulling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gull,
G as in Gull (v. t.) To deceive; to cheat; to mislead; to trick; to defraud.,
G as in Gull (n.) A cheating or cheat; trick; fraud.,
G as in Gull (n.) One easily cheated; a dupe.,
G as in Gull (n.) One of many species of long-winged sea birds of the genus Larus and allied genera.,
G as in Gullage (n.) Act of being gulled.,
G as in Guller (n.) One who gulls; a deceiver.,
G as in Gullery (n.) An act, or the practice, of gulling; trickery; fraud.,
G as in Gullet (n.) The tube by which food and drink are carried from the pharynx to the stomach; the esophagus.,
G as in Gullet (n.) Something shaped like the food passage, or performing similar functions,
G as in Gullet (n.) A channel for water.,
G as in Gullet (n.) A preparatory cut or channel in excavations, of sufficient width for the passage of earth wagons.,
G as in Gullet (n.) A concave cut made in the teeth of some saw blades.,
G as in Gulleting (n.) A system of excavating by means of gullets or channels.,
G as in Gullible (a.) Easily gulled; that may be duped.,
G as in Gullish (a.) Foolish; stupid.,
G as in Gulles (pl. ) of Gully,
G as in Gully (n.) A large knife.,
G as in Gullies (pl. ) of Gully,
G as in Gully (n.) A channel or hollow worn in the earth by a current of water; a short deep portion of a torrent's bed when dry.,
G as in Gully (n.) A grooved iron rail or tram plate.,
G as in Gullied (imp. & p. p.) of Gully,
G as in Gullying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gully,
G as in Gully (v. t.) To wear into a gully or into gullies.,
G as in Gully (v. i.) To flow noisily.,
G as in Gulosity (n.) Excessive appetite; greediness; voracity.,
G as in Gulped (imp. & p. p.) of Gulp,
G as in Gulping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gulp,
G as in Gulp (v. t.) To swallow eagerly, or in large draughts; to swallow up; to take down at one swallow.,
G as in Gulp (n.) The act of taking a large mouthful; a swallow, or as much as is awallowed at once.,
G as in Gulp (n.) A disgorging.,
G as in Gulph (n.) See Gulf.,
G as in Gult (n.) Guilt. See Guilt.,
G as in Gulty (a.) Guilty.,
G as in Guly (a.) Of or pertaining to gules; red.,
G as in Gum (n.) The dense tissues which invest the teeth, and cover the adjacent parts of the jaws.,
G as in Gum (v. t.) To deepen and enlarge the spaces between the teeth of (a worn saw). See Gummer.,
G as in Gum (n.) A vegetable secretion of many trees or plants that hardens when it exudes, but is soluble in water; as, gum arabic; gum tragacanth; the gum of the cherry tree. Also, with less propriety, exudations that are not soluble in water; as, gum copal and gum sandarac, which are really resins.,
G as in Gum (n.) See Gum tree, below.,
G as in Gum (n.) A hive made of a section of a hollow gum tree; hence, any roughly made hive; also, a vessel or bin made of a hollow log.,
G as in Gum (n.) A rubber overshoe.,
G as in Gummed (imp. &. p.) of Gum,
G as in Gumming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gum,
G as in Gum (v. t.) To smear with gum; to close with gum; to unite or stiffen by gum or a gumlike substance; to make sticky with a gumlike substance.,
G as in Gum (v. i.) To exude or from gum; to become gummy.,
G as in Gumbo (n.) A soup thickened with the mucilaginous pods of the okra; okra soup.,
G as in Gumbo (n.) The okra plant or its pods.,
G as in Gumboil (n.) A small suppurting inflamed spot on the gum.,
G as in Gummata (pl. ) of Gumma,
G as in Gumma (n.) A kind of soft tumor, usually of syphilitic origin.,
G as in Gummatous (a.) Belonging to, or resembling, gumma.,
G as in Gummer (n.) A punch-cutting tool, or machine for deepening and enlarging the spaces between the teeth of a worn saw.,
G as in Gummiferous (a.) Producing gum; gum-bearing.,
G as in Gumminess (n.) The state or quality of being gummy; viscousness.,
G as in Gummite (n.) A yellow amorphous mineral, essentially a hydrated oxide of uranium derived from the alteration of uraninite.,
G as in Gummosity (n.) Gumminess; a viscous or adhesive quality or nature.,
G as in Gummous (a.) Gumlike, or composed of gum; gummy.,
G as in Gummous (a.) Of or pertaining to a gumma.,
G as in Gummy (a.) Consisting of gum; viscous; adhesive; producing or containing gum; covered with gum or a substance resembling gum.,
G as in Gump (n.) A dolt; a dunce.,
G as in Gumption (n.) Capacity; shrewdness; common sense.,
G as in Gumption (n.) The art of preparing colors.,
G as in Gumption (n.) Megilp.,
G as in Gun (n.) A weapon which throws or propels a missile to a distance; any firearm or instrument for throwing projectiles by the explosion of gunpowder, consisting of a tube or barrel closed at one end, in which the projectile is placed, with an explosive charge behind, which is ignited by various means. Muskets, rifles, carbines, and fowling pieces are smaller guns, for hand use, and are called small arms. Larger guns are called cannon, ordnance, fieldpieces, carronades, howitzers, etc. See these terms in the Vocabulary.,
G as in Gun (n.) A piece of heavy ordnance; in a restricted sense, a cannon.,
G as in Gun (n.) Violent blasts of wind.,
G as in Gun (v. i.) To practice fowling or hunting small game; -- chiefly in participial form; as, to go gunning.,
G as in Guna (n.) In Sanskrit grammar, a lengthening of the simple vowels a, i, e, by prefixing an a element. The term is sometimes used to denote the same vowel change in other languages.,
G as in Gunarchy (n.) See Gynarchy.,
G as in Gunboat (n.) A vessel of light draught, carrying one or more guns.,
G as in Guncotton () See under Gun.,
G as in Gundelet (n.) See Gondola.,
G as in Gunflint (n.) A sharpened flint for the lock of a gun, to ignite the charge. It was in common use before the introduction of percussion caps.,
G as in Gunjah (n.) See Ganja.,
G as in Gunlock (n.) The lock of a gun, for producing the discharge. See Lock.,
G as in Gunnage (n.) The number of guns carried by a ship of war.,
G as in Gunnel (n.) A gunwale.,
G as in Gunnel (n.) A small, eel-shaped, marine fish of the genus Muraenoides; esp., M. gunnellus of Europe and America; -- called also gunnel fish, butterfish, rock eel.,
G as in Gunner (n.) One who works a gun, whether on land or sea; a cannoneer.,
G as in Gunner (n.) A warrant officer in the navy having charge of the ordnance on a vessel.,
G as in Gunner (n.) The great northern diver or loon. See Loon.,
G as in Gunner (n.) The sea bream.,
G as in Gunnery (n.) That branch of military science which comprehends the theory of projectiles, and the manner of constructing and using ordnance.,
G as in Gunnie (n.) Space left by the removal of ore.,
G as in Gunning (n.) The act or practice of hunting or shooting game with a gun.,
G as in Gunny () Alt. of Gunny cloth,
G as in Gunny cloth () A strong, coarse kind of sacking, made from the fibers (called jute) of two plants of the genus Corchorus (C. olitorius and C. capsularis), of India. The fiber is also used in the manufacture of cordage.,
G as in Gunocracy (n.) See Gyneocracy.,
G as in Gunpowder (n.) A black, granular, explosive substance, consisting of an intimate mechanical mixture of niter, charcoal, and sulphur. It is used in gunnery and blasting.,
G as in Gunreach (n.) The reach or distance to which a gun will shoot; gunshot.,
G as in Gunroom (n.) An apartment on the after end of the lower gun deck of a ship of war, usually occupied as a messroom by the commissioned officers, except the captain; -- called wardroom in the United States navy.,
G as in Gunshot (n.) Act of firing a gun; a shot.,
G as in Gunshot (n.) The distance to which shot can be thrown from a gun, so as to be effective; the reach or range of a gun.,
G as in Gunshot (a.) Made by the shot of a gun: as. a gunshot wound.,
G as in Gunsmith (n.) One whose occupation is to make or repair small firearms; an armorer.,
G as in Gunsmithery (n.) Alt. of Gunsmith ing,
G as in Gunsmith ing (n.) The art or business of a gunsmith.,
G as in Gunstick (n.) A stick to ram down the charge of a musket, etc.; a rammer or ramrod.,
G as in Gunstock (n.) The stock or wood to which the barrel of a hand gun is fastened.,
G as in Gunstome (n.) A cannon ball; -- so called because originally made of stone.,
G as in Gunter rig () A topmast arranged with metal bands so that it will readily slide up and down the lower mast.,
G as in Gunter's chain () The chain ordinarily used in measuring land. See Chain, n., 4, and Gunter's scale.,
G as in Gunter's line () A logarithmic line on Gunter's scale, used for performing the multiplication and division of numbers mechanically by the dividers; -- called also line of lines, and line of numbers.,
G as in Gunter's quadrant () A thin quadrant, made of brass, wood, etc., showing a stereographic projection on the plane of the equator. By it are found the hour of the day, the sun's azimuth, the altitude of objects in degrees, etc. See Gunter's scale.,
G as in Gunter's scale () A scale invented by the Rev. Edmund Gunter (1581-1626), a professor of astronomy at Gresham College, London, who invented also Gunter's chain, and Gunter's quadrant.,
G as in Gunwale (n.) The upper edge of a vessel's or boat's side; the uppermost wale of a ship (not including the bulwarks); or that piece of timber which reaches on either side from the quarter-deck to the forecastle, being the uppermost bend, which finishes the upper works of the hull.,
G as in Gurge (n.) A whirlpool.,
G as in Gurge (v. t.) To swallow up.,
G as in Gurgeons (n. pl.) See Grudgeons.,
G as in Gurgled (imp. & p. p.) of Gurgle,
G as in Gurgling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gurgle,
G as in Gurgle (v. i.) To run or flow in a broken, irregular, noisy current, as water from a bottle, or a small stream among pebbles or stones.,
G as in Gurgle (n.) The act of gurgling; a broken, bubbling noise. "Tinkling gurgles.",
G as in Gurglet (n.) A porous earthen jar for cooling water by evaporation.,
G as in Gurgling-ly (adv.) In a gurgling manner.,
G as in Gurgoyle (n.) See Gargoyle.,
G as in Gurjun (n.) A thin balsam or wood oil derived from the Diptcrocarpus laevis, an East Indian tree. It is used in medicine, and as a substitute for linseed oil in the coarser kinds of paint.,
G as in Gurl (n.) A young person of either sex. [Obs.] See Girl.,
G as in Gurlet (n.) A pickax with one sharp point and one cutting edge.,
G as in Gurmy (n.) A level; a working.,
G as in Gurnard (n.) Alt. of Gurnet,
G as in Gurnet (n.) One ofseveral European marine fishes, of the genus Trigla and allied genera, having a large and spiny head, with mailed cheeks. Some of the species are highly esteemed for food. The name is sometimes applied to the American sea robins.,
G as in Gurniad (n.) See Gwiniad.,
G as in Gurry (n.) An alvine evacuation; also, refuse matter.,
G as in Gurry (n.) A small fort.,
G as in Gurt (n.) A gutter or channel for water, hewn out of the bottom of a working drift.,
G as in Gurts (n. pl.) Groatts.,
G as in Gushed (imp. & p. p.) of Gush,
G as in Gushing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gush,
G as in Gush (v. i.) To issue with violence and rapidity, as a fluid; to rush forth as a fluid from confinement; to flow copiously.,
G as in Gush (v. i.) To make a sentimental or untimely exhibition of affection; to display enthusiasm in a silly, demonstrative manner.,
G as in Gush (v. t.) A sudden and violent issue of a fluid from an inclosed plase; an emission of a liquid in a large quantity, and with force; the fluid thus emitted; a rapid outpouring of anything; as, a gush of song from a bird.,
G as in Gush (v. t.) A sentimental exhibition of affection or enthusiasm, etc.; effusive display of sentiment.,
G as in Gusher (n.) One who gushes.,
G as in Gushing (a.) Rushing forth with violence, as a fluid; flowing copiously; as, gushing waters.,
G as in Gushing (a.) Emitting copiously, as tears or words; weakly and unreservedly demonstrative in matters of affection; sentimental.,
G as in Gushingly (adv.) In a gushing manner; copiously.,
G as in Gushingly (adv.) Weakly; sentimentally; effusively.,
G as in Gusset (n.) A small piece of cloth inserted in a garment, for the purpose of strengthening some part or giving it a tapering enlargement.,
G as in Gusset (n.) Anything resembling a gusset in a garment,
G as in Gusset (n.) A small piece of chain mail at the openings of the joints beneath the arms.,
G as in Gusset (n.) A kind of bracket, or angular piece of iron, fastened in the angles of a structure to give strength or stiffness; esp., the part joining the barrel and the fire box of a locomotive boiler.,
G as in Gusset (n.) An abatement or mark of dishonor in a coat of arms, resembling a gusset.,
G as in Gust (n.) A sudden squall; a violent blast of wind; a sudden and brief rushing or driving of the wind. Snow, and hail, stormy gust and flaw.,
G as in Gust (n.) A sudden violent burst of passion.,
G as in Gust (n.) The sense or pleasure of tasting; relish; gusto.,
G as in Gust (n.) Gratification of any kind, particularly that which is exquisitely relished; enjoyment.,
G as in Gust (n.) Intellectual taste; fancy.,
G as in Gust (v. t.) To taste; to have a relish for.,
G as in Gustable (v.) Capable of being tasted; tastable.,
G as in Gustable (v.) Pleasant to the taste; toothsome; savory.,
G as in Gustable (n.) Anything that can be tasted.,
G as in Gustard (n.) The great bustard.,
G as in Gustation (n.) The act of tasting.,
G as in Gustatory (a.) Pertaining to, or subservient to, the sense of taste; as, the gustatory nerve which supplies the front of the tongue.,
G as in Gustful (a.) Tasteful; well-tasted.,
G as in Gustful (a.) Gusty.,
G as in Gustless (a.) Tasteless; insipid.,
G as in Gusto (n.) Nice or keen appreciation or enjoyment; relish; taste; fancy.,
G as in Gustoso (a. & adv.) Tasteful; in a tasteful, agreeable manner.,
G as in Gusty (a.) Subject to, or characterized by, gusts or squalls; windy; stormy; tempestuous.,
G as in Gut (n.) A narrow passage of water; as, the Gut of Canso.,
G as in Gut (n.) An intenstine; a bowel; the whole alimentary canal; the enteron; (pl.) bowels; entrails.,
G as in Gut (n.) One of the prepared entrails of an animal, esp. of a sheep, used for various purposes. See Catgut.,
G as in Gut (n.) The sac of silk taken from a silkworm (when ready to spin its cocoon), for the purpose of drawing it out into a thread. This, when dry, is exceedingly strong, and is used as the snood of a fish line.,
G as in Gutted (imp. & p. p.) of Gut,
G as in Gutting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gut,
G as in Gut (v. t.) To take out the bowels from; to eviscerate.,
G as in Gut (v. t.) To plunder of contents; to destroy or remove the interior or contents of; as, a mob gutted the bouse.,
G as in GuttAe (pl. ) of Gutta,
G as in Gutta (n.) A drop.,
G as in Gutta (n.) One of a series of ornaments, in the form of a frustum of a cone, attached to the lower part of the triglyphs, and also to the lower faces of the mutules, in the Doric order; -- called also campana, and drop.,
G as in Gutta-percha (n.) A concrete juice produced by various trees found in the Malayan archipelago, especially by the Isonandra, / Dichopsis, Gutta. It becomes soft, and unpressible at the tamperature of boiling water, and, on cooling, retains its new shape. It dissolves in oils and ethers, but not in water. In many of its properties it resembles caoutchouc, and it is extensively used for many economical purposes. The Mimusops globosa of Guiana also yields this material.,
G as in Guttate (a.) Spotted, as if discolored by drops.,
G as in Guttated (a.) Besprinkled with drops, or droplike spots.,
G as in Guttatrap (n.) The inspissated juice of a tree of the genus Artocarpus (A. incisa, or breadfruit tree), sometimes used in making birdlime, on account of its glutinous quality.,
G as in Gutter (n.) A channel at the eaves of a roof for conveying away the rain; an eaves channel; an eaves trough.,
G as in Gutter (n.) A small channel at the roadside or elsewhere, to lead off surface water.,
G as in Gutter (n.) Any narrow channel or groove; as, a gutter formed by erosion in the vent of a gun from repeated firing.,
G as in Guttered (imp. & p. p.) of Gutter,
G as in Guttering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gutter,
G as in Gutter (v. t.) To cut or form into small longitudinal hollows; to channel.,
G as in Gutter (v. t.) To supply with a gutter or gutters.,
G as in Gutter (v. i.) To become channeled, as a candle when the flame flares in the wind.,
G as in Guttifer (n.) A plant that exudes gum or resin.,
G as in Guttiferous (a.) Yielding gum or resinous substances.,
G as in Guttiferous (a.) Pertaining to a natural order of trees and shrubs (Guttiferae) noted for their abounding in a resinous sap.,
G as in Guttiform (a.) Drop-shaped, as a spot of color.,
G as in Guttle (n.) To put into the gut; to swallow greedily; to gorge; to gormandize. [Obs.] L'Estrange.,
G as in Guttler (n.) A greedy eater; a glutton.,
G as in Guttulous (a.) In droplike form.,
G as in Guttural (a.) Of or pertaining to the throat; formed in the throat; relating to, or characteristic of, a sound formed in the throat.,
G as in Guttural (n.) A sound formed in the throat; esp., a sound formed by the aid of the back of the tongue, much retracted, and the soft palate; also, a letter representing such a sound.,
G as in Gutturalism (n.) The quality of being guttural; as, the gutturalism of A [in the 16th cent.],
G as in Gutturality (n.) The quality of being guttural.,
G as in Gutturalize (v. t.) To speak gutturally; to give a guttural sound to.,
G as in Gutturally (adv.) In a guttural manner.,
G as in Gutturalness (n.) The quality of being guttural.,
G as in Gutturine (a.) Pertaining to the throat.,
G as in Gutturize (v. t.) To make in the throat; to gutturalize.,
G as in Gutturo- () A combining form denoting relation to the throat; as, gutturo-nasal, having both a guttural and a nasal character; gutturo-palatal.,
G as in Gutty (a.) Charged or sprinkled with drops.,
G as in Gutwort (n.) A plant, Globularia Alypum, a violent purgative, found in Africa.,
G as in Guy (n.) A rope, chain, or rod attached to anything to steady it; as: a rope to steady or guide an object which is being hoisted or lowered; a rope which holds in place the end of a boom, spar, or yard in a ship; a chain or wire rope connecting a suspension bridge with the land on either side to prevent lateral swaying; a rod or rope attached to the top of a structure, as of a derrick, and extending obliquely to the ground, where it is fastened.,
G as in Guyed (imp. & p. p.) of Guy,
G as in Guying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Guy,
G as in Guy (v. t.) To steady or guide with a guy.,
G as in Guy (n.) A grotesque effigy, like that of Guy Fawkes, dressed up in England on the fifth of November, the day of the Gunpowder Plot.,
G as in Guy (n.) A person of queer looks or dress.,
G as in Guy (v. t.) To fool; to baffle; to make (a person) an object of ridicule.,
G as in Guyle (v. t.) To guile.,
G as in Guze (n.) A roundlet of tincture sanguine, which is blazoned without mention of the tincture.,
G as in Guzzled (imp. & p. p.) of Guzzle,
G as in Guzzling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Guzzle,
G as in Guzzle (v. i.) To swallow liquor greedily; to drink much or frequently.,
G as in Guzzle (v. t.) To swallow much or often; to swallow with immoderate gust; to drink greedily or continually; as, one who guzzles beer.,
G as in Guzzle (n.) An insatiable thing or person.,
G as in Guzzler (n.) An immoderate drinker.,
G as in Gwiniad (n.) A fish (Coregonus ferus) of North Wales and Northern Europe, allied to the lake whitefish; -- called also powan, and schelly.,
G as in Gyall (n.) See Gayal.,
G as in Gyb (n.) Alt. of Gybe,
G as in Gybe (n.) See Jib.,
G as in Gybe (n. & v.) See Gibe.,
G as in Gybed (imp. & p. p.) of Gybe,
G as in Gybing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gybe,
G as in Gybe (v. t. & i.) To shift from one side of a vessel to the other; -- said of the boom of a fore-and-aft sail when the vessel is steered off the wind until the sail fills on the opposite side.,
G as in Gye (v. t.) To guide; to govern.,
G as in Gyle (n.) Fermented wort used for making vinegar.,
G as in Gymnal (a. & n.) Same as Gimmal.,
G as in Gymnasiarch (n.) An Athenian officer who superintended the gymnasia, and provided the oil and other necessaries at his own expense.,
G as in Gymnasiums (pl. ) of Gymnasium,
G as in Gymnasia (pl. ) of Gymnasium,
G as in Gymnasium (n.) A place or building where athletic exercises are performed; a school for gymnastics.,
G as in Gymnasium (n.) A school for the higher branches of literature and science; a preparatory school for the university; -- used esp. of German schools of this kind.,
G as in Gymnast (n.) One who teaches or practices gymnastic exercises; the manager of a gymnasium; an athlete.,
G as in Gymnastic (a.) Alt. of Gymnastical,
G as in Gymnastical (a.) Pertaining to athletic exercises intended for health, defense, or diversion; -- said of games or exercises, as running, leaping, wrestling, throwing the discus, the javelin, etc.; also, pertaining to disciplinary exercises for the intellect; athletic; as, gymnastic exercises, contests, etc.,
G as in Gymnastic (n.) A gymnast.,
G as in Gymnastically (adv.) In a gymnastic manner.,
G as in Gymnastics (n.) Athletic or disciplinary exercises; the art of performing gymnastic exercises; also, disciplinary exercises for the intellect or character.,
G as in Gymnic (a.) Alt. of Gymnical,
G as in Gymnical (a.) Athletic; gymnastic.,
G as in Gymnic (n.) Athletic exercise.,
G as in Gymnite (n.) A hydrous silicate of magnesia.,
G as in Gymnoblastea (n. pl.) The Athecata; -- so called because the medusoid buds are not inclosed in a capsule.,
G as in Gymnoblastic (a.) Of or pertaining to the Gymnoblastea.,
G as in Gymnocarpous (a.) Naked-fruited, the fruit either smooth or not adherent to the perianth.,
G as in Gymnochroa (n. pl.) A division of Hydroidea including the hydra. See Hydra.,
G as in Gymnocladus (n.) A genus of leguminous plants; the Kentucky coffee tree. The leaves are cathartic, and the seeds a substitute for coffee.,
G as in Gymnocopa (n. pl.) A group of transparent, free-swimming Annelida, having setae only in the cephalic appendages.,
G as in Gymnocyte (n.) A cytode without a proper cell wall, but with a nucleus.,
G as in Gymnocytode (n.) A cytode without either a cell wall or a nucleus.,
G as in Gymnodont (n.) One of a group of plectognath fishes (Gymnodontes), having the teeth and jaws consolidated into one or two bony plates, on each jaw, as the diodonts and tetradonts. See Bur fish, Globefish, Diodon.,
G as in Gymnogen (n.) One of a class of plants, so called by Lindley, because the ovules are fertilized by direct contact of the pollen. Same as Gymnosperm.,
G as in Gymnoglossa (n. pl.) A division of gastropods in which the odontophore is without teeth.,
G as in Gymnolaema (n. pl.) Alt. of Gymnolaemata,
G as in Gymnolaemata (n. pl.) An order of Bryozoa, having no epistome.,
G as in Gymnonoti (n. pl.) The order of fishes which includes the Gymnotus or electrical eel. The dorsal fin is wanting.,
G as in Gymnopaedic (a.) Having young that are naked when hatched; psilopaedic; -- said of certain birds.,
G as in Gymnophiona (n. pl.) An order of Amphibia, having a long, annulated, snakelike body. See Ophiomorpha.,
G as in Gymnophthalmata (n. pl.) A group of acalephs, including the naked-eyed medusae; the hydromedusae. Most of them are known to be the free-swimming progeny (gonophores) of hydroids.,
G as in Gymnoplast (n.) A cell or mass of protoplasm devoid of an envelope, as a white blood corpuscle.,
G as in Gymnorhinal (a.) Having unfeathered nostrils, as certain birds.,
G as in Gymnosomata (n. pl.) One of the orders of Pteropoda. They have no shell.,
G as in Gymnosophist (n.) One of a sect of philosophers, said to have been found in India by Alexander the Great, who went almost naked, denied themselves the use of flesh, renounced bodily pleasures, and employed themselves in the contemplation of nature.,
G as in Gymnosophy (n.) The doctrines of the Gymnosophists.,
G as in Gymnosperm (n.) A plant that bears naked seeds (i. e., seeds not inclosed in an ovary), as the common pine and hemlock. Cf. Angiosperm.,
G as in Gymnospermous (n.) Having naked seeds, or seeds not inclosed in a capsule or other vessel.,
G as in Gymnospermous (n.) Belonging to the class of plants consisting of gymnosperms.,
G as in Gymnotoka (n. pl.) The Athecata.,
G as in Gymnotus (n.) A genus of South American fresh-water fishes, including the Gymnotus electricus, or electric eel. It has a greenish, eel-like body, and is possessed of electric power.,
G as in Gyn (v. i.) To begin [Obs.] See Gin.,
G as in Gynaeceum (n.) Alt. of Gynaecium,
G as in Gynaecium (n.) The part of a large house, among the ancients, exclusively appropriated to women.,
G as in Gynaecian (a.) The same as Gynecian.,
G as in Gynaecophore (n.) A ventral canal or groove, in which the males of some di/cious trematodes carry the female. See Illust. of Haematozoa.,
G as in Gynander (n.) A plant having the stamens inserted in the pistil.,
G as in Gynandria (n. pl.) A class of plants in the Linnaean system, whose stamens grow out of, or are united with, the pistil.,
G as in Gynandrian (a.) Alt. of Gynandrous,
G as in Gynandrous (a.) Having stamens inserted in the pistil; belonging to the class Gynandria.,
G as in Gynandromorph (n.) An animal affected with gynandromorphism,,
G as in Gynandromorphism (n.) An abnormal condition of certain animals, in which one side has the external characters of the male, and the other those of the female.,
G as in Gynandromorphous (a.) Affected, with gynandromorphism.,
G as in Gynantherous (a.) Pertaining to an abnormal condition of the flower, in which the stamens are converted into pistils.,
G as in Gynarchy (n.) Government by a woman.,
G as in Gyneceum (n.) See Gynaeceum.,
G as in Gynecian (a.) Of or relating to women.,
G as in Gynecocracy (n.) Government by a woman, female power; gyneocracy.,
G as in Gynecological (a.) Of or pertaining to gynecology.,
G as in Gynecology (n.) The science which treats of the structure and diseases of women.,
G as in Gyneocracy (n.) See Gynecocracy.,
G as in Gyneolatry (n.) The adoration or worship of woman.,
G as in Gynephobia (n.) Hatred of women; repugnance to the society of women.,
G as in Gynno (v. i.) To begin. See Gin.,
G as in Gynobase (n.) A dilated base or receptacle, supporting a multilocular ovary.,
G as in Gynobasic (a.) Pertaining to, or having, a gynobase.,
G as in Gynocracy (n.) Female government; gynecocracy.,
G as in Gynodioecious (a.) Dioecious, but having some hermaphrodite or perfect flowers on an individual plant which bears mostly pistillate flowers.,
G as in Gynoecium (n.) The pistils of a flower, taken collectively. See Illust. of Carpophore.,
G as in Gynophore (n.) The pedicel raising the pistil or ovary above the stamens, as in the passion flower.,
G as in Gynophore (n.) One of the branches bearing the female gonophores, in certain Siphonophora.,
G as in Gyp (n.) A college servant; -- so called in Cambridge, England; at Oxford called a scout.,
G as in Gypse (n.) See Gypsum.,
G as in Gypseous (a.) Resembling or containing gypsum; partaking of the qualities of gypsum.,
G as in Gypsey (n.) A gypsy. See Gypsy.,
G as in Gypsiferous (a.) Containing gypsum.,
G as in Gyp'sine (a.) Gypseous.,
G as in Gypsography (n.) The act or art of engraving on gypsum.,
G as in Gypsoplast (n.) A cast taken in plaster of Paris, or in white lime.,
G as in Gypsum (n.) A mineral consisting of the hydrous sulphate of lime (calcium). When calcined, it forms plaster of Paris. Selenite is a transparent, crystalline variety; alabaster, a fine, white, massive variety.,
G as in Gypsies (pl. ) of Gypsy,
G as in Gypsy (n.) One of a vagabond race, whose tribes, coming originally from India, entered Europe in 14th or 15th centry, and are now scattered over Turkey, Russia, Hungary, Spain, England, etc., living by theft, fortune telling, horsejockeying, tinkering, etc. Cf. Bohemian, Romany.,
G as in Gypsy (n.) The language used by the gypsies.,
G as in Gypsy (n.) A dark-complexioned person.,
G as in Gypsy (n.) A cunning or crafty person,
G as in Gypsy (a.) Pertaining to, or suitable for, gypsies.,
G as in Gypsy (v. i.) To play the gypsy; to picnic in the woods.,
G as in Gypsyism (n.) The arts and practices or habits of gypsies; deception; cheating; flattery.,
G as in Gypsyism (n.) The state of a gypsy.,
G as in Gypsywort (n.) A labiate plant (the Lycopus Europaeus). Gypsies are said to stain their skin with its juice.,
G as in Gyracanthus (n.) A genus of fossil fishes, found in Devonian and carboniferous strata; -- so named from their round, sculptured spines.,
G as in Gyral (a.) Moving in a circular path or way; whirling; gyratory.,
G as in Gyral (a.) Pertaining to a gyrus, or convolution.,
G as in Gyrant (a.) Gyrating.,
G as in Gyrate (a.) Winding or coiled round; curved into a circle; taking a circular course.,
G as in Gyrated (imp. & p. p.) of Gyrate,
G as in Gyrating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gyrate,
G as in Gyrate (n.) To revolve round a central point; to move spirally about an axis, as a tornado; to revolve.,
G as in Gyration (n.) The act of turning or whirling, as around a fixed center; a circular or spiral motion; motion about an axis; rotation; revolution.,
G as in Gyration (n.) One of the whorls of a spiral univalve shell.,
G as in Gyratory (a.) Moving in a circle, or spirally; revolving; whirling around.,
G as in Gyre (n.) A circular motion, or a circle described by a moving body; a turn or revolution; a circuit.,
G as in Gyre (v. t. & i.) To turn round; to gyrate.,
G as in Gyreful (a.) Abounding in gyres.,
G as in Gyrencephala (n. pl.) The higher orders of Mammalia, in which the cerebrum is convoluted.,
G as in Gyrfalcon (n.) One of several species and varieties of large Arctic falcons, esp. Falco rusticolus and the white species F. Islandicus, both of which are circumpolar. The black and the gray are varieties of the former. See Illust. of Accipiter.,
G as in Gyri (n. pl.) See Gyrus.,
G as in Gyrland (v. t.) To garland.,
G as in Gyrodus (n.) A genus of extinct oolitic fishes, having rounded teeth in several rows adapted for crushing.,
G as in Gyrogonite (n.) The petrified fruit of the Chara hispida, a species of stonewort. See Stonewort.,
G as in Gyroidal (a.) Spiral in arrangement or action.,
G as in Gyroidal (a.) Having the planes arranged spirally, so that they incline all to the right (or left) of a vertical line; -- said of certain hemihedral forms.,
G as in Gyroidal (a.) Turning the plane of polarization circularly or spirally to the right or left.,
G as in Gyrolepis (n.) A genus of ganoid fishes, found in strata of the new red sandetone, and the lias bone beds.,
G as in Gyroma (n.) A turning round.,
G as in Gyromancy (n.) A kind of divination performed by drawing a ring or circle, and walking in or around it.,
G as in Gyron (n.) A subordinary of triangular form having one of its angles at the fess point and the opposite aide at the edge of the escutcheon. When there is only one gyron on the shield it is bounded by two lines drawn from the fess point, one horizontally to the dexter side, and one to the dexter chief corner.,
G as in Gyronny (a.) Covered with gyrons, or divided so as to form several gyrons; -- said of an escutcheon.,
G as in Gyropigeon (n.) A flying object simulating a pigeon in flight, when projected from a spring trap. It is used as a flying target in shooting matches.,
G as in Gyroscope (n.) A rotating wheel, mounted in a ring or rings, for illustrating the dynamics of rotating bodies, the composition of rotations, etc. It was devised by Professor W. R. Johnson, in 1832, by whom it was called the rotascope.,
G as in Gyroscope (n.) A form of the above apparatus, invented by M. Foucault, mounted so delicately as to render visible the rotation of the earth, through the tendency of the rotating wheel to preserve a constant plane of rotation, independently of the earth's motion.,
G as in Gyroscopic (a.) Pertaining to the gyroscope; resembling the motion of the gyroscope.,
G as in Gy-rose (a.) Turned round like a crook, or bent to and fro.,
G as in Gyrostat (n.) A modification of the gyroscope, consisting essentially of a fly wheel fixed inside a rigid case to which is attached a thin flange of metal for supporting the instrument. It is used in studying the dynamics of rotating bodies.,
G as in Gyrostatic (a.) Of or pertaining to the gyrostat or to gyrostatics.,
G as in Gyrostatics (n.) The doctrine or theory of the gyrostat, or of the phenomena of rotating bodies.,
G as in Gyri (pl. ) of Gyrus,
G as in Gyrus (n.) A convoluted ridge between grooves; a convolution; as, the gyri of the brain; the gyri of brain coral. See Brain.,
G as in Gyse (n.) Guise.,
G as in Gyte (a.) Delirious; senselessly extravagant; as, the man is clean gyte.,
G as in Gyve (n.) A shackle; especially, one to confine the legs; a fetter.,
G as in Gyve (v. t.) To fetter; to shackle; to chain.,
