H as in H () the eighth letter of the English alphabet, is classed among the consonants, and is formed with the mouth organs in the same position as that of the succeeding vowel. It is used with certain consonants to form digraphs representing sounds which are not found in the alphabet, as sh, th, /, as in shall, thing, /ine (for zh see /274); also, to modify the sounds of some other letters, as when placed after c and p, with the former of which it represents a compound sound like that of tsh, as in charm (written also tch as in catch), with the latter, the sound of f, as in phase, phantom. In some words, mostly derived or introduced from foreign languages, h following c and g indicates that those consonants have the hard sound before e, i, and y, as in chemistry, chiromancy, chyle, Ghent, Ghibelline, etc.; in some others, ch has the sound of sh, as in chicane. See Guide to Pronunciation, // 153, 179, 181-3, 237-8.,
H as in H () The seventh degree in the diatonic scale, being used by the Germans for B natural. See B.,
H as in Ha (interj.) An exclamation denoting surprise, joy, or grief. Both as uttered and as written, it expresses a great variety of emotions, determined by the tone or the context. When repeated, ha, ha, it is an expression of laughter, satisfaction, or triumph, sometimes of derisive laughter; or sometimes it is equivalent to "Well, it is so.",
H as in Haaf (n.) The deepsea fishing for cod, ling, and tusk, off the Shetland Isles.,
H as in Haak (n.) A sea fish. See Hake.,
H as in Haar (n.) A fog; esp., a fog or mist with a chill wind.,
H as in Habeas corpus () A writ having for its object to bring a party before a court or judge; especially, one to inquire into the cause of a person's imprisonment or detention by another, with the view to protect the right to personal liberty; also, one to bring a prisoner into court to testify in a pending trial.,
H as in Habendum (n.) That part of a deed which follows the part called the premises, and determines the extent of the interest or estate granted; -- so called because it begins with the word Habendum.,
H as in Haberdash (v. i.) To deal in small wares.,
H as in Haberdasher (n.) A dealer in small wares, as tapes, pins, needles, and thread; also, a hatter.,
H as in Haberdasher (n.) A dealer in drapery goods of various descriptions, as laces, silks, trimmings, etc.,
H as in Haberdashery (n.) The goods and wares sold by a haberdasher; also (Fig.), trifles.,
H as in Haberdine (n.) A cod salted and dried.,
H as in Habergeon (n.) Properly, a short hauberk, but often used loosely for the hauberk.,
H as in Habilatory (a.) Of or pertaining to clothing; wearing clothes.,
H as in Habile (a.) Fit; qualified; also, apt.,
H as in Habiliment (n.) A garment; an article of clothing.,
H as in Habiliment (n.) Dress, in general.,
H as in Habilimented (a.) Clothed. Taylor (1630).,
H as in Habilitate (a.) Qualified or entitled.,
H as in Habilitate (v. t.) To fit out; to equip; to qualify; to entitle.,
H as in Habilitation (n.) Equipment; qualification.,
H as in Hability (n.) Ability; aptitude.,
H as in Habit (n.) The usual condition or state of a person or thing, either natural or acquired, regarded as something had, possessed, and firmly retained; as, a religious habit; his habit is morose; elms have a spreading habit; esp., physical temperament or constitution; as, a full habit of body.,
H as in Habit (n.) The general appearance and manner of life of a living organism.,
H as in Habit (n.) Fixed or established custom; ordinary course of conduct; practice; usage; hence, prominently, the involuntary tendency or aptitude to perform certain actions which is acquired by their frequent repetition; as, habit is second nature; also, peculiar ways of acting; characteristic forms of behavior.,
H as in Habit (n.) Outward appearance; attire; dress; hence, a garment; esp., a closely fitting garment or dress worn by ladies; as, a riding habit.,
H as in Habited (imp. & p. p.) of Habit,
H as in Habiting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Habit,
H as in Habit (n.) To inhabit.,
H as in Habit (n.) To dress; to clothe; to array.,
H as in Habit (n.) To accustom; to habituate. [Obs.] Chapman.,
H as in Habitability (n.) Habitableness.,
H as in Habitable (a.) Capable of being inhabited; that may be inhabited or dwelt in; as, the habitable world.,
H as in Habitakle (v.) A dwelling place.,
H as in Habitan (n.) Same as Habitant, 2.,
H as in Habitance (n.) Dwelling; abode; residence.,
H as in Habiitancy (n.) Same as Inhabitancy.,
H as in Habitant (v. t.) An inhabitant; a dweller.,
H as in Habitant (v. t.) An inhabitant or resident; -- a name applied to and denoting farmers of French descent or origin in Canada, especially in the Province of Quebec; -- usually in plural.,
H as in Habitat (v. t.) The natural abode, locality or region of an animal or plant.,
H as in Habitat (v. t.) Place where anything is commonly found.,
H as in Habitation (n.) The act of inhabiting; state of inhabiting or dwelling, or of being inhabited; occupancy.,
H as in Habitation (n.) Place of abode; settled dwelling; residence; house.,
H as in Habitator (n.) A dweller; an inhabitant.,
H as in Habited (p. p. & a.) Clothed; arrayed; dressed; as, he was habited like a shepherd.,
H as in Habited (p. p. & a.) Fixed by habit; accustomed.,
H as in Habited (p. p. & a.) Inhabited.,
H as in Habitual (n.) Formed or acquired by habit or use.,
H as in Habitual (n.) According to habit; established by habit; customary; constant; as, the habiual practice of sin.,
H as in Habituated (imp. & p. p.) of Habituate,
H as in Habituating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Habituate,
H as in Habituate (v. t.) To make accustomed; to accustom; to familiarize.,
H as in Habituate (v. t.) To settle as an inhabitant.,
H as in Habituate (a.) Firmly established by custom; formed by habit; habitual.,
H as in Habituation (n.) The act of habituating, or accustoming; the state of being habituated.,
H as in Habitude (n.) Habitual attitude; usual or accustomed state with reference to something else; established or usual relations.,
H as in Habitude (n.) Habitual association, intercourse, or familiarity.,
H as in Habitude (n.) Habit of body or of action.,
H as in Habitue (n.) One who habitually frequents a place; as, an habitue of a theater.,
H as in Habiture (n.) Habitude.,
H as in Habitus (n.) Habitude; mode of life; general appearance.,
H as in Hable (a.) See Habile.,
H as in Habnab (adv.) By chance.,
H as in Hachure (n.) A short line used in drawing and engraving, especially in shading and denoting different surfaces, as in map drawing. See Hatching.,
H as in Hacienda (n.) A large estate where work of any kind is done, as agriculture, manufacturing, mining, or raising of animals; a cultivated farm, with a good house, in distinction from a farming establishment with rude huts for herdsmen, etc.; -- a word used in Spanish-American regions.,
H as in Hack (n.) A frame or grating of various kinds; as, a frame for drying bricks, fish, or cheese; a rack for feeding cattle; a grating in a mill race, etc.,
H as in Hack (n.) Unburned brick or tile, stacked up for drying.,
H as in Hacked (imp. & p. p.) of Hack,
H as in Hacking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hack,
H as in Hack (v. t.) To cut irregulary, without skill or definite purpose; to notch; to mangle by repeated strokes of a cutting instrument; as, to hack a post.,
H as in Hack (v. t.) Fig.: To mangle in speaking.,
H as in Hack (v. i.) To cough faintly and frequently, or in a short, broken manner; as, a hacking cough.,
H as in Hack (n.) A notch; a cut.,
H as in Hack (n.) An implement for cutting a notch; a large pick used in breaking stone.,
H as in Hack (n.) A hacking; a catch in speaking; a short, broken cough.,
H as in Hack (n.) A kick on the shins.,
H as in Hack (n.) A horse, hackneyed or let out for common hire; also, a horse used in all kinds of work, or a saddle horse, as distinguished from hunting and carriage horses.,
H as in Hack (n.) A coach or carriage let for hire; particularly, a a coach with two seats inside facing each other; a hackney coach.,
H as in Hack (n.) A bookmaker who hires himself out for any sort of literary work; an overworked man; a drudge.,
H as in Hack (n.) A procuress.,
H as in Hack (a.) Hackneyed; hired; mercenary.,
H as in Hack (v. t.) To use as a hack; to let out for hire.,
H as in Hack (v. t.) To use frequently and indiscriminately, so as to render trite and commonplace.,
H as in Hack (v. i.) To be exposed or offered or to common use for hire; to turn prostitute.,
H as in Hack (v. i.) To live the life of a drudge or hack.,
H as in Hackamore (n.) A halter consisting of a long leather or rope strap and headstall, -- used for leading or tieing a pack animal.,
H as in Hackberry (n.) A genus of trees (Celtis) related to the elm, but bearing drupes with scanty, but often edible, pulp. C. occidentalis is common in the Eastern United States.,
H as in Hackbolt (n.) The greater shearwater or hagdon. See Hagdon.,
H as in Hackbuss (n.) Same as Hagbut.,
H as in Hackee (n.) The chipmunk; also, the chickaree or red squirrel.,
H as in Hacker (n.) One who, or that which, hacks. Specifically: A cutting instrument for making notches; esp., one used for notching pine trees in collecting turpentine; a hack.,
H as in Hackery (n.) A cart with wooden wheels, drawn by bullocks.,
H as in Hackle (n.) A comb for dressing flax, raw silk, etc.; a hatchel.,
H as in Hackle (n.) Any flimsy substance unspun, as raw silk.,
H as in Hackle (n.) One of the peculiar, long, narrow feathers on the neck of fowls, most noticeable on the cock, -- often used in making artificial flies; hence, any feather so used.,
H as in Hackle (n.) An artificial fly for angling, made of feathers.,
H as in Hackled (imp. & p. p.) of Hackle,
H as in Hackling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hackle,
H as in Hackle (v. t.) To separate, as the coarse part of flax or hemp from the fine, by drawing it through the teeth of a hackle or hatchel.,
H as in Hackle (v. t.) To tear asunder; to break in pieces.,
H as in Hackly (a.) Rough or broken, as if hacked.,
H as in Hackly (a.) Having fine, short, and sharp points on the surface; as, the hackly fracture of metallic iron.,
H as in Hackmen (pl. ) of Hackman,
H as in Hackman (n.) The driver of a hack or carriage for public hire.,
H as in Hackmatack (n.) The American larch (Larix Americana), a coniferous tree with slender deciduous leaves; also, its heavy, close-grained timber. Called also tamarack.,
H as in Hackneys (pl. ) of Hackney,
H as in Hackney (n.) A horse for riding or driving; a nag; a pony.,
H as in Hackney (n.) A horse or pony kept for hire.,
H as in Hackney (n.) A carriage kept for hire; a hack; a hackney coach.,
H as in Hackney (n.) A hired drudge; a hireling; a prostitute.,
H as in Hackney (a.) Let out for hire; devoted to common use; hence, much used; trite; mean; as, hackney coaches; hackney authors.,
H as in Hackneyed (imp. & p. p.) of Hackney,
H as in Hackneying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hackney,
H as in Hackney (v. t.) To devote to common or frequent use, as a horse or carriage; to wear out in common service; to make trite or commonplace; as, a hackneyed metaphor or quotation.,
H as in Hackney (v. t.) To carry in a hackney coach.,
H as in Hackneymen (pl. ) of Hackneyman,
H as in Hackneyman (n.) A man who lets horses and carriages for hire.,
H as in Hackster (n.) A bully; a bravo; a ruffian; an assassin.,
H as in Hacqueton (n.) Same as Acton.,
H as in Had (imp. & p. p.) See Have.,
H as in Hadder (n.) Heather; heath.,
H as in Haddie (n.) The haddock.,
H as in Haddock (n.) A marine food fish (Melanogrammus aeglefinus), allied to the cod, inhabiting the northern coasts of Europe and America. It has a dark lateral line and a black spot on each side of the body, just back of the gills. Galled also haddie, and dickie.,
H as in Hade (n.) The descent of a hill.,
H as in Hade (n.) The inclination or deviation from the vertical of any mineral vein.,
H as in Hade (v. i.) To deviate from the vertical; -- said of a vein, fault, or lode.,
H as in Hades (n.) The nether world (according to classical mythology, the abode of the shades, ruled over by Hades or Pluto); the invisible world; the grave.,
H as in Hadj (n.) The pilgrimage to Mecca, performed by Mohammedans.,
H as in Hadji (n.) A Mohammedan pilgrim to Mecca; -- used among Orientals as a respectful salutation or a title of honor.,
H as in Hadji (n.) A Greek or Armenian who has visited the holy sepulcher at Jerusalem.,
H as in Hadrosaurus (n.) An American herbivorous dinosaur of great size, allied to the iguanodon. It is found in the Cretaceous formation.,
H as in Haecceity () Literally, this-ness. A scholastic term to express individuality or singleness; as, this book.,
H as in Haema- () Alt. of Haemo-,
H as in Haemato- () Alt. of Haemo-,
H as in Haemo- () Combining forms indicating relation or resemblance to blood, association with blood; as, haemapod, haematogenesis, haemoscope.,
H as in Haemachrome (n.) Hematin.,
H as in Haemacyanin (n.) A substance found in the blood of the octopus, which gives to it its blue color.,
H as in Haemacytometer (n.) An apparatus for determining the number of corpuscles in a given quantity of blood.,
H as in Haemad (adv.) Toward the haemal side; on the haemal side of; -- opposed to neurad.,
H as in Haemadrometer (n.) Alt. of Haemadremometer,
H as in Haemadremometer (n.) Same as Hemadrometer.,
H as in Haemadrometry (n.) Alt. of Haemadromometry,
H as in Haemadromometry (n.) Same as Hemadrometry.,
H as in Haemadromograph (n.) An instrument for registering the velocity of the blood.,
H as in Haemadynameter () Alt. of Haemadynamometer,
H as in Haemadynamometer () Same as Hemadynamometer.,
H as in Haemadynamics (n.) Same as Hemadynamics.,
H as in Haemal (a.) Pertaining to the blood or blood vessels; also, ventral. See Hemal.,
H as in Haemaphaein (n.) A brownish substance sometimes found in the blood, in cases of jaundice.,
H as in Haemapod (n.) An haemapodous animal.,
H as in Haemapodous (a.) Having the limbs on, or directed toward, the ventral or hemal side, as in vertebrates; -- opposed to neuropodous.,
H as in Haemapoietic (a.) Bloodforming; as, the haemapoietic function of the spleen.,
H as in Haemapophysis (n.) Same as Hemapophysis.,
H as in Haemastatics (n.) Same as Hemastatics.,
H as in Haematachometer (n.) A form of apparatus (somewhat different from the hemadrometer) for measuring the velocity of the blood.,
H as in Haematachometry (n.) The measurement of the velocity of the blood.,
H as in Haematemesis (n.) Same as Hematemesis.,
H as in Haematic (a.) Of or pertaining to the blood; sanguine; brownish red.,
H as in Haematin (n.) Same as Hematin.,
H as in Haematinometer (n.) Same as Hematinometer.,
H as in Haematinometric (a.) Same as Hematinometric.,
H as in Haematite (n.) Same as Hematite.,
H as in Haematitic (a.) Of a blood-red color; crimson; (Bot.) brownish red.,
H as in Haemato- (prefix.) See Haema-.,
H as in Haematoblast (n.) One of the very minute, disk-shaped bodies found in blood with the ordinary red corpuscles and white corpuscles; a third kind of blood corpuscle, supposed by some to be an early stage in the development of the red corpuscles; -- called also blood plaque, and blood plate.,
H as in Haematocrya (n. pl.) The cold-blooded vertebrates. Same as Hematocrya.,
H as in Haematocryal (a.) Cold-blooded.,
H as in Haematocrystallin (n.) Same as Hematocrystallin.,
H as in Haematodynamometer (n.) Same as Hemadynamometer.,
H as in Haematogenesis (n.) The origin and development of blood.,
H as in Haematogenesis (n.) The transformation of venous arterial blood by respiration; hematosis.,
H as in Haematogenic (a.) Relating to haematogenesis.,
H as in Haematogenous (a.) Originating in the blood.,
H as in Haematoglobulin (n.) Same as Hematoglobin.,
H as in Haematoid (a.) Same as Hematoid.,
H as in Haematoidin (n.) Same as Hematoidin.,
H as in Haematoin (n.) A substance formed from the hematin of blood, by removal of the iron through the action of concentrated sulphuric acid. Two like bodies, called respectively haematoporphyrin and haematolin, are formed in a similar manner.,
H as in Haematolin (n.) See Haematoin.,
H as in Haematology (n.) The science which treats of the blood. Same as Hematology.,
H as in Haematometer (n.) Same as Hemadynamometer.,
H as in Haematometer (n.) An instrument for determining the number of blood corpuscles in a given quantity of blood.,
H as in Haematophlina (n. pl.) A division of Cheiroptera, including the bloodsucking bats. See Vampire.,
H as in Haematoplast (n.) Same as Haematoblast.,
H as in Haematoplastic (a.) Blood formative; -- applied to a substance in early fetal life, which breaks up gradually into blood vessels.,
H as in Haematoporphyrin (n.) See Haematoin.,
H as in Haematosac (n.) A vascular sac connected, beneath the brain, in many fishes, with the infundibulum.,
H as in Haematoscope (n.) A haemoscope.,
H as in Haematosin (n.) Hematin.,
H as in Haematosis (n.) Same as Hematosis.,
H as in Haematotherma (n. pl.) Same as Hematotherma.,
H as in Haematothermal (a.) Warm-blooded; homoiothermal.,
H as in Haematothorax (n.) Same as Hemothorax.,
H as in Haematexylin (n.) The coloring principle of logwood. It is obtained as a yellow crystalline substance, C16H14O6, with a sweetish taste. Formerly called also hematin.,
H as in Haematoxylon (n.) A genus of leguminous plants containing but a single species, the H. Campechianum or logwood tree, native in Yucatan.,
H as in Haematozoa (pl. ) of Haematozoon,
H as in Haematozoon (n.) A parasite inhabiting the blood,
H as in Haematozoon (n.) Certain species of nematodes of the genus Filaria, sometimes found in the blood of man, the horse, the dog, etc.,
H as in Haematozoon (n.) The trematode, Bilharzia haematobia, which infests the inhabitants of Egypt and other parts of Africa, often causing death.,
H as in Haemic (a.) Pertaining to the blood; hemal.,
H as in Haemin (n.) Same as Hemin.,
H as in Haemo- (prefix.) See Haema-.,
H as in Haemochrome (n.) Same as Haemachrome.,
H as in Haemochromogen (n.) A body obtained from hemoglobin, by the action of reducing agents in the absence of oxygen.,
H as in Haemochromometer (n.) An apparatus for measuring the amount of hemoglobin in a fluid, by comparing it with a solution of known strength and of normal color.,
H as in Haemocyanin (n.) Same as Haemacyanin.,
H as in Haemocytolysis (n.) See Haemocytotrypsis.,
H as in Haemocytometer (n.) See Haemacytometer.,
H as in Haemocytotrypsis (n.) A breaking up of the blood corpuscles, as by pressure, in distinction from solution of the corpuscles, or haemcytolysis.,
H as in Haemodromograph (n.) Same as Haemadromograph.,
H as in Haemodynameter (n.) Same as Hemadynamics.,
H as in Haemoglobin (n.) Same as Hemoglobin.,
H as in Haemoglobinometer (n.) Same as Hemochromometer.,
H as in Haemolutein (n.) See Hematoidin.,
H as in Haemomanometer (n.) Same as Hemadynamometer.,
H as in Haemometer (n.) Same as Hemadynamometer.,
H as in Haemony (n.) A plant described by Milton as "of sovereign use against all enchantments.",
H as in Haemoplastic (a.) Same as Haematoplastic.,
H as in Haemorrhoidal (a.) Same as Hemorrhoidal.,
H as in Haemoscope (n.) An instrument devised by Hermann, for regulating and measuring the thickness of a layer of blood for spectroscopic examination.,
H as in Haemostatic (a.) Same as Hemostatic.,
H as in Haemotachometer (n.) Same as Haematachometer.,
H as in Haemotachometry (n.) Same as Haematachometry.,
H as in Haf (imp.) Hove.,
H as in Haffle (v. i.) To stammer; to speak unintelligibly; to prevaricate.,
H as in Haft (n.) A handle; that part of an instrument or vessel taken into the hand, and by which it is held and used; -- said chiefly of a knife, sword, or dagger; the hilt.,
H as in Haft (n.) A dwelling.,
H as in Haft (v. t.) To set in, or furnish with, a haft; as, to haft a dagger.,
H as in Hafter (n.) A caviler; a wrangler.,
H as in Hag (n.) A witch, sorceress, or enchantress; also, a wizard.,
H as in Hag (n.) An ugly old woman.,
H as in Hag (n.) A fury; a she-monster.,
H as in Hag (n.) An eel-like marine marsipobranch (Myxine glutinosa), allied to the lamprey. It has a suctorial mouth, with labial appendages, and a single pair of gill openings. It is the type of the order Hyperotpeta. Called also hagfish, borer, slime eel, sucker, and sleepmarken.,
H as in Hag (n.) The hagdon or shearwater.,
H as in Hag (n.) An appearance of light and fire on a horse's mane or a man's hair.,
H as in Hagged (imp. & p. p.) of Hag,
H as in Hagging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hag,
H as in Hag (v. t.) To harass; to weary with vexation.,
H as in Hag (n.) A small wood, or part of a wood or copse, which is marked off or inclosed for felling, or which has been felled.,
H as in Hag (n.) A quagmire; mossy ground where peat or turf has been cut.,
H as in Hagberry (n.) A plant of the genus Prunus (P. Padus); the bird cherry.,
H as in Hagborn (a.) Born of a hag or witch.,
H as in Hagbut (n.) A harquebus, of which the but was bent down or hooked for convenience in taking aim.,
H as in Hagbutter (n.) A soldier armed with a hagbut or arquebus.,
H as in Hagdon (n.) One of several species of sea birds of the genus Puffinus; esp., P. major, the greater shearwarter, and P. Stricklandi, the black hagdon or sooty shearwater; -- called also hagdown, haglin, and hag. See Shearwater.,
H as in Haggadoth (pl. ) of Haggada,
H as in Haggada (n.) A story, anecdote, or legend in the Talmud, to explain or illustrate the text of the Old Testament.,
H as in Haggard (a.) Wild or intractable; disposed to break away from duty; untamed; as, a haggard or refractory hawk.,
H as in Haggard (a.) Having the expression of one wasted by want or suffering; hollow-eyed; having the features distorted or wasted, or anxious in appearance; as, haggard features, eyes.,
H as in Haggard (a.) A young or untrained hawk or falcon.,
H as in Haggard (a.) A fierce, intractable creature.,
H as in Haggard (a.) A hag.,
H as in Haggard (n.) A stackyard.,
H as in Haggardly (adv.) In a haggard manner.,
H as in Hagged (a.) Like a hag; lean; ugly.,
H as in Haggis (n.) A Scotch pudding made of the heart, liver, lights, etc., of a sheep or lamb, minced with suet, onions, oatmeal, etc., highly seasoned, and boiled in the stomach of the same animal; minced head and pluck.,
H as in Haggish (a.) Like a hag; ugly; wrinkled.,
H as in Haggishly (adv.) In the manner of a hag.,
H as in Haggled (imp. & p. p.) of Haggle,
H as in Haggling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Haggle,
H as in Haggle (v. t.) To cut roughly or hack; to cut into small pieces; to notch or cut in an unskillful manner; to make rough or mangle by cutting; as, a boy haggles a stick of wood.,
H as in Haggle (v. i.) To be difficult in bargaining; to stick at small matters; to chaffer; to higgle.,
H as in Haggle (n.) The act or process of haggling.,
H as in Haggler (n.) One who haggles or is difficult in bargaining.,
H as in Haggler (n.) One who forestalls a market; a middleman between producer and dealer in London vegetable markets.,
H as in Hagiarchy (n.) A sacred government; by holy orders of men.,
H as in Hagiocracy (n.) Government by a priesthood; hierarchy.,
H as in Hagiographa (n. pl.) The last of the three Jewish divisions of the Old Testament, or that portion not contained in the Law and the Prophets. It comprises Psalms, Proverbs, Job, Canticles, Ruth, Lamentations, Ecclesiastes, Esther, Daniel, Ezra, Nehemiah, and Chronicles.,
H as in Hagiographa (n. pl.) The lives of the saints.,
H as in Hagiographal () Pertaining to the hagiographa, or to sacred writings.,
H as in Hagiographer (n.) One of the writers of the hagiographa; a writer of lives of the saints.,
H as in Hagiography (n.) Same Hagiographa.,
H as in Hagiolatry (n.) The invocation or worship of saints.,
H as in Hagiologist (n.) One who treats of the sacred writings; a writer of the lives of the saints; a hagiographer.,
H as in Hagiology (n.) The history or description of the sacred writings or of sacred persons; a narrative of the lives of the saints; a catalogue of saints.,
H as in Hagioscope (n.) An opening made in the interior walls of a cruciform church to afford a view of the altar to those in the transepts; -- called, in architecture, a squint.,
H as in Hag-ridden (a.) Ridden by a hag or witch; hence, afflicted with nightmare.,
H as in Hagseed (n.) The offspring of a hag.,
H as in Hagship (n.) The state or title of a hag.,
H as in Hag-taper (n.) The great woolly mullein (Verbascum Thapsus).,
H as in Haguebut (n.) See Hagbut.,
H as in Hah (interj.) Same as Ha.,
H as in Ha-ha (n.) A sunk fence; a fence, wall, or ditch, not visible till one is close upon it.,
H as in Haidingerite (n.) A mineral consisting of the arseniate of lime; -- so named in honor of W. Haidinger, of Vienna.,
H as in Haiduck (n.) Formerly, a mercenary foot soldier in Hungary, now, a halberdier of a Hungarian noble, or an attendant in German or Hungarian courts.,
H as in Haik (n.) A large piece of woolen or cotton cloth worn by Arabs as an outer garment.,
H as in Haikal (n.) The central chapel of the three forming the sanctuary of a Coptic church. It contains the high altar, and is usually closed by an embroidered curtain.,
H as in Hail (n.) Small roundish masses of ice precipitated from the clouds, where they are formed by the congelation of vapor. The separate masses or grains are called hailstones.,
H as in Halled (imp. & p. p.) of Hail,
H as in Halting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hail,
H as in Hail (v. i.) To pour down particles of ice, or frozen vapors.,
H as in Hail (v. t.) To pour forcibly down, as hail.,
H as in Hail (a.) Healthy. See Hale (the preferable spelling).,
H as in Hail (v. t.) To call loudly to, or after; to accost; to salute; to address.,
H as in Hail (v. t.) To name; to designate; to call.,
H as in Hail (v. i.) To declare, by hailing, the port from which a vessel sails or where she is registered; hence, to sail; to come; -- used with from; as, the steamer hails from New York.,
H as in Hail (v. i.) To report as one's home or the place from whence one comes; to come; -- with from.,
H as in Hail (v. t.) An exclamation of respectful or reverent salutation, or, occasionally, of familiar greeting.,
H as in Hail (n.) A wish of health; a salutation; a loud call.,
H as in Hail-fellow (n.) An intimate companion.,
H as in Hailse (v. t.) To greet; to salute.,
H as in Hailshot (n. pl.) Small shot which scatter like hailstones.,
H as in Hailstone (n.) A single particle of ice falling from a cloud; a frozen raindrop; a pellet of hail.,
H as in Hailstorm (n.) A storm accompanied with hail; a shower of hail.,
H as in Haily (a.) Of hail.,
H as in Han (v. t.) To inclose for mowing; to set aside for grass.,
H as in Hain't () A contraction of have not or has not; as, I hain't, he hain't, we hain't.,
H as in Hair (n.) The collection or mass of filaments growing from the skin of an animal, and forming a covering for a part of the head or for any part or the whole of the body.,
H as in Hair (n.) One the above-mentioned filaments, consisting, in invertebrate animals, of a long, tubular part which is free and flexible, and a bulbous root imbedded in the skin.,
H as in Hair (n.) Hair (human or animal) used for various purposes; as, hair for stuffing cushions.,
H as in Hair (n.) A slender outgrowth from the chitinous cuticle of insects, spiders, crustaceans, and other invertebrates. Such hairs are totally unlike those of vertebrates in structure, composition, and mode of growth.,
H as in Hair (n.) An outgrowth of the epidermis, consisting of one or of several cells, whether pointed, hooked, knobbed, or stellated. Internal hairs occur in the flower stalk of the yellow frog lily (Nuphar).,
H as in Hair (n.) A spring device used in a hair-trigger firearm.,
H as in Hair (n.) A haircloth.,
H as in Hair (n.) Any very small distance, or degree; a hairbreadth.,
H as in Hairbell (n.) See Harebell.,
H as in Hairbird (n.) The chipping sparrow.,
H as in Hairbrained (a.) See Harebrained.,
H as in Hairbreadth () Alt. of Hair'sbreadth,
H as in Hair'sbreadth () The diameter or breadth of a hair; a very small distance; sometimes, definitely, the forty-eighth part of an inch.,
H as in Hairbreadth (a.) Having the breadth of a hair; very narrow; as, a hairbreadth escape.,
H as in Hair-brown (a.) Of a clear tint of brown, resembling brown human hair. It is composed of equal proportions of red and green.,
H as in Hairbrush (n.) A brush for cleansing and smoothing the hair.,
H as in Haircloth (n.) Stuff or cloth made wholly or in part of hair.,
H as in Hairdresser (n.) One who dresses or cuts hair; a barber.,
H as in Haired (a.) Having hair.,
H as in Haired (a.) In composition: Having (such) hair; as, red-haired.,
H as in Hairen (a.) Hairy.,
H as in Hair grass () A grass with very slender leaves or branches; as the Agrostis scabra, and several species of Aira or Deschampsia.,
H as in Hairiness (n.) The state of abounding, or being covered, with hair.,
H as in Hairless (a.) Destitute of hair.,
H as in Hairpin (n.) A pin, usually forked, or of bent wire, for fastening the hair in place, -- used by women.,
H as in Hair-salt (n.) A variety of native Epsom salt occurring in silky fibers.,
H as in Hairsplitter (n.) One who makes excessively nice or needless distinctions in reasoning; one who quibbles.,
H as in Hairsplitting (a.) Making excessively nice or trivial distinctions in reasoning; subtle.,
H as in Hairsplitting (n.) The act or practice of making trivial distinctions.,
H as in Hairspring (n.) The slender recoil spring which regulates the motion of the balance in a timepiece.,
H as in Hairstreak (n.) A butterfly of the genus Thecla; as, the green hairstreak (T. rubi).,
H as in Hairtail (n.) Any species of marine fishes of the genus Trichiurus; esp., T. lepterus of Europe and America. They are long and like a band, with a slender, pointed tail. Called also bladefish.,
H as in Hairworm () A nematoid worm of the genus Gordius, resembling a hair. See Gordius.,
H as in Hairy (a.) Bearing or covered with hair; made of or resembling hair; rough with hair; rough with hair; rough with hair; hirsute.,
H as in Haitian (a. & n.) See Haytian.,
H as in Haye (n.) The Egyptian asp or cobra (Naja haje.) It is related to the cobra of India, and like the latter has the power of inflating its neck into a hood. Its bite is very venomous. It is supposed to be the snake by means of whose bite Cleopatra committed suicide, and hence is sometimes called Cleopatra's snake or asp. See Asp.,
H as in Hake (n.) A drying shed, as for unburned tile.,
H as in Hake (n.) One of several species of marine gadoid fishes, of the genera Phycis, Merlucius, and allies. The common European hake is M. vulgaris; the American silver hake or whiting is M. bilinearis. Two American species (Phycis chuss and P. tenius) are important food fishes, and are also valued for their oil and sounds. Called also squirrel hake, and codling.,
H as in Hake (v. t.) To loiter; to sneak.,
H as in Hake's-dame (n.) See Forkbeard.,
H as in Haketon (n.) Same as Acton.,
H as in Hakim (n.) A wise man; a physician, esp. a Mohammedan.,
H as in Hakim (n.) A Mohammedan title for a ruler; a judge.,
H as in Halachoth (pl. ) of Halacha,
H as in Halacha (n.) The general term for the Hebrew oral or traditional law; one of two branches of exposition in the Midrash. See Midrash.,
H as in Halation (n.) An appearance as of a halo of light, surrounding the edges of dark objects in a photographic picture.,
H as in Halberd (n.) An ancient long-handled weapon, of which the head had a point and several long, sharp edges, curved or straight, and sometimes additional points. The heads were sometimes of very elaborate form.,
H as in Halberdier (n.) One who is armed with a halberd.,
H as in Halberd-shaped (a.) Hastate.,
H as in Halcyon (n.) A kingfisher. By modern ornithologists restricted to a genus including a limited number of species having omnivorous habits, as the sacred kingfisher (Halcyon sancta) of Australia.,
H as in Halcyon (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, the halcyon, which was anciently said to lay her eggs in nests on or near the sea during the calm weather about the winter solstice.,
H as in Halcyon (a.) Hence: Calm; quiet; peaceful; undisturbed; happy.,
H as in Halcyonian (a.) Halcyon; calm.,
H as in Halcyonold (a. & n.) See Alcyonoid.,
H as in Hale (a.) Sound; entire; healthy; robust; not impaired; as, a hale body.,
H as in Hale (n.) Welfare.,
H as in Haled (imp. & p. p.) of Hale,
H as in Haling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hale,
H as in Hale (v. t.) To pull; to drag; to haul.,
H as in Halesia (n.) A genus of American shrubs containing several species, called snowdrop trees, or silver-bell trees. They have showy, white flowers, drooping on slender pedicels.,
H as in Half (a.) Consisting of a moiety, or half; as, a half bushel; a half hour; a half dollar; a half view.,
H as in Half (a.) Consisting of some indefinite portion resembling a half; approximately a half, whether more or less; partial; imperfect; as, a half dream; half knowledge.,
H as in Half (adv.) In an equal part or degree; in some pa/ appro/mating a half; partially; imperfectly; as, half-colored, half done, half-hearted, half persuaded, half conscious.,
H as in Halves (pl. ) of Half,
H as in Half (a.) Part; side; behalf.,
H as in Half (a.) One of two equal parts into which anything may be divided, or considered as divided; -- sometimes followed by of; as, a half of an apple.,
H as in Half (v. t.) To halve. [Obs.] See Halve.,
H as in Half-and-half (n.) A mixture of two malt liquors, esp. porter and ale, in about equal parts.,
H as in Halfbeak (n.) Any slender, marine fish of the genus Hemirhamphus, having the upper jaw much shorter than the lower; -- called also balahoo.,
H as in Half blood () The relation between persons born of the same father or of the same mother, but not of both; as, a brother or sister of the half blood. See Blood, n., 2 and 4.,
H as in Half blood (n.) A person so related to another.,
H as in Half blood (n.) A person whose father and mother are of different races; a half-breed.,
H as in Half-blooded (a.) Proceeding from a male and female of different breeds or races; having only one parent of good stock; as, a half-blooded sheep.,
H as in Half-blooded (a.) Degenerate; mean.,
H as in Half-boot (n.) A boot with a short top covering only the ankle. See Cocker, and Congress boot, under Congress.,
H as in Half-bound (n.) Having only the back and corners in leather, as a book.,
H as in Half-bred (a.) Half-blooded.,
H as in Half-bred (a.) Imperfectly acquainted with the rules of good-breeding; not well trained.,
H as in Half-breed (a.) Half-blooded.,
H as in Half-breed (n.) A person who is blooded; the offspring of parents of different races, especially of the American Indian and the white race.,
H as in Half-brother (n.) A brother by one parent, but not by both.,
H as in Half-caste (n.) One born of a European parent on the one side, and of a Hindoo or Mohammedan on the other. Also adjective; as, half-caste parents.,
H as in Half-clammed (a.) Half-filled.,
H as in Halfcocked (imp. & p. p.) of Halfcock,
H as in Halfcocking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Halfcock,
H as in Halfcock (v. t.) To set the cock of (a firearm) at the first notch.,
H as in Half-cracked (a.) Half-demented; half-witted.,
H as in Half-deck (n.) A shell of the genus Crepidula; a boat shell. See Boat shell.,
H as in Half-deck (n.) See Half deck, under Deck.,
H as in Half-decked (a.) Partially decked.,
H as in Halfen (a.) Wanting half its due qualities.,
H as in Halfendeal (adv.) Half; by the part.,
H as in Halfendeal (n.) A half part.,
H as in Halfer (n.) One who possesses or gives half only; one who shares.,
H as in Halfer (n.) A male fallow deer gelded.,
H as in Half-faced (a.) Showing only part of the face; wretched looking; meager.,
H as in Half-fish (n.) A salmon in its fifth year of growth.,
H as in Half-hatched (a.) Imperfectly hatched; as, half-hatched eggs.,
H as in Half-heard (a.) Imperfectly or partly heard to the end.,
H as in Half-hearted (a.) Wanting in heart or spirit; ungenerous; unkind.,
H as in Half-hearted (a.) Lacking zeal or courage; lukewarm.,
H as in Half-hourly (a.) Done or happening at intervals of half an hour.,
H as in Half-learned (a.) Imperfectly learned.,
H as in Half-length (a.) Of half the whole or ordinary length, as a picture.,
H as in Half-mast (n.) A point some distance below the top of a mast or staff; as, a flag a half-mast (a token of mourning, etc.).,
H as in Half-moon (n.) The moon at the quarters, when half its disk appears illuminated.,
H as in Half-moon (n.) The shape of a half-moon; a crescent.,
H as in Half-moon (n.) An outwork composed of two faces, forming a salient angle whose gorge resembles a half-moon; -- now called a ravelin.,
H as in Half-moon (n.) A marine, sparoid, food fish of California (Caesiosoma Californiense). The body is ovate, blackish above, blue or gray below. Called also medialuna.,
H as in Halfness (n.) The quality of being half; incompleteness.,
H as in Halfpace (n.) A platform of a staircase where the stair turns back in exactly the reverse direction of the lower flight. See Quarterpace.,
H as in Half-pike (n.) A short pike, sometimes carried by officers of infantry, sometimes used in boarding ships; a spontoon.,
H as in Half-port (n.) One half of a shutter made in two parts for closing a porthole.,
H as in Half-ray (n.) A straight line considered as drawn from a center to an indefinite distance in one direction, the complete ray being the whole line drawn to an indefinite distance in both directions.,
H as in Half-read (a.) Informed by insufficient reading; superficial; shallow.,
H as in Half seas over () Half drunk.,
H as in Half-sighted (a.) Seeing imperfectly; having weak discernment.,
H as in Half-sister (n.) A sister by one parent only.,
H as in Half-strained (a.) Half-bred; imperfect.,
H as in Half-sword (n.) Half the length of a sword; close fight.,
H as in Half-timbered (a.) Constructed of a timber frame, having the spaces filled in with masonry; -- said of buildings.,
H as in Half-tounue (n.) A jury, for the trial of a foreigner, composed equally of citizens and aliens.,
H as in Halfway (adv.) In the middle; at half the distance; imperfectly; partially; as, he halfway yielded.,
H as in Halfway (a.) Equally distant from the extremes; situated at an intermediate point; midway.,
H as in Half-wit (n.) A foolish; a dolt; a blockhead; a dunce.,
H as in Half-witted (a.) Weak in intellect; silly.,
H as in Half-yearly (a.) Two in a year; semiannual. -- adv. Twice in a year; semiannually.,
H as in Halibut (n.) A large, northern, marine flatfish (Hippoglossus vulgaris), of the family Pleuronectidae. It often grows very large, weighing more than three hundred pounds. It is an important food fish.,
H as in Halichondriae (n. pl.) An order of sponges, having simple siliceous spicules and keratose fibers; -- called also Keratosilicoidea.,
H as in Halicore (n.) Same as Dugong.,
H as in Halidom (n.) Holiness; sanctity; sacred oath; sacred things; sanctuary; -- used chiefly in oaths.,
H as in Halidom (n.) Holy doom; the Last Day.,
H as in Halieutics (n.) A treatise upon fish or the art of fishing; ichthyology.,
H as in Halmas (a.) The feast of All Saints; Hallowmas.,
H as in Haliographer (n.) One who writes about or describes the sea.,
H as in Haliography (n.) Description of the sea; the science that treats of the sea.,
H as in Haliotis (n.) A genus of marine shells; the ear-shells. See Abalone.,
H as in Haliotoid (a.) Like or pertaining to the genus Haliotis; ear-shaped.,
H as in Halisauria (n. pl.) The Enaliosauria.,
H as in Halite (n.) Native salt; sodium chloride.,
H as in Halituous (a.) Produced by, or like, breath; vaporous.,
H as in Halk (n.) A nook; a corner.,
H as in Hall (n.) A building or room of considerable size and stateliness, used for public purposes; as, Westminster Hall, in London.,
H as in Hall (n.) The chief room in a castle or manor house, and in early times the only public room, serving as the place of gathering for the lord's family with the retainers and servants, also for cooking and eating. It was often contrasted with the bower, which was the private or sleeping apartment.,
H as in Hall (n.) A vestibule, entrance room, etc., in the more elaborated buildings of later times.,
H as in Hall (n.) Any corridor or passage in a building.,
H as in Hall (n.) A name given to many manor houses because the magistrate's court was held in the hall of his mansion; a chief mansion house.,
H as in Hall (n.) A college in an English university (at Oxford, an unendowed college).,
H as in Hall (n.) The apartment in which English university students dine in common; hence, the dinner itself; as, hall is at six o'clock.,
H as in Hall (n.) Cleared passageway in a crowd; -- formerly an exclamation.,
H as in Hallage (n.) A fee or toll paid for goods sold in a hall.,
H as in Halleluiah (n. & interj.) Alt. of Hallelujah,
H as in Hallelujah (n. & interj.) Praise ye Jehovah; praise ye the Lord; -- an exclamation used chiefly in songs of praise or thanksgiving to God, and as an expression of gratitude or adoration.,
H as in Hallelujatic (a.) Pertaining to, or containing, hallelujahs.,
H as in Halliard (n.) See Halyard.,
H as in Hallidome (n.) Same as Halidom.,
H as in Hallier (n.) A kind of net for catching birds.,
H as in Hall-mark (n.) The official stamp of the Goldsmiths' Company and other assay offices, in the United Kingdom, on gold and silver articles, attesting their purity. Also used figuratively; -- as, a word or phrase lacks the hall-mark of the best writers.,
H as in Halloa () See Halloo.,
H as in Halloo (n.) A loud exclamation; a call to invite attention or to incite a person or an animal; a shout.,
H as in Hallooed (imp. & p. p.) of Halloo,
H as in Halloing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Halloo,
H as in Halloo (v. i.) To cry out; to exclaim with a loud voice; to call to a person, as by the word halloo.,
H as in Halloo (v. t.) To encourage with shouts.,
H as in Halloo (v. t.) To chase with shouts or outcries.,
H as in Halloo (v. t.) To call or shout to; to hail.,
H as in Halloo (n.) An exclamation to call attention or to encourage one.,
H as in Hallowed (imp. & p. p.) of Hallow,
H as in Hallowing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hallow,
H as in Hallow (v. t.) To make holy; to set apart for holy or religious use; to consecrate; to treat or keep as sacred; to reverence.,
H as in Halloween (n.) The evening preceding Allhallows or All Saints' Day.,
H as in Hallowmas (n.) The feast of All Saints, or Allhallows.,
H as in Halloysite (n.) A claylike mineral, occurring in soft, smooth, amorphous masses, of a whitish color.,
H as in Hallucal (a.) Of or pertaining to the hallux.,
H as in Hallucinate (v. i.) To wander; to go astray; to err; to blunder; -- used of mental processes.,
H as in Hallucination (n.) The act of hallucinating; a wandering of the mind; error; mistake; a blunder.,
H as in Hallucination (n.) The perception of objects which have no reality, or of sensations which have no corresponding external cause, arising from disorder or the nervous system, as in delirium tremens; delusion.,
H as in Hallucinator (n.) One whose judgment and acts are affected by hallucinations; one who errs on account of his hallucinations.,
H as in Hallucinatory (a.) Partaking of, or tending to produce, hallucination.,
H as in Hallux (n.) The first, or preaxial, digit of the hind limb, corresponding to the pollux in the fore limb; the great toe; the hind toe of birds.,
H as in Halm (n.) Same as Haulm.,
H as in Halma (n.) The long jump, with weights in the hands, -- the most important of the exercises of the Pentathlon.,
H as in Halos (pl. ) of Halo,
H as in Halo (n.) A luminous circle, usually prismatically colored, round the sun or moon, and supposed to be caused by the refraction of light through crystals of ice in the atmosphere. Connected with halos there are often white bands, crosses, or arches, resulting from the same atmospheric conditions.,
H as in Halo (n.) A circle of light; especially, the bright ring represented in painting as surrounding the heads of saints and other holy persons; a glory; a nimbus.,
H as in Halo (n.) An ideal glory investing, or affecting one's perception of, an object.,
H as in Halo (n.) A colored circle around a nipple; an areola.,
H as in Haloed (imp. & p. p.) of Halo,
H as in Haloing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Halo,
H as in Halo (v. t. & i.) To form, or surround with, a halo; to encircle with, or as with, a halo.,
H as in Haloed (a.) Surrounded with a halo; invested with an ideal glory; glorified.,
H as in Halogen (n.) An electro-negative element or radical, which, by combination with a metal, forms a haloid salt; especially, chlorine, bromine, and iodine; sometimes, also, fluorine and cyanogen. See Chlorine family, under Chlorine.,
H as in Halogenous (a.) Of the nature of a halogen.,
H as in Haloid (a.) Resembling salt; -- said of certain binary compounds consisting of a metal united to a negative element or radical, and now chiefly applied to the chlorides, bromides, iodides, and sometimes also to the fluorides and cyanides.,
H as in Haloid (n.) A haloid substance.,
H as in Halomancy (n.) See Alomancy.,
H as in Halometer (n.) An instrument for measuring the forms and angles of salts and crystals; a goniometer.,
H as in Halones (n. pl.) Alternating transparent and opaque white rings which are seen outside the blastoderm, on the surface of the developing egg of the hen and other birds.,
H as in Halophyte (n.) A plant found growing in salt marshes, or in the sea.,
H as in Haloscope (n.) An instrument for exhibition or illustration of the phenomena of halos, parhelia, and the like.,
H as in Halotrichite (n.) An iron alum occurring in silky fibrous aggregates of a yellowish white color.,
H as in Haloxyline (n.) An explosive mixture, consisting of sawdust, charcoal, niter, and ferrocyanide of potassium, used as a substitute for gunpowder.,
H as in Halp (imp.) Helped.,
H as in Halpace (n.) See Haut pas.,
H as in Hals (n.) The neck or throat.,
H as in Halse (v. t.) To embrace about the neck; to salute; to greet.,
H as in Halse (v. t.) To adjure; to beseech; to entreat.,
H as in Halsed (imp. & p. p.) of Halse,
H as in Halsing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Halse,
H as in Halse (v. t.) To haul; to hoist.,
H as in Halsening (a.) Sounding harshly in the throat; inharmonious; rough.,
H as in Halser (n.) See Hawser.,
H as in Halt () 3d pers. sing. pres. of Hold, contraction for holdeth.,
H as in Halt (n.) A stop in marching or walking, or in any action; arrest of progress.,
H as in Halted (imp. & p. p.) of Halt,
H as in Halting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Halt,
H as in Halt (v. i.) To hold one's self from proceeding; to hold up; to cease progress; to stop for a longer or shorter period; to come to a stop; to stand still.,
H as in Halt (v. i.) To stand in doubt whether to proceed, or what to do; to hesitate; to be uncertain.,
H as in Halt (v. t.) To cause to cease marching; to stop; as, the general halted his troops for refreshment.,
H as in Halt (a.) Halting or stopping in walking; lame.,
H as in Halt (n.) The act of limping; lameness.,
H as in Halt (a.) To walk lamely; to limp.,
H as in Halt (a.) To have an irregular rhythm; to be defective.,
H as in Halter (n.) One who halts or limps; a cripple.,
H as in Halter (n.) A strong strap or cord.,
H as in Halter (n.) A rope or strap, with or without a headstall, for leading or tying a horse.,
H as in Halter (n.) A rope for hanging malefactors; a noose.,
H as in Haltered (imp. & p. p.) of Halter,
H as in Haltering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Halter,
H as in Halter (v. t.) To tie by the neck with a rope, strap, or halter; to put a halter on; to subject to a hangman's halter.,
H as in Halteres (n. pl.) Balancers; the rudimentary hind wings of Diptera.,
H as in Halter-sack (n.) A term of reproach, implying that one is fit to be hanged.,
H as in Haltingly (adv.) In a halting or limping manner.,
H as in Halvans (n. pl.) Impure ore; dirty ore.,
H as in Halve (n.) A half.,
H as in Halved (imp. & p. p.) of Halve,
H as in Halving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Halve,
H as in Halve (v. t.) To divide into two equal parts; as, to halve an apple; to be or form half of.,
H as in Halve (v. t.) To join, as two pieces of timber, by cutting away each for half its thickness at the joining place, and fitting together.,
H as in Halved (a.) Appearing as if one side, or one half, were cut away; dimidiate.,
H as in Halves (n.) pl. of Half.,
H as in Halwe (n.) A saint.,
H as in Hal'yard (v. t.) A rope or tackle for hoisting or lowering yards, sails, flags, etc.,
H as in Halysites (n.) A genus of Silurian fossil corals; the chain corals. See Chain coral, under Chain.,
H as in Ham (n.) Home.,
H as in Ham (n.) The region back of the knee joint; the popliteal space; the hock.,
H as in Ham (n.) The thigh of any animal; especially, the thigh of a hog cured by salting and smoking.,
H as in Hamadryads (pl. ) of Hamadryad,
H as in Hamadryades (pl. ) of Hamadryad,
H as in Hamadryad (n.) A tree nymph whose life ended with that of the particular tree, usually an oak, which had been her abode.,
H as in Hamadryad (n.) A large venomous East Indian snake (Orhiophagus bungarus), allied to the cobras.,
H as in Hamadryas (n.) The sacred baboon of Egypt (Cynocephalus Hamadryas).,
H as in Hamamelis (n.) A genus of plants which includes the witch-hazel (Hamamelis Virginica), a preparation of which is used medicinally.,
H as in Hamate (a.) Hooked; bent at the end into a hook; hamous.,
H as in Hamated (a.) Hooked, or set with hooks; hamate.,
H as in Hamatum (n.) See Unciform.,
H as in Hamble (v. t.) To hamstring.,
H as in Hamburg (n.) A commercial city of Germany, near the mouth of the Elbe.,
H as in Hame (n.) Home.,
H as in Hame (n.) One of the two curved pieces of wood or metal, in the harness of a draught horse, to which the traces are fastened. They are fitted upon the collar, or have pads fitting the horse's neck attached to them.,
H as in Hamel (v. t.) Same as Hamele.,
H as in Hamesecken (n.) Alt. of Hamesucken,
H as in Hamesucken (n.) The felonious seeking and invasion of a person in his dwelling house.,
H as in Hamiform (n.) Hook-shaped.,
H as in Hamilton period () A subdivision of the Devonian system of America; -- so named from Hamilton, Madison Co., New York. It includes the Marcellus, Hamilton, and Genesee epochs or groups. See the Chart of Geology.,
H as in Haminura (n.) A large edible river fish (Erythrinus macrodon) of Guiana.,
H as in Hamite (n.) A fossil cephalopod of the genus Hamites, related to the ammonites, but having the last whorl bent into a hooklike form.,
H as in Hamite (n.) A descendant of Ham, Noah's second son. See Gen. x. 6-20.,
H as in Haitic (a.) Pertaining to Ham or his descendants.,
H as in Hamlet (n.) A small village; a little cluster of houses in the country.,
H as in Hamleted (p. a.) Confined to a hamlet.,
H as in Hammer (n.) An instrument for driving nails, beating metals, and the like, consisting of a head, usually of steel or iron, fixed crosswise to a handle.,
H as in Hammer (n.) Something which in firm or action resembles the common hammer,
H as in Hammer (n.) That part of a clock which strikes upon the bell to indicate the hour.,
H as in Hammer (n.) The padded mallet of a piano, which strikes the wires, to produce the tones.,
H as in Hammer (n.) The malleus.,
H as in Hammer (n.) That part of a gunlock which strikes the percussion cap, or firing pin; the cock; formerly, however, a piece of steel covering the pan of a flintlock musket and struck by the flint of the cock to ignite the priming.,
H as in Hammer (n.) Also, a person of thing that smites or shatters; as, St. Augustine was the hammer of heresies.,
H as in Hammered (imp. & p. p.) of Hammer,
H as in Hammering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hammer,
H as in Hammer (v. t.) To beat with a hammer; to beat with heavy blows; as, to hammer iron.,
H as in Hammer (v. t.) To form or forge with a hammer; to shape by beating.,
H as in Hammer (v. t.) To form in the mind; to shape by hard intellectual labor; -- usually with out.,
H as in Hammer (v. i.) To be busy forming anything; to labor hard as if shaping something with a hammer.,
H as in Hammer (v. i.) To strike repeated blows, literally or figuratively.,
H as in Hammerable (a.) Capable of being formed or shaped by a hammer.,
H as in Hammer-beam (n.) A member of one description of roof truss, called hammer-beam truss, which is so framed as not to have a tiebeam at the top of the wall. Each principal has two hammer-beams, which occupy the situation, and to some extent serve the purpose, of a tiebeam.,
H as in Hammercloth (n.) The cloth which covers a coach box.,
H as in Hammer-dressed (a.) Having the surface roughly shaped or faced with the stonecutter's hammer; -- said of building stone.,
H as in Hammerer (n.) One who works with a hammer.,
H as in Hammer-harden (v. t.) To harden, as a metal, by hammering it in the cold state.,
H as in Hammerhead (n.) A shark of the genus Sphyrna or Zygaena, having the eyes set on projections from the sides of the head, which gives it a hammer shape. The Sphyrna zygaena is found in the North Atlantic. Called also hammer fish, and balance fish.,
H as in Hammerhead (n.) A fresh-water fish; the stone-roller.,
H as in Hammerhead (n.) An African fruit bat (Hypsignathus monstrosus); -- so called from its large blunt nozzle.,
H as in Hammerkop (n.) A bird of the Heron family; the umber.,
H as in Hammer-less (a.) Without a visible hammer; -- said of a gun having a cock or striker concealed from sight, and out of the way of an accidental touch.,
H as in Hammermen (pl. ) of Hammerman,
H as in Hammerman (n.) A hammerer; a forgeman.,
H as in Hammochrysos (n.) A stone with spangles of gold color in it.,
H as in Hammock (n.) A swinging couch or bed, usually made of netting or canvas about six feet wide, suspended by clews or cords at the ends.,
H as in Hammock (n.) A piece of land thickly wooded, and usually covered with bushes and vines. Used also adjectively; as, hammock land.,
H as in Hamose () Alt. of Hamous,
H as in Hamous () Having the end hooked or curved.,
H as in Hamper (n.) A large basket, usually with a cover, used for the packing and carrying of articles; as, a hamper of wine; a clothes hamper; an oyster hamper, which contains two bushels.,
H as in Hampered (imp. & p. p.) of Hamper,
H as in Hampering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hamper,
H as in Hamper (v. t.) To put in a hamper.,
H as in Hamper (v. t.) To put a hamper or fetter on; to shackle; to insnare; to inveigle; hence, to impede in motion or progress; to embarrass; to encumber.,
H as in Hamper (n.) A shackle; a fetter; anything which impedes.,
H as in Hamper (n.) Articles ordinarily indispensable, but in the way at certain times.,
H as in Hamshackle (v. t.) To fasten (an animal) by a rope binding the head to one of the fore legs; as, to hamshackle a horse or cow; hence, to bind or restrain; to curb.,
H as in Hamster (n.) A small European rodent (Cricetus frumentarius). It is remarkable for having a pouch on each side of the jaw, under the skin, and for its migrations.,
H as in Hamstring (n.) One of the great tendons situated in each side of the ham, or space back of the knee, and connected with the muscles of the back of the thigh.,
H as in Hamstrung (imp. & p. p.) of Hamstring,
H as in Hamstringing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hamstring,
H as in Hamstring (v. t.) To lame or disable by cutting the tendons of the ham or knee; to hough; hence, to cripple; to incapacitate; to disable.,
H as in Hamular (a.) Hooked; hooklike; hamate; as, the hamular process of the sphenoid bone.,
H as in Hamulate (a.) Furnished with a small hook; hook-shaped.,
H as in Hamule (n.) A little hook.,
H as in Hamulose (a.) Bearing a small hook at the end.,
H as in Hamuli (pl. ) of Hamulus,
H as in Hamulus (n.) A hook, or hooklike process.,
H as in Hamulus (n.) A hooked barbicel of a feather.,
H as in Han (inf. & plural pres.) To have; have.,
H as in Hanap (n.) A rich goblet, esp. one used on state occasions.,
H as in Hanaper (n.) A kind of basket, usually of wickerwork, and adapted for the packing and carrying of articles; a hamper.,
H as in Hance (v. t.) To raise; to elevate.,
H as in Hance () Alt. of Hanch,
H as in Hanch () See Hanse.,
H as in Hanch () A sudden fall or break, as the fall of the fife rail down to the gangway.,
H as in Hand (n.) That part of the fore limb below the forearm or wrist in man and monkeys, and the corresponding part in many other animals; manus; paw. See Manus.,
H as in Hand (n.) That which resembles, or to some extent performs the office of, a human hand,
H as in Hand (n.) A limb of certain animals, as the foot of a hawk, or any one of the four extremities of a monkey.,
H as in Hand (n.) An index or pointer on a dial; as, the hour or minute hand of a clock.,
H as in Hand (n.) A measure equal to a hand's breadth, -- four inches; a palm. Chiefly used in measuring the height of horses.,
H as in Hand (n.) Side; part; direction, either right or left.,
H as in Hand (n.) Power of performance; means of execution; ability; skill; dexterity.,
H as in Hand (n.) Actual performance; deed; act; workmanship; agency; hence, manner of performance.,
H as in Hand (n.) An agent; a servant, or laborer; a workman, trained or competent for special service or duty; a performer more or less skillful; as, a deck hand; a farm hand; an old hand at speaking.,
H as in Hand (n.) Handwriting; style of penmanship; as, a good, bad or running hand. Hence, a signature.,
H as in Hand (n.) Personal possession; ownership; hence, control; direction; management; -- usually in the plural.,
H as in Hand (n.) Agency in transmission from one person to another; as, to buy at first hand, that is, from the producer, or when new; at second hand, that is, when no longer in the producer's hand, or when not new.,
H as in Hand (n.) Rate; price.,
H as in Hand (n.) That which is, or may be, held in a hand at once,
H as in Hand (n.) The quota of cards received from the dealer.,
H as in Hand (n.) A bundle of tobacco leaves tied together.,
H as in Hand (n.) The small part of a gunstock near the lock, which is grasped by the hand in taking aim.,
H as in Hand staves (pl. ) of Hand,
H as in Handed (imp. & p. p.) of Hand,
H as in Handing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hand,
H as in Hand (v. t.) To give, pass, or transmit with the hand; as, he handed them the letter.,
H as in Hand (v. t.) To lead, guide, or assist with the hand; to conduct; as, to hand a lady into a carriage.,
H as in Hand (v. t.) To manage; as, I hand my oar.,
H as in Hand (v. t.) To seize; to lay hands on.,
H as in Hand (v. t.) To pledge by the hand; to handfast.,
H as in Hand (v. t.) To furl; -- said of a sail.,
H as in Hand (v. i.) To cooperate.,
H as in Handbarrow (n.) A frame or barrow, without a wheel, carried by hand.,
H as in Handbill (n.) A loose, printed sheet, to be distributed by hand.,
H as in Handbill (n.) A pruning hook.,
H as in Handbook (n.) A book of reference, to be carried in the hand; a manual; a guidebook.,
H as in Handbreadth (n.) A space equal to the breadth of the hand; a palm.,
H as in Handcart (n.) A cart drawn or pushed by hand.,
H as in Handcloth (n.) A handkerchief.,
H as in Handcraft (n.) Same as Handicraft.,
H as in -men (pl. ) of Handcraftsman,
H as in Handcraftsman (n.) A handicraftsman.,
H as in Handcuff (n.) A fastening, consisting of an iron ring around the wrist, usually connected by a chain with one on the other wrist; a manacle; -- usually in the plural.,
H as in Handcuffed (imp. & p. p.) of Handcuff,
H as in Handcuffing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Handcuff,
H as in Handcuff (v. t.) To apply handcuffs to; to manacle.,
H as in Handed (a.) With hands joined; hand in hand.,
H as in Handed (a.) Having a peculiar or characteristic hand.,
H as in Hander (n.) One who hands over or transmits; a conveyer in succession.,
H as in Handfast (n.) Hold; grasp; custody; power of confining or keeping.,
H as in Handfast (n.) Contract; specifically, espousal.,
H as in Handfast (a.) Fast by contract; betrothed by joining hands.,
H as in Handfasted (imp. & p. p.) of Handfast,
H as in Handfasting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Handfast,
H as in Handfast (v. t.) To pledge; to bind; to betroth by joining hands, in order to cohabitation, before the celebration of marriage.,
H as in Handfast (n.) Strong; steadfast.,
H as in Handfastly (adv.) In a handfast or publicly pledged manner.,
H as in Handfish (n.) The frogfish.,
H as in Hand flus (pl. ) of Handful,
H as in Handful (n.) As much as the hand will grasp or contain.,
H as in Handful (n.) A hand's breadth; four inches.,
H as in Handful (n.) A small quantity.,
H as in Hand-hole (n.) A small hole in a boiler for the insertion of the hand in cleaning, etc.,
H as in Handicap (n.) An allowance of a certain amount of time or distance in starting, granted in a race to the competitor possessing inferior advantages; or an additional weight or other hindrance imposed upon the one possessing superior advantages, in order to equalize, as much as possible, the chances of success; as, the handicap was five seconds, or ten pounds, and the like.,
H as in Handicap (n.) A race, for horses or men, or any contest of agility, strength, or skill, in which there is an allowance of time, distance, weight, or other advantage, to equalize the chances of the competitors.,
H as in Handicap (n.) An old game at cards.,
H as in Handicapped (imp. & p. p.) of Handicap,
H as in Handicapping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Handicap,
H as in Handicap (v. t.) To encumber with a handicap in any contest; hence, in general, to place at disadvantage; as, the candidate was heavily handicapped.,
H as in Handicapper (n.) One who determines the conditions of a handicap.,
H as in Handicraft (n.) A trade requiring skill of hand; manual occupation; handcraft.,
H as in Handicraft (n.) A man who earns his living by handicraft; a handicraftsman.,
H as in -men (pl. ) of Handi-craftsman,
H as in Handi-craftsman (n.) A man skilled or employed in handcraft.,
H as in Handily (adv.) In a handy manner; skillfully; conveniently.,
H as in Handiness (n.) The quality or state of being handy.,
H as in Handiron (n.) See Andrion.,
H as in Handiwork (n.) Work done by the hands; hence, any work done personally.,
H as in Handkercher (n.) A handkerchief.,
H as in Handkerchief (n.) A piece of cloth, usually square and often fine and elegant, carried for wiping the face or hands.,
H as in Handkerchief (n.) A piece of cloth shaped like a handkerchief to be worn about the neck; a neckerchief; a neckcloth.,
H as in Handled (imp. & p. p.) of Handle,
H as in Handling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Handle,
H as in Handle (v. t.) To touch; to feel with the hand; to use or hold with the hand.,
H as in Handle (v. t.) To manage in using, as a spade or a musket; to wield; often, to manage skillfully.,
H as in Handle (v. t.) To accustom to the hand; to work upon, or take care of, with the hands.,
H as in Handle (v. t.) To receive and transfer; to have pass through one's hands; hence, to buy and sell; as, a merchant handles a variety of goods, or a large stock.,
H as in Handle (v. t.) To deal with; to make a business of.,
H as in Handle (v. t.) To treat; to use, well or ill.,
H as in Handle (v. t.) To manage; to control; to practice skill upon.,
H as in Handle (v. t.) To use or manage in writing or speaking; to treat, as a theme, an argument, or an objection.,
H as in Handle (v. i.) To use the hands.,
H as in Handle (n.) That part of vessels, instruments, etc., which is held in the hand when used or moved, as the haft of a sword, the knob of a door, the bail of a kettle, etc.,
H as in Handle (n.) That of which use is made; the instrument for effecting a purpose; a tool.,
H as in Handleable (a.) Capable of being handled.,
H as in Handless (a.) Without a hand.,
H as in Handling (n.) A touching, controlling, managing, using, etc., with the hand or hands, or as with the hands. See Handle, v. t.,
H as in Handling (v. t.) The mode of using the pencil or brush, etc.; style of touch.,
H as in Handmade (a.) Manufactured by hand; as, handmade shoes.,
H as in Handmaid (n.) Alt. of Handmaiden,
H as in Handmaiden (n.) A maid that waits at hand; a female servant or attendant.,
H as in Handsaw (n.) A saw used with one hand.,
H as in Handsel (n.) A sale, gift, or delivery into the hand of another; especially, a sale, gift, delivery, or using which is the first of a series, and regarded as on omen for the rest; a first installment; an earnest; as the first money received for the sale of goods in the morning, the first money taken at a shop newly opened, the first present sent to a young woman on her wedding day, etc.,
H as in Handsel (n.) Price; payment.,
H as in Handseled (imp. & p. p.) of Handsel,
H as in Handseled () of Handsel,
H as in Handseling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Handsel,
H as in Handselling () of Handsel,
H as in Handsel (n.) To give a handsel to.,
H as in Handsel (n.) To use or do for the first time, esp. so as to make fortunate or unfortunate; to try experimentally.,
H as in Handsome (superl.) Dexterous; skillful; handy; ready; convenient; -- applied to things as persons.,
H as in Handsome (superl.) Agreeable to the eye or to correct taste; having a pleasing appearance or expression; attractive; having symmetry and dignity; comely; -- expressing more than pretty, and less than beautiful; as, a handsome man or woman; a handsome garment, house, tree, horse.,
H as in Handsome (superl.) Suitable or fit in action; marked with propriety and ease; graceful; becoming; appropriate; as, a handsome style, etc.,
H as in Handsome (superl.) Evincing a becoming generosity or nobleness of character; liberal; generous.,
H as in Handsome (superl.) Ample; moderately large.,
H as in Hadsome (v. t.) To render handsome.,
H as in Handsomely (adv.) In a handsome manner.,
H as in Handsomely (adv.) Carefully; in shipshape style.,
H as in Handsomeness (n.) The quality of being handsome.,
H as in Handspike (n.) A bar or lever, generally of wood, used in a windlass or capstan, for heaving anchor, and, in modified forms, for various purposes.,
H as in Handspring (n.) A somersault made with the assistance of the hands placed upon the ground.,
H as in Hand-tight (a.) As tight as can be made by the hand.,
H as in Handwheel (n.) Any wheel worked by hand; esp., one the rim of which serves as the handle by which a valve, car brake, or other part is adjusted.,
H as in Hand-winged (a.) Having wings that are like hands in the structure and arrangement of their bones; -- said of bats. See Cheiroptera.,
H as in Handwriting (n.) The cast or form of writing peculiar to each hand or person; chirography.,
H as in Handwriting (n.) That which is written by hand; manuscript.,
H as in Handy (superl.) Performed by the hand.,
H as in Handy (superl.) Skillful in using the hand; dexterous; ready; adroit.,
H as in Handy (superl.) Ready to the hand; near; also, suited to the use of the hand; convenient; valuable for reference or use; as, my tools are handy; a handy volume.,
H as in Handy (superl.) Easily managed; obedient to the helm; -- said of a vessel.,
H as in Handyy-dandy (n.) A child's play, one child guessing in which closed hand the other holds some small object, winning the object if right and forfeiting an equivalent if wrong; hence, forfeit.,
H as in Handyfight (n.) A fight with the hands; boxing.,
H as in Handygripe (n.) Seizure by, or grasp of, the hand; also, close quarters in fighting.,
H as in Handystroke (n.) A blow with the hand.,
H as in Hand-work (n.) See Handiwork.,
H as in Hanged (imp. & p. p.) of Hang,
H as in Hung () of Hang,
H as in Hanging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hang,
H as in Hang (v. i.) To suspend; to fasten to some elevated point without support from below; -- often used with up or out; as, to hang a coat on a hook; to hang up a sign; to hang out a banner.,
H as in Hang (v. i.) To fasten in a manner which will allow of free motion upon the point or points of suspension; -- said of a pendulum, a swing, a door, gate, etc.,
H as in Hang (v. i.) To fit properly, as at a proper angle (a part of an implement that is swung in using), as a scythe to its snath, or an ax to its helve.,
H as in Hang (v. i.) To put to death by suspending by the neck; -- a form of capital punishment; as, to hang a murderer.,
H as in Hang (v. i.) To cover, decorate, or furnish by hanging pictures trophies, drapery, and the like, or by covering with paper hangings; -- said of a wall, a room, etc.,
H as in Hang (v. i.) To paste, as paper hangings, on the walls of a room.,
H as in Hang (v. i.) To hold or bear in a suspended or inclined manner or position instead of erect; to droop; as, he hung his head in shame.,
H as in Hang (v. i.) To be suspended or fastened to some elevated point without support from below; to dangle; to float; to rest; to remain; to stay.,
H as in Hang (v. i.) To be fastened in such a manner as to allow of free motion on the point or points of suspension.,
H as in Hang (v. i.) To die or be put to death by suspension from the neck.,
H as in Hang (v. i.) To hold for support; to depend; to cling; -- usually with on or upon; as, this question hangs on a single point.,
H as in Hang (v. i.) To be, or be like, a suspended weight.,
H as in Hang (v. i.) To hover; to impend; to appear threateningly; -- usually with over; as, evils hang over the country.,
H as in Hang (v. i.) To lean or incline; to incline downward.,
H as in Hang (v. i.) To slope down; as, hanging grounds.,
H as in Hang (v. i.) To be undetermined or uncertain; to be in suspense; to linger; to be delayed.,
H as in Hang (n.) The manner in which one part or thing hangs upon, or is connected with, another; as, the hang of a scythe.,
H as in Hang (n.) Connection; arrangement; plan; as, the hang of a discourse.,
H as in Hang (n.) A sharp or steep declivity or slope.,
H as in Hangbird (n.) The Baltimore oriole (Icterus galbula); -- so called because its nest is suspended from the limb of a tree. See Baltimore oriole.,
H as in Hang-bies (pl. ) of Hang-by,
H as in Hang-by (n.) A dependent; a hanger-on; -- so called in contempt.,
H as in Hangdog (n.) A base, degraded person; a sneak; a gallows bird.,
H as in Hangdog (a.) Low; sneaking; ashamed.,
H as in Hanger (n.) One who hangs, or causes to be hanged; a hangman.,
H as in Hanger (n.) That by which a thing is suspended.,
H as in Hanger (n.) A strap hung to the girdle, by which a dagger or sword is suspended.,
H as in Hanger (n.) A part that suspends a journal box in which shafting runs. See Illust. of Countershaft.,
H as in Hanger (n.) A bridle iron.,
H as in Hanger (n.) That which hangs or is suspended, as a sword worn at the side; especially, in the 18th century, a short, curved sword.,
H as in Hanger (n.) A steep, wooded declivity.,
H as in Hangers-on (pl. ) of Hanger-on,
H as in Hanger-on (n.) One who hangs on, or sticks to, a person, place, or service; a dependent; one who adheres to others' society longer than he is wanted.,
H as in Hanging (a.) Requiring, deserving, or foreboding death by the halter.,
H as in Hanging (a.) Suspended from above; pendent; as, hanging shelves.,
H as in Hanging (a.) Adapted for sustaining a hanging object; as, the hanging post of a gate, the post which holds the hinges.,
H as in Hanging (n.) The act of suspending anything; the state of being suspended.,
H as in Hanging (n.) Death by suspension; execution by a halter.,
H as in Hanging (n.) That which is hung as lining or drapery for the walls of a room, as tapestry, paper, etc., or to cover or drape a door or window; -- used chiefly in the plural.,
H as in Hangmen (pl. ) of Hangman,
H as in Hangman (n.) One who hangs another; esp., one who makes a business of hanging; a public executioner; -- sometimes used as a term of reproach, without reference to office.,
H as in Hangmanship (n.) The office or character of a hangman.,
H as in Hangnail (n.) A small piece or silver of skin which hangs loose, near the root of finger nail.,
H as in Hangnest (n.) A nest that hangs like a bag or pocket.,
H as in Hangnest (n.) A bird which builds such a nest; a hangbird.,
H as in Hank (n.) A parcel consisting of two or more skeins of yarn or thread tied together.,
H as in Hank (n.) A rope or withe for fastening a gate.,
H as in Hank (n.) Hold; influence.,
H as in Hank (n.) A ring or eye of rope, wood, or iron, attached to the edge of a sail and running on a stay.,
H as in Hank (v. t.) To fasten with a rope, as a gate.,
H as in Hank (v. t.) To form into hanks.,
H as in Hankered (imp. & p. p.) of Hanker,
H as in Hankering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hanker,
H as in Hanker (v. i.) To long (for) with a keen appetite and uneasiness; to have a vehement desire; -- usually with for or after; as, to hanker after fruit; to hanker after the diversions of the town.,
H as in Hanker (v. i.) To linger in expectation or with desire.,
H as in Hankeringly (adv.) In a hankering manner.,
H as in Hankey-pankey (n.) Professional cant; the chatter of conjurers to divert attention from their tricks; hence, jugglery.,
H as in Hanoverian (a.) Of or pertaining to Hanover or its people, or to the House of Hanover in England.,
H as in Hanoverian (n.) A native or naturalized inhabitant of Hanover; one of the House of Hanover.,
H as in Han sa (n.) See 2d Hanse.,
H as in Hansard (n.) An official report of proceedings in the British Parliament; -- so called from the name of the publishers.,
H as in Hansard (n.) A merchant of one of the Hanse towns. See the Note under 2d Hanse.,
H as in Hanse (n.) That part of an elliptical or many-centered arch which has the shorter radius and immediately adjoins the impost.,
H as in Hanse (n.) An association; a league or confederacy.,
H as in Hanseatic (a.) Pertaining to the Hanse towns, or to their confederacy.,
H as in Hansel (n. & v.) See Handsel.,
H as in Hanselines (n.) A sort of breeches.,
H as in Hansom () Alt. of Hansom cab,
H as in Hansom cab () A light, low, two-wheeled covered carriage with the driver's seat elevated behind, the reins being passed over the top.,
H as in Han't () A contraction of have not, or has not, used in illiterate speech. In the United States the commoner spelling is hain't.,
H as in Hanuman (n.) See Hoonoomaun.,
H as in Hap (v. t.) To clothe; to wrap.,
H as in Hap (n.) A cloak or plaid.,
H as in Hap (n.) That which happens or comes suddenly or unexpectedly; also, the manner of occurrence or taking place; chance; fortune; accident; casual event; fate; luck; lot.,
H as in Hap (v. i.) To happen; to befall; to chance.,
H as in Hap'penny (n.) A half-penny.,
H as in Haphazard (n.) Extra hazard; chance; accident; random.,
H as in Hapless (a.) Without hap or luck; luckless; unfortunate; unlucky; unhappy; as, hapless youth; hapless maid.,
H as in Haplessly (adv.) In a hapless, unlucky manner.,
H as in Haplomi (n. pl.) An order of freshwater fishes, including the true pikes, cyprinodonts, and blindfishes.,
H as in Haplostemonous (a.) Having but one series of stamens, and that equal in number to the proper number of petals; isostemonous.,
H as in Haply (adv.) By hap, chance, luck, or accident; perhaps; it may be.,
H as in Happed (p. a.) Wrapped; covered; cloaked.,
H as in Happened (imp. & p. p.) of Happen,
H as in Happening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Happen,
H as in Happen (v. i.) To come by chance; to come without previous expectation; to fall out.,
H as in Happen (v. i.) To take place; to occur.,
H as in Happily (adv.) By chance; peradventure; haply.,
H as in Happily (adv.) By good fortune; fortunately; luckily.,
H as in Happily (adv.) In a happy manner or state; in happy circumstances; as, he lived happily with his wife.,
H as in Happily (adv.) With address or dexterity; gracefully; felicitously; in a manner to success; with success.,
H as in Happiness (n.) Good luck; good fortune; prosperity.,
H as in Happiness (n.) An agreeable feeling or condition of the soul arising from good fortune or propitious happening of any kind; the possession of those circumstances or that state of being which is attended enjoyment; the state of being happy; contentment; joyful satisfaction; felicity; blessedness.,
H as in Happiness (n.) Fortuitous elegance; unstudied grace; -- used especially of language.,
H as in Happy (superl.) Favored by hap, luck, or fortune; lucky; fortunate; successful; prosperous; satisfying desire; as, a happy expedient; a happy effort; a happy venture; a happy omen.,
H as in Happy (superl.) Experiencing the effect of favorable fortune; having the feeling arising from the consciousness of well-being or of enjoyment; enjoying good of any kind, as peace, tranquillity, comfort; contented; joyous; as, happy hours, happy thoughts.,
H as in Happy (superl.) Dexterous; ready; apt; felicitous.,
H as in Hapuku (n.) A large and valuable food fish (Polyprion prognathus) of New Zealand. It sometimes weighs one hundred pounds or more.,
H as in Haquebut (n.) See Hagbut.,
H as in Hara-kiri (n.) Suicide, by slashing the abdomen, formerly practiced in Japan, and commanded by the government in the cases of disgraced officials; disembowelment; -- also written, but incorrectly, hari-kari.,
H as in Harangue (n.) A speech addressed to a large public assembly; a popular oration; a loud address a multitude; in a bad sense, a noisy or pompous speech; declamation; ranting.,
H as in Harangued (imp. & p. p.) of Harangue,
H as in Haranguing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Harangue,
H as in Harangue (v. i.) To make an harangue; to declaim.,
H as in Harangue (v. t.) To address by an harangue.,
H as in Harangueful (a.) Full of harangue.,
H as in Haranguer (n.) One who harangues, or is fond of haranguing; a declaimer.,
H as in Harassed (imp. & p. p.) of Harass,
H as in Harassing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Harass,
H as in Harass (v. t.) To fatigue; to tire with repeated and exhausting efforts; esp., to weary by importunity, teasing, or fretting; to cause to endure excessive burdens or anxieties; -- sometimes followed by out.,
H as in Harass (n.) Devastation; waste.,
H as in Harass (n.) Worry; harassment.,
H as in Harasser (n.) One who harasses.,
H as in Harassment (n.) The act of harassing, or state of being harassed; worry; annoyance; anxiety.,
H as in Harberous (a.) Harborous.,
H as in Harbinger (n.) One who provides lodgings; especially, the officer of the English royal household who formerly preceded the court when traveling, to provide and prepare lodgings.,
H as in Harbinger (n.) A forerunner; a precursor; a messenger.,
H as in Harbingered (imp. & p. p.) of Harbinger,
H as in Harbingering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Harbinger,
H as in Harbinger (v. t.) To usher in; to be a harbinger of.,
H as in Harbor (n.) A station for rest and entertainment; a place of security and comfort; a refuge; a shelter.,
H as in Harbor (n.) Specif.: A lodging place; an inn.,
H as in Harbor (n.) The mansion of a heavenly body.,
H as in Harbor (n.) A portion of a sea, a lake, or other large body of water, either landlocked or artificially protected so as to be a place of safety for vessels in stormy weather; a port or haven.,
H as in Harbor (n.) A mixing box materials.,
H as in Harbored (imp. & p. p.) of Harbor,
H as in Harboring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Harbor,
H as in Harbor (n.) To afford lodging to; to enter as guest; to receive; to give a refuge to; indulge or cherish (a thought or feeling, esp. an ill thought).,
H as in Harbor (v. i.) To lodge, or abide for a time; to take shelter, as in a harbor.,
H as in Harborage (n.) Shelter; entertainment.,
H as in Harborer (n.) One who, or that which, harbors.,
H as in Harborless (a.) Without a harbor; shelterless.,
H as in Harbor master () An officer charged with the duty of executing the regulations respecting the use of a harbor.,
H as in Harborough () Alt. of Harbrough,
H as in Harbrough () A shelter.,
H as in Harborous (a.) Hospitable.,
H as in Hard (superl.) Not easily penetrated, cut, or separated into parts; not yielding to pressure; firm; solid; compact; -- applied to material bodies, and opposed to soft; as, hard wood; hard flesh; a hard apple.,
H as in Hard (superl.) Difficult, mentally or judicially; not easily apprehended, decided, or resolved; as a hard problem.,
H as in Hard (superl.) Difficult to accomplish; full of obstacles; laborious; fatiguing; arduous; as, a hard task; a disease hard to cure.,
H as in Hard (superl.) Difficult to resist or control; powerful.,
H as in Hard (superl.) Difficult to bear or endure; not easy to put up with or consent to; hence, severe; rigorous; oppressive; distressing; unjust; grasping; as, a hard lot; hard times; hard fare; a hard winter; hard conditions or terms.,
H as in Hard (superl.) Difficult to please or influence; stern; unyielding; obdurate; unsympathetic; unfeeling; cruel; as, a hard master; a hard heart; hard words; a hard character.,
H as in Hard (superl.) Not easy or agreeable to the taste; stiff; rigid; ungraceful; repelling; as, a hard style.,
H as in Hard (superl.) Rough; acid; sour, as liquors; as, hard cider.,
H as in Hard (superl.) Abrupt or explosive in utterance; not aspirated, sibilated, or pronounced with a gradual change of the organs from one position to another; -- said of certain consonants, as c in came, and g in go, as distinguished from the same letters in center, general, etc.,
H as in Hard (superl.) Wanting softness or smoothness of utterance; harsh; as, a hard tone.,
H as in Hard (superl.) Rigid in the drawing or distribution of the figures; formal; lacking grace of composition.,
H as in Hard (superl.) Having disagreeable and abrupt contrasts in the coloring or light and shade.,
H as in Hard (adv.) With pressure; with urgency; hence, diligently; earnestly.,
H as in Hard (adv.) With difficulty; as, the vehicle moves hard.,
H as in Hard (adv.) Uneasily; vexatiously; slowly.,
H as in Hard (adv.) So as to raise difficulties.,
H as in Hard (adv.) With tension or strain of the powers; violently; with force; tempestuously; vehemently; vigorously; energetically; as, to press, to blow, to rain hard; hence, rapidly; as, to run hard.,
H as in Hard (adv.) Close or near.,
H as in Hard (v. t.) To harden; to make hard.,
H as in Hard (n.) A ford or passage across a river or swamp.,
H as in Hardbake (n.) A sweetmeat of boiled brown sugar or molasses made with almonds, and flavored with orange or lemon juice, etc.,
H as in Hardbeam (n.) A tree of the genus Carpinus, of compact, horny texture; hornbeam.,
H as in Hardened (imp. & p. p.) of Harden,
H as in Hardening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Harden,
H as in Harden (v. t.) To make hard or harder; to make firm or compact; to indurate; as, to harden clay or iron.,
H as in Harden (v. t.) To accustom by labor or suffering to endure with constancy; to strengthen; to stiffen; to inure; also, to confirm in wickedness or shame; to make unimpressionable.,
H as in Harden (v. i.) To become hard or harder; to acquire solidity, or more compactness; as, mortar hardens by drying.,
H as in Harden (v. i.) To become confirmed or strengthened, in either a good or a bad sense.,
H as in Hardened (a.) Made hard, or compact; made unfeeling or callous; made obstinate or obdurate; confirmed in error or vice.,
H as in Hardener (n.) One who, or that which, hardens; specif., one who tempers tools.,
H as in Hardening (n.) Making hard or harder.,
H as in Hardening (n.) That which hardens, as a material used for converting the surface of iron into steel.,
H as in Harder (n.) A South African mullet, salted for food.,
H as in Harderian (a.) A term applied to a lachrymal gland on the inner side of the orbit of many animals which have a third eyelid, or nictitating membrane. See Nictitating membrane, under Nictitate.,
H as in Hard-favored (a.) Hard-featured; ill-looking; as, Vulcan was hard-favored.,
H as in Hardfavoredness (n.) Coarseness of features.,
H as in Hard-featured (a.) Having coarse, unattractive or stern features.,
H as in Hardfern (n.) A species of fern (Lomaria borealis), growing in Europe and Northwestern America.,
H as in Hard-fisted (a.) Having hard or strong hands; as, a hard-fisted laborer.,
H as in Hard-fisted (a.) Close-fisted; covetous; niggardly.,
H as in Hard-fought (a. Vigorously) contested; as, a hard-fought battle.,
H as in Hard grass () A name given to several different grasses, especially to the Roltbollia incurvata, and to the species of Aegilops, from one of which it is contended that wheat has been derived.,
H as in Hardhack (n.) A very astringent shrub (Spiraea tomentosa), common in pastures. The Potentilla fruticosa in also called by this name.,
H as in Hard-handed (a.) Having hard hands, as a manual laborer.,
H as in Hardhead (n.) Clash or collision of heads in contest.,
H as in Hardhead (n.) The menhaden. See Menhaden.,
H as in Hardhead (n.) Block's gurnard (Trigla gurnardus) of Europe.,
H as in Hardhead (n.) A California salmon; the steelhead.,
H as in Hardhead (n.) The gray whale.,
H as in Hardhead (n.) A coarse American commercial sponge (Spongia dura).,
H as in Hard-headed (a.) Having sound judgment; sagacious; shrewd.,
H as in Hard-hearted (a.) Unsympathetic; inexorable; cruel; pitiless.,
H as in Harddihead (n.) Hardihood.,
H as in Harddihood (n.) Boldness, united with firmness and constancy of mind; bravery; intrepidity; also, audaciousness; impudence.,
H as in Hardily (adv.) Same as Hardly.,
H as in Hardily (adv.) Boldly; stoutly; resolutely.,
H as in Hardiment (n.) Hardihood; boldness; courage; energetic action.,
H as in Hardiness (n.) Capability of endurance.,
H as in Hardiness (n.) Hardihood; boldness; firmness; assurance.,
H as in Hardiness (n.) Hardship; fatigue.,
H as in Hardish (a.) Somewhat hard.,
H as in Hard-labored (a.) Wrought with severe labor; elaborate; studied.,
H as in Hardly (adv.) In a hard or difficult manner; with difficulty.,
H as in Hardly (adv.) Unwillingly; grudgingly.,
H as in Hardly (adv.) Scarcely; barely; not guite; not wholly.,
H as in Hardly (adv.) Severely; harshly; roughly.,
H as in Hardly (adv.) Confidently; hardily.,
H as in Hardly (adv.) Certainly; surely; indeed.,
H as in Hard-mouthed (a.) Not sensible to the bit; not easily governed; as, a hard-mouthed horse.,
H as in Hardness (n.) The quality or state of being hard, literally or figuratively.,
H as in Hardness (n.) The cohesion of the particles on the surface of a body, determined by its capacity to scratch another, or be itself scratched;-measured among minerals on a scale of which diamond and talc form the extremes.,
H as in Hardness (n.) The peculiar quality exhibited by water which has mineral salts dissolved in it. Such water forms an insoluble compound with soap, and is hence unfit for washing purposes.,
H as in Hardock (n.) See Hordock.,
H as in Hardpan (n.) The hard substratum. Same as Hard pan, under Hard, a.,
H as in Hards (n. pl.) The refuse or coarse part of fiax; tow.,
H as in Hard-shell (a.) Unyielding; insensible to argument; uncompromising; strict.,
H as in Hardship (n.) That which is hard to hear, as toil, privation, injury, injustice, etc.,
H as in Hardspun (a.) Firmly twisted in spinning.,
H as in Hard-tack (n.) A name given by soldiers and sailors to a kind of hard biscuit or sea bread.,
H as in Hardtail (n.) See Jurel.,
H as in Hard-visaged (a.) Of a harsh or stern countenance; hard-featured.,
H as in Hardware (n.) Ware made of metal, as cutlery, kitchen utensils, and the like; ironmongery.,
H as in Hardwaremen (pl. ) of Hardwareman,
H as in Hardwareman (n.) One who makes, or deals in, hardware.,
H as in Hardy (a.) Bold; brave; stout; daring; resolu?e; intrepid.,
H as in Hardy (a.) Confident; full of assurance; in a bad sense, morally hardened; shameless.,
H as in Hardy (a.) Strong; firm; compact.,
H as in Hardy (a.) Inured to fatigue or hardships; strong; capable of endurance; as, a hardy veteran; a hardy mariner.,
H as in Hardy (a.) Able to withstand the cold of winter.,
H as in Hardy (n.) A blacksmith's fuller or chisel, having a square shank for insertion into a square hole in an anvil, called the hardy hole.,
H as in Hare (v. t.) To excite; to tease, or worry; to harry.,
H as in Hare (n.) A rodent of the genus Lepus, having long hind legs, a short tail, and a divided upper lip. It is a timid animal, moves swiftly by leaps, and is remarkable for its fecundity.,
H as in Hare (n.) A small constellation situated south of and under the foot of Orion; Lepus.,
H as in Harebell (n.) A small, slender, branching plant (Campanula rotundifolia), having blue bell-shaped flowers; also, Scilla nutans, which has similar flowers; -- called also bluebell.,
H as in Hare'brained' (a.) Wild; giddy; volatile; heedless.,
H as in Harefoot (n.) A long, narrow foot, carried (that is, produced or extending) forward; -- said of dogs.,
H as in Harefoot (n.) A tree (Ochroma Laqopus) of the West Indies, having the stamens united somewhat in the form of a hare's foot.,
H as in Hare-hearted (a.) Timorous; timid; easily frightened.,
H as in Harehound (n.) See Harrier.,
H as in Hareld (n.) The long-tailed duck.,
H as in Harelip (n.) A lip, commonly the upper one, having a fissure of perpendicular division like that of a hare.,
H as in Harem (n.) The apartments or portion of the house allotted to females in Mohammedan families.,
H as in Harem (n.) The family of wives and concubines belonging to one man, in Mohammedan countries; a seraglio.,
H as in Harengiform (a.) Herring-shaped.,
H as in Hare's-ear (n.) An umbelliferous plant (Bupleurum rotundifolium ); -- so named from the shape of its leaves.,
H as in Hare's-foot fern () A species of fern (Davallia Canariensis) with a soft, gray, hairy rootstock; -- whence the name.,
H as in Hare's-tail (n.) A kind of grass (Eriophorum vaginatum). See Cotton grass, under Cotton.,
H as in Harfang (n.) The snowy owl.,
H as in Hariali grass () The East Indian name of the Cynodon Dactylon; dog's-grass.,
H as in Haricot (n.) A ragout or stew of meat with beans and other vegetables.,
H as in Haricot (n.) The ripe seeds, or the unripe pod, of the common string bean (Phaseolus vulgaris), used as a vegetable. Other species of the same genus furnish different kinds of haricots.,
H as in Harier (n.) See Harrier.,
H as in Harikari (n.) See Hara-kiri.,
H as in Harioiation (n.) Prognostication; soothsaying.,
H as in Harish (a.) Like a hare.,
H as in Hark (v. i.) To listen; to hearken.,
H as in Harken (v. t. & i.) To hearken.,
H as in Harl (n.) A filamentous substance; especially, the filaments of flax or hemp.,
H as in Harl (n.) A barb, or barbs, of a fine large feather, as of a peacock or ostrich, -- used in dressing artificial flies.,
H as in Harle (n.) The red-breasted merganser.,
H as in Harlech group () A minor subdivision at the base of the Cambrian system in Wales.,
H as in Harlequin (n.) A buffoon, dressed in party-colored clothes, who plays tricks, often without speaking, to divert the bystanders or an audience; a merry-andrew; originally, a droll rogue of Italian comedy.,
H as in Harlequin (n. i.) To play the droll; to make sport by playing ludicrous tricks.,
H as in Harlequin (v. t.) Toremove or conjure away, as by a harlequin's trick.,
H as in Harlequinade (n.) A play or part of play in which the harlequin is conspicuous; the part of a harlequin.,
H as in Harlock (n.) Probably a corruption either of charlock or hardock.,
H as in Harlot (n.) A churl; a common man; a person, male or female, of low birth.,
H as in Harlot (n.) A person given to low conduct; a rogue; a cheat; a rascal.,
H as in Harlot (n.) A woman who prostitutes her body for hire; a prostitute; a common woman; a strumpet.,
H as in Harlot (a.) Wanton; lewd; low; base.,
H as in Harlot (v. i.) To play the harlot; to practice lewdness.,
H as in Harlotize (v. i.) To harlot.,
H as in Harlotry (n.) Ribaldry; buffoonery; a ribald story.,
H as in Harlotry (n.) The trade or practice of prostitution; habitual or customary lewdness.,
H as in Harlotry (n.) Anything meretricious; as, harlotry in art.,
H as in Harlotry (n.) A harlot; a strumpet; a baggage.,
H as in Harm (n.) Injury; hurt; damage; detriment; misfortune.,
H as in Harm (n.) That which causes injury, damage, or loss.,
H as in Harmed (imp. & p. p.) of Harm,
H as in Harming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Harm,
H as in Harm (n.) To hurt; to injure; to damage; to wrong.,
H as in Harmaline (n.) An alkaloid found in the plant Peganum harmala. It forms bitter, yellow salts.,
H as in Harmattan (n.) A dry, hot wind, prevailing on the Atlantic coast of Africa, in December, January, and February, blowing from the interior or Sahara. It is usually accompanied by a haze which obscures the sun.,
H as in Harmel (n.) A kind of rue (Ruta sylvestris) growing in India. At Lahore the seeds are used medicinally and for fumigation.,
H as in Harmful (a.) Full of harm; injurious; hurtful; mischievous.,
H as in Harmine (n.) An alkaloid accompanying harmaline (in the Peganum harmala), and obtained from it by oxidation. It is a white crystalline substance.,
H as in Harmless (a.) Free from harm; unhurt; as, to give bond to save another harmless.,
H as in Harmless (a.) Free from power or disposition to harm; innocent; inoffensive.,
H as in Harmonic (a.) Alt. of Harmonical,
H as in Harmonical (a.) Concordant; musical; consonant; as, harmonic sounds.,
H as in Harmonical (a.) Relating to harmony, -- as melodic relates to melody; harmonious; esp., relating to the accessory sounds or overtones which accompany the predominant and apparent single tone of any string or sonorous body.,
H as in Harmonical (a.) Having relations or properties bearing some resemblance to those of musical consonances; -- said of certain numbers, ratios, proportions, points, lines. motions, and the like.,
H as in Harmonic (n.) A musical note produced by a number of vibrations which is a multiple of the number producing some other; an overtone. See Harmonics.,
H as in Harmonica (n.) A musical instrument, consisting of a series of hemispherical glasses which, by touching the edges with the dampened finger, give forth the tones.,
H as in Harmonica (n.) A toy instrument of strips of glass or metal hung on two tapes, and struck with hammers.,
H as in Har monically (adv.) In an harmonical manner; harmoniously.,
H as in Har monically (adv.) In respect to harmony, as distinguished from melody; as, a passage harmonically correct.,
H as in Har monically (adv.) In harmonical progression.,
H as in Harmonicon (n.) A small, flat, wind instrument of music, in which the notes are produced by the vibration of free metallic reeds.,
H as in Harmonics (n.) The doctrine or science of musical sounds.,
H as in Harmonics (n.) Secondary and less distinct tones which accompany any principal, and apparently simple, tone, as the octave, the twelfth, the fifteenth, and the seventeenth. The name is also applied to the artificial tones produced by a string or column of air, when the impulse given to it suffices only to make a part of the string or column vibrate; overtones.,
H as in Harmonious (a.) Adapted to each other; having parts proportioned to each other; symmetrical.,
H as in Harmonious (a.) Acting together to a common end; agreeing in action or feeling; living in peace and friendship; as, an harmonious family.,
H as in Harmonious (a.) Vocally or musically concordant; agreeably consonant; symphonious.,
H as in Harmoniphon (n.) An obsolete wind instrument with a keyboard, in which the sound, which resembled the oboe, was produced by the vibration of thin metallic plates, acted upon by blowing through a tube.,
H as in Harmonist (n.) One who shows the agreement or harmony of corresponding passages of different authors, as of the four evangelists.,
H as in Harmonist (n.) One who understands the principles of harmony or is skillful in applying them in composition; a musical composer.,
H as in Harmonist (n.) Alt. of Harmonite,
H as in Harmonite (n.) One of a religious sect, founded in Wurtemburg in the last century, composed of followers of George Rapp, a weaver. They had all their property in common. In 1803, a portion of this sect settled in Pennsylvania and called the village thus established, Harmony.,
H as in Harmonium (n.) A musical instrument, resembling a small organ and especially designed for church music, in which the tones are produced by forcing air by means of a bellows so as to cause the vibration of free metallic reeds. It is now made with one or two keyboards, and has pedals and stops.,
H as in Harmonization (n.) The act of harmonizing.,
H as in Harmonized (imp. & p. p.) of Harmonize,
H as in Harmonizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Harmonize,
H as in Harmonize (v. i.) To agree in action, adaptation, or effect on the mind; to agree in sense or purport; as, the parts of a mechanism harmonize.,
H as in Harmonize (v. i.) To be in peace and friendship, as individuals, families, or public organizations.,
H as in Harmonize (v. i.) To agree in vocal or musical effect; to form a concord; as, the tones harmonize perfectly.,
H as in Harmonize (v. t.) To adjust in fit proportions; to cause to agree; to show the agreement of; to reconcile the apparent contradiction of.,
H as in Harmonize (v. t.) To accompany with harmony; to provide with parts, as an air, or melody.,
H as in Harmonizer (n.) One who harmonizes.,
H as in Harmonometer (n.) An instrument for measuring the harmonic relations of sounds. It is often a monochord furnished with movable bridges.,
H as in Harmonies (pl. ) of Harmony,
H as in Harmony (n.) The just adaptation of parts to each other, in any system or combination of things, or in things, or things intended to form a connected whole; such an agreement between the different parts of a design or composition as to produce unity of effect; as, the harmony of the universe.,
H as in Harmony (n.) Concord or agreement in facts, opinions, manners, interests, etc.; good correspondence; peace and friendship; as, good citizens live in harmony.,
H as in Harmony (n.) A literary work which brings together or arranges systematically parallel passages of historians respecting the same events, and shows their agreement or consistency; as, a harmony of the Gospels.,
H as in Harmony (n.) A succession of chords according to the rules of progression and modulation.,
H as in Harmony (n.) The science which treats of their construction and progression.,
H as in Harmony (n.) See Harmonic suture, under Harmonic.,
H as in Harmost (n.) A governor or prefect appointed by the Spartans in the cities subjugated by them.,
H as in Harmotome (n.) A hydrous silicate of alumina and baryta, occurring usually in white cruciform crystals; cross-stone.,
H as in Harness (n.) Originally, the complete dress, especially in a military sense, of a man or a horse; hence, in general, armor.,
H as in Harness (n.) The equipment of a draught or carriage horse, for drawing a wagon, coach, chaise, etc.; gear; tackling.,
H as in Harness (n.) The part of a loom comprising the heddles, with their means of support and motion, by which the threads of the warp are alternately raised and depressed for the passage of the shuttle.,
H as in Harnessed (imp. & p. p.) of Harness,
H as in Harnessing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Harness,
H as in Harness (v. t.) To dress in armor; to equip with armor for war, as a horseman; to array.,
H as in Harness (v. t.) Fig.: To equip or furnish for defense.,
H as in Harness (v. t.) To make ready for draught; to equip with harness, as a horse. Also used figuratively.,
H as in Harness cask () A tub lashed to a vessel's deck and containing salted provisions for daily use; -- called also harness tub.,
H as in Harnesser (n.) One who harnesses.,
H as in Harns (n. pl.) The brains.,
H as in Harp (n.) A musical instrument consisting of a triangular frame furnished with strings and sometimes with pedals, held upright, and played with the fingers.,
H as in Harp (n.) A constellation; Lyra, or the Lyre.,
H as in Harp (n.) A grain sieve.,
H as in Harped (imp. & p. p.) of Harp,
H as in Harping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Harp,
H as in Harp (n.) To play on the harp.,
H as in Harp (n.) To dwell on or recur to a subject tediously or monotonously in speaking or in writing; to refer to something repeatedly or continually; -- usually with on or upon.,
H as in Harp (v. t.) To play on, as a harp; to play (a tune) on the harp; to develop or give expression to by skill and art; to sound forth as from a harp; to hit upon.,
H as in Harpa (n.) A genus of marine univalve shells; the harp shells; -- so called from the form of the shells, and their ornamental ribs.,
H as in Harpagon (n.) A grappling iron.,
H as in Harper (n.) A player on the harp; a minstrel.,
H as in Harper (n.) A brass coin bearing the emblem of a harp, -- formerly current in Ireland.,
H as in Harping (a.) Pertaining to the harp; as, harping symphonies.,
H as in Harping iron () A harpoon.,
H as in Harpings (n. pl.) The fore parts of the wales, which encompass the bow of a vessel, and are fastened to the stem.,
H as in Harpist (n.) A player on the harp; a harper.,
H as in Harpoon (n.) A spear or javelin used to strike and kill large fish, as whales; a harping iron. It consists of a long shank, with a broad, fiat, triangular head, sharpened at both edges, and is thrown by hand, or discharged from a gun.,
H as in Harpooned (imp. & p. p.) of Harpoon,
H as in Harpooning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Harpoon,
H as in Harpoon (v. t.) To strike, catch, or kill with a harpoon.,
H as in Harpooneer (n.) An harpooner.,
H as in Harpooner (n.) One who throws the harpoon.,
H as in Harpress (n.) A female harper.,
H as in Harpsichon (n.) A harpsichord.,
H as in Harpsichord (n.) A harp-shaped instrument of music set horizontally on legs, like the grand piano, with strings of wire, played by the fingers, by means of keys provided with quills, instead of hammers, for striking the strings. It is now superseded by the piano.,
H as in Harpies (pl. ) of Harpy,
H as in Harpy (n.) A fabulous winged monster, ravenous and filthy, having the face of a woman and the body of a vulture, with long claws, and the face pale with hunger. Some writers mention two, others three.,
H as in Harpy (n.) One who is rapacious or ravenous; an extortioner.,
H as in Harpy (n.) The European moor buzzard or marsh harrier (Circus aeruginosus).,
H as in Harpy (n.) A large and powerful, double-crested, short-winged American eagle (Thrasaetus harpyia). It ranges from Texas to Brazil.,
H as in Harquebus (n.) Alt. of Harquebuse,
H as in Harquebuse (n.) A firearm with match holder, trigger, and tumbler, made in the second half of the 15th century. the barrel was about forty inches long. A form of the harquebus was subsequently called arquebus with matchlock.,
H as in Harrage (v. t.) To harass; to plunder from.,
H as in Harre (n.) A hinge.,
H as in Harridan (n.) A worn-out strumpet; a vixenish woman; a hag.,
H as in Harrier (n.) One of a small breed of hounds, used for hunting hares.,
H as in Harrier (n.) One who harries.,
H as in Harrier (n.) One of several species of hawks or buzzards of the genus Circus which fly low and harry small animals or birds, -- as the European marsh harrier (Circus aerunginosus), and the hen harrier (C. cyaneus).,
H as in Harrow (n.) An implement of agriculture, usually formed of pieces of timber or metal crossing each other, and set with iron or wooden teeth. It is drawn over plowed land to level it and break the clods, to stir the soil and make it fine, or to cover seed when sown.,
H as in Harrow (n.) An obstacle formed by turning an ordinary harrow upside down, the frame being buried.,
H as in Harrowed (imp. & p. p.) of Harrow,
H as in Harrowing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Harrow,
H as in Harrow (n.) To draw a harrow over, as for the purpose of breaking clods and leveling the surface, or for covering seed; as, to harrow land.,
H as in Harrow (n.) To break or tear, as with a harrow; to wound; to lacerate; to torment or distress; to vex.,
H as in Harrow (interj.) Help! Halloo! An exclamation of distress; a call for succor;-the ancient Norman hue and cry.,
H as in Harrow (v. t.) To pillage; to harry; to oppress.,
H as in Harrower (n.) One who harrows.,
H as in Harrower (n.) One who harries.,
H as in Harried (imp. & p. p.) of Harry,
H as in Harrying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Harry,
H as in Harry (v. t.) To strip; to lay waste; as, the Northmen came several times and harried the land.,
H as in Harry (v. t.) To agitate; to worry; to harrow; to harass.,
H as in Harry (v. i.) To make a predatory incursion; to plunder or lay waste.,
H as in Harsh (a.) Rough; disagreeable; grating,
H as in Harsh (a.) disagreeable to the touch.,
H as in Harsh (a.) disagreeable to the taste.,
H as in Harsh (a.) disagreeable to the ear.,
H as in Harsh (a.) Unpleasant and repulsive to the sensibilities; austere; crabbed; morose; abusive; abusive; severe; rough.,
H as in Harsh (a.) Having violent contrasts of color, or of light and shade; lacking in harmony.,
H as in Harshly (adv.) In a harsh manner; gratingly; roughly; rudely.,
H as in Harshness (n.) The quality or state of being harsh.,
H as in Harslet (n.) See Haslet.,
H as in Hart (n.) A stag; the male of the red deer. See the Note under Buck.,
H as in Hartbeest (n.) A large South African antelope (Alcelaphus caama), formerly much more abundant than it is now. The face and legs are marked with black, the rump with white.,
H as in Harten (v. t.) To hearten; to encourage; to incite.,
H as in Hartford (n.) The Hartford grape, a variety of grape first raised at Hartford, Connecticut, from the Northern fox grape. Its large dark-colored berries ripen earlier than those of most other kinds.,
H as in Harts clover () Melilot or sweet clover. See Melilot.,
H as in Hart's-ear (n.) An Asiatic species of Cacalia (C. Kleinia), used medicinally in India.,
H as in Hartshorn (n.) The horn or antler of the hart, or male red deer.,
H as in Hartshorn (n.) Spirits of hartshorn (see below); volatile salts.,
H as in Hart-tongue (n.) A common British fern (Scolopendrium vulgare), rare in America.,
H as in Hart-tongue (n.) A West Indian fern, the Polypodium Phyllitidis of Linnaeus. It is also found in Florida.,
H as in Hartwort (n.) A coarse umbelliferous plant of Europe (Tordylium maximum).,
H as in Harum-scarum (v. t.) Wild; giddy; flighty; rash; thoughtless.,
H as in Haruspication (n.) See Haruspicy.,
H as in Haruspice (n.) A diviner of ancient Rome. Same as Aruspice.,
H as in Haruspicy (n.) The art or practices of haruspices. See Aruspicy.,
H as in Harvest (n.) The gathering of a crop of any kind; the ingathering of the crops; also, the season of gathering grain and fruits, late summer or early autumn.,
H as in Harvest (n.) That which is reaped or ready to be reaped or gath//ed; a crop, as of grain (wheat, maize, etc.), or fruit.,
H as in Harvest (n.) The product or result of any exertion or labor; gain; reward.,
H as in Harvested (imp. & p. p.) of Harvest,
H as in Harvesting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Harvest,
H as in Harvest (v. t.) To reap or gather, as any crop.,
H as in Harvester (n.) One who harvests; a machine for cutting and gathering grain; a reaper.,
H as in Harvester (n.) A harvesting ant.,
H as in Harvest-home (n.) The gathering and bringing home of the harvest; the time of harvest.,
H as in Harvest-home (n.) The song sung by reapers at the feast made at the close of the harvest; the feast itself.,
H as in Harvest-home (n.) A service of thanksgiving, at harvest time, in the Church of England and in the Protestant Episcopal Church in the United States.,
H as in Harvest-home (n.) The opportunity of gathering treasure.,
H as in Harvesting () a. & n., from Harvest, v. t.,
H as in Harvestless (a.) Without harvest; lacking in crops; barren.,
H as in Harvestmen (pl. ) of Harvestman,
H as in Harvestman (n.) A man engaged in harvesting.,
H as in Harvestman (n.) See Daddy longlegs, 1.,
H as in Harvestry (n.) The act of harvesting; also, that which is harvested.,
H as in Hary (v. t.) To draw; to drag; to carry off by violence.,
H as in Has () 3d pers. sing. pres. of Have.,
H as in Hasard (n.) Hazard.,
H as in Hase (v. t.) See Haze, v. t.,
H as in Hash (n.) That which is hashed or chopped up; meat and vegetables, especially such as have been already cooked, chopped into small pieces and mixed.,
H as in Hash (n.) A new mixture of old matter; a second preparation or exhibition.,
H as in Hashed (imp. & p. p.) of Hash,
H as in Hashing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hash,
H as in Hash (n.) To /hop into small pieces; to mince and mix; as, to hash meat.,
H as in Hasheesh (n.) Alt. of Hashish,
H as in Hashish (n.) A slightly acrid gum resin produced by the common hemp (Cannabis saltiva), of the variety Indica, when cultivated in a warm climate; also, the tops of the plant, from which the resinous product is obtained. It is narcotic, and has long been used in the East for its intoxicating effect. See Bhang, and Ganja.,
H as in Hask (n.) A basket made of rushes or flags, as for carrying fish.,
H as in Haslet (n.) The edible viscera, as the heart, liver, etc., of a beast, esp. of a hog.,
H as in Hasp (n.) A clasp, especially a metal strap permanently fast at one end to a staple or pin, while the other passes over a staple, and is fastened by a padlock or a pin; also, a metallic hook for fastening a door.,
H as in Hasp (n.) A spindle to wind yarn, thread, or silk on.,
H as in Hasp (n.) An instrument for cutting the surface of grass land; a scarifier.,
H as in Hasped (imp. & p. p.) of Hasp,
H as in Hasping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hasp,
H as in Hasp (v. t.) To shut or fasten with a hasp.,
H as in Hassock (n.) A rank tuft of bog grass; a tussock.,
H as in Hassock (n.) A small stuffed cushion or footstool, for kneeling on in church, or for home use.,
H as in Hast () 2d pers. sing. pres. of. Have, contr. of havest.,
H as in Hastate (n.) Alt. of Hastated,
H as in Hastated (n.) Shaped like the head of a halberd; triangular, with the basal angles or lobes spreading; as, a hastate leaf.,
H as in Haste (n.) Celerity of motion; speed; swiftness; dispatch; expedition; -- applied only to voluntary beings, as men and other animals.,
H as in Haste (n.) The state of being urged or pressed by business; hurry; urgency; sudden excitement of feeling or passion; precipitance; vehemence.,
H as in Hasted (imp. & p. p.) of Haste,
H as in Hasting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Haste,
H as in Haste (n.) To hasten; to hurry.,
H as in Hastened (imp. & p. p.) of Hasten,
H as in Hastening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hasten,
H as in Hasten (v. t.) To press; to drive or urge forward; to push on; to precipitate; to accelerate the movement of; to expedite; to hurry.,
H as in Hasten (v. i.) To move celerity; to be rapid in motion; to act speedily or quickly; to go quickly.,
H as in Hastener (n.) One who hastens.,
H as in Hastener (n.) That which hastens; especially, a stand or reflector used for confining the heat of the fire to meat while roasting before it.,
H as in Hastif (a.) Hasty.,
H as in Hastile (a.) Same as Hastate.,
H as in Hastily (adv.) In haste; with speed or quickness; speedily; nimbly.,
H as in Hastily (adv.) Without due reflection; precipitately; rashly.,
H as in Hastily (adv.) Passionately; impatiently.,
H as in Hastiness (n.) The quality or state of being hasty; haste; precipitation; rashness; quickness of temper.,
H as in Hastings (v.) Early fruit or vegetables; especially, early pease.,
H as in Hastings sands () The lower group of the Wealden formation; -- so called from its development around Hastings, in Sussex, England.,
H as in Hastive (n.) Forward; early; -- said of fruits.,
H as in Hasty (n.) Involving haste; done, made, etc., in haste; as, a hasty sketch.,
H as in Hasty (n.) Demanding haste or immediate action.,
H as in Hasty (n.) Moving or acting with haste or in a hurry; hurrying; hence, acting without deliberation; precipitate; rash; easily excited; eager.,
H as in Hasty (n.) Made or reached without deliberation or due caution; as, a hasty conjecture, inference, conclusion, etc., a hasty resolution.,
H as in Hasty (n.) Proceeding from, or indicating, a quick temper.,
H as in Hasty (n.) Forward; early; first ripe.,
H as in Hasty pudding () A thick batter pudding made of Indian meal stirred into boiling water; mush.,
H as in Hasty pudding () A batter or pudding made of flour or oatmeal, stirred into boiling water or milk.,
H as in Hat (a.) Hot.,
H as in Hat () sing. pres. of Hote to be called. Cf.,
H as in Hat (n.) A covering for the head; esp., one with a crown and brim, made of various materials, and worn by men or women for protecting the head from the sun or weather, or for ornament.,
H as in Hatable (a.) Capable of being, or deserving to be, hated; odious; detestable.,
H as in Hatband (n.) A band round the crown of a hat; sometimes, a band of black cloth, crape, etc., worn as a badge of mourning.,
H as in Hatbox (n.) A box for a hat.,
H as in Hatched (imp. & p. p.) of Hatch,
H as in Hatching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hatch,
H as in Hatch (v. t.) To cross with lines in a peculiar manner in drawing and engraving. See Hatching.,
H as in Hatch (v. t.) To cross; to spot; to stain; to steep.,
H as in Hatch (v. t.) To produce, as young, from an egg or eggs by incubation, or by artificial heat; to produce young from (eggs); as, the young when hatched.,
H as in Hatch (v. t.) To contrive or plot; to form by meditation, and bring into being; to originate and produce; to concoct; as, to hatch mischief; to hatch heresy.,
H as in Hatch (v. i.) To produce young; -- said of eggs; to come forth from the egg; -- said of the young of birds, fishes, insects, etc.,
H as in Hatch (n.) The act of hatching.,
H as in Hatch (n.) Development; disclosure; discovery.,
H as in Hatch (n.) The chickens produced at once or by one incubation; a brood.,
H as in Hatch (n.) A door with an opening over it; a half door, sometimes set with spikes on the upper edge.,
H as in Hatch (n.) A frame or weir in a river, for catching fish.,
H as in Hatch (n.) A flood gate; a a sluice gate.,
H as in Hatch (n.) A bedstead.,
H as in Hatch (n.) An opening in the deck of a vessel or floor of a warehouse which serves as a passageway or hoistway; a hatchway; also; a cover or door, or one of the covers used in closing such an opening.,
H as in Hatch (n.) An opening into, or in search of, a mine.,
H as in Hatch (v. t.) To close with a hatch or hatches.,
H as in Hatch-boat (n.) A vessel whose deck consists almost wholly of movable hatches; -- used mostly in the fisheries.,
H as in Hatchel (n.) An instrument with long iron teeth set in a board, for cleansing flax or hemp from the tow, hards, or coarse part; a kind of large comb; -- called also hackle and heckle.,
H as in Hatcheled (imp. & p. p.) of Hatchel,
H as in Hatchelled () of Hatchel,
H as in Hatcheling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hatchel,
H as in Hatchelling () of Hatchel,
H as in Hatchel (n.) To draw through the teeth of a hatchel, as flax or hemp, so as to separate the coarse and refuse parts from the fine, fibrous parts.,
H as in Hatchel (n.) To tease; to worry; to torment.,
H as in Hatcheler (n.) One who uses a hatchel.,
H as in Hatcher (n.) One who hatches, or that which hatches; a hatching apparatus; an incubator.,
H as in Hatcher (n.) One who contrives or originates; a plotter.,
H as in Hatchery (n.) A house for hatching fish, etc.,
H as in Hatchet (n.) A small ax with a short handle, to be used with one hand.,
H as in Hatchet (n.) Specifically, a tomahawk.,
H as in Hatchettine (n.) Alt. of Hatchettite,
H as in Hatchettite (n.) Mineral t/ low; a waxy or spermaceti-like substance, commonly of a greenish yellow color.,
H as in Hatching (n.) A mode of execution in engraving, drawing, and miniature painting, in which shading is produced by lines crossing each other at angles more or less acute; -- called also crosshatching.,
H as in Hatchment (n.) A sort of panel, upon which the arms of a deceased person are temporarily displayed, -- usually on the walls of his dwelling. It is lozenge-shaped or square, but is hung cornerwise. It is used in England as a means of giving public notification of the death of the deceased, his or her rank, whether married, widower, widow, etc. Called also achievement.,
H as in Hatchment (n.) A sword or other mark of the profession of arms; in general, a mark of dignity.,
H as in Hatchure (n.) Same as Hachure.,
H as in Hatchway (n.) A square or oblong opening in a deck or floor, affording passage from one deck or story to another; the entrance to a cellar.,
H as in Hated (imp. & p. p.) of Hate,
H as in Hating (p. pr. & pr. & vb. n.) of Hate,
H as in Hate (n.) To have a great aversion to, with a strong desire that evil should befall the person toward whom the feeling is directed; to dislike intensely; to detest; as, to hate one's enemies; to hate hypocrisy.,
H as in Hate (n.) To be very unwilling; followed by an infinitive, or a substantive clause with that; as, to hate to get into debt; to hate that anything should be wasted.,
H as in Hate (n.) To love less, relatively.,
H as in Hate (v.) Strong aversion coupled with desire that evil should befall the person toward whom the feeling is directed; as exercised toward things, intense dislike; hatred; detestation; -- opposed to love.,
H as in Hateful (a.) Manifesting hate or hatred; malignant; malevolent.,
H as in Hateful (a.) Exciting or deserving great dislike, aversion, or disgust; odious.,
H as in Hatel (a.) Hateful; detestable.,
H as in Hater (n.) One who hates.,
H as in Hath (3d pers. sing. pres.) Has.,
H as in Hatless (a.) Having no hat.,
H as in Hatrack (n.) A hatstand; hattree.,
H as in Hatred (n.) Strong aversion; intense dislike; hate; an affection of the mind awakened by something regarded as evil.,
H as in Hatstand (n.) A stand of wood or iron, with hooks or pegs upon which to hang hats, etc.,
H as in Hatte () pres. & imp. sing. & pl. of Hote, to be called. See Hote.,
H as in Hatted (a.) Covered with a hat.,
H as in Hatter (v. t.) To tire or worry; -- out.,
H as in Hatter (n.) One who makes or sells hats.,
H as in Hatteria (n.) A New Zealand lizard, which, in anatomical character, differs widely from all other existing lizards. It is the only living representative of the order Rhynchocephala, of which many Mesozoic fossil species are known; -- called also Sphenodon, and Tuatera.,
H as in Hatting (n.) The business of making hats; also, stuff for hats.,
H as in Hatti-sherif (n.) A irrevocable Turkish decree countersigned by the sultan.,
H as in Hattree (n.) A hatstand.,
H as in Haubergeon (n.) See Habergeon.,
H as in Hauberk (v. t.) A coat of mail; especially, the long coat of mail of the European Middle Ages, as contrasted with the habergeon, which is shorter and sometimes sleeveless. By old writers it is often used synonymously with habergeon. See Habergeon.,
H as in Hauerite (n.) Native sulphide of manganese a reddish brown or brownish black mineral.,
H as in Haugh (n.) A low-lying meadow by the side of a river.,
H as in Haught (a.) High; elevated; hence, haughty; proud.,
H as in Haughtily (adv.) In a haughty manner; arrogantly.,
H as in Haughtiness (n.) The quality of being haughty; disdain; arrogance.,
H as in Haughty (superl.) High; lofty; bold.,
H as in Haughty (superl.) Disdainfully or contemptuously proud; arrogant; overbearing.,
H as in Haughty (superl.) Indicating haughtiness; as, a haughty carriage.,
H as in Hauled (imp. & p. p.) of Haul,
H as in Hauling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Haul,
H as in Haul (v. t.) To pull or draw with force; to drag.,
H as in Haul (v. t.) To transport by drawing, as with horses or oxen; as, to haul logs to a sawmill.,
H as in Haul (v. i.) To change the direction of a ship by hauling the wind. See under Haul, v. t.,
H as in Haul (v. t.) To pull apart, as oxen sometimes do when yoked.,
H as in Haul (n.) A pulling with force; a violent pull.,
H as in Haul (n.) A single draught of a net; as, to catch a hundred fish at a haul.,
H as in Haul (n.) That which is caught, taken, or gained at once, as by hauling a net.,
H as in Haul (n.) Transportation by hauling; the distance through which anything is hauled, as freight in a railroad car; as, a long haul or short haul.,
H as in Haul (n.) A bundle of about four hundred threads, to be tarred.,
H as in Haulage (n.) Act of hauling; as, the haulage of cars by an engine; charge for hauling.,
H as in Hauler (n.) One who hauls.,
H as in Haulm (n.) The denuded stems or stalks of such crops as buckwheat and the cereal grains, beans, etc.; straw.,
H as in Haulm (n.) A part of a harness; a hame.,
H as in Hauls (n.) See Hals.,
H as in Haulse (v.) See Halse.,
H as in Hault (a.) Lofty; haughty.,
H as in Haum (n.) See Haulm, stalk.,
H as in Haunce (v. t.) To enhance.,
H as in Haunch (n.) The hip; the projecting region of the lateral parts of the pelvis and the hip joint; the hind part.,
H as in Haunch (n.) Of meats: The leg and loin taken together; as, a haunch of venison.,
H as in Haunched (a.) Having haunches.,
H as in Haunted (imp. & p. p.) of Haunt,
H as in Haunting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Haunt,
H as in Haunt (v. t.) To frequent; to resort to frequently; to visit pertinaciously or intrusively; to intrude upon.,
H as in Haunt (v. t.) To inhabit or frequent as a specter; to visit as a ghost or apparition.,
H as in Haunt (v. t.) To practice; to devote one's self to.,
H as in Haunt (v. t.) To accustom; to habituate.,
H as in Haunt (v. i.) To persist in staying or visiting.,
H as in Haunt (n.) A place to which one frequently resorts; as, drinking saloons are the haunts of tipplers; a den is the haunt of wild beasts.,
H as in Haunt (n.) The habit of resorting to a place.,
H as in Haunt (n.) Practice; skill.,
H as in Haunted (a.) Inhabited by, or subject to the visits of, apparitions; frequented by a ghost.,
H as in Haunter (n.) One who, or that which, haunts.,
H as in Haurient (a.) In pale, with the head in chief; -- said of the figure of a fish, as if rising for air.,
H as in Hausen (n.) A large sturgeon (Acipenser huso) from the region of the Black Sea. It is sometimes twelve feet long.,
H as in Hausse (n.) A kind of graduated breech sight for a small arm, or a cannon.,
H as in Haustellata (n. pl.) An artificial division of insects, including all those with a sucking proboscis.,
H as in Haustellate (a.) Provided with a haustellum, or sucking proboscis.,
H as in Haustellate (n.) One of the Haustellata.,
H as in Haustella (pl. ) of Haustellum,
H as in Haustellum (n.) The sucking proboscis of various insects. See Lepidoptera, and Diptera.,
H as in Haustoria (pl. ) of Haustorium,
H as in Haustorium (n.) One of the suckerlike rootlets of such plants as the dodder and ivy.,
H as in Haut (a.) Haughty.,
H as in Hautboy (n.) A wind instrument, sounded through a reed, and similar in shape to the clarinet, but with a thinner tone. Now more commonly called oboe. See Illust. of Oboe.,
H as in Hautboy (n.) A sort of strawberry (Fragaria elatior).,
H as in Hautboyist (n.) A player on the hautboy.,
H as in Hautein (a.) Haughty; proud.,
H as in Hautein (a.) High; -- said of the voice or flight of birds.,
H as in Hauteur (n.) Haughty manner or spirit; haughtiness; pride; arrogance.,
H as in Hautgout (n.) High relish or flavor; high seasoning.,
H as in Hautpas (n.) A raised part of the floor of a large room; a platform for a raised table or throne. See Dais.,
H as in Hauynite (n.) A blue isometric mineral, characteristic of some volcani/ rocks. It is a silicate of alumina, lime, and soda, with sulphate of lime.,
H as in Havana (a.) Of or pertaining to Havana, the capital of the island of Cuba; as, an Havana cigar,
H as in Havana (n.) An Havana cigar.,
H as in Havanese (a.) Of or pertaining to Havana, in Cuba.,
H as in Havanese (n. sing. & pl.) A native or inhabitant, or the people, of Havana.,
H as in Had (imp. & p. p.) of Have,
H as in Having (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Have,
H as in have (Indic. present) of Have,
H as in hast () of Have,
H as in has () of Have,
H as in have () of Have,
H as in Have (v. t.) To hold in possession or control; to own; as, he has a farm.,
H as in Have (v. t.) To possess, as something which appertains to, is connected with, or affects, one.,
H as in Have (v. t.) To accept possession of; to take or accept.,
H as in Have (v. t.) To get possession of; to obtain; to get.,
H as in Have (v. t.) To cause or procure to be; to effect; to exact; to desire; to require.,
H as in Have (v. t.) To bear, as young; as, she has just had a child.,
H as in Have (v. t.) To hold, regard, or esteem.,
H as in Have (v. t.) To cause or force to go; to take.,
H as in Have (v. t.) To take or hold (one's self); to proceed promptly; -- used reflexively, often with ellipsis of the pronoun; as, to have after one; to have at one or at a thing, i. e., to aim at one or at a thing; to attack; to have with a companion.,
H as in Have (v. t.) To be under necessity or obligation; to be compelled; followed by an infinitive.,
H as in Have (v. t.) To understand.,
H as in Have (v. t.) To put in an awkward position; to have the advantage of; as, that is where he had him.,
H as in Haveless (a.) Having little or nothing.,
H as in Havelock (n.) A light cloth covering for the head and neck, used by soldiers as a protection from sunstroke.,
H as in Haven (n.) A bay, recess, or inlet of the sea, or the mouth of a river, which affords anchorage and shelter for shipping; a harbor; a port.,
H as in Haven (n.) A place of safety; a shelter; an asylum.,
H as in Haven (v. t.) To shelter, as in a haven.,
H as in Havenage (n.) Harbor dues; port dues.,
H as in Havened (p. a.) Sheltered in a haven.,
H as in Havener (n.) A harbor master.,
H as in Haver (n.) A possessor; a holder.,
H as in Haver (n.) The oat; oats.,
H as in Haver (v. i.) To maunder; to talk foolishly; to chatter.,
H as in Haversack (n.) A bag for oats or oatmeal.,
H as in Haversack (n.) A bag or case, usually of stout cloth, in which a soldier carries his rations when on a march; -- distinguished from knapsack.,
H as in Haversack (n.) A gunner's case or bag used carry cartridges from the ammunition chest to the piece in loading.,
H as in Haversian (a.) Pertaining to, or discovered by, Clopton Havers, an English physician of the seventeenth century.,
H as in Havildar (n.) In the British Indian armies, a noncommissioned officer of native soldiers, corresponding to a sergeant.,
H as in Having (n.) Possession; goods; estate.,
H as in Havior (n.) Behavior; demeanor.,
H as in Havoc (n.) Wide and general destruction; devastation; waste.,
H as in Havoc (v. t.) To devastate; to destroy; to lay waste.,
H as in Havoc (n.) A cry in war as the signal for indiscriminate slaughter.,
H as in Haw (n.) A hedge; an inclosed garden or yard.,
H as in Haw (n.) The fruit of the hawthorn.,
H as in Haw (n.) The third eyelid, or nictitating membrane. See Nictitating membrane, under Nictitate.,
H as in Haw (n.) An intermission or hesitation of speech, with a sound somewhat like haw! also, the sound so made.,
H as in Haw (v. i.) To stop, in speaking, with a sound like haw; to speak with interruption and hesitation.,
H as in Hawed (imp. & p. p.) of Haw,
H as in Hawing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Haw,
H as in Haw (v. i.) To turn to the near side, or toward the driver; -- said of cattle or a team: a word used by teamsters in guiding their teams, and most frequently in the imperative. See Gee.,
H as in Haw (v. t.) To cause to turn, as a team, to the near side, or toward the driver; as, to haw a team of oxen.,
H as in Hawaiian (a.) Belonging to Hawaii or the Sandwich Islands, or to the people of Hawaii.,
H as in Hawaiian (n.) A native of Hawaii.,
H as in Hawebake (n.) Probably, the baked berry of the hawthorn tree, that is, coarse fare. See 1st Haw, 2.,
H as in Hawfinch (n.) The common European grosbeak (Coccothraustes vulgaris); -- called also cherry finch, and coble.,
H as in Haw-haw (n.) See Ha-ha.,
H as in Hawhaw (v. i.) To laugh boisterously.,
H as in Hawk (n.) One of numerous species and genera of rapacious birds of the family Falconidae. They differ from the true falcons in lacking the prominent tooth and notch of the bill, and in having shorter and less pointed wings. Many are of large size and grade into the eagles. Some, as the goshawk, were formerly trained like falcons. In a more general sense the word is not infrequently applied, also, to true falcons, as the sparrow hawk, pigeon hawk, duck hawk, and prairie hawk.,
H as in Hawked (imp. & p. p.) of Hawk,
H as in Hawking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hawk,
H as in Hawk (v. i.) To catch, or attempt to catch, birds by means of hawks trained for the purpose, and let loose on the prey; to practice falconry.,
H as in Hawk (v. i.) To make an attack while on the wing; to soar and strike like a hawk; -- generally with at; as, to hawk at flies.,
H as in Hawk (v. i.) To clear the throat with an audible sound by forcing an expiratory current of air through the narrow passage between the depressed soft palate and the root of the tongue, thus aiding in the removal of foreign substances.,
H as in Hawk (v. t.) To raise by hawking, as phlegm.,
H as in Hawk (n.) An effort to force up phlegm from the throat, accompanied with noise.,
H as in Hawk (v. t.) To offer for sale by outcry in the street; to carry (merchandise) about from place to place for sale; to peddle; as, to hawk goods or pamphlets.,
H as in Hawk (n.) A small board, with a handle on the under side, to hold mortar.,
H as in Hawkbill (n.) A sea turtle (Eretmochelys imbricata), which yields the best quality of tortoise shell; -- called also caret.,
H as in Hawkbit (n.) The fall dandelion (Leontodon autumnale).,
H as in Hawked (a.) Curved like a hawk's bill; crooked.,
H as in Hawker (n.) One who sells wares by crying them in the street; hence, a peddler or a packman.,
H as in Hawker (v. i.) To sell goods by outcry in the street.,
H as in Hawker (n.) A falconer.,
H as in Hawkey (n.) See Hockey.,
H as in Hawk-eyed (a.) Having a keen eye; sharpsighted; discerning.,
H as in Hawk moth () Any moth of the family Sphingidae, of which there are numerous genera and species. They are large, handsome moths, which fly mostly at twilight and hover about flowers like a humming bird, sucking the honey by means of a long, slender proboscis. The larvae are large, hairless caterpillars ornamented with green and other bright colors, and often with a caudal spine. See Sphinx, also Tobacco worm, and Tomato worm.,
H as in Hawkweed (n.) A plant of the genus Hieracium; -- so called from the ancient belief that birds of prey used its juice to strengthen their vision.,
H as in Hawkweed (n.) A plant of the genus Senecio (S. hieracifolius).,
H as in Hawm (n.) See Haulm, straw.,
H as in Hawm (v. i.) To lounge; to loiter.,
H as in Hawse (n.) A hawse hole.,
H as in Hawse (n.) The situation of the cables when a vessel is moored with two anchors, one on the starboard, the other on the port bow.,
H as in Hawse (n.) The distance ahead to which the cables usually extend; as, the ship has a clear or open hawse, or a foul hawse; to anchor in our hawse, or athwart hawse.,
H as in Hawse (n.) That part of a vessel's bow in which are the hawse holes for the cables.,
H as in Hawser (n.) A large rope made of three strands each containing many yarns.,
H as in Hawser-laid (a.) Made in the manner of a hawser. Cf. Cable-laid, and see Illust. of Cordage.,
H as in Hawthorn (n.) A thorny shrub or tree (the Crataegus oxyacantha), having deeply lobed, shining leaves, small, roselike, fragrant flowers, and a fruit called haw. It is much used in Europe for hedges, and for standards in gardens. The American hawthorn is Crataegus cordata, which has the leaves but little lobed.,
H as in Hay (n.) A hedge.,
H as in Hay (n.) A net set around the haunt of an animal, especially of a rabbit.,
H as in Hay (v. i.) To lay snares for rabbits.,
H as in Hay (n.) Grass cut and cured for fodder.,
H as in Hay (v. i.) To cut and cure grass for hay.,
H as in Haybird (n.) The European spotted flycatcher.,
H as in Haybird (n.) The European blackcap.,
H as in Haybote (n.) An allowance of wood to a tenant for repairing his hedges or fences; hedgebote. See Bote.,
H as in Haycock (n.) A conical pile or hear of hay in the field.,
H as in Hay-cutter (n.) A machine in which hay is chopped short, as fodder for cattle.,
H as in Hayfield (n.) A field where grass for hay has been cut; a meadow.,
H as in Hayfork (n.) A fork for pitching and tedding hay.,
H as in Hayloft (n.) A loft or scaffold for hay.,
H as in Haymaker (n.) One who cuts and cures hay.,
H as in Haymaker (n.) A machine for curing hay in rainy weather.,
H as in Haymaking (n.) The operation or work of cutting grass and curing it for hay.,
H as in Haymow (n.) A mow or mass of hay laid up in a barn for preservation.,
H as in Haymow (n.) The place in a barn where hay is deposited.,
H as in Hayrack (n.) A frame mounted on the running gear of a wagon, and used in hauling hay, straw, sheaves, etc.; -- called also hay rigging.,
H as in Hayrake (n.) A rake for collecting hay; especially, a large rake drawn by a horse or horses.,
H as in Hayrick (n.) A heap or pile of hay, usually covered with thatch for preservation in the open air.,
H as in Haystack (n.) A stack or conical pile of hay in the open air.,
H as in Haystalk (n.) A stalk of hay.,
H as in Haythorn (n.) Hawthorn.,
H as in Haytian (a.) Of pertaining to Hayti.,
H as in Haytian (n.) A native of Hayti.,
H as in Hayward (n.) An officer who is appointed to guard hedges, and to keep cattle from breaking or cropping them, and whose further duty it is to impound animals found running at large.,
H as in Hazard (n.) A game of chance played with dice.,
H as in Hazard (n.) The uncertain result of throwing a die; hence, a fortuitous event; chance; accident; casualty.,
H as in Hazard (n.) Risk; danger; peril; as, he encountered the enemy at the hazard of his reputation and life.,
H as in Hazard (n.) Holing a ball, whether the object ball (winning hazard) or the player's ball (losing hazard).,
H as in Hazard (n.) Anything that is hazarded or risked, as the stakes in gaming.,
H as in Hazarded (imp. & p. p.) of Hazard,
H as in Hazarding (p. pr. & vb. /) of Hazard,
H as in Hazard (n.) To expose to the operation of chance; to put in danger of loss or injury; to venture; to risk.,
H as in Hazard (n.) To venture to incur, or bring on.,
H as in Hazard (v. i.) To try the chance; to encounter risk or danger.,
H as in Hazardable (a.) Liable to hazard or chance; uncertain; risky.,
H as in Hazardable (a.) Such as can be hazarded or risked.,
H as in Hazarder (n.) A player at the game of hazard; a gamester.,
H as in Hazarder (n.) One who hazards or ventures.,
H as in Hazardize (n.) A hazardous attempt or situation; hazard.,
H as in Hazardous (a.) Exposed to hazard; dangerous; risky.,
H as in Hazardry (n.) Playing at hazard; gaming; gambling.,
H as in Hazardry (n.) Rashness; temerity.,
H as in Haze (n.) Light vapor or smoke in the air which more or less impedes vision, with little or no dampness; a lack of transparency in the air; hence, figuratively, obscurity; dimness.,
H as in Haze (v. i.) To be hazy, or tick with haze.,
H as in Hazed (imp. & p. p.) of Haze,
H as in Hazing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Haze,
H as in Haze (v. t.) To harass by exacting unnecessary, disagreeable, or difficult work.,
H as in Haze (v. t.) To harass or annoy by playing abusive or shameful tricks upon; to humiliate by practical jokes; -- used esp. of college students; as, the sophomores hazed a freshman.,
H as in Hazel (n.) A shrub or small tree of the genus Corylus, as the C. avellana, bearing a nut containing a kernel of a mild, farinaceous taste; the filbert. The American species are C. Americana, which produces the common hazelnut, and C. rostrata. See Filbert.,
H as in Hazel (n.) A miner's name for freestone.,
H as in Hazel (a.) Consisting of hazels, or of the wood of the hazel; pertaining to, or derived from, the hazel; as, a hazel wand.,
H as in Hazel (a.) Of a light brown color, like the hazelnut.,
H as in Hazeless (a.) Destitute of haze.,
H as in Hazelly (a.) Of the color of the hazelnut; of a light brown.,
H as in Hazelnut (n.) The nut of the hazel.,
H as in Hazelwort (n.) The asarabacca.,
H as in Hazily (adv.) In a hazy manner; mistily; obscurely; confusedly.,
H as in Haziness (n.) The quality or state of being hazy.,
H as in Hazle (v. t.) To make dry; to dry.,
H as in Hazy (n.) Thick with haze; somewhat obscured with haze; not clear or transparent.,
H as in Hazy (n.) Obscure; confused; not clear; as, a hazy argument; a hazy intellect.,
H as in He (obj.) The man or male being (or object personified to which the masculine gender is assigned), previously designated; a pronoun of the masculine gender, usually referring to a specified subject already indicated.,
H as in He (obj.) Any one; the man or person; -- used indefinitely, and usually followed by a relative pronoun.,
H as in He (obj.) Man; a male; any male person; -- in this sense used substantively.,
H as in -head (suffix.) A variant of -hood.,
H as in Head (n.) The anterior or superior part of an animal, containing the brain, or chief ganglia of the nervous system, the mouth, and in the higher animals, the chief sensory organs; poll; cephalon.,
H as in Head (n.) The uppermost, foremost, or most important part of an inanimate object; such a part as may be considered to resemble the head of an animal; often, also, the larger, thicker, or heavier part or extremity, in distinction from the smaller or thinner part, or from the point or edge; as, the head of a cane, a nail, a spear, an ax, a mast, a sail, a ship; that which covers and closes the top or the end of a hollow vessel; as, the head of a cask or a steam boiler.,
H as in Head (n.) The place where the head should go; as, the head of a bed, of a grave, etc.; the head of a carriage, that is, the hood which covers the head.,
H as in Head (n.) The most prominent or important member of any organized body; the chief; the leader; as, the head of a college, a school, a church, a state, and the like.,
H as in Head (n.) The place or honor, or of command; the most important or foremost position; the front; as, the head of the table; the head of a column of soldiers.,
H as in Head (n.) Each one among many; an individual; -- often used in a plural sense; as, a thousand head of cattle.,
H as in Head (n.) The seat of the intellect; the brain; the understanding; the mental faculties; as, a good head, that is, a good mind; it never entered his head, it did not occur to him; of his own head, of his own thought or will.,
H as in Head (n.) The source, fountain, spring, or beginning, as of a stream or river; as, the head of the Nile; hence, the altitude of the source, or the height of the surface, as of water, above a given place, as above an orifice at which it issues, and the pressure resulting from the height or from motion; sometimes also, the quantity in reserve; as, a mill or reservoir has a good head of water, or ten feet head; also, that part of a gulf or bay most remote from the outlet or the sea.,
H as in Head (n.) A headland; a promontory; as, Gay Head.,
H as in Head (n.) A separate part, or topic, of a discourse; a theme to be expanded; a subdivision; as, the heads of a sermon.,
H as in Head (n.) Culminating point or crisis; hence, strength; force; height.,
H as in Head (n.) Power; armed force.,
H as in Head (n.) A headdress; a covering of the head; as, a laced head; a head of hair.,
H as in Head (n.) An ear of wheat, barley, or of one of the other small cereals.,
H as in Head (n.) A dense cluster of flowers, as in clover, daisies, thistles; a capitulum.,
H as in Head (n.) A dense, compact mass of leaves, as in a cabbage or a lettuce plant.,
H as in Head (n.) The antlers of a deer.,
H as in Head (n.) A rounded mass of foam which rises on a pot of beer or other effervescing liquor.,
H as in Head (n.) Tiles laid at the eaves of a house.,
H as in Head (a.) Principal; chief; leading; first; as, the head master of a school; the head man of a tribe; a head chorister; a head cook.,
H as in Headed (imp. & p. p.) of Head,
H as in Heading (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Head,
H as in Head (v. t.) To be at the head of; to put one's self at the head of; to lead; to direct; to act as leader to; as, to head an army, an expedition, or a riot.,
H as in Head (v. t.) To form a head to; to fit or furnish with a head; as, to head a nail.,
H as in Head (v. t.) To behead; to decapitate.,
H as in Head (v. t.) To cut off the top of; to lop off; as, to head trees.,
H as in Head (v. t.) To go in front of; to get in the front of, so as to hinder or stop; to oppose; hence, to check or restrain; as, to head a drove of cattle; to head a person; the wind heads a ship.,
H as in Head (v. t.) To set on the head; as, to head a cask.,
H as in Head (v. i.) To originate; to spring; to have its source, as a river.,
H as in Head (v. i.) To go or point in a certain direction; to tend; as, how does the ship head?,
H as in Head (v. i.) To form a head; as, this kind of cabbage heads early.,
H as in Headache (n.) Pain in the head; cephalalgia.,
H as in Headachy (a.) Afflicted with headache.,
H as in Headband (n.) A fillet; a band for the head.,
H as in Headband (n.) The band at each end of the back of a book.,
H as in Headbeard (n.) A board or boarding which marks or forms the head of anything; as, the headboard of a bed; the headboard of a grave.,
H as in Headborough (n.) Alt. of Headborrow,
H as in Headborrow (n.) The chief of a frankpledge, tithing, or decennary, consisting of ten families; -- called also borsholder, boroughhead, boroughholder, and sometimes tithingman. See Borsholder.,
H as in Headborrow (n.) A petty constable.,
H as in Head-cheese (n.) A dish made of portions of the head, or head and feet, of swine, cut up fine, seasoned, and pressed into a cheeselike mass.,
H as in Headdress (n.) A covering or ornament for the head; a headtire.,
H as in Headdress (n.) A manner of dressing the hair or of adorning it, whether with or without a veil, ribbons, combs, etc.,
H as in Headed (a.) Furnished with a head (commonly as denoting intellectual faculties); -- used in composition; as, clear-headed, long-headed, thick-headed; a many-headed monster.,
H as in Headed (a.) Formed into a head; as, a headed cabbage.,
H as in Header (n.) One who, or that which, heads nails, rivets, etc., esp. a machine for heading.,
H as in Header (n.) One who heads a movement, a party, or a mob; head; chief; leader.,
H as in Header (n.) A brick or stone laid with its shorter face or head in the surface of the wall.,
H as in Header (n.) In framing, the piece of timber fitted between two trimmers, and supported by them, and carrying the ends of the tailpieces.,
H as in Header (n.) A reaper for wheat, that cuts off the heads only.,
H as in Header (n.) A fall or plunge headforemost, as while riding a bicycle, or in bathing; as, to take a header.,
H as in Headfirst (adv.) Alt. of Headforemost,
H as in Headforemost (adv.) With the head foremost.,
H as in Headfish (n.) The sunfish (Mola).,
H as in Head gear (n.) Alt. of Headgear,
H as in Headgear (n.) Headdress.,
H as in Headgear (n.) Apparatus above ground at the mouth of a mine or deep well.,
H as in Head-hunter (n.) A member of any tribe or race of savages who have the custom of decapitating human beings and preserving their heads as trophies. The Dyaks of Borneo are the most noted head-hunters.,
H as in Headily (adv.) In a heady or rash manner; hastily; rashly; obstinately.,
H as in Headiness (n.) The quality of being heady.,
H as in Heading (n.) The act or state of one who, or that which, heads; formation of a head.,
H as in Heading (n.) That which stands at the head; title; as, the heading of a paper.,
H as in Heading (n.) Material for the heads of casks, barrels, etc.,
H as in Heading (n.) A gallery, drift, or adit in a mine; also, the end of a drift or gallery; the vein above a drift.,
H as in Heading (n.) The extension of a line ruffling above the line of stitch.,
H as in Heading (n.) That end of a stone or brick which is presented outward.,
H as in Headland (n.) A cape; a promontory; a point of land projecting into the sea or other expanse of water.,
H as in Headland (n.) A ridge or strip of unplowed at the ends of furrows, or near a fence.,
H as in Headless (a.) Having no head; beheaded; as, a headless body, neck, or carcass.,
H as in Headless (a.) Destitute of a chief or leader.,
H as in Headless (a.) Destitute of understanding or prudence; foolish; rash; obstinate.,
H as in Headlight (n.) A light, with a powerful reflector, placed at the head of a locomotive, or in front of it, to throw light on the track at night, or in going through a dark tunnel.,
H as in Headline (n.) The line at the head or top of a page.,
H as in Headline (n.) See Headrope.,
H as in Headlong (a. & adv.) With the head foremost; as, to fall headlong.,
H as in Headlong (a. & adv.) Rashly; precipitately; without deliberation.,
H as in Headlong (a. & adv.) Hastily; without delay or respite.,
H as in Headlong (a.) Rash; precipitate; as, headlong folly.,
H as in Headlong (a.) Steep; precipitous.,
H as in Head-lugged (a.) Lugged or dragged by the head.,
H as in Headmen (pl. ) of Headman,
H as in Headman (n.) A head or leading man, especially of a village community.,
H as in Headmold shot () Alt. of Headmould shot,
H as in Headmould shot () An old name for the condition of the skull, in which the bones ride, or are shot, over each other at the sutures.,
H as in Headmost (a.) Most advanced; most forward; as, the headmost ship in a fleet.,
H as in Headnote (n.) A note at the head of a page or chapter; in law reports, an abstract of a case, showing the principles involved and the opinion of the court.,
H as in Headpan (n.) The brainpan.,
H as in Headpiece (n.) Head.,
H as in Headpiece (n.) A cap of defense; especially, an open one, as distinguished from the closed helmet of the Middle Ages.,
H as in Headpiece (n.) Understanding; mental faculty.,
H as in Headpiece (n.) An engraved ornament at the head of a chapter, or of a page.,
H as in Headquarters (n. sing.) The quarters or place of residence of any chief officer, as the general in command of an army, or the head of a police force; the place from which orders or instructions are issued; hence, the center of authority or order.,
H as in Headrace (n.) See Race, a water course.,
H as in Headroom (n.) See Headway, 2.,
H as in Headrope (n.) That part of a boltrope which is sewed to the upper edge or head of a sail.,
H as in Headsail (n.) Any sail set forward of the foremast.,
H as in Headshake (n.) A significant shake of the head, commonly as a signal of denial.,
H as in Headship (n.) Authority or dignity; chief place.,
H as in Headsmen (pl. ) of Headsman,
H as in Headsman (n.) An executioner who cuts off heads.,
H as in Headspring (n.) Fountain; source.,
H as in Headstall (n.) That part of a bridle or halter which encompasses the head.,
H as in Headstock (n.) A part (usually separate from the bed or frame) for supporting some of the principal working parts of a machine,
H as in Headstock (n.) The part of a lathe that holds the revolving spindle and its attachments; -- also called poppet head, the opposite corresponding part being called a tailstock.,
H as in Headstock (n.) The part of a planing machine that supports the cutter, etc.,
H as in Headstone (n.) The principal stone in a foundation; the chief or corner stone.,
H as in Headstone (n.) The stone at the head of a grave.,
H as in Headstrong (a.) Not easily restrained; ungovernable; obstinate; stubborn.,
H as in Headstrong (a.) Directed by ungovernable will, or proceeding from obstinacy.,
H as in Headstrongness (n.) Obstinacy.,
H as in Headtire (n.) A headdress.,
H as in Headtire (n.) The manner of dressing the head, as at a particular time and place.,
H as in Headway (n.) The progress made by a ship in motion; hence, progress or success of any kind.,
H as in Headway (n.) Clear space under an arch, girder, and the like, sufficient to allow of easy passing underneath.,
H as in Headwork (n.) Mental labor.,
H as in Heady (a.) Willful; rash; precipitate; hurried on by will or passion; ungovernable.,
H as in Heady (a.) Apt to affect the head; intoxicating; strong.,
H as in Heady (a.) Violent; impetuous.,
H as in Heal (v. t.) To cover, as a roof, with tiles, slate, lead, or the like.,
H as in Healed (imp. & p. p.) of Heal,
H as in Healing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Heal,
H as in Heal (v. t.) To make hale, sound, or whole; to cure of a disease, wound, or other derangement; to restore to soundness or health.,
H as in Heal (v. t.) To remove or subdue; to cause to pass away; to cure; -- said of a disease or a wound.,
H as in Heal (v. t.) To restore to original purity or integrity.,
H as in Heal (v. t.) To reconcile, as a breach or difference; to make whole; to free from guilt; as, to heal dissensions.,
H as in Heal (v. i.) To grow sound; to return to a sound state; as, the limb heals, or the wound heals; -- sometimes with up or over; as, it will heal up, or over.,
H as in Heal (v. t.) Health.,
H as in Healable (a.) Capable of being healed.,
H as in Healall (n.) A common herb of the Mint family (Brunela vulgaris), destitute of active properties, but anciently thought a panacea.,
H as in Heald (n.) A heddle.,
H as in Healful (a.) Tending or serving to heal; healing.,
H as in Healing (a.) Tending to cure; soothing; mollifying; as, the healing art; a healing salve; healing words.,
H as in Healingly (adv.) So as to heal or cure.,
H as in Health (n.) The state of being hale, sound, or whole, in body, mind, or soul; especially, the state of being free from physical disease or pain.,
H as in Health (n.) A wish of health and happiness, as in pledging a person in a toast.,
H as in Healthful (a.) Full of health; free from illness or disease; well; whole; sound; healthy; as, a healthful body or mind; a healthful plant.,
H as in Healthful (a.) Serving to promote health of body or mind; wholesome; salubrious; salutary; as, a healthful air, diet.,
H as in Healthful (a.) Indicating, characterized by, or resulting from, health or soundness; as, a healthful condition.,
H as in Healthful (a.) Well-disposed; favorable.,
H as in Healthfully (adv.) In health; wholesomely.,
H as in Healthfulness (n.) The state of being healthful.,
H as in Healthily (adv.) In a healthy manner.,
H as in Healthiness (n.) The state of being healthy or healthful; freedom from disease.,
H as in Healthless (n.) Without health, whether of body or mind; in firm.,
H as in Healthless (n.) Not conducive to health; unwholesome.,
H as in Healthlessness (n.) The state of being health/ess.,
H as in Healthsome (a.) Wholesome; salubrious.,
H as in Healthward (a. & adv.) In the direction of health; as, a healthward tendency.,
H as in Healthy (superl.) Being in a state of health; enjoying health; hale; sound; free from disease; as, a healthy chid; a healthy plant.,
H as in Healthy (superl.) Evincing health; as, a healthy pulse; a healthy complexion.,
H as in Healthy (superl.) Conducive to health; wholesome; salubrious; salutary; as, a healthy exercise; a healthy climate.,
H as in Heam (n.) The afterbirth or secundines of a beast.,
H as in Heap (n.) A crowd; a throng; a multitude or great number of persons.,
H as in Heap (n.) A great number or large quantity of things not placed in a pile.,
H as in Heap (n.) A pile or mass; a collection of things laid in a body, or thrown together so as to form an elevation; as, a heap of earth or stones.,
H as in Heaped (imp. & p. p.) of Heap,
H as in Heaping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Heap,
H as in Heap (v. t.) To collect in great quantity; to amass; to lay up; to accumulate; -- usually with up; as, to heap up treasures.,
H as in Heap (v. t.) To throw or lay in a heap; to make a heap of; to pile; as, to heap stones; -- often with up; as, to heap up earth; or with on; as, to heap on wood or coal.,
H as in Heap (v. t.) To form or round into a heap, as in measuring; to fill (a measure) more than even full.,
H as in Heaper (n.) One who heaps, piles, or amasses.,
H as in Heapy (a.) Lying in heaps.,
H as in Heard (imp. & p. p.) of Hear,
H as in Hearing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hear,
H as in Hear (v. t.) To perceive by the ear; to apprehend or take cognizance of by the ear; as, to hear sounds; to hear a voice; to hear one call.,
H as in Hear (v. t.) To give audience or attention to; to listen to; to heed; to accept the doctrines or advice of; to obey; to examine; to try in a judicial court; as, to hear a recitation; to hear a class; the case will be heard to-morrow.,
H as in Hear (v. t.) To attend, or be present at, as hearer or worshiper; as, to hear a concert; to hear Mass.,
H as in Hear (v. t.) To give attention to as a teacher or judge.,
H as in Hear (v. t.) To accede to the demand or wishes of; to listen to and answer favorably; to favor.,
H as in Hear (v. i.) To have the sense or faculty of perceiving sound.,
H as in Hear (v. i.) To use the power of perceiving sound; to perceive or apprehend by the ear; to attend; to listen.,
H as in Hear (v. i.) To be informed by oral communication; to be told; to receive information by report or by letter.,
H as in Heard () imp. & p. p. of Hear.,
H as in Hearer (n.) One who hears; an auditor.,
H as in Hearing (n.) The act or power of perceiving sound; perception of sound; the faculty or sense by which sound is perceived; as, my hearing is good.,
H as in Hearing (n.) Attention to what is delivered; opportunity to be heard; audience; as, I could not obtain a hearing.,
H as in Hearing (n.) A listening to facts and evidence, for the sake of adjudication; a session of a court for considering proofs and determining issues.,
H as in Hearing (n.) Extent within which sound may be heard; sound; earshot.,
H as in Hearkened (imp. & p. p.) of Hearken,
H as in Hearkening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hearken,
H as in Hearken (v. i.) To listen; to lend the ear; to attend to what is uttered; to give heed; to hear, in order to obey or comply.,
H as in Hearken (v. i.) To inquire; to seek information.,
H as in Hearken (v. t.) To hear by listening.,
H as in Hearken (v. t.) To give heed to; to hear attentively.,
H as in Hearkener (n.) One who hearkens; a listener.,
H as in Hearsal (n.) Rehearsal.,
H as in Hearsay (n.) Report; rumor; fame; common talk; something heard from another.,
H as in Hearse (n.) A hind in the year of its age.,
H as in Hearse (n.) A framework of wood or metal placed over the coffin or tomb of a deceased person, and covered with a pall; also, a temporary canopy bearing wax lights and set up in a church, under which the coffin was placed during the funeral ceremonies.,
H as in Hearse (n.) A grave, coffin, tomb, or sepulchral monument.,
H as in Hearse (n.) A bier or handbarrow for conveying the dead to the grave.,
H as in Hearse (n.) A carriage specially adapted or used for conveying the dead to the grave.,
H as in Hearse (v. t.) To inclose in a hearse; to entomb.,
H as in Hearsecloth (n.) A cloth for covering a coffin when on a bier; a pall.,
H as in Hearselike (a.) Suitable to a funeral.,
H as in Heart (n.) A hollow, muscular organ, which, by contracting rhythmically, keeps up the circulation of the blood.,
H as in Heart (n.) The seat of the affections or sensibilities, collectively or separately, as love, hate, joy, grief, courage, and the like; rarely, the seat of the understanding or will; -- usually in a good sense, when no epithet is expressed; the better or lovelier part of our nature; the spring of all our actions and purposes; the seat of moral life and character; the moral affections and character itself; the individual disposition and character; as, a good, tender, loving, bad, hard, or selfish heart.,
H as in Heart (n.) The nearest the middle or center; the part most hidden and within; the inmost or most essential part of any body or system; the source of life and motion in any organization; the chief or vital portion; the center of activity, or of energetic or efficient action; as, the heart of a country, of a tree, etc.,
H as in Heart (n.) Courage; courageous purpose; spirit.,
H as in Heart (n.) Vigorous and efficient activity; power of fertile production; condition of the soil, whether good or bad.,
H as in Heart (n.) That which resembles a heart in shape; especially, a roundish or oval figure or object having an obtuse point at one end, and at the other a corresponding indentation, -- used as a symbol or representative of the heart.,
H as in Heart (n.) One of a series of playing cards, distinguished by the figure or figures of a heart; as, hearts are trumps.,
H as in Heart (n.) Vital part; secret meaning; real intention.,
H as in Heart (n.) A term of affectionate or kindly and familiar address.,
H as in Heart (v. t.) To give heart to; to hearten; to encourage; to inspirit.,
H as in Heart (v. i.) To form a compact center or heart; as, a hearting cabbage.,
H as in Heartache (n.) Sorrow; anguish of mind; mental pang.,
H as in Heartbreak (n.) Crushing sorrow or grief; a yielding to such grief.,
H as in Heartbreaking (a.) Causing overpowering sorrow.,
H as in Heartbroken (a.) Overcome by crushing sorrow; deeply grieved.,
H as in Heartburn (n.) An uneasy, burning sensation in the stomach, often attended with an inclination to vomit. It is sometimes idiopathic, but is often a symptom of often complaints.,
H as in Heartburned (a.) Having heartburn.,
H as in Heartburning (a.) Causing discontent.,
H as in Heartburning (n.) Same as Heartburn.,
H as in Heartburning (n.) Discontent; secret enmity.,
H as in Heartdear (a.) Sincerely beloved.,
H as in Heartdeep (a.) Rooted in the heart.,
H as in Heart-eating (a.) Preying on the heart.,
H as in Hearted (a.) Having a heart; having (such) a heart (regarded as the seat of the affections, disposition, or character).,
H as in Hearted (a.) Shaped like a heart; cordate.,
H as in Hearted (a.) Seated or laid up in the heart.,
H as in Heartedness (n.) Earnestness; sincerity; heartiness.,
H as in Hearten (v. t.) To encourage; to animate; to incite or stimulate the courage of; to embolden.,
H as in Hearten (v. t.) To restore fertility or strength to, as to land.,
H as in Heartener (n.) One who, or that which, heartens, animates, or stirs up.,
H as in Heartfelt (a.) Hearty; sincere.,
H as in Heartgrief (n.) Heartache; sorrow.,
H as in Hearth (n.) The pavement or floor of brick, stone, or metal in a chimney, on which a fire is made; the floor of a fireplace; also, a corresponding part of a stove.,
H as in Hearth (n.) The house itself, as the abode of comfort to its inmates and of hospitality to strangers; fireside.,
H as in Hearth (n.) The floor of a furnace, on which the material to be heated lies, or the lowest part of a melting furnace, into which the melted material settles.,
H as in Hearthstone (n.) Stone forming the hearth; hence, the fireside; home.,
H as in Heartily (adv.) From the heart; with all the heart; with sincerity.,
H as in Heartily (adv.) With zeal; actively; vigorously; willingly; cordially; as, he heartily assisted the prince.,
H as in Heariness (n.) The quality of being hearty; as, the heartiness of a greeting.,
H as in Heartless (a.) Without a heart.,
H as in Heartless (a.) Destitute of courage; spiritless; despodent.,
H as in Heartless (a.) Destitute of feeling or affection; unsympathetic; cruel.,
H as in Heartlet (n.) A little heart.,
H as in Heartlings (interj.) An exclamation used in addressing a familiar acquaintance.,
H as in Heartpea (n.) Same as Heartseed.,
H as in Heartquake (n.) Trembling of the heart; trepidation; fear.,
H as in Heartrending (a.) Causing intense grief; overpowering with anguish; very distressing.,
H as in Heart-robbing (a.) Depriving of thought; ecstatic.,
H as in Heart-robbing (a.) Stealing the heart or affections; winning.,
H as in Heart's-ease (n.) Ease of heart; peace or tranquillity of mind or feeling.,
H as in Heart's-ease (n.) A species of violet (Viola tricolor); -- called also pansy.,
H as in Heartseed (n.) A climbing plant of the genus Cardiospermum, having round seeds which are marked with a spot like a heart.,
H as in Heartshaped (a.) Having the shape of a heart; cordate.,
H as in Heartsick (a.) Sick at heart; extremely depressed in spirits; very despondent.,
H as in Heartsome (a.) Merry; cheerful; lively.,
H as in Heart-spoon (n.) A part of the breastbone.,
H as in Heartstricken (a.) Shocked; dismayed.,
H as in Heartstrike (v. t.) To affect at heart; to shock.,
H as in Heartstring (n.) A nerve or tendon, supposed to brace and sustain the heart.,
H as in Heartstruck (a.) Driven to the heart; infixed in the mind.,
H as in Heartstruck (a.) Shocked with pain, fear, or remorse; dismayed; heartstricken.,
H as in Heartswelling (a.) Rankling in, or swelling, the heart.,
H as in Heart-whole (a.) Having the heart or affections free; not in love.,
H as in Heart-whole (a.) With unbroken courage; undismayed.,
H as in Heart-whole (a.) Of a single and sincere heart.,
H as in Heartwood (n.) The hard, central part of the trunk of a tree, consisting of the old and matured wood, and usually differing in color from the outer layers. It is technically known as duramen, and distinguished from the softer sapwood or alburnum.,
H as in Heart-wounded (a.) Wounded to the heart with love or grief.,
H as in Hearty (superl.) Pertaining to, or proceeding from, the heart; warm; cordial; bold; zealous; sincere; willing; also, energetic; active; eager; as, a hearty welcome; hearty in supporting the government.,
H as in Hearty (superl.) Exhibiting strength; sound; healthy; firm; not weak; as, a hearty timber.,
H as in Hearty (superl.) Promoting strength; nourishing; rich; abundant; as, hearty food; a hearty meal.,
H as in Hearties (pl. ) of Hearty,
H as in Hearty (n.) Comrade; boon companion; good fellow; -- a term of familiar address and fellowship among sailors.,
H as in Heartyhale (a.) Good for the heart.,
H as in Heat (n.) A force in nature which is recognized in various effects, but especially in the phenomena of fusion and evaporation, and which, as manifested in fire, the sun's rays, mechanical action, chemical combination, etc., becomes directly known to us through the sense of feeling. In its nature heat is a mode if motion, being in general a form of molecular disturbance or vibration. It was formerly supposed to be a subtile, imponderable fluid, to which was given the name caloric.,
H as in Heat (n.) The sensation caused by the force or influence of heat when excessive, or above that which is normal to the human body; the bodily feeling experienced on exposure to fire, the sun's rays, etc.; the reverse of cold.,
H as in Heat (n.) High temperature, as distinguished from low temperature, or cold; as, the heat of summer and the cold of winter; heat of the skin or body in fever, etc.,
H as in Heat (n.) Indication of high temperature; appearance, condition, or color of a body, as indicating its temperature; redness; high color; flush; degree of temperature to which something is heated, as indicated by appearance, condition, or otherwise.,
H as in Heat (n.) A single complete operation of heating, as at a forge or in a furnace; as, to make a horseshoe in a certain number of heats.,
H as in Heat (n.) A violent action unintermitted; a single effort; a single course in a race that consists of two or more courses; as, he won two heats out of three.,
H as in Heat (n.) Utmost violence; rage; vehemence; as, the heat of battle or party.,
H as in Heat (n.) Agitation of mind; inflammation or excitement; exasperation.,
H as in Heat (n.) Animation, as in discourse; ardor; fervency.,
H as in Heat (n.) Sexual excitement in animals.,
H as in Heat (n.) Fermentation.,
H as in Heated (imp. & p. p.) of Heat,
H as in Heating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Heat,
H as in Heat (v. t.) To make hot; to communicate heat to, or cause to grow warm; as, to heat an oven or furnace, an iron, or the like.,
H as in Heat (v. t.) To excite or make hot by action or emotion; to make feverish.,
H as in Heat (v. t.) To excite ardor in; to rouse to action; to excite to excess; to inflame, as the passions.,
H as in Heat (v. i.) To grow warm or hot by the action of fire or friction, etc., or the communication of heat; as, the iron or the water heats slowly.,
H as in Heat (v. i.) To grow warm or hot by fermentation, or the development of heat by chemical action; as, green hay heats in a mow, and manure in the dunghill.,
H as in Heat (imp. & p. p.) Heated; as, the iron though heat red-hot.,
H as in Heater (n.) One who, or that which, heats.,
H as in Heater (n.) Any contrivance or implement, as a furnace, stove, or other heated body or vessel, etc., used to impart heat to something, or to contain something to be heated.,
H as in Heath (n.) A low shrub (Erica, / Calluna, vulgaris), with minute evergreen leaves, and handsome clusters of pink flowers. It is used in Great Britain for brooms, thatch, beds for the poor, and for heating ovens. It is also called heather, and ling.,
H as in Heath (n.) Also, any species of the genus Erica, of which several are European, and many more are South African, some of great beauty. See Illust. of Heather.,
H as in Heath (n.) A place overgrown with heath; any cheerless tract of country overgrown with shrubs or coarse herbage.,
H as in Heathclad (a.) Clad or crowned with heath.,
H as in Heathens (pl. ) of Heathen,
H as in Heathen (pl. ) of Heathen,
H as in Heathen (n.) An individual of the pagan or unbelieving nations, or those which worship idols and do not acknowledge the true God; a pagan; an idolater.,
H as in Heathen (n.) An irreligious person.,
H as in Heathen (a.) Gentile; pagan; as, a heathen author.,
H as in Heathen (a.) Barbarous; unenlightened; heathenish.,
H as in Heathen (a.) Irreligious; scoffing.,
H as in Heathendom (n.) That part of the world where heathenism prevails; the heathen nations, considered collectively.,
H as in Heathendom (n.) Heathenism.,
H as in Heathenesse (n.) Heathendom.,
H as in Heathenish (a.) Of or pertaining to the heathen; resembling or characteristic of heathens.,
H as in Heathenish (a.) Rude; uncivilized; savage; cruel.,
H as in Heathenish (a.) Irreligious; as, a heathenish way of living.,
H as in Heathenishly (adv.) In a heathenish manner.,
H as in Heathenishness (n.) The state or quality of being heathenish.,
H as in Heathenism (n.) The religious system or rites of a heathen nation; idolatry; paganism.,
H as in Heathenism (n.) The manners or morals usually prevalent in a heathen country; ignorance; rudeness; barbarism.,
H as in Heathenized (imp. & p. p.) of Heathenize,
H as in Heathenizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Heathenize,
H as in Heathenize (v. t.) To render heathen or heathenish.,
H as in Heathenness (n.) State of being heathen or like the heathen.,
H as in Heathenry (n.) The state, quality, or character of the heathen.,
H as in Heathenry (n.) Heathendom; heathen nations.,
H as in Heather (n.) Heath.,
H as in Heathery (a.) Heathy; abounding in heather; of the nature of heath.,
H as in Heathy (a.) Full of heath; abounding with heath; as, heathy land; heathy hills.,
H as in Heating (a.) That heats or imparts heat; promoting warmth or heat; exciting action; stimulating; as, heating medicines or applications.,
H as in Heatingly (adv.) In a heating manner; so as to make or become hot or heated.,
H as in Heatless (a.) Destitute of heat; cold.,
H as in Heaved (imp.) of Heave,
H as in Hove () of Heave,
H as in Heaved (p. p.) of Heave,
H as in Hove () of Heave,
H as in Hoven () of Heave,
H as in Heaving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Heave,
H as in Heave (v. t.) To cause to move upward or onward by a lifting effort; to lift; to raise; to hoist; -- often with up; as, the wave heaved the boat on land.,
H as in Heave (v. t.) To throw; to cast; -- obsolete, provincial, or colloquial, except in certain nautical phrases; as, to heave the lead; to heave the log.,
H as in Heave (v. t.) To force from, or into, any position; to cause to move; also, to throw off; -- mostly used in certain nautical phrases; as, to heave the ship ahead.,
H as in Heave (v. t.) To raise or force from the breast; to utter with effort; as, to heave a sigh.,
H as in Heave (v. t.) To cause to swell or rise, as the breast or bosom.,
H as in Heave (v. i.) To be thrown up or raised; to rise upward, as a tower or mound.,
H as in Heave (v. i.) To rise and fall with alternate motions, as the lungs in heavy breathing, as waves in a heavy sea, as ships on the billows, as the earth when broken up by frost, etc.; to swell; to dilate; to expand; to distend; hence, to labor; to struggle.,
H as in Heave (v. i.) To make an effort to raise, throw, or move anything; to strain to do something difficult.,
H as in Heave (v. i.) To make an effort to vomit; to retch; to vomit.,
H as in Heave (n.) An effort to raise something, as a weight, or one's self, or to move something heavy.,
H as in Heave (n.) An upward motion; a rising; a swell or distention, as of the breast in difficult breathing, of the waves, of the earth in an earthquake, and the like.,
H as in Heave (n.) A horizontal dislocation in a metallic lode, taking place at an intersection with another lode.,
H as in Heaven (n.) The expanse of space surrounding the earth; esp., that which seems to be over the earth like a great arch or dome; the firmament; the sky; the place where the sun, moon, and stars appear; -- often used in the plural in this sense.,
H as in Heaven (n.) The dwelling place of the Deity; the abode of bliss; the place or state of the blessed after death.,
H as in Heaven (n.) The sovereign of heaven; God; also, the assembly of the blessed, collectively; -- used variously in this sense, as in No. 2.,
H as in Heaven (n.) Any place of supreme happiness or great comfort; perfect felicity; bliss; a sublime or exalted condition; as, a heaven of delight.,
H as in Heavened (imp. & p. p.) of Heaven,
H as in Heavening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Heaven,
H as in Heaven (v. t.) To place in happiness or bliss, as if in heaven; to beatify.,
H as in Heavenize (v. t.) To render like heaven or fit for heaven.,
H as in Heavenliness (n.) The state or quality of being heavenly.,
H as in Heavenly (a.) Pertaining to, resembling, or inhabiting heaven; celestial; not earthly; as, heavenly regions; heavenly music.,
H as in Heavenly (a.) Appropriate to heaven in character or happiness; perfect; pure; supremely blessed; as, a heavenly race; the heavenly, throng.,
H as in Heavenly (adv.) In a manner resembling that of heaven.,
H as in Heavenly (adv.) By the influence or agency of heaven.,
H as in Heavenlyminded (a.) Having the thoughts and affections placed on, or suitable for, heaven and heavenly objects; devout; godly; pious.,
H as in Heavenward (a & adv.) Toward heaven.,
H as in Heave offering () An offering or oblation heaved up or elevated before the altar, as the shoulder of the peace offering. See Wave offering.,
H as in Heaver (n.) One who, or that which, heaves or lifts; a laborer employed on docks in handling freight; as, a coal heaver.,
H as in Heaver (n.) A bar used as a lever.,
H as in Heaves (n.) A disease of horses, characterized by difficult breathing, with heaving of the flank, wheezing, flatulency, and a peculiar cough; broken wind.,
H as in Heavily (adv.) In a heavy manner; with great weight; as, to bear heavily on a thing; to be heavily loaded.,
H as in Heavily (adv.) As if burdened with a great weight; slowly and laboriously; with difficulty; hence, in a slow, difficult, or suffering manner; sorrowfully.,
H as in Heaviness (n.) The state or quality of being heavy in its various senses; weight; sadness; sluggishness; oppression; thickness.,
H as in Heaving (n.) A lifting or rising; a swell; a panting or deep sighing.,
H as in Heavisome (a.) Heavy; dull.,
H as in Heavy (a.) Having the heaves.,
H as in Heavy (superl.) Heaved or lifted with labor; not light; weighty; ponderous; as, a heavy stone; hence, sometimes, large in extent, quantity, or effects; as, a heavy fall of rain or snow; a heavy failure; heavy business transactions, etc.; often implying strength; as, a heavy barrier; also, difficult to move; as, a heavy draught.,
H as in Heavy (superl.) Not easy to bear; burdensome; oppressive; hard to endure or accomplish; hence, grievous, afflictive; as, heavy yokes, expenses, undertakings, trials, news, etc.,
H as in Heavy (superl.) Laden with that which is weighty; encumbered; burdened; bowed down, either with an actual burden, or with care, grief, pain, disappointment.,
H as in Heavy (superl.) Slow; sluggish; inactive; or lifeless, dull, inanimate, stupid; as, a heavy gait, looks, manners, style, and the like; a heavy writer or book.,
H as in Heavy (superl.) Strong; violent; forcible; as, a heavy sea, storm, cannonade, and the like.,
H as in Heavy (superl.) Loud; deep; -- said of sound; as, heavy thunder.,
H as in Heavy (superl.) Dark with clouds, or ready to rain; gloomy; -- said of the sky.,
H as in Heavy (superl.) Impeding motion; cloggy; clayey; -- said of earth; as, a heavy road, soil, and the like.,
H as in Heavy (superl.) Not raised or made light; as, heavy bread.,
H as in Heavy (superl.) Not agreeable to, or suitable for, the stomach; not easily digested; -- said of food.,
H as in Heavy (superl.) Having much body or strength; -- said of wines, or other liquors.,
H as in Heavy (superl.) With child; pregnant.,
H as in Heavy (adv.) Heavily; -- sometimes used in composition; as, heavy-laden.,
H as in Heavy (v. t.) To make heavy.,
H as in Heavy-armed (a.) Wearing heavy or complete armor; carrying heavy arms.,
H as in Heavy-haded (a.) Clumsy; awkward.,
H as in Heavy-headed (a.) Dull; stupid.,
H as in Heavy spar () Native barium sulphate or barite, -- so called because of its high specific gravity as compared with other non-metallic minerals.,
H as in Hebdomad (n.) A week; a period of seven days.,
H as in Hebdomadal (a.) Alt. of Hebdomadary,
H as in Hebdomadary (a.) Consisting of seven days, or occurring at intervals of seven days; weekly.,
H as in Hebdomadally (adv.) In periods of seven days; weekly.,
H as in Hebdomadary (n.) A member of a chapter or convent, whose week it is to officiate in the choir, and perform other services, which, on extraordinary occasions, are performed by the superiors.,
H as in Hebdomatical (a.) Weekly; hebdomadal.,
H as in Hebe (n.) The goddess of youth, daughter of Jupiter and Juno. She was believed to have the power of restoring youth and beauty to those who had lost them.,
H as in Hebe (n.) An African ape; the hamadryas.,
H as in Heben (n.) Ebony.,
H as in Hebenon (n.) See Henbane.,
H as in Hebetated (imp. & p. p.) of Hebetate,
H as in Hebetating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hebetate,
H as in Hebetate (v. t.) To render obtuse; to dull; to blunt; to stupefy; as, to hebetate the intellectual faculties.,
H as in Hebetate (a.) Obtuse; dull.,
H as in Hebetate (a.) Having a dull or blunt and soft point.,
H as in Hebetation (n.) The act of making blunt, dull, or stupid.,
H as in Hebetation (n.) The state of being blunted or dulled.,
H as in Hebete (a.) Dull; stupid.,
H as in Hebetude (n.) Dullness; stupidity.,
H as in Hebraic (a.) Of or pertaining to the Hebrews, or to the language of the Hebrews.,
H as in Hebraically (adv.) After the manner of the Hebrews or of the Hebrew language.,
H as in Hebraism (n.) A Hebrew idiom or custom; a peculiar expression or manner of speaking in the Hebrew language.,
H as in Hebraism (n.) The type of character of the Hebrews.,
H as in Hebraist (n.) One versed in the Hebrew language and learning.,
H as in Hebraistic (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, the Hebrew language or idiom.,
H as in Hebraistically (adv.) In a Hebraistic sense or form.,
H as in Hebraize (v. t.) To convert into the Hebrew idiom; to make Hebrew or Hebraistic.,
H as in Hebraized (imp. & p. p.) of Hebraize,
H as in Hebraizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hebraize,
H as in Hebraize (v. i.) To speak Hebrew, or to conform to the Hebrew idiom, or to Hebrew customs.,
H as in Hebrew (n.) An appellative of Abraham or of one of his descendants, esp. in the line of Jacob; an Israelite; a Jew.,
H as in Hebrew (n.) The language of the Hebrews; -- one of the Semitic family of languages.,
H as in Hebrew (a.) Of or pertaining to the Hebrews; as, the Hebrew language or rites.,
H as in Hebrewess (n.) An Israelitish woman.,
H as in Hebrician (n.) A Hebraist.,
H as in Hebridean (a.) Alt. of Hebridian,
H as in Hebridian (a.) Of or pertaining to the islands called Hebrides, west of Scotland.,
H as in Hebridian (n.) A native or inhabitant of the Hebrides.,
H as in Hecatomb (n.) A sacrifice of a hundred oxen or cattle at the same time; hence, the sacrifice or slaughter of any large number of victims.,
H as in Hecatompedon (n.) A name given to the old Parthenon at Athens, because measuring 100 Greek feet, probably in the width across the stylobate.,
H as in Hecdecane (n.) A white, semisolid, spermaceti-like hydrocarbon, C16H34, of the paraffin series, found dissolved as an important ingredient of kerosene, and so called because each molecule has sixteen atoms of carbon; -- called also hexadecane.,
H as in Heck (n.) The bolt or latch of a door.,
H as in Heck (n.) A rack for cattle to feed at.,
H as in Heck (n.) A door, especially one partly of latticework; -- called also heck door.,
H as in Heck (n.) A latticework contrivance for catching fish.,
H as in Heck (n.) An apparatus for separating the threads of warps into sets, as they are wound upon the reel from the bobbins, in a warping machine.,
H as in Heck (n.) A bend or winding of a stream.,
H as in Heckimal (n.) The European blue titmouse (Parus coeruleus).,
H as in Heckle (n. & v. t.) Same as Hackle.,
H as in Hectare (n.) A measure of area, or superficies, containing a hundred ares, or 10,000 square meters, and equivalent to 2.471 acres.,
H as in Hectic (a.) Habitual; constitutional; pertaining especially to slow waste of animal tissue, as in consumption; as, a hectic type in disease; a hectic flush.,
H as in Hectic (a.) In a hectic condition; having hectic fever; consumptive; as, a hectic patient.,
H as in Hectic (n.) Hectic fever.,
H as in Hectic (n.) A hectic flush.,
H as in Hectocotylized (a.) Changed into a hectocotylus; having a hectocotylis.,
H as in Hectocotyli (pl. ) of Hectocotylus,
H as in Hectocotylus (n.) One of the arms of the male of most kinds of cephalopods, which is specially modified in various ways to effect the fertilization of the eggs. In a special sense, the greatly modified arm of Argonauta and allied genera, which, after receiving the spermatophores, becomes detached from the male, and attaches itself to the female for reproductive purposes.,
H as in Hectogram (n.) A measure of weight, containing a hundred grams, or about 3.527 ounces avoirdupois.,
H as in Hectogramme (n.) The same as Hectogram.,
H as in Hectograph (n.) A contrivance for multiple copying, by means of a surface of gelatin softened with glycerin.,
H as in Hectoliter (n.) Alt. of Hectolitre,
H as in Hectolitre (n.) A measure of liquids, containing a hundred liters; equal to a tenth of a cubic meter, nearly 26/ gallons of wine measure, or 22.0097 imperial gallons. As a dry measure, it contains ten decaliters, or about 2/ Winchester bushels.,
H as in Hectometer (n.) Alt. of Hectometre,
H as in Hectometre (n.) A measure of length, equal to a hundred meters. It is equivalent to 328.09 feet.,
H as in Hector (n.) A bully; a blustering, turbulent, insolent, fellow; one who vexes or provokes.,
H as in Hectored (imp. & p. p.) of Hector,
H as in Hectoring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hector,
H as in Hector (v. t.) To treat with insolence; to threaten; to bully; hence, to torment by words; to tease; to taunt; to worry or irritate by bullying.,
H as in Hector (v. i.) To play the bully; to bluster; to be turbulent or insolent.,
H as in Hectorism (n.) The disposition or the practice of a hector; a bullying.,
H as in Hectorly (a.) Resembling a hector; blustering; insolent; taunting.,
H as in Hectostere (n.) A measure of solidity, containing one hundred cubic meters, and equivalent to 3531.66 English or 3531.05 United States cubic feet.,
H as in Heddles (pl. ) of Heddle,
H as in Heddle (n.) One of the sets of parallel doubled threads which, with mounting, compose the harness employed to guide the warp threads to the lathe or batten in a loom.,
H as in Heddle (v. t.) To draw (the warp thread) through the heddle-eyes, in weaving.,
H as in Heddle-eye (n.) The eye or loop formed in each heddle to receive a warp thread.,
H as in Heddling (vb. n.) The act of drawing the warp threads through the heddle-eyes of a weaver's harness; the harness itself.,
H as in Hederaceous (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, ivy.,
H as in Hederal (a.) Of or pertaining to ivy.,
H as in Hederic (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, the ivy (Hedera); as, hederic acid, an acid of the acetylene series.,
H as in Hederiferous (a.) Producing ivy; ivy-bearing.,
H as in Hederose (a.) Pertaining to, or of, ivy; full of ivy.,
H as in Hedge (n.) A thicket of bushes, usually thorn bushes; especially, such a thicket planted as a fence between any two portions of land; and also any sort of shrubbery, as evergreens, planted in a line or as a fence; particularly, such a thicket planted round a field to fence it, or in rows to separate the parts of a garden.,
H as in Hedged (imp. & p. p.) of Hedge,
H as in Hedging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hedge,
H as in Hedge (v. t.) To inclose or separate with a hedge; to fence with a thickly set line or thicket of shrubs or small trees; as, to hedge a field or garden.,
H as in Hedge (v. t.) To obstruct, as a road, with a barrier; to hinder from progress or success; -- sometimes with up and out.,
H as in Hedge (v. t.) To surround for defense; to guard; to protect; to hem (in).,
H as in Hedge (v. t.) To surround so as to prevent escape.,
H as in Hedge (v. i.) To shelter one's self from danger, risk, duty, responsibility, etc., as if by hiding in or behind a hedge; to skulk; to slink; to shirk obligations.,
H as in Hedge (v. i.) To reduce the risk of a wager by making a bet against the side or chance one has bet on.,
H as in Hedge (v. i.) To use reservations and qualifications in one's speech so as to avoid committing one's self to anything definite.,
H as in Hedgeborn (a.) Born under a hedge; of low birth.,
H as in Hedgebote (n.) Same as Haybote.,
H as in Hedgehog (n.) A small European insectivore (Erinaceus Europaeus), and other allied species of Asia and Africa, having the hair on the upper part of its body mixed with prickles or spines. It is able to roll itself into a ball so as to present the spines outwardly in every direction. It is nocturnal in its habits, feeding chiefly upon insects.,
H as in Hedgehog (n.) The Canadian porcupine.,
H as in Hedgehog (n.) A species of Medicago (M. intertexta), the pods of which are armed with short spines; -- popularly so called.,
H as in Hedgehog (n.) A form of dredging machine.,
H as in Hedgeless (a.) Having no hedge.,
H as in Hedgepig (n.) A young hedgehog.,
H as in Hedger (n.) One who makes or mends hedges; also, one who hedges, as, in betting.,
H as in Hedgerow (n.) A row of shrubs, or trees, planted for inclosure or separation of fields.,
H as in Hedging bill () A hedge bill. See under Hedge.,
H as in Hedonic (a.) Pertaining to pleasure.,
H as in Hedonic (a.) Of or relating to Hedonism or the Hedonic sect.,
H as in Hedonistic (a.) Same as Hedonic, 2.,
H as in Heeded (imp. & p. p.) of Heed,
H as in Heeding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Heed,
H as in Heed (v. t.) To mind; to regard with care; to take notice of; to attend to; to observe.,
H as in Heed (v. i.) To mind; to consider.,
H as in Heed (n.) Attention; notice; observation; regard; -- often with give or take.,
H as in Heed (n.) Careful consideration; obedient regard.,
H as in Heed (n.) A look or expression of heading.,
H as in Heedful (a.) Full of heed; regarding with care; cautious; circumspect; attentive; vigilant.,
H as in Heedless (a.) Without heed or care; inattentive; careless; thoughtless; unobservant.,
H as in Heedy (a.) Heedful.,
H as in Heel (v. i.) To lean or tip to one side, as a ship; as, the ship heels aport; the boat heeled over when the squall struck it.,
H as in Heel (n.) The hinder part of the foot; sometimes, the whole foot; -- in man or quadrupeds.,
H as in Heel (n.) The hinder part of any covering for the foot, as of a shoe, sock, etc.; specif., a solid part projecting downward from the hinder part of the sole of a boot or shoe.,
H as in Heel (n.) The latter or remaining part of anything; the closing or concluding part.,
H as in Heel (n.) Anything regarded as like a human heel in shape; a protuberance; a knob.,
H as in Heel (n.) The part of a thing corresponding in position to the human heel; the lower part, or part on which a thing rests,
H as in Heel (n.) The after end of a ship's keel.,
H as in Heel (n.) The lower end of a mast, a boom, the bowsprit, the sternpost, etc.,
H as in Heel (n.) In a small arm, the corner of the but which is upwards in the firing position.,
H as in Heel (n.) The uppermost part of the blade of a sword, next to the hilt.,
H as in Heel (n.) The part of any tool next the tang or handle; as, the heel of a scythe.,
H as in Heel (n.) Management by the heel, especially the spurred heel; as, the horse understands the heel well.,
H as in Heel (n.) The lower end of a timber in a frame, as a post or rafter. In the United States, specif., the obtuse angle of the lower end of a rafter set sloping.,
H as in Heel (n.) A cyma reversa; -- so called by workmen.,
H as in Heeled (imp. & p. p.) of Heel,
H as in Heeling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Heel,
H as in Heel (v. t.) To perform by the use of the heels, as in dancing, running, and the like.,
H as in Heel (v. t.) To add a heel to; as, to heel a shoe.,
H as in Heel (v. t.) To arm with a gaff, as a cock for fighting.,
H as in Heelball (n.) A composition of wax and lampblack, used by shoemakers for polishing, and by antiquaries in copying inscriptions.,
H as in Heeler (n.) A cock that strikes well with his heels or spurs.,
H as in Heeler (n.) A dependent and subservient hanger-on of a political patron.,
H as in Heelless (a.) Without a heel.,
H as in Heelpiece (n.) A piece of armor to protect the heels.,
H as in Heelpiece (n.) A piece of leather fixed on the heel of a shoe.,
H as in Heelpiece (n.) The end.,
H as in Heelpost (n.) The post supporting the outer end of a propeller shaft.,
H as in Heelpost (n.) The post to which a gate or door is hinged.,
H as in Heelpost (n.) The quoin post of a lock gate.,
H as in Heelspur (n.) A slender bony or cartilaginous process developed from the heel bone of bats. It helps to support the wing membranes. See Illust. of Cheiropter.,
H as in Heeltap (n.) One of the segments of leather in the heel of a shoe.,
H as in Heeltap (n.) A small portion of liquor left in a glass after drinking.,
H as in Heeltapped (imp. & p. p.) of Heeltap,
H as in Heeltapping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Heeltap,
H as in Heeltap (v. t.) To add a piece of leather to the heel of (a shoe, boot, etc.),
H as in Heeltool (n.) A tool used by turners in metal, having a bend forming a heel near the cutting end.,
H as in Heep (n.) The hip of the dog-rose.,
H as in Heer (n.) A yarn measure of six hundred yards or / of a spindle. See Spindle.,
H as in Heer (n.) Hair.,
H as in Heft (n.) Same as Haft, n.,
H as in Heft (n.) The act or effort of heaving/ violent strain or exertion.,
H as in Heft (n.) Weight; ponderousness.,
H as in Heft (n.) The greater part or bulk of anything; as, the heft of the crop was spoiled.,
H as in Hefted (imp. & p. p.) of Heft,
H as in Heft () of Heft,
H as in Hefting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Heft,
H as in Heft (v. t.) To heave up; to raise aloft.,
H as in Heft (v. t.) To prove or try the weight of by raising.,
H as in Hefty (a.) Moderately heavy.,
H as in Hegelian (a.) Pertaining to Hegelianism.,
H as in Hegelian (n.) A follower of Hegel.,
H as in Hegelianism (n.) Alt. of Hegelism,
H as in Hegelism (n.) The system of logic and philosophy set forth by Hegel, a German writer (1770-1831).,
H as in Hegemonic (a.) Alt. of Hegemonical,
H as in Hegemonical (a.) Leading; controlling; ruling; predominant.,
H as in Hegemony (n.) Leadership; preponderant influence or authority; -- usually applied to the relation of a government or state to its neighbors or confederates.,
H as in Hegge (n.) A hedge.,
H as in Hegira (n.) The flight of Mohammed from Mecca, September 13, A. D. 622 (subsequently established as the first year of the Moslem era); hence, any flight or exodus regarded as like that of Mohammed.,
H as in Heifer (n.) A young cow.,
H as in Heigh-ho (interj.) An exclamation of surprise, joy, dejection, uneasiness, weariness, etc.,
H as in Height (n.) The condition of being high; elevated position.,
H as in Height (n.) The distance to which anything rises above its foot, above that on which in stands, above the earth, or above the level of the sea; altitude; the measure upward from a surface, as the floor or the ground, of animal, especially of a man; stature.,
H as in Height (n.) Degree of latitude either north or south.,
H as in Height (n.) That which is elevated; an eminence; a hill or mountain; as, Alpine heights.,
H as in Height (n.) Elevation in excellence of any kind, as in power, learning, arts; also, an advanced degree of social rank; preeminence or distinction in society; prominence.,
H as in Height (n.) Progress toward eminence; grade; degree.,
H as in Height (n.) Utmost degree in extent; extreme limit of energy or condition; as, the height of a fever, of passion, of madness, of folly; the height of a tempest.,
H as in Heightened (imp. & p. p.) of Heighten,
H as in Heightening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Heighten,
H as in Heighten (v. t.) To make high; to raise higher; to elevate.,
H as in Heighten (v. t.) To carry forward; to advance; to increase; to augment; to aggravate; to intensify; to render more conspicuous; -- used of things, good or bad; as, to heighten beauty; to heighten a flavor or a tint.,
H as in Heightener (n.) One who, or that which, heightens.,
H as in Heinous (a.) Hateful; hatefully bad; flagrant; odious; atrocious; giving great great offense; -- applied to deeds or to character.,
H as in Heir (n.) One who inherits, or is entitled to succeed to the possession of, any property after the death of its owner; one on whom the law bestows the title or property of another at the death of the latter.,
H as in Heir (n.) One who receives any endowment from an ancestor or relation; as, the heir of one's reputation or virtues.,
H as in Heir (v. t.) To inherit; to succeed to.,
H as in Heirdom (n.) The state of an heir; succession by inheritance.,
H as in Heiress (n.) A female heir.,
H as in Heirless (a.) Destitute of an heir.,
H as in Heirloom (n.) Any furniture, movable, or personal chattel, which by law or special custom descends to the heir along with the inheritance; any piece of personal property that has been in a family for several generations.,
H as in Heirship (n.) The state, character, or privileges of an heir; right of inheriting.,
H as in Hejira (n.) See Hegira.,
H as in Hektare (n.) Alt. of Hektometer,
H as in Hektogram (n.) Alt. of Hektometer,
H as in Hektoliter (n.) Alt. of Hektometer,
H as in Hektometer (n.) Same as Hectare, Hectogram, Hectoliter, and Hectometer.,
H as in Hektograph (n.) See Hectograph.,
H as in Helamys (n.) See Jumping hare, under Hare.,
H as in Helcoplasty (n.) The act or process of repairing lesions made by ulcers, especially by a plastic operation.,
H as in Held () imp. & p. p. of Hold.,
H as in Hele (n.) Health; welfare.,
H as in Hele (v. t.) To hide; to cover; to roof.,
H as in Helena (n.) See St. Elmo's fire, under Saint.,
H as in Helenin (n.) A neutral organic substance found in the root of the elecampane (Inula helenium), and extracted as a white crystalline or oily material, with a slightly bitter taste.,
H as in Heliac (a.) Heliacal.,
H as in Heliacal (a.) Emerging from the light of the sun, or passing into it; rising or setting at the same, or nearly the same, time as the sun.,
H as in Heliacally (adv.) In a heliacal manner.,
H as in Helianthin (n.) An artificial, orange dyestuff, analogous to tropaolin, and like it used as an indicator in alkalimetry; -- called also methyl orange.,
H as in Helianthoid (a.) Of or pertaining to the Helianthoidea.,
H as in Helianthoidea (n. pl.) An order of Anthozoa; the Actinaria.,
H as in Helical (a.) Of or pertaining to, or in the form of, a helix; spiral; as, a helical staircase; a helical spring.,
H as in Helichrysum (n.) A genus of composite plants, with shining, commonly white or yellow, or sometimes reddish, radiated involucres, which are often called "everlasting flowers.",
H as in Heliciform (a.) Having the form of a helix; spiral.,
H as in Helicin (n.) A glucoside obtained as a white crystalline substance by partial oxidation of salicin, from a willow (Salix Helix of Linnaeus.),
H as in Helicine (a.) Curled; spiral; helicoid; -- applied esp. to certain arteries of the penis.,
H as in Helicograph (n.) An instrument for drawing spiral lines on a plane.,
H as in Helicoid (a.) Spiral; curved, like the spire of a univalve shell.,
H as in Helicoid (a.) Shaped like a snail shell; pertaining to the Helicidae, or Snail family.,
H as in Helicoid (n.) A warped surface which may be generated by a straight line moving in such a manner that every point of the line shall have a uniform motion in the direction of another fixed straight line, and at the same time a uniform angular motion about it.,
H as in Helicoidal (a.) Same as Helicoid.,
H as in Helicon (n.) A mountain in Boeotia, in Greece, supposed by the Greeks to be the residence of Apollo and the Muses.,
H as in Heliconia (n.) One of numerous species of Heliconius, a genus of tropical American butterflies. The wings are usually black, marked with green, crimson, and white.,
H as in Heliconian (a.) Of or pertaining to Helicon.,
H as in Heliconian (a.) Like or pertaining to the butterflies of the genus Heliconius.,
H as in Helicotrema (n.) The opening by which the two scalae communicate at the top of the cochlea of the ear.,
H as in Helio- () A combining form from Gr. "h`lios the sun.,
H as in Heliocentric (a.) Alt. of Heliocentrical,
H as in Heliocentrical (a.) pertaining to the sun's center, or appearing to be seen from it; having, or relating to, the sun as a center; -- opposed to geocentrical.,
H as in Heliochrome (n.) A photograph in colors.,
H as in Heliochromic (a.) Pertaining to, or produced by, heliochromy.,
H as in Heliochromy (n.) The art of producing photographs in color.,
H as in Heliograph (n.) A picture taken by heliography; a photograph.,
H as in Heliograph (n.) An instrument for taking photographs of the sun.,
H as in Heliograph (n.) An apparatus for telegraphing by means of the sun's rays. See Heliotrope, 3.,
H as in Heliographic (a.) Of or pertaining to heliography or a heliograph; made by heliography.,
H as in Heliography (n.) Photography.,
H as in Heliogravure (n.) The process of photographic engraving.,
H as in Heliolater (n.) A worshiper of the sun.,
H as in Heliolatry (n.) Sun worship. See Sabianism.,
H as in Heliolite (n.) A fossil coral of the genus Heliolites, having twelve-rayed cells. It is found in the Silurian rocks.,
H as in Heliometer (n.) An instrument devised originally for measuring the diameter of the sun; now employed for delicate measurements of the distance and relative direction of two stars too far apart to be easily measured in the field of view of an ordinary telescope.,
H as in Heliometric (a.) Alt. of Heliometrical,
H as in Heliometrical (a.) Of or pertaining to the heliometer, or to heliometry.,
H as in Heliometry (n.) The apart or practice of measuring the diameters of heavenly bodies, their relative distances, etc. See Heliometer.,
H as in Heliopora (n.) An East Indian stony coral now known to belong to the Alcyonaria; -- called also blue coral.,
H as in Helioscope (n.) A telescope or instrument for viewing the sun without injury to the eyes, as through colored glasses, or with mirrors which reflect but a small portion of light.,
H as in Heliostat (n.) An instrument consisting of a mirror moved by clockwork, by which a sunbeam is made apparently stationary, by being steadily directed to one spot during the whole of its diurnal period; also, a geodetic heliotrope.,
H as in Heliotrope (n.) An instrument or machine for showing when the sun arrived at the tropics and equinoctial line.,
H as in Heliotrope (n.) A plant of the genus Heliotropium; -- called also turnsole and girasole. H. Peruvianum is the commonly cultivated species with fragrant flowers.,
H as in Heliotrope (n.) An instrument for making signals to an observer at a distance, by means of the sun's rays thrown from a mirror.,
H as in Heliotrope (n.) See Bloodstone (a).,
H as in Heliotroper (n.) The person at a geodetic station who has charge of the heliotrope.,
H as in Heliotropic (a.) Manifesting heliotropism; turning toward the sun.,
H as in Heliotropism (n.) The phenomenon of turning toward the light, seen in many leaves and flowers.,
H as in Heliotype (n.) A picture obtained by the process of heliotypy.,
H as in Heliotypic (a.) Relating to, or obtained by, heliotypy.,
H as in Heliotypy (n.) A method of transferring pictures from photographic negatives to hardened gelatin plates from which impressions are produced on paper as by lithography.,
H as in Heliozoa (n. pl.) An order of fresh-water rhizopods having a more or less globular form, with slender radiating pseudopodia; the sun animalcule.,
H as in Helispheric (a.) Alt. of Helispherical,
H as in Helispherical (a.) Spiral.,
H as in Helium (n.) A gaseous element found in the atmospheres of the sun and earth and in some rare minerals.,
H as in Helices (pl. ) of Helix,
H as in Helixes (pl. ) of Helix,
H as in Helix (n.) A nonplane curve whose tangents are all equally inclined to a given plane. The common helix is the curve formed by the thread of the ordinary screw. It is distinguished from the spiral, all the convolutions of which are in the plane.,
H as in Helix (n.) A caulicule or little volute under the abacus of the Corinthian capital.,
H as in Helix (n.) The incurved margin or rim of the external ear. See Illust. of Ear.,
H as in Helix (n.) A genus of land snails, including a large number of species.,
H as in Hell (v. t.) The place of the dead, or of souls after death; the grave; -- called in Hebrew sheol, and by the Greeks hades.,
H as in Hell (v. t.) The place or state of punishment for the wicked after death; the abode of evil spirits. Hence, any mental torment; anguish.,
H as in Hell (v. t.) A place where outcast persons or things are gathered,
H as in Hell (v. t.) A dungeon or prison; also, in certain running games, a place to which those who are caught are carried for detention.,
H as in Hell (v. t.) A gambling house.,
H as in Hell (v. t.) A place into which a tailor throws his shreds, or a printer his broken type.,
H as in Hell (v. t.) To overwhelm.,
H as in Hellanodic (n.) A judge or umpire in games or combats.,
H as in Hellbender (n.) A large North American aquatic salamander (Protonopsis horrida or Menopoma Alleghaniensis). It is very voracious and very tenacious of life. Also called alligator, and water dog.,
H as in Hellborn (a.) Born in or of hell.,
H as in Hellbred (a.) Produced in hell.,
H as in Hellbrewed (a.) Prepared in hell.,
H as in Hellbroth (n.) A composition for infernal purposes; a magical preparation.,
H as in Hell-cat (n.) A witch; a hag.,
H as in Hell-diver (n.) The dabchick.,
H as in Helldoomed (a.) Doomed to hell.,
H as in Hellebore (n.) A genus of perennial herbs (Helleborus) of the Crowfoot family, mostly having powerfully cathartic and even poisonous qualities. H. niger is the European black hellebore, or Christmas rose, blossoming in winter or earliest spring. H. officinalis was the officinal hellebore of the ancients.,
H as in Hellebore (n.) Any plant of several species of the poisonous liliaceous genus Veratrum, especially V. album and V. viride, both called white hellebore.,
H as in Helleborein (n.) A poisonous glucoside accompanying helleborin in several species of hellebore, and extracted as a white crystalline substance with a bittersweet taste. It has a strong action on the heart, resembling digitalin.,
H as in Helleborin (n.) A poisonous glucoside found in several species of hellebore, and extracted as a white crystalline substance with a sharp tingling taste. It possesses the essential virtues of the plant; -- called also elleborin.,
H as in Helleborism (n.) The practice or theory of using hellebore as a medicine.,
H as in Hellene (n.) A native of either ancient or modern Greece; a Greek.,
H as in Hellenian (a.) Of or pertaining to the Hellenes, or Greeks.,
H as in Hellenic (a.) Of or pertaining to the Hellenes, or inhabitants of Greece; Greek; Grecian.,
H as in Hellenic (n.) The dialect, formed with slight variations from the Attic, which prevailed among Greek writers after the time of Alexander.,
H as in Hellenism (n.) A phrase or form of speech in accordance with genius and construction or idioms of the Greek language; a Grecism.,
H as in Hellenism (n.) The type of character of the ancient Greeks, who aimed at culture, grace, and amenity, as the chief elements in human well-being and perfection.,
H as in Hellenist (n.) One who affiliates with Greeks, or imitates Greek manners; esp., a person of Jewish extraction who used the Greek language as his mother tongue, as did the Jews of Asia Minor, Greece, Syria, and Egypt; distinguished from the Hebraists, or native Jews (Acts vi. 1).,
H as in Hellenist (n.) One skilled in the Greek language and literature; as, the critical Hellenist.,
H as in Hellenistic (a.) Alt. of Hellenistical,
H as in Hellenistical (a.) Pertaining to the Hellenists.,
H as in Hellenistically (adv.) According to the Hellenistic manner or dialect.,
H as in Hellenize (v. i.) To use the Greek language; to play the Greek; to Grecize.,
H as in Hellenize (v. t.) To give a Greek form or character to; to Grecize; as, to Hellenize a word.,
H as in Hellenotype (n.) See Ivorytype.,
H as in Hellespont (n.) A narrow strait between Europe and Asia, now called the Daradanelles. It connects the Aegean Sea and the sea of Marmora.,
H as in Hellespontine (a.) Of or pertaining to the Hellespont.,
H as in Hellgamite (n.) Alt. of Hellgramite,
H as in Hellgramite (n.) The aquatic larva of a large American winged insect (Corydalus cornutus), much used a fish bait by anglers; the dobson. It belongs to the Neuroptera.,
H as in Hellhag (n.) A hag of or fit for hell.,
H as in Hell-haunted (a.) Haunted by devils; hellish.,
H as in Hellhound (n.) A dog of hell; an agent of hell.,
H as in Hellier (v. t.) One who heles or covers; hence, a tiler, slater, or thatcher.,
H as in Hellish (a.) Of or pertaining to hell; like hell; infernal; malignant; wicked; detestable; diabolical.,
H as in Hellkite (n.) A kite of infernal breed.,
H as in Hello (interj. & n.) See Halloo.,
H as in Hellward (adv.) Toward hell.,
H as in Helly (a.) Hellish.,
H as in Helm (n.) See Haulm, straw.,
H as in Helm (n.) The apparatus by which a ship is steered, comprising rudder, tiller, wheel, etc.; -- commonly used of the tiller or wheel alone.,
H as in Helm (n.) The place or office of direction or administration.,
H as in Helm (n.) One at the place of direction or control; a steersman; hence, a guide; a director.,
H as in Helm (n.) A helve.,
H as in Helmed (imp. & p. p.) of Helm,
H as in Helming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Helm,
H as in Helm (v. t.) To steer; to guide; to direct.,
H as in Helm (n.) A helmet.,
H as in Helm (n.) A heavy cloud lying on the brow of a mountain.,
H as in Helm (v. t.) To cover or furnish with a helm or helmet.,
H as in Helmage (n.) Guidance; direction.,
H as in Helmed (a.) Covered with a helmet.,
H as in Helmet (n.) A defensive covering for the head. See Casque, Headpiece, Morion, Sallet, and Illust. of Beaver.,
H as in Helmet (n.) The representation of a helmet over shields or coats of arms, denoting gradations of rank by modifications of form.,
H as in Helmet (n.) A helmet-shaped hat, made of cork, felt, metal, or other suitable material, worn as part of the uniform of soldiers, firemen, etc., also worn in hot countries as a protection from the heat of the sun.,
H as in Helmet (n.) That which resembles a helmet in form, position, etc.,
H as in Helmet (n.) The upper part of a retort.,
H as in Helmet (n.) The hood-formed upper sepal or petal of some flowers, as of the monkshood or the snapdragon.,
H as in Helmet (n.) A naked shield or protuberance on the top or fore part of the head of a bird.,
H as in Helmeted (a.) Wearing a helmet; furnished with or having a helmet or helmet-shaped part; galeate.,
H as in Helmet-shaped (a.) Shaped like a helmet; galeate. See Illust. of Galeate.,
H as in Helminth (n.) An intestinal worm, or wormlike intestinal parasite; one of the Helminthes.,
H as in Helminthagogue (n.) A vermifuge.,
H as in Helminthes (n. pl.) One of the grand divisions or branches of the animal kingdom. It is a large group including a vast number of species, most of which are parasitic. Called also Enthelminthes, Enthelmintha.,
H as in Helminthiasis (n.) A disease in which worms are present in some part of the body.,
H as in Helminthic (a.) Of or relating to worms, or Helminthes; expelling worms.,
H as in Helminthic (n.) A vermifuge; an anthelmintic.,
H as in Helminthite (n.) One of the sinuous tracks on the surfaces of many stones, and popularly considered as worm trails.,
H as in Helminthoid (a.) Wormlike; vermiform.,
H as in Helminthologic (a.) Alt. of Helminthological,
H as in Helminthological (a.) Of or pertaining to helminthology.,
H as in Helminthologist (n.) One versed in helminthology.,
H as in Helminthology (n.) The natural history, or study, of worms, esp. parasitic worms.,
H as in Helmless (a.) Destitute of a helmet.,
H as in Helmless (a.) Without a helm or rudder.,
H as in Helmsmen (pl. ) of Helmsman,
H as in Helmsman (n.) The man at the helm; a steersman.,
H as in Helmwind (n.) A wind attending or presaged by the cloud called helm.,
H as in Helot (n.) A slave in ancient Sparta; a Spartan serf; hence, a slave or serf.,
H as in Helotism (n.) The condition of the Helots or slaves in Sparta; slavery.,
H as in Helotry (n.) The Helots, collectively; slaves; bondsmen.,
H as in Helped (imp. & p. p.) of Help,
H as in Holp (imp.) of Help,
H as in Holpen (p. p.) of Help,
H as in Helping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Help,
H as in Help (v. t.) To furnish with strength or means for the successful performance of any action or the attainment of any object; to aid; to assist; as, to help a man in his work; to help one to remember; -- the following infinitive is commonly used without to; as, "Help me scale yon balcony.",
H as in Help (v. t.) To furnish with the means of deliverance from trouble; as, to help one in distress; to help one out of prison.,
H as in Help (v. t.) To furnish with relief, as in pain or disease; to be of avail against; -- sometimes with of before a word designating the pain or disease, and sometimes having such a word for the direct object.,
H as in Help (v. t.) To change for the better; to remedy.,
H as in Help (v. t.) To prevent; to hinder; as, the evil approaches, and who can help it?,
H as in Help (v. t.) To forbear; to avoid.,
H as in Help (v. t.) To wait upon, as the guests at table, by carving and passing food.,
H as in Help (v. i.) To lend aid or assistance; to contribute strength or means; to avail or be of use; to assist.,
H as in Help (v. t.) Strength or means furnished toward promoting an object, or deliverance from difficulty or distress; aid; ^; also, the person or thing furnishing the aid; as, he gave me a help of fifty dollars.,
H as in Help (v. t.) Remedy; relief; as, there is no help for it.,
H as in Help (v. t.) A helper; one hired to help another; also, thew hole force of hired helpers in any business.,
H as in Help (v. t.) Specifically, a domestic servant, man or woman.,
H as in Helper (n.) One who, or that which, helps, aids, assists, or relieves; as, a lay helper in a parish.,
H as in Helpful (a.) Furnishing help; giving aid; assistant; useful; salutary.,
H as in Helpless (a.) Destitute of help or strength; unable to help or defend one's self; needing help; feeble; weak; as, a helpless infant.,
H as in Helpless (a.) Beyond help; irremediable.,
H as in Helpless (a.) Bringing no help; unaiding.,
H as in Helpless (a.) Unsupplied; destitute; -- with of.,
H as in Helpmate (n.) A helper; a companion; specifically, a wife.,
H as in Helpmeet (n.) A wife; a helpmate.,
H as in Helter-skelter (adv.) In hurry and confusion; without definite purpose; irregularly.,
H as in Helve (n.) The handle of an ax, hatchet, or adze.,
H as in Helve (n.) The lever at the end of which is the hammer head, in a forge hammer.,
H as in Helve (n.) A forge hammer which is lifted by a cam acting on the helve between the fulcrum and the head.,
H as in Helved (imp. & p. p.) of Helve,
H as in Helving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Helve,
H as in Helve (v. t.) To furnish with a helve, as an ax.,
H as in Helvetian (a.) Same as Helvetic.,
H as in Helvetian (n.) A Swiss; a Switzer.,
H as in Helvetic (a.) Of or pertaining to the Helvetii, the ancient inhabitant of the Alps, now Switzerland, or to the modern states and inhabitant of the Alpine regions; as, the Helvetic confederacy; Helvetic states.,
H as in Helvine (n.) Alt. of Helvite,
H as in Helvite (n.) A mineral of a yellowish color, consisting chiefly of silica, glucina, manganese, and iron, with a little sulphur.,
H as in Hem (pron.) Them,
H as in Hem (interj.) An onomatopoetic word used as an expression of hesitation, doubt, etc. It is often a sort of voluntary half cough, loud or subdued, and would perhaps be better expressed by hm.,
H as in Hem (n.) An utterance or sound of the voice, hem or hm, often indicative of hesitation or doubt, sometimes used to call attention.,
H as in Hem (v. i.) To make the sound expressed by the word hem; hence, to hesitate in speaking.,
H as in Hem (n.) The edge or border of a garment or cloth, doubled over and sewed, to strengthen raveling.,
H as in Hem (n.) Border; edge; margin.,
H as in Hem (n.) A border made on sheet-metal ware by doubling over the edge of the sheet, to stiffen it and remove the sharp edge.,
H as in Hemmed (imp. & p. p.) of Hem,
H as in Hemming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hem,
H as in Hem (v. t.) To form a hem or border to; to fold and sew down the edge of.,
H as in Hem (v. t.) To border; to edge,
H as in Hema- () Same as Haema-.,
H as in Hemachate (n.) A species of agate, sprinkled with spots of red jasper.,
H as in Hemachrome (n.) Same as Haemachrome.,
H as in Hemacite (n.) A composition made from blood, mixed with mineral or vegetable substances, used for making buttons, door knobs, etc.,
H as in Hemadrometer (n.) Alt. of Hemadromometer,
H as in Hemadromometer (n.) An instrument for measuring the velocity with which the blood moves in the arteries.,
H as in Hemadrometry (n.) Alt. of Hemadromometry,
H as in Hemadromometry (n.) The act of measuring the velocity with which the blood circulates in the arteries; haemotachometry.,
H as in Hemadynamics (n.) The principles of dynamics in their application to the blood; that part of science which treats of the motion of the blood.,
H as in Hemadynamometer (n.) An instrument by which the pressure of the blood in the arteries, or veins, is measured by the height to which it will raise a column of mercury; -- called also a haemomanometer.,
H as in Hemal (a.) Relating to the blood or blood vessels; pertaining to, situated in the region of, or on the side with, the heart and great blood vessels; -- opposed to neural.,
H as in Hemaphaein (n.) Same as Haemaphaein.,
H as in Hemapophyses (pl. ) of Hemapophysis,
H as in Hemapophysis (n.) The second element in each half of a hemal arch, corresponding to the sternal part of a rib.,
H as in Hemastatic (a. & n.) Alt. of Hemastatical,
H as in Hemastatical (a. & n.) Same as Hemostatic.,
H as in Hemastatics (n.) Laws relating to the equilibrium of the blood in the blood vessels.,
H as in Hematachometer (n.) Same as Haematachometer.,
H as in Hematein (n.) A reddish brown or violet crystalline substance, C16H12O6, got from hematoxylin by partial oxidation, and regarded as analogous to the phthaleins.,
H as in Hematemesis (n.) A vomiting of blood.,
H as in Hematherm (n.) A warm-blooded animal.,
H as in Hemathermal (a.) Warm-blooded; hematothermal.,
H as in Hematic (a.) Same as Haematic.,
H as in Hematic (n.) A medicine designed to improve the condition of the blood.,
H as in Hematin (n.) Hematoxylin.,
H as in Hematin (n.) A bluish black, amorphous substance containing iron and obtained from blood. It exists the red blood corpuscles united with globulin, and the form of hemoglobin or oxyhemoglobin gives to the blood its red color.,
H as in Hematinometer (n.) A form of hemoglobinometer.,
H as in Hematinometric (a.) Relating to the measurement of the amount of hematin or hemoglobin contained in blood, or other fluids.,
H as in Hematinon (n.) A red consisting of silica, borax, and soda, fused with oxide of copper and iron, and used in enamels, mosaics, etc.,
H as in Hematite (n.) An important ore of iron, the sesquioxide, so called because of the red color of the powder. It occurs in splendent rhombohedral crystals, and in massive and earthy forms; -- the last called red ocher. Called also specular iron, oligist iron, rhombohedral iron ore, and bloodstone. See Brown hematite, under Brown.,
H as in Hematitic (a.) Of or pertaining to hematite, or resembling it.,
H as in Hemato () See Haema-.,
H as in Hematocele (n.) A tumor filled with blood.,
H as in Hematocrya (n. pl.) The cold-blooded vertebrates, that is, all but the mammals and birds; -- the antithesis to Hematotherma.,
H as in Hematocrystallin (n.) See Hemoglobin.,
H as in Hematoid (a.) Resembling blood.,
H as in Hematoidin (n.) A crystalline or amorphous pigment, free from iron, formed from hematin in old blood stains, and in old hemorrhages in the body. It resembles bilirubin. When present in the corpora lutea it is called haemolutein.,
H as in Hematology (n.) The science which treats of the blood.,
H as in Hematoma (n.) A circumscribed swelling produced by an effusion of blood beneath the skin.,
H as in Hematophilia (n.) A condition characterized by a tendency to profuse and uncontrollable hemorrhage from the slightest wounds.,
H as in Hematosin (n.) The hematin of blood.,
H as in Hematosis (n.) Sanguification; the conversion of chyle into blood.,
H as in Hematosis (n.) The arterialization of the blood in the lungs; the formation of blood in general; haematogenesis.,
H as in Hematotherma (n. pl.) The warm-blooded vertebrates, comprising the mammals and birds; -- the antithesis to hematocrya.,
H as in Hematothermal (a.) Warm-blooded.,
H as in Hematoxylin (n.) Haematoxylin.,
H as in Hematuria (n.) Passage of urine mingled with blood.,
H as in Hemautography (n.) The obtaining of a curve similar to a pulse curve or sphygmogram by allowing the blood from a divided artery to strike against a piece of paper.,
H as in Hemelytra (pl. ) of Hemelytrum,
H as in Hemelytron (n.) Alt. of Hemelytrum,
H as in Hemelytrum (n.) One of the partially thickened anterior wings of certain insects, as of many Hemiptera, the earwigs, etc.,
H as in Hemeralopia (n.) A disease of the eyes, in consequence of which a person can see clearly or without pain only by daylight or a strong artificial light; day sight.,
H as in Hemerobian (n.) A neuropterous insect of the genus Hemerobius, and allied genera.,
H as in Hemerobid (a.) Of relating to the hemerobians.,
H as in Hemerocallis (n.) A genus of plants, some species of which are cultivated for their beautiful flowers; day lily.,
H as in Hemi- () A prefix signifying half.,
H as in Hemialbumin (n.) Same as Hemialbumose.,
H as in Hemialbumose (n.) An albuminous substance formed in gastric digestion, and by the action of boiling dilute acids on albumin. It is readily convertible into hemipeptone. Called also hemialbumin.,
H as in Hemianaesthesia (n.) Anaesthesia upon one side of the body.,
H as in Hemibranchi (n. pl.) An order of fishes having an incomplete or reduced branchial apparatus. It includes the sticklebacks, the flutemouths, and Fistularia.,
H as in Hemicardia (n.) A lateral half of the heart, either the right or left.,
H as in Hemicarp (n.) One portion of a fruit that spontaneously divides into halves.,
H as in Hemicerebrum (n.) A lateral half of the cerebrum.,
H as in Hemicollin (n.) See Semiglutin.,
H as in Hemicrania (n.) A pain that affects only one side of the head.,
H as in Hemicrany (n.) Hemicranis.,
H as in Hemicycle (n.) A half circle; a semicircle.,
H as in Hemicycle (n.) A semicircular place, as a semicircular arena, or room, or part of a room.,
H as in Hemidactyl (n.) Any species of Old World geckoes of the genus Hemidactylus. The hemidactyls have dilated toes, with two rows of plates beneath.,
H as in Hemi-demi-semiquaver (n.) A short note, equal to one fourth of a semiquaver, or the sixty-fourth part of a whole note.,
H as in Hemiditone (n.) The lesser third.,
H as in Hemigamous (a.) Having one of the two florets in the same spikelet neuter, and the other unisexual, whether male or female; -- said of grasses.,
H as in Hemiglyph (n.) The half channel or groove in the edge of the triglyph in the Doric order.,
H as in Hemihedral (a.) Having half of the similar parts of a crystals, instead of all; consisting of half the planes which full symmetry would require, as when a cube has planes only on half of its eight solid angles, or one plane out of a pair on each of its edges; or as in the case of a tetrahedron, which is hemihedral to an octahedron, it being contained under four of the planes of an octahedron.,
H as in Hemihedrism (n.) The property of crystallizing hemihedrally.,
H as in Hemihedron (n.) A solid hemihedrally derived. The tetrahedron is a hemihedron.,
H as in Hemiholohedral (a.) Presenting hemihedral forms, in which half the sectants have the full number of planes.,
H as in Hemimellitic (a.) Having half as many (three) carboxyl radicals as mellitic acid; -- said of an organic acid.,
H as in Hemimetabola (n. pl.) Those insects which have an incomplete metamorphosis.,
H as in Hemimetabolic (a.) Having an incomplete metamorphosis, the larvae differing from the adults chiefly in laking wings, as in the grasshoppers and cockroaches.,
H as in Hemimorphic (a.) Having the two ends modified with unlike planes; -- said of a crystal.,
H as in Hemin (n.) A substance, in the form of reddish brown, microscopic, prismatic crystals, formed from dried blood by the action of strong acetic acid and common salt; -- called also Teichmann's crystals. Chemically, it is a hydrochloride of hematin.,
H as in Heminae (pl. ) of Hemina,
H as in Hemina (n.) A measure of half a sextary.,
H as in Hemina (n.) A measure equal to about ten fluid ounces.,
H as in Hemionus (n.) A wild ass found in Thibet; the kiang.,
H as in Hemiopia (n.) Alt. of Hemiopsia,
H as in Hemiopsia (n.) A defect of vision in consequence of which a person sees but half of an object looked at.,
H as in Hemiorthotype (a.) Same as Monoclinic.,
H as in Hemipeptone (n.) A product of the gastric and pancreatic digestion of albuminous matter.,
H as in Hemiplegia (n.) A palsy that affects one side only of the body.,
H as in Hemiplegy (n.) Hemiplegia.,
H as in Hemipode (n.) Any bird of the genus Turnix. Various species inhabit Asia, Africa, and Australia.,
H as in Hemiprotein (n.) An insoluble, proteid substance, described by Schutzenberger, formed when albumin is heated for some time with dilute sulphuric acid. It is apparently identical with antialbumid and dyspeptone.,
H as in Hemipter (n.) One of the Hemiptera.,
H as in Hemiptera (n. pl.) An order of hexapod insects having a jointed proboscis, including four sharp stylets (mandibles and maxillae), for piercing. In many of the species (Heteroptera) the front wings are partially coriaceous, and different from the others.,
H as in Hemipteral (a.) Alt. of Hemipterous,
H as in Hemipterous (a.) Of or pertaining to the Hemiptera.,
H as in Hemipteran (n.) One of the Hemiptera; an hemipter.,
H as in Hemisected (imp. & p. p.) of Hemisect,
H as in Hemisecting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hemisect,
H as in Hemisect (v. t.) To divide along the mesial plane.,
H as in Hemisection (n.) A division along the mesial plane; also, one of the parts so divided.,
H as in Hemisphere (n.) A half sphere; one half of a sphere or globe, when divided by a plane passing through its center.,
H as in Hemisphere (n.) Half of the terrestrial globe, or a projection of the same in a map or picture.,
H as in Hemisphere (n.) The people who inhabit a hemisphere.,
H as in Hemispheric (a.) Alt. of Hemispherical,
H as in Hemispherical (a.) Containing, or pertaining to, a hemisphere; as, a hemispheric figure or form; a hemispherical body.,
H as in Hemispheroid (n.) A half of a spheroid.,
H as in Hemispheroidal (a.) Resembling, or approximating to, a hemisphere in form.,
H as in Hemispherule (n.) A half spherule.,
H as in Hemistich (n.) Half a poetic verse or line, or a verse or line not completed.,
H as in Hemistichal (a.) Pertaining to, or written in, hemistichs; also, by, or according to, hemistichs; as, a hemistichal division of a verse.,
H as in Hemisystole (n.) Contraction of only one ventricle of the heart.,
H as in Hemitone (n.) See Semitone.,
H as in Hemitropal (a.) Alt. of Hemitropous,
H as in Hemitropous (a.) Turned half round; half inverted.,
H as in Hemitropous (a.) Having the raphe terminating about half way between the chalaza and the orifice; amphitropous; -- said of an ovule.,
H as in Hemitrope (a.) Half turned round; half inverted; (Crystallog.) having a twinned structure.,
H as in Hemitrope (n.) That which is hemitropal in construction; (Crystallog.) a twin crystal having a hemitropal structure.,
H as in Hemitropy (n.) Twin composition in crystals.,
H as in Hemlock (n.) The name of several poisonous umbelliferous herbs having finely cut leaves and small white flowers, as the Cicuta maculata, bulbifera, and virosa, and the Conium maculatum. See Conium.,
H as in Hemlock (n.) An evergreen tree common in North America (Abies, / Tsuga, Canadensis); hemlock spruce.,
H as in Hemlock (n.) The wood or timber of the hemlock tree.,
H as in Hemmel (n.) A shed or hovel for cattle.,
H as in Hemmer (n.) One who, or that which, hems with a needle.,
H as in Hemmer (n.) An attachment to a sewing machine, for turning under the edge of a piece of fabric, preparatory to stitching it down.,
H as in Hemmer (n.) A tool for turning over the edge of sheet metal to make a hem.,
H as in Hemo- () Same as Haema-, Haemo-.,
H as in Hemoglobin (n.) The normal coloring matter of the red blood corpuscles of vertebrate animals. It is composed of hematin and globulin, and is also called haematoglobulin. In arterial blood, it is always combined with oxygen, and is then called oxyhemoglobin. It crystallizes under different forms from different animals, and when crystallized, is called haematocrystallin. See Blood crystal, under Blood.,
H as in Hemoglobinometer (n.) Same as Haemochromometer.,
H as in Hemophilia (n.) See Hematophilia.,
H as in Hemoptysis (n.) The expectoration of blood, due usually to hemorrhage from the mucous membrane of the lungs.,
H as in Hemorrhage (n.) Any discharge of blood from the blood vessels.,
H as in Hemorrhagic (a.) Pertaining or tending to a flux of blood; consisting in, or accompanied by, hemorrhage.,
H as in Hemorrhoidal (a.) Of or pertaining to, or of the nature of, hemorrhoids.,
H as in Hemorrhoidal (a.) Of or pertaining to the rectum; rectal; as, the hemorrhoidal arteries, veins, and nerves.,
H as in Hemorrhoids (n. pl.) Livid and painful swellings formed by the dilation of the blood vessels around the margin of, or within, the anus, from which blood or mucus is occasionally discharged; piles; emerods.,
H as in Hemostatic (a.) Of or relating to stagnation of the blood.,
H as in Hemostatic (a.) Serving to arrest hemorrhage; styptic.,
H as in Hemostatic (n.) A medicine or application to arrest hemorrhage.,
H as in Hemoothorax (n.) An effusion of blood into the cavity of the pleura.,
H as in Hemp (n.) A plant of the genus Cannabis (C. sativa), the fibrous skin or bark of which is used for making cloth and cordage. The name is also applied to various other plants yielding fiber.,
H as in Hemp (n.) The fiber of the skin or rind of the plant, prepared for spinning. The name has also been extended to various fibers resembling the true hemp.,
H as in Hempen (a.) Made of hemp; as, a hempen cord.,
H as in Hempen (a.) Like hemp.,
H as in Hempy (a.) Like hemp.,
H as in Hemself (pron.) Alt. of Hemselven,
H as in Hemselven (pron.) Themselves; -- used reflexively.,
H as in Hemstitched (imp. & p. p.) of Hemstitch,
H as in Hemstitching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hemstitch,
H as in Hemstitch (v. t.) To ornament at the head of a broad hem by drawing out a few parallel threads, and fastening the cross threads in successive small clusters; as, to hemstitch a handkerchief.,
H as in Hemstitched (a.) Having a broad hem separated from the body of the article by a line of open work; as, a hemistitched handkerchief.,
H as in Hemuse (n.) The roebuck in its third year.,
H as in Hen (n.) The female of the domestic fowl; also, the female of grouse, pheasants, or any kind of birds; as, the heath hen; the gray hen.,
H as in Henbane (n.) A plant of the genus Hyoscyamus (H. niger). All parts of the plant are poisonous, and the leaves are used for the same purposes as belladonna. It is poisonous to domestic fowls; whence the name. Called also, stinking nightshade, from the fetid odor of the plant. See Hyoscyamus.,
H as in Henbit (n.) A weed of the genus Lamium (L. amplexicaule) with deeply crenate leaves.,
H as in Hence (adv.) From this place; away.,
H as in Hence (adv.) From this time; in the future; as, a week hence.,
H as in Hence (adv.) From this reason; as an inference or deduction.,
H as in Hence (adv.) From this source or origin.,
H as in Hence (v. t.) To send away.,
H as in Henceforth (adv.) From this time forward; henceforward.,
H as in Henceforward (adv.) From this time forward; henceforth.,
H as in Henchboy (n.) A page; a servant.,
H as in -men (pl. ) of Henchman,
H as in Henchman (n.) An attendant; a servant; a follower. Now chiefly used as a political cant term.,
H as in Hencoop (n.) A coop or cage for hens.,
H as in Hende (a.) Skillful; dexterous; clever.,
H as in Hende (a.) Friendly; civil; gentle; kind.,
H as in Hendecagon (n.) A plane figure of eleven sides and eleven angles.,
H as in Hendecane (n.) A hydrocarbon, C11H24, of the paraffin series; -- so called because it has eleven atoms of carbon in each molecule. Called also endecane, undecane.,
H as in Hendecasyllabic (a.) Pertaining to a line of eleven syllables.,
H as in Hendecasyllable (n.) A metrical line of eleven syllables.,
H as in Hendecatoic (a.) Undecylic; pertaining to, or derived from, hendecane; as, hendecatoic acid.,
H as in Hendiadys (n.) A figure in which the idea is expressed by two nouns connected by and, instead of by a noun and limiting adjective; as, we drink from cups and gold, for golden cups.,
H as in Hendy (a.) See Hende.,
H as in Henen (adv.) Hence.,
H as in Henfish (n.) A marine fish; the sea bream.,
H as in Henfish (n.) A young bib. See Bib, n., 2.,
H as in Heng (imp.) Hung.,
H as in Hen-hearted (a.) Cowardly; timid; chicken-hearted.,
H as in Henhouses (pl. ) of Henhouse,
H as in Henhouse (n.) A house or shelter for fowls.,
H as in Henhussy (n.) A cotquean; a man who intermeddles with women's concerns.,
H as in Heniquen (n.) See Jeniquen.,
H as in Henna (n.) A thorny tree or shrub of the genus Lawsonia (L. alba). The fragrant white blossoms are used by the Buddhists in religious ceremonies. The powdered leaves furnish a red coloring matter used in the East to stain the hails and fingers, the manes of horses, etc.,
H as in Henna (n.) The leaves of the henna plant, or a preparation or dyestuff made from them.,
H as in Hennery (n.) An inclosed place for keeping hens.,
H as in Hennes (adv.) Hence.,
H as in Hennotannic (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, a brown resinous substance resembling tannin, and extracted from the henna plant; as, hennotannic acid.,
H as in Henoge ny (n.) Alt. of Henogenesis,
H as in Henogenesis (n.) Same as Ontogeny.,
H as in Henotheism (n.) Primitive religion in which each of several divinities is regarded as independent, and is worshiped without reference to the rest.,
H as in Henotic (a.) Harmonizing; irenic.,
H as in Henpecked (imp. & p. p.) of Henpeck,
H as in Henpecking (p. pr. & vb.) of Henpeck,
H as in Henpeck (v. t.) To subject to petty authority; -- said of a wife who thus treats her husband. Commonly used in the past participle (often adjectively).,
H as in Henroost (n.) A place where hens roost.,
H as in Henrys (pl. ) of Henry,
H as in Henry (n.) The unit of electric induction; the induction in a circuit when the electro-motive force induced in this circuit is one volt, while the inducing current varies at the rate of one ampere a second.,
H as in Hen's-foot (n.) An umbelliferous plant (Caucalis daucoides).,
H as in Hente (imp.) of Hent,
H as in Hent (p. p.) of Hent,
H as in Hent (v. t.) To seize; to lay hold on; to catch; to get.,
H as in Henware (n.) A coarse, blackish seaweed. See Badderlocks.,
H as in Henxman (n.) Henchman.,
H as in Hep (n.) See Hip, the fruit of the dog-rose.,
H as in Hepar (n.) Liver of sulphur; a substance of a liver-brown color, sometimes used in medicine. It is formed by fusing sulphur with carbonates of the alkalies (esp. potassium), and consists essentially of alkaline sulphides. Called also hepar sulphuris (/).,
H as in Hepar (n.) Any substance resembling hepar proper, in appearance; specifically, in homeopathy, calcium sulphide, called also hepar sulphuris calcareum (/).,
H as in Hepatic (a.) Of or pertaining to the liver; as, hepatic artery; hepatic diseases.,
H as in Hepatic (a.) Resembling the liver in color or in form; as, hepatic cinnabar.,
H as in Hepatic (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, the plants called Hepaticae, or scale mosses and liverworts.,
H as in Hepaticae (pl. ) of Hepatica,
H as in Hepatica (n.) A genus of pretty spring flowers closely related to Anemone; squirrel cup.,
H as in Hepatica (n.) Any plant, usually procumbent and mosslike, of the cryptogamous class Hepaticae; -- called also scale moss and liverwort. See Hepaticae, in the Supplement.,
H as in Hepatical (a.) Hepatic.,
H as in Hepatite (n.) A variety of barite emitting a fetid odor when rubbed or heated.,
H as in Hepatitis (n.) Inflammation of the liver.,
H as in Hepatization (n.) Impregnating with sulphureted hydrogen gas.,
H as in Hepatization (n.) Conversion into a substance resembling the liver; a state of the lungs when gorged with effused matter, so that they are no longer pervious to the air.,
H as in Hepatized (imp. & p. p.) of Hepatize,
H as in Hepatizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hepatize,
H as in Hepatize (v. t.) To impregnate with sulphureted hydrogen gas, formerly called hepatic gas.,
H as in Hepatize (v. t.) To gorge with effused matter, as the lungs.,
H as in Hepatocele (n.) Hernia of the liver.,
H as in Hepatocystic (a.) Of or pertaining to the liver and gall bladder; as, the hepatocystic ducts.,
H as in Hepatogastric (a.) See Gastrohepatic.,
H as in Hepatogenic (a.) Alt. of Hepatogenous,
H as in Hepatogenous (a.) Arising from the liver; due to a condition of the liver; as, hepatogenic jaundice.,
H as in Hepatology (n.) The science which treats of the liver; a treatise on the liver.,
H as in Hepato-pancreas (n.) A digestive gland in Crustacea, Mollusca, etc., usually called the liver, but different from the liver of vertebrates.,
H as in Hepatorenal (a.) Of or pertaining to the liver and kidneys; as, the hepatorenal ligament.,
H as in Hepatoscopy (n.) Divination by inspecting the liver of animals.,
H as in Heppen (a.) Neat; fit; comfortable.,
H as in Hepper (n.) A young salmon; a parr.,
H as in Hepta () A combining form from Gr. "epta`, seven.,
H as in Heptachord (n.) A system of seven sounds.,
H as in Heptachord (n.) A lyre with seven chords.,
H as in Heptachord (n.) A composition sung to the sound of seven chords or tones.,
H as in Heptad (n.) An atom which has a valence of seven, and which can be theoretically combined with, substituted for, or replaced by, seven monad atoms or radicals; as, iodine is a heptad in iodic acid. Also used as an adjective.,
H as in Heptade (n.) The sum or number of seven.,
H as in Heptaglot (n.) A book in seven languages.,
H as in Heptagon (n.) A plane figure consisting of seven sides and having seven angles.,
H as in Heptagonal (a.) Having seven angles or sides.,
H as in Heptagynia (n. pl.) A Linnaean order of plants having seven pistils.,
H as in Heptagynian (a.) Alt. of Heptagynous,
H as in Heptagynous (a.) Having seven pistils.,
H as in Heptahedron (n.) A solid figure with seven sides.,
H as in Heptamerous (a.) Consisting of seven parts, or having the parts in sets of sevens.,
H as in Heptandria (n. pl.) A Linnaean class of plants having seven stamens.,
H as in Heptandrian (a.) Alt. of Heptandrous,
H as in Heptandrous (a.) Having seven stamens.,
H as in Heptane (n.) Any one of several isometric hydrocarbons, C7H16, of the paraffin series (nine are possible, four are known); -- so called because the molecule has seven carbon atoms. Specifically, a colorless liquid, found as a constituent of petroleum, in the tar oil of cannel coal, etc.,
H as in Heptangular (a.) Having seven angles.,
H as in Heptaphyllous (a.) Having seven leaves.,
H as in Heptarch (n.) Same as Heptarchist.,
H as in Heptarchic (a.) Of or pertaining to a heptarchy; constituting or consisting of a heptarchy.,
H as in Heptarchist (n.) A ruler of one division of a heptarchy.,
H as in Heptarchy (n.) A government by seven persons; also, a country under seven rulers.,
H as in Heptaspermous (a.) Having seven seeds.,
H as in Heptastich (n.) A composition consisting of seven lines or verses.,
H as in Heptateuch (n.) The first seven books of the Testament.,
H as in Heptavalent (a.) Having seven units of attractive force or affinity; -- said of heptad elements or radicals.,
H as in Heptene (n.) Same as Heptylene.,
H as in Heptine (n.) Any one of a series of unsaturated metameric hydrocarbons, C7H12, of the acetylene series.,
H as in Heptoic (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, heptane; as, heptoic acid.,
H as in Heptone (n.) A liquid hydrocarbon, C7H10, of the valylene series.,
H as in Hep tree () The wild dog-rose.,
H as in Heptyl (n.) A compound radical, C7H15, regarded as the essential radical of heptane and a related series of compounds.,
H as in Heptylene (n.) A colorless liquid hydrocarbon, C7H14, of the ethylene series; also, any one of its isomers. Called also heptene.,
H as in Heptylic (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, heptyl or heptane; as, heptylic alcohol. Cf. /nanthylic.,
H as in Her (pron. & a.) The form of the objective and the possessive case of the personal pronoun she; as, I saw her with her purse out.,
H as in Her (pron. pl.) Alt. of Here,
H as in Here (pron. pl.) Of them; their.,
H as in Heracleonite (n.) A follower of Heracleon of Alexandria, a Judaizing Gnostic, in the early history of the Christian church.,
H as in Herakline (n.) A picrate compound, used as an explosive in blasting.,
H as in Herald (n.) An officer whose business was to denounce or proclaim war, to challenge to battle, to proclaim peace, and to bear messages from the commander of an army. He was invested with a sacred and inviolable character.,
H as in Herald (n.) In the Middle Ages, the officer charged with the above duties, and also with the care of genealogies, of the rights and privileges of noble families, and especially of armorial bearings. In modern times, some vestiges of this office remain, especially in England. See Heralds' College (below), and King-at-Arms.,
H as in Herald (n.) A proclaimer; one who, or that which, publishes or announces; as, the herald of another's fame.,
H as in Herald (n.) A forerunner; a a precursor; a harbinger.,
H as in Herald (n.) Any messenger.,
H as in Heralded (imp. & p. p.) of Herald,
H as in Heralding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Herald,
H as in Herald (v. t.) To introduce, or give tidings of, as by a herald; to proclaim; to announce; to foretell; to usher in.,
H as in Heraldic (a.) Of or pertaining to heralds or heraldry; as, heraldic blazoning; heraldic language.,
H as in Heraldically (adv.) In an heraldic manner; according to the rules of heraldry.,
H as in Heraldry (n.) The art or office of a herald; the art, practice, or science of recording genealogies, and blazoning arms or ensigns armorial; also, of marshaling cavalcades, processions, and public ceremonies.,
H as in Heraldship (n.) The office of a herald.,
H as in Herapathite (n.) The sulphate of iodoquinine, a substance crystallizing in thin plates remarkable for their effects in polarizing light.,
H as in Heraud (n.) A herald.,
H as in Herb (n.) A plant whose stem does not become woody and permanent, but dies, at least down to the ground, after flowering.,
H as in Herb (n.) Grass; herbage.,
H as in Herbaceous (a.) Of or pertaining to herbs; having the nature, texture, or characteristics, of an herb; as, herbaceous plants; an herbaceous stem.,
H as in Herbage (n.) Herbs collectively; green food beasts; grass; pasture.,
H as in Herbage (n.) The liberty or right of pasture in the forest or in the grounds of another man.,
H as in Herbaged (a.) Covered with grass.,
H as in Herbal (a.) Of or pertaining to herbs.,
H as in Herbal (n.) A book containing the names and descriptions of plants.,
H as in Herbal (n.) A collection of specimens of plants, dried and preserved; a hortus siccus; an herbarium.,
H as in Herbalism (n.) The knowledge of herbs.,
H as in Herbalist (n.) One skilled in the knowledge of plants; a collector of, or dealer in, herbs, especially medicinal herbs.,
H as in Herbar (n.) An herb.,
H as in Herbarian (n.) A herbalist.,
H as in Herbarist (n.) A herbalist.,
H as in Herbariums (pl. ) of Herbarium,
H as in Herbaria (pl. ) of Herbarium,
H as in Herbarium (n.) A collection of dried specimens of plants, systematically arranged.,
H as in Herbarium (n.) A book or case for preserving dried plants.,
H as in Herbarize (v. t.) See Herborize.,
H as in Herbary (n.) A garden of herbs; a cottage garden.,
H as in Herber (n.) A garden; a pleasure garden.,
H as in Herbergage (n.) Harborage; lodging; shelter; harbor.,
H as in Herbergeour (n.) A harbinger.,
H as in Herbergh (n.) Alt. of Herberwe,
H as in Herberwe (n.) A harbor.,
H as in Herbescent (a.) Growing into herbs.,
H as in Herbid (a.) Covered with herbs.,
H as in Herbiferous (a.) Bearing herbs or vegetation.,
H as in Herbist (n.) A herbalist.,
H as in Herbivora (n. pl.) An extensive division of Mammalia. It formerly included the Proboscidea, Hyracoidea, Perissodactyla, and Artiodactyla, but by later writers it is generally restricted to the two latter groups (Ungulata). They feed almost exclusively upon vegetation.,
H as in Herbivore (n.) One of the Herbivora.,
H as in Herbivorous (a.) Eating plants; of or pertaining to the Herbivora.,
H as in Herbless (a.) Destitute of herbs or of vegetation.,
H as in Herblet (n.) A small herb.,
H as in Herborist (n.) A herbalist.,
H as in Herborization (n.) The act of herborizing.,
H as in Herborization (n.) The figure of plants in minerals or fossils.,
H as in Herborized (imp. & p. p.) of Herborize,
H as in Herborizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Herborize,
H as in Herborize (v. i.) To search for plants, or new species of plants, with a view to classifying them.,
H as in Herborize (v. t.) To form the figures of plants in; -- said in reference to minerals. See Arborized.,
H as in Herborough (n.) A harbor.,
H as in Herbose (a.) Alt. of Herbous,
H as in Herbous (a.) Abounding with herbs.,
H as in Herb-women (pl. ) of Herb-woman,
H as in Herb-woman (n.) A woman that sells herbs.,
H as in Herby (a.) Having the nature of, pertaining to, or covered with, herbs or herbage.,
H as in Hercogamous (a.) Not capable of self-fertilization; -- said of hermaphrodite flowers in which some structural obstacle forbids autogamy.,
H as in Herculean (a.) Requiring the strength of Hercules; hence, very great, difficult, or dangerous; as, an Herculean task.,
H as in Herculean (a.) Having extraordinary strength or size; as, Herculean limbs.,
H as in Hercules (n.) A hero, fabled to have been the son of Jupiter and Alcmena, and celebrated for great strength, esp. for the accomplishment of his twelve great tasks or "labors.",
H as in Hercules (n.) A constellation in the northern hemisphere, near Lyra.,
H as in Hercynian (a.) Of or pertaining to an extensive forest in Germany, of which there are still portions in Swabia and the Hartz mountains.,
H as in Herd (a.) Haired.,
H as in Herd (n.) A number of beasts assembled together; as, a herd of horses, oxen, cattle, camels, elephants, deer, or swine; a particular stock or family of cattle.,
H as in Herd (n.) A crowd of low people; a rabble.,
H as in Herd (n.) One who herds or assembles domestic animals; a herdsman; -- much used in composition; as, a shepherd; a goatherd, and the like.,
H as in Herded (imp. & p. p.) of Herd,
H as in Herding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Herd,
H as in Herd (v. i.) To unite or associate in a herd; to feed or run together, or in company; as, sheep herd on many hills.,
H as in Herd (v. i.) To associate; to ally one's self with, or place one's self among, a group or company.,
H as in Herd (v. i.) To act as a herdsman or a shepherd.,
H as in Herd (v. t.) To form or put into a herd.,
H as in Herdbook (n.) A book containing the list and pedigrees of one or more herds of choice breeds of cattle; -- also called herd record, or herd register.,
H as in Herder (n.) A herdsman.,
H as in Herderite (n.) A rare fluophosphate of glucina, in small white crystals.,
H as in Herdess (n.) A shepherdess; a female herder.,
H as in Herdgroom (n.) A herdsman.,
H as in Herdic (n.) A kind of low-hung cab.,
H as in -men (pl. ) of Herdsman,
H as in Herdman (n.) Alt. of Herdsman,
H as in Herdsman (n.) The owner or keeper of a herd or of herds; one employed in tending a herd of cattle.,
H as in women (pl. ) of Herdswoman,
H as in Herdswoman (n.) A woman who tends a herd.,
H as in Here (n.) Hair.,
H as in Here (pron.) See Her, their.,
H as in Here (pron.) Her; hers. See Her.,
H as in Here (adv.) In this place; in the place where the speaker is; -- opposed to there.,
H as in Here (adv.) In the present life or state.,
H as in Here (adv.) To or into this place; hither. [Colloq.] See Thither.,
H as in Here (adv.) At this point of time, or of an argument; now.,
H as in Herea-bout (adv.) Alt. of Hereabouts,
H as in Hereabouts (adv.) About this place; in this vicinity.,
H as in Hereabouts (adv.) Concerning this.,
H as in Hereafter (adv.) In time to come; in some future time or state.,
H as in Hereafter (n.) A future existence or state.,
H as in Hereafterward (adv.) Hereafter.,
H as in Here-at (adv.) At, or by reason of, this; as, he was offended hereat.,
H as in Hereby (adv.) By means of this.,
H as in Hereby (adv.) Close by; very near.,
H as in Hereditability (n.) State of being hereditable.,
H as in Hereditable (a.) Capable of being inherited. See Inheritable.,
H as in Hereditable (a.) Qualified to inherit; capable of inheriting.,
H as in Hereditably (adv.) By inheritance.,
H as in Hereditament (n.) Any species of property that may be inherited; lands, tenements, anything corporeal or incorporeal, real, personal, or mixed, that may descend to an heir.,
H as in Hereditarily (adv.) By inheritance; in an hereditary manner.,
H as in Hereditary (a.) Descended, or capable of descending, from an ancestor to an heir at law; received or passing by inheritance, or that must pass by inheritance; as, an hereditary estate or crown.,
H as in Hereditary (a.) Transmitted, or capable of being transmitted, as a constitutional quality or condition from a parent to a child; as, hereditary pride, bravery, disease.,
H as in Heredity (n.) Hereditary transmission of the physical and psychical qualities of parents to their offspring; the biological law by which living beings tend to repeat their characteristics in their descendants. See Pangenesis.,
H as in Hereford (n.) One of a breed of cattle originating in Herefordshire, England. The Herefords are good working animals, and their beef-producing quality is excellent.,
H as in Herehence (adv.) From hence.,
H as in Herein (adv.) In this.,
H as in Hereinafter (adv.) In the following part of this (writing, document, speech, and the like).,
H as in Hereinbefore (adv.) In the preceding part of this (writing, document, book, etc.).,
H as in Hereinto (adv.) Into this.,
H as in Heremit (n.) Alt. of Heremite,
H as in Heremite (n.) A hermit.,
H as in Heremitical (a.) Of or pertaining to a hermit; solitary; secluded from society.,
H as in Heren (a.) Made of hair.,
H as in Hereof (adv.) Of this; concerning this; from this; hence.,
H as in Hereon (adv.) On or upon this; hereupon.,
H as in Hereout (adv.) Out of this.,
H as in Heresiarch (n.) A leader in heresy; the chief of a sect of heretics.,
H as in Heresiarchy (n.) A chief or great heresy.,
H as in Heresiographer (n.) One who writes on heresies.,
H as in Heresiography (n.) A treatise on heresy.,
H as in Heresies (pl. ) of Heresy,
H as in Heresy (n.) An opinion held in opposition to the established or commonly received doctrine, and tending to promote a division or party, as in politics, literature, philosophy, etc.; -- usually, but not necessarily, said in reproach.,
H as in Heresy (n.) Religious opinion opposed to the authorized doctrinal standards of any particular church, especially when tending to promote schism or separation; lack of orthodox or sound belief; rejection of, or erroneous belief in regard to, some fundamental religious doctrine or truth; heterodoxy.,
H as in Heresy (n.) An offense against Christianity, consisting in a denial of some essential doctrine, which denial is publicly avowed, and obstinately maintained.,
H as in Heretic (n.) One who holds to a heresy; one who believes some doctrine contrary to the established faith or prevailing religion.,
H as in Heretic (n.) One who having made a profession of Christian belief, deliberately and pertinaciously refuses to believe one or more of the articles of faith "determined by the authority of the universal church.",
H as in Heretical (a.) Containing heresy; of the nature of, or characterized by, heresy.,
H as in Heretically (adv.) In an heretical manner.,
H as in Hereticate (v. t.) To decide to be heresy or a heretic; to denounce as a heretic or heretical.,
H as in Heretification (n.) The act of hereticating or pronouncing heretical.,
H as in Hereto (adv.) To this; hereunto.,
H as in Heretoch (n.) Alt. of Heretog,
H as in Heretog (n.) The leader or commander of an army; also, a marshal.,
H as in Heretofore (adv.) Up to this time; hitherto; before; in time past.,
H as in Hereunto (adv.) Unto this; up to this time; hereto.,
H as in Hereupon (adv.) On this; hereon.,
H as in Herewith (adv.) With this.,
H as in Herie (v. t.) To praise; to worship.,
H as in Heriot (n.) Formerly, a payment or tribute of arms or military accouterments, or the best beast, or chattel, due to the lord on the death of a tenant; in modern use, a customary tribute of goods or chattels to the lord of the fee, paid on the decease of a tenant.,
H as in Heriotable (a.) Subject to the payment of a heriot.,
H as in Herisson (n.) A beam or bar armed with iron spikes, and turning on a pivot; -- used to block up a passage.,
H as in Heritability (n.) The state of being heritable.,
H as in Heritable (a.) Capable of being inherited or of passing by inheritance; inheritable.,
H as in Heritable (a.) Capable of inheriting or receiving by inheritance.,
H as in Heritage (a.) That which is inherited, or passes from heir to heir; inheritance.,
H as in Heritage (a.) A possession; the Israelites, as God's chosen people; also, a flock under pastoral charge.,
H as in Heritance (n.) Heritage; inheritance.,
H as in Heritor (n.) A proprietor or landholder in a parish.,
H as in Herl (n.) Same as Harl, 2.,
H as in Herling (n.) Alt. of Hirling,
H as in Hirling (n.) The young of the sea trout.,
H as in Hermae (pl. ) of Herma,
H as in Herma (n.) See Hermes, 2.,
H as in Hermaphrodeity (n.) Hermaphrodism.,
H as in Hermaphrodism (n.) See Hermaphroditism.,
H as in Hermaphrodite (n.) An individual which has the attributes of both male and female, or which unites in itself the two sexes; an animal or plant having the parts of generation of both sexes, as when a flower contains both the stamens and pistil within the same calyx, or on the same receptacle. In some cases reproduction may take place without the union of the distinct individuals. In the animal kingdom true hermaphrodites are found only among the invertebrates. See Illust. in Appendix, under Helminths.,
H as in Hermaphrodite (a.) Including, or being of, both sexes; as, an hermaphrodite animal or flower.,
H as in Hermaphroditic (a.) Alt. of Hermaphroditical,
H as in Hermaphroditical (a.) Partaking of the characteristics of both sexes; characterized by hermaphroditism.,
H as in Hermaphroditism (n.) The union of the two sexes in the same individual, or the combination of some of their characteristics or organs in one individual.,
H as in Hermeneutic (a.) Alt. of Hermeneutical,
H as in Hermeneutical (a.) Unfolding the signification; of or pertaining to interpretation; exegetical; explanatory; as, hermeneutic theology, or the art of expounding the Scriptures; a hermeneutic phrase.,
H as in Hermeneutically (adv.) According to the principles of interpretation; as, a verse of Scripture was examined hermeneutically.,
H as in Hermeneutics (n.) The science of interpretation and explanation; exegesis; esp., that branch of theology which defines the laws whereby the meaning of the Scriptures is to be ascertained.,
H as in Hermes (n.) See Mercury.,
H as in Hermes (n.) Originally, a boundary stone dedicated to Hermes as the god of boundaries, and therefore bearing in some cases a head, or head and shoulders, placed upon a quadrangular pillar whose height is that of the body belonging to the head, sometimes having feet or other parts of the body sculptured upon it. These figures, though often representing Hermes, were used for other divinities, and even, in later times, for portraits of human beings. Called also herma. See Terminal statue, under Terminal.,
H as in Hermetic (a.) Alt. of Hermetical,
H as in Hermetical (a.) Of, pertaining to, or taught by, Hermes Trismegistus; as, hermetic philosophy. Hence: Alchemical; chemic.,
H as in Hermetical (a.) Of or pertaining to the system which explains the causes of diseases and the operations of medicine on the principles of the hermetic philosophy, and which made much use, as a remedy, of an alkali and an acid; as, hermetic medicine.,
H as in Hermetical (a.) Made perfectly close or air-tight by fusion, so that no gas or spirit can enter or escape; as, an hermetic seal. See Note under Hermetically.,
H as in Hermetically (adv.) In an hermetical manner; chemically.,
H as in Hermetically (adv.) By fusion, so as to form an air-tight closure.,
H as in Hermit (n.) A person who retires from society and lives in solitude; a recluse; an anchoret; especially, one who so lives from religious motives.,
H as in Hermit (n.) A beadsman; one bound to pray for another.,
H as in Hermitage (n.) The habitation of a hermit; a secluded residence.,
H as in Hermitage (n.) A celebrated French wine, both white and red, of the Department of Drome.,
H as in Hermitary (n.) A cell annexed to an abbey, for the use of a hermit.,
H as in Hermitess (n.) A female hermit.,
H as in Hermitical (a.) Pertaining to, or suited for, a hermit.,
H as in Hermodactyl (n.) A heart-shaped bulbous root, about the size of a finger, brought from Turkey, formerly used as a cathartic.,
H as in Hermogenian (n.) A disciple of Hermogenes, an heretical teacher who lived in Africa near the close of the second century. He held matter to be the fountain of all evil, and that souls and spirits are formed of corrupt matter.,
H as in Hern (n.) A heron; esp., the common European heron.,
H as in Hernani (n.) A thin silk or woolen goods, for women's dresses, woven in various styles and colors.,
H as in Herne (n.) A corner.,
H as in Hernias (pl. ) of Hernia,
H as in Herniae (pl. ) of Hernia,
H as in Hernia (n.) A protrusion, consisting of an organ or part which has escaped from its natural cavity, and projects through some natural or accidental opening in the walls of the latter; as, hernia of the brain, of the lung, or of the bowels. Hernia of the abdominal viscera in most common. Called also rupture.,
H as in Hernial (a.) Of, or connected with, hernia.,
H as in Herniotomy (n.) A cutting for the cure or relief of hernia; celotomy.,
H as in Hernshaw (n.) Heronshaw.,
H as in Heroes (pl. ) of Hero,
H as in Hero (n.) An illustrious man, supposed to be exalted, after death, to a place among the gods; a demigod, as Hercules.,
H as in Hero (n.) A man of distinguished valor or enterprise in danger, or fortitude in suffering; a prominent or central personage in any remarkable action or event; hence, a great or illustrious person.,
H as in Hero (n.) The principal personage in a poem, story, and the like, or the person who has the principal share in the transactions related; as Achilles in the Iliad, Ulysses in the Odyssey, and Aeneas in the Aeneid.,
H as in Herodian (n.) One of a party among the Jews, composed of partisans of Herod of Galilee. They joined with the Pharisees against Christ.,
H as in Herodiones (n. pl.) A division of wading birds, including the herons, storks, and allied forms. Called also Herodii.,
H as in Heroess (n.) A heroine.,
H as in Heroic (a.) Of or pertaining to, or like, a hero; of the nature of heroes; distinguished by the existence of heroes; as, the heroic age; an heroic people; heroic valor.,
H as in Heroic (a.) Worthy of a hero; bold; daring; brave; illustrious; as, heroic action; heroic enterprises.,
H as in Heroic (a.) Larger than life size, but smaller than colossal; -- said of the representation of a human figure.,
H as in Heroical (a.) Heroic.,
H as in Heroicness (n.) Heroism.,
H as in Heroicomic (a.) Alt. of Heroicomical,
H as in Heroicomical (a.) Combining the heroic and the ludicrous; denoting high burlesque; as, a heroicomic poem.,
H as in Heroine (n.) A woman of an heroic spirit.,
H as in Heroine (n.) The principal female person who figures in a remarkable action, or as the subject of a poem or story.,
H as in Heroism (n.) The qualities characteristic of a hero, as courage, bravery, fortitude, unselfishness, etc.; the display of such qualities.,
H as in Heron (n.) Any wading bird of the genus Ardea and allied genera, of the family Ardeidae. The herons have a long, sharp bill, and long legs and toes, with the claw of the middle toe toothed. The common European heron (Ardea cinerea) is remarkable for its directly ascending flight, and was formerly hunted with the larger falcons.,
H as in Heroner (n.) A hawk used in hunting the heron.,
H as in Heronry (n.) A place where herons breed.,
H as in Heronsew (n.) A heronshaw.,
H as in Heronshaw (n.) A heron.,
H as in Heroologist (n.) One who treats of heroes.,
H as in Heroship (n.) The character or personality of a hero.,
H as in Herpes (n.) An eruption of the skin, taking various names, according to its form, or the part affected; especially, an eruption of vesicles in small distinct clusters, accompanied with itching or tingling, including shingles, ringworm, and the like; -- so called from its tendency to creep or spread from one part of the skin to another.,
H as in Herpetic (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, the herpes; partaking of the nature of herpes; as, herpetic eruptions.,
H as in Herpetism (n.) See Dartrous diathesis, under Dartrous.,
H as in Herpetologic (a.) Alt. of Herpetological,
H as in Herpetological (a.) Pertaining to herpetology.,
H as in Herpetologist (n.) One versed in herpetology, or the natural history of reptiles.,
H as in Herpetology (n.) The natural history of reptiles; that branch of zoology which relates to reptiles, including their structure, classification, and habits.,
H as in Herpetotomist (n.) One who dissects, or studies the anatomy of, reptiles.,
H as in Herpetotomy (n.) The anatomy or dissection of reptiles.,
H as in Herr (n.) A title of respect given to gentlemen in Germany, equivalent to the English Mister.,
H as in Herring (n.) One of various species of fishes of the genus Clupea, and allied genera, esp. the common round or English herring (C. harengus) of the North Atlantic. Herrings move in vast schools, coming in spring to the shores of Europe and America, where they are salted and smoked in great quantities.,
H as in Herringbone (a.) Pertaining to, or like, the spine of a herring; especially, characterized by an arrangement of work in rows of parallel lines, which in the alternate rows slope in different directions.,
H as in Herrnhuter (n.) One of the Moravians; -- so called from the settlement of Herrnhut (the Lord's watch) made, about 1722, by the Moravians at the invitation of Nicholas Lewis, count of Zinzendorf, upon his estate in the circle of Bautzen.,
H as in Hers (pron.) See the Note under Her, pron.,
H as in Hersal (n.) Rehearsal.,
H as in Herschel (n.) See Uranus.,
H as in Herschelian (a.) Of or relating to Sir William Herschel; as, the Herschelian telescope.,
H as in Herse (n.) A kind of gate or portcullis, having iron bars, like a harrow, studded with iron spikes. It is hung above gateways so that it may be quickly lowered, to impede the advance of an enemy.,
H as in Herse (n.) See Hearse, a carriage for the dead.,
H as in Herse (n.) A funeral ceremonial.,
H as in Herse (v. t.) Same as Hearse, v. t.,
H as in Herself (pron.) An emphasized form of the third person feminine pronoun; -- used as a subject with she; as, she herself will bear the blame; also used alone in the predicate, either in the nominative or objective case; as, it is herself; she blames herself.,
H as in Herself (pron.) Her own proper, true, or real character; hence, her right, or sane, mind; as, the woman was deranged, but she is now herself again; she has come to herself.,
H as in Hersillon (n.) A beam with projecting spikes, used to make a breach impassable.,
H as in Hert (n.) A hart.,
H as in Herte (n.) A heart.,
H as in Hertely (a. & adv.) Hearty; heartily.,
H as in Hery (v. t.) To worship; to glorify; to praise.,
H as in Hesitancy (n.) The act of hesitating, or pausing to consider; slowness in deciding; vacillation; also, the manner of one who hesitates.,
H as in Hesitancy (n.) A stammering; a faltering in speech.,
H as in Hesitant (a.) Not prompt in deciding or acting; hesitating.,
H as in Hesitant (a.) Unready in speech.,
H as in Hesitantly (adv.) With hesitancy or doubt.,
H as in Hesitated (imp. & p. p.) of Hesitate,
H as in Hesitating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hesitate,
H as in Hesitate (v. i.) To stop or pause respecting decision or action; to be in suspense or uncertainty as to a determination; as, he hesitated whether to accept the offer or not; men often hesitate in forming a judgment.,
H as in Hesitate (v. i.) To stammer; to falter in speaking.,
H as in Hesitate (v. t.) To utter with hesitation or to intimate by a reluctant manner.,
H as in Hesitatingly (adv.) With hesitation or doubt.,
H as in Hesitation (n.) The act of hesitating; suspension of opinion or action; doubt; vacillation.,
H as in Hesitation (n.) A faltering in speech; stammering.,
H as in Hesitative (a.) Showing, or characterized by, hesitation.,
H as in Hesitatory (a.) Hesitating.,
H as in Hesp (n.) A measure of two hanks of linen thread.,
H as in Hesper (n.) The evening; Hesperus.,
H as in Hesperetin (n.) A white, crystalline substance having a sweetish taste, obtained by the decomposition of hesperidin, and regarded as a complex derivative of caffeic acid.,
H as in Hesperian (a.) Western; being in the west; occidental.,
H as in Hesperian (n.) A native or an inhabitant of a western country.,
H as in Hesperian (a.) Of or pertaining to a family of butterflies called Hesperidae, or skippers.,
H as in Hesperian (n.) Any one of the numerous species of Hesperidae; a skipper.,
H as in Hesperid (a. & n.) Same as 3d Hesperian.,
H as in Hesperidene (n.) An isomeric variety of terpene from orange oil.,
H as in Hesperides (n. pl.) The daughters of Hesperus, or Night (brother of Atlas), and fabled possessors of a garden producing golden apples, in Africa, at the western extremity of the known world. To slay the guarding dragon and get some of these apples was one of the labors of Hercules. Called also Atlantides.,
H as in Hesperides (n. pl.) The garden producing the golden apples.,
H as in Hesperidin (n.) A glucoside found in ripe and unripe fruit (as the orange), and extracted as a white crystalline substance.,
H as in Hesperidium (n.) A large berry with a thick rind, as a lemon or an orange.,
H as in Hesperornis (n.) A genus of large, extinct, wingless birds from the Cretaceous deposits of Kansas, belonging to the Odontornithes. They had teeth, and were essentially carnivorous swimming ostriches. Several species are known. See Illust. in Append.,
H as in Hesperus (n.) Venus when she is the evening star; Hesper.,
H as in Hesperus (n.) Evening.,
H as in Hessian (a.) Of or relating to Hesse, in Germany, or to the Hessians.,
H as in Hessian (n.) A native or inhabitant of Hesse.,
H as in Hessian (n.) A mercenary or venal person.,
H as in Hessian (n.) See Hessian boots and cloth, under Hessian, a.,
H as in Hessite (n.) A lead-gray sectile mineral. It is a telluride of silver.,
H as in Hest (n.) Command; precept; injunction.,
H as in Hestern (a.) Alt. of Hesternal,
H as in Hesternal (a.) Pertaining to yesterday. [Obs.] See Yester, a.,
H as in Hesychast (n.) One of a mystical sect of the Greek Church in the fourteenth century; a quietist.,
H as in Hetairism (n.) Alt. of Hetarism,
H as in Hetarism (n.) A supposed primitive state of society, in which all the women of a tribe were held in common.,
H as in Hetchel (v. t.) Same as Hatchel.,
H as in Hete (imp. & p. p.) of Hete,
H as in Het () of Hete,
H as in Hete (v. t. & i.) Variant of Hote.,
H as in Heteracanth (a.) Having the spines of the dorsal fin unsymmetrical, or thickened alternately on the right and left sides.,
H as in Heterarchy (n.) The government of an alien.,
H as in Heterauxesis (n.) Unequal growth of a cell, or of a part of a plant.,
H as in Hetero- () A combining form signifying other, other than usual, different; as, heteroclite, heterodox, heterogamous.,
H as in Heterocarpism (n.) The power of producing two kinds of reproductive bodies, as in Amphicarpaea, in which besides the usual pods, there are others underground.,
H as in Heterocarpous (a.) Characterized by heterocarpism.,
H as in Hetercephalous (a.) Bearing two kinds of heads or capitula; -- said of certain composite plants.,
H as in Heterocera (n. pl.) A division of Lepidoptera, including the moths, and hawk moths, which have the antennae variable in form.,
H as in Heterocercal (a.) Having the vertebral column evidently continued into the upper lobe of the tail, which is usually longer than the lower one, as in sharks.,
H as in Heterocercy (n.) Unequal development of the tail lobes of fishes; the possession of a heterocercal tail.,
H as in Heterochromous (a.) Having the central florets of a flower head of a different color from those of the circumference.,
H as in Heterochronism (n.) Alt. of Heterochrony,
H as in Heterochrony (n.) In evolution, a deviation from the typical sequence in the formation of organs or parts.,
H as in Heteroclite (a.) Deviating from ordinary forms or rules; irregular; anomalous; abnormal.,
H as in Heteroclite (n.) A word which is irregular or anomalous either in declension or conjugation, or which deviates from ordinary forms of inflection in words of a like kind; especially, a noun which is irregular in declension.,
H as in Heteroclite (n.) Any thing or person deviating from the common rule, or from common forms.,
H as in Heteroclitic (a.) Alt. of Heteroclitical,
H as in Heteroclitical (a.) Deviating from ordinary forms or rules; irregular; anomalous; abnormal.,
H as in Heteroclitous (a.) Heteroclitic.,
H as in Heterocyst (n.) A cell larger than the others, and of different appearance, occurring in certain algae related to nostoc.,
H as in Heterodactyl (a.) Heterodactylous.,
H as in Heterodactyl (n.) One of the Heterodactylae.,
H as in Heterodactylae (n. pl.) A group of birds including the trogons.,
H as in Heterodactylous (a.) Having the first and second toes turned backward, as in the trogons.,
H as in Heterodont (a.) Having the teeth differentiated into incisors, canines, and molars, as in man; -- opposed to homodont.,
H as in Heterodont (n.) Any animal with heterodont dentition.,
H as in Heterodox (a.) Contrary to, or differing from, some acknowledged standard, as the Bible, the creed of a church, the decree of a council, and the like; not orthodox; heretical; -- said of opinions, doctrines, books, etc., esp. upon theological subjects.,
H as in Heterodox (a.) Holding heterodox opinions, or doctrines not orthodox; heretical; -- said of persons.,
H as in Heterodox (n.) An opinion opposed to some accepted standard.,
H as in Heterodoxal (a.) Not orthodox.,
H as in Heterodoxy (n.) An opinion or doctrine, or a system of doctrines, contrary to some established standard of faith, as the Scriptures, the creed or standards of a church, etc.; heresy.,
H as in Heterodromous (a.) Having spirals of changing direction.,
H as in Heterodromous (a.) Moving in opposite directions; -- said of a lever, pulley, etc., in which the resistance and the actuating force are on opposite sides of the fulcrum or axis.,
H as in Heterogamous (a.) The condition of having two or more kinds of flowers which differ in regard to stamens and pistils, as in the aster.,
H as in Heterogamous (a.) Characterized by heterogamy.,
H as in Heterogamy (n.) The process of fertilization in plants by an indirect or circuitous method; -- opposed to orthogamy.,
H as in Heterogamy (n.) That form of alternate generation in which two kinds of sexual generation, or a sexual and a parthenogenetic generation, alternate; -- in distinction from metagenesis, where sexual and asexual generations alternate.,
H as in Heterogangliate (a.) Having the ganglia of the nervous system unsymmetrically arranged; -- said of certain invertebrate animals.,
H as in Heterogene (a.) Heterogenous.,
H as in Heterogeneal (a.) Heterogeneous.,
H as in Heterogeneity (n.) The state of being heterogeneous; contrariety.,
H as in Heterogeneous (a.) Differing in kind; having unlike qualities; possessed of different characteristics; dissimilar; -- opposed to homogeneous, and said of two or more connected objects, or of a conglomerate mass, considered in respect to the parts of which it is made up.,
H as in Heterogenesis (n.) Spontaneous generation, so called.,
H as in Heterogenesis (n.) That method of reproduction in which the successive generations differ from each other, the parent organism producing offspring different in habit and structure from itself, the original form, however, reappearing after one or more generations; -- opposed to homogenesis, or gamogenesis.,
H as in Heterogenetic (a.) Relating to heterogenesis; as, heterogenetic transformations.,
H as in Heterogenist (n.) One who believes in the theory of spontaneous generation, or heterogenesis.,
H as in Heterogenous (a.) Of or pertaining to heterogenesis; heterogenetic.,
H as in Heterogeny (n.) Heterogenesis.,
H as in Heterogonous (a.) Characterized by heterogony.,
H as in Heterogony (n.) The condition of having two or more kinds of flowers, different as to the length of their stamens and pistils.,
H as in Heterographic (a.) Employing the same letters to represent different sounds in different words or syllables; -- said of methods of spelling; as, the ordinary English orthography is heterographic.,
H as in Heterography (n.) That method of spelling in which the same letters represent different sounds in different words, as in the ordinary English orthography; e. g., g in get and in ginger.,
H as in Heterogynous (a.) Having females very unlike the males in form and structure; -- as certain insects, the males of which are winged, and the females wingless.,
H as in Heterologous (a.) Characterized by heterology; consisting of different elements, or of like elements in different proportions; different; -- opposed to homologous; as, heterologous organs.,
H as in Heterology (n.) The absence of correspondence, or relation, in type of structure; lack of analogy between parts, owing to their being composed of different elements, or of like elements in different proportions; variation in structure from the normal form; -- opposed to homology.,
H as in Heterology (n.) The connection or relation of bodies which have partial identity of composition, but different characteristics and properties; the relation existing between derivatives of the same substance, or of the analogous members of different series; as, ethane, ethyl alcohol, acetic aldehyde, and acetic acid are in heterology with each other, though each in at the same time a member of a distinct homologous series. Cf. Homology.,
H as in Heteromera (n. pl.) A division of Coleoptera, having heteromerous tarsi.,
H as in Heteromerous (a.) Unrelated in chemical composition, though similar or indentical in certain other respects; as, borax and augite are homoemorphous, but heteromerous.,
H as in Heteromerous (a.) With the parts not corresponding in number.,
H as in Heteromerous (a.) Having the femoral artery developed as the principal artery of the leg; -- said of certain birds, as the cotingas and pipras.,
H as in Heteromerous (a.) Having five tarsal joints in the anterior and middle legs, but only four in the posterior pair, as the blister beetles and oil beetles.,
H as in Heteromorphic (a.) Deviating from the normal, perfect, or mature form; having different forms at different stages of existence, or in different individuals of the same species; -- applied especially to insects in which there is a wide difference of form between the larva and the adult, and to plants having more than one form of flower.,
H as in Heteromorphism (n.) Alt. of Heteromorphy,
H as in Heteromorphy (n.) The state or quality of being heteromorphic.,
H as in Heteromorphous (a.) Heteromorphic.,
H as in Heteromyaria (n. pl.) A division of bivalve shells, including the marine mussels, in which the two adductor muscles are very unequal. See Dreissena, and Illust. under Byssus.,
H as in Heteronereis (n.) A free-swimming, dimorphic, sexual form of certain species of Nereis.,
H as in Heteronomous (a.) Subject to the law of another.,
H as in Heteronomy (n.) Subordination or subjection to the law of another; political subjection of a community or state; -- opposed to autonomy.,
H as in Heteronomy (n.) A term applied by Kant to those laws which are imposed on us from without, or the violence done to us by our passions, wants, or desires.,
H as in Heteronym (n.) That which is heteronymous; a thing having a different name or designation from some other thing; -- opposed to homonym.,
H as in Heteronymous (a.) Having different names or designations; standing in opposite relations.,
H as in Heteroousian (a.) Having different essential qualities; of a different nature.,
H as in Heteroousian (n.) One of those Arians who held that the Son was of a different substance from the Father.,
H as in Heteroousious (a.) See Heteroousian.,
H as in Heteropathic (a.) Of or pertaining to the method of heteropathy; allopathic.,
H as in Heteropathy (n.) That mode of treating diseases, by which a morbid condition is removed by inducing an opposite morbid condition to supplant it; allopathy.,
H as in Heteropelmous (a.) Having each of the two flexor tendons of the toes bifid, the branches of one going to the first and second toes; those of the other, to the third and fourth toes. See Illust. in Append.,
H as in Heterophagi (n. pl.) Altrices.,
H as in Heterophemist (n.) One liable to the fault of heterophemy.,
H as in Heterophemy (n.) The unconscious saying, in speech or in writing, of that which one does not intend to say; -- frequently the very reverse of the thought which is present to consciousness.,
H as in Heterophony (n.) An abnormal state of the voice.,
H as in Heterophyllous (a.) Having leaves of more than one shape on the same plant.,
H as in Heteroplasm (n.) An abnormal formation foreign to the economy, and composed of elements different from those are found in it in its normal condition.,
H as in Heteroplastic (a.) Producing a different type of organism; developing into a different form of tissue, as cartilage which develops into bone.,
H as in Heteropod (n.) One of the Heteropoda.,
H as in Heteropod (a.) Heteropodous.,
H as in Heteropoda (n. pl.) An order of pelagic Gastropoda, having the foot developed into a median fin. Some of the species are naked; others, as Carinaria and Atlanta, have thin glassy shells.,
H as in Heteropodous (a.) Of or pertaining to the Heteropoda.,
H as in Heteropter (n.) One of the Heteroptera.,
H as in Heteroptera (n. pl.) A suborder of Hemiptera, in which the base of the anterior wings is thickened. See Hemiptera.,
H as in Heteroptics (n.) False optics.,
H as in Heteroscian (n.) One who lives either north or south of the tropics, as contrasted with one who lives on the other side of them; -- so called because at noon the shadows always fall in opposite directions (the one northward, the other southward).,
H as in Heterosis (n.) A figure of speech by which one form of a noun, verb, or pronoun, and the like, is used for another, as in the sentence: "What is life to such as me?",
H as in Heterosomati (n. pl.) An order of fishes, comprising the flounders, halibut, sole, etc., having the body and head asymmetrical, with both eyes on one side. Called also Heterosomata, Heterosomi.,
H as in Heterosporic (a.) Alt. of Heterosporous,
H as in Heterosporous (a.) Producing two kinds of spores unlike each other.,
H as in Heterostyled (a.) Having styles of two or more distinct forms or lengths.,
H as in Heterostylism (n.) The condition of being heterostyled.,
H as in Heterotactous (a.) Relating to, or characterized by, heterotaxy.,
H as in Heterotaxy (n.) Variation in arrangement from that existing in a normal form; heterogenous arrangement or structure, as, in botany, the deviation in position of the organs of a plant, from the ordinary or typical arrangement.,
H as in Heterotopism (n.) Alt. of Heterotopy,
H as in Heterotopy (n.) A deviation from the natural position; -- a term applied in the case of organs or growths which are abnormal in situation.,
H as in Heterotopy (n.) A deviation from the natural position of parts, supposed to be effected in thousands of years, by the gradual displacement of germ cells.,
H as in Heterotricha (n. pl.) A division of ciliated Infusoria, having fine cilia all over the body, and a circle of larger ones around the anterior end.,
H as in Heterotropal (a.) Alt. of Heterotropous,
H as in Heterotropous (a.) Having the embryo or ovule oblique or transverse to the funiculus; amphitropous.,
H as in Hething (n.) Contempt; scorn.,
H as in Hetmans (pl. ) of Hetman,
H as in Hetman (n.) A Cossack headman or general. The title of chief hetman is now held by the heir to the throne of Russia.,
H as in Heugh (n.) A crag; a cliff; a glen with overhanging sides.,
H as in Heugh (n.) A shaft in a coal pit; a hollow in a quarry.,
H as in Heuk (n.) Variant of Huke.,
H as in Heulandite (n.) A mineral of the Zeolite family, often occurring in amygdaloid, in foliated masses, and also in monoclinic crystals with pearly luster on the cleavage face. It is a hydrous silicate of alumina and lime.,
H as in Heuristic (a.) Serving to discover or find out.,
H as in Heved (n.) The head.,
H as in Hewed (imp.) of Hew,
H as in Hewed (p. p.) of Hew,
H as in Hewn () of Hew,
H as in Hewing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hew,
H as in Hew (v. t.) To cut with an ax; to fell with a sharp instrument; -- often with down, or off.,
H as in Hew (v. t.) To form or shape with a sharp instrument; to cut; hence, to form laboriously; -- often with out; as, to hew out a sepulcher.,
H as in Hew (v. t.) To cut in pieces; to chop; to hack.,
H as in Hew (n.) Destruction by cutting down.,
H as in Hew (n.) Hue; color.,
H as in Hew (n.) Shape; form.,
H as in Hewe (n.) A domestic servant; a retainer.,
H as in Hewer (n.) One who hews.,
H as in Hewhole (n.) The European green woodpecker. See Yaffle.,
H as in Hewn (a.) Felled, cut, or shaped as with an ax; roughly squared; as, a house built of hewn logs.,
H as in Hewn (a.) Roughly dressed as with a hammer; as, hewn stone.,
H as in Hex- () Alt. of Hexa,
H as in Hexa () A prefix or combining form, used to denote six, sixth, etc.; as, hexatomic, hexabasic.,
H as in Hexabasic (a.) Having six hydrogen atoms or six radicals capable of being replaced or saturated by bases; -- said of acids; as, mellitic acid is hexabasic.,
H as in Hexacapsular (a.) Having six capsules or seed vessels.,
H as in Hexachord (n.) A series of six notes, with a semitone between the third and fourth, the other intervals being whole tones.,
H as in Hexacid (a.) Having six atoms or radicals capable of being replaced by acids; hexatomic; hexavalent; -- said of bases; as, mannite is a hexacid base.,
H as in Hexactinellid (a.) Having six-rayed spicules; belonging to the Hexactinellinae.,
H as in Hexactinelline (a.) Belonging to the Hexactinellinae, a group of sponges, having six-rayed siliceous spicules.,
H as in Hexactinia (n. pl.) The Anthozoa.,
H as in Hexad (n.) An atom whose valence is six, and which can be theoretically combined with, substituted for, or replaced by, six monad atoms or radicals; as, sulphur is a hexad in sulphuric acid. Also used as an adjective.,
H as in Hexadactylous (a.) Having six fingers or toes.,
H as in Hexade (n.) A series of six numbers.,
H as in Hexadecane (n.) See Hecdecane.,
H as in Hexagon (n.) A plane figure of six angles.,
H as in Hexagonal (a.) Having six sides and six angles; six-sided.,
H as in Hexagonally (adv.) In an hexagonal manner.,
H as in Hexagony (n.) A hexagon.,
H as in Hexagynia (n. pl.) A Linnaean order of plants having six pistils.,
H as in Hexagynian (a.) Alt. of Hexagynous,
H as in Hexagynous (a.) Having six pistils.,
H as in Hexahedral (a.) In the form of a hexahedron; having six sides or faces.,
H as in Hexahedrons (pl. ) of Hexahedron,
H as in Hexahedra (pl. ) of Hexahedron,
H as in Hexahedron (n.) A solid body of six sides or faces.,
H as in Hexahemeron (n.) A term of six days.,
H as in Hexahemeron (n.) The history of the six day's work of creation, as contained in the first chapter of Genesis.,
H as in Hexamerous (a.) In six parts; in sixes.,
H as in Hexameter (n.) A verse of six feet, the first four of which may be either dactyls or spondees, the fifth must regularly be a dactyl, and the sixth always a spondee. In this species of verse are composed the Iliad of Homer and the Aeneid of Virgil. In English hexameters accent takes the place of quantity.,
H as in Hexameter (a.) Having six metrical feet, especially dactyls and spondees.,
H as in Hexametric (a.) Alt. of Hexametrical,
H as in Hexametrical (a.) Consisting of six metrical feet.,
H as in Hexametrist (n.) One who writes in hexameters.,
H as in Hexandria (n. pl.) A Linnaean class of plants having six stamens.,
H as in Hexandrian (a.) Alt. of Hex-androus,
H as in Hex-androus (a.) Having six stamens.,
H as in Hexane (n.) Any one of five hydrocarbons, C6H14, of the paraffin series. They are colorless, volatile liquids, and are so called because the molecule has six carbon atoms.,
H as in Hexangular (a.) Having six angles or corners.,
H as in Hexapetalous (a.) Having six petals.,
H as in Hexaphyllous (a.) Having six leaves or leaflets.,
H as in Hexapla (sing.) A collection of the Holy Scriptures in six languages or six versions in parallel columns; particularly, the edition of the Old Testament published by Origen, in the 3d century.,
H as in Hexapod (a.) Having six feet.,
H as in Hexapod (n.) An animal having six feet; one of the Hexapoda.,
H as in Hexapoda (n. pl.) The true, or six-legged, insects; insects other than myriapods and arachnids.,
H as in Hexapodous (a.) Having six feet; belonging to the Hexapoda.,
H as in Hexapterous (a.) Having six processes.,
H as in Hexastich (n.) Alt. of Hexastichon,
H as in Hexastichon (n.) A poem consisting of six verses or lines.,
H as in Hexastyle (a.) Having six columns in front; -- said of a portico or temple.,
H as in Hexastyle (n.) A hexastyle portico or temple.,
H as in Hexateuch (n.) The first six books of the Old Testament.,
H as in Hexatomic (a.) Having six atoms in the molecule.,
H as in Hexatomic (a.) Having six replaceable radicals.,
H as in Hexavalent (p. pr.) Having a valence of six; -- said of hexads.,
H as in Hexdecyl (n.) The essential radical, C16H33, of hecdecane.,
H as in Hexdecylic (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, hexdecyl or hecdecane; as, hexdecylic alcohol.,
H as in Hexeikosane (n.) A hydrocarbon, C26H54, resembling paraffine; -- so called because each molecule has twenty-six atoms of carbon.,
H as in Hexene (n.) Same as Hexylene.,
H as in Hexicology (n.) The science which treats of the complex relations of living creatures to other organisms, and to their surrounding conditions generally.,
H as in Hexine (n.) A hydrocarbon, C6H10, of the acetylene series, obtained artificially as a colorless, volatile, pungent liquid; -- called also hexoylene.,
H as in Hexoctahedron (n.) A solid having forty-eight equal triangular faces.,
H as in Hexoic (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, hexane; as, hexoic acid.,
H as in Hexone (n.) A liquid hydrocarbon, C6H8, of the valylene series, obtained from distillation products of certain fats and gums.,
H as in Hexyl (n.) A compound radical, C6H13, regarded as the essential residue of hexane, and a related series of compounds.,
H as in Hexylene (n.) A colorless, liquid hydrocarbon, C6H12, of the ethylene series, produced artificially, and found as a natural product of distillation of certain coals; also, any one several isomers of hexylene proper. Called also hexene.,
H as in Hexylic (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, hexyl or hexane; as, hexylic alcohol.,
H as in Hey (a.) High.,
H as in Hey (interj.) An exclamation of joy, surprise, or encouragement.,
H as in Hey (interj.) A cry to set dogs on.,
H as in Heyday (interj.) An expression of frolic and exultation, and sometimes of wonder.,
H as in Heyday (n.) The time of triumph and exultation; hence, joy, high spirits, frolicsomeness; wildness.,
H as in Heydeguy (n.) A kind of country-dance or round.,
H as in Heyh (a.) Alt. of Heygh,
H as in Heygh (a.) High.,
H as in Heyne (n.) A wretch; a rascal.,
H as in Heyten (adv.) Hence.,
H as in Hiation (n.) Act of gaping.,
H as in Hiatus (pl. ) of Hiatus,
H as in Hiatuses (pl. ) of Hiatus,
H as in Hiatus (n.) An opening; an aperture; a gap; a chasm; esp., a defect in a manuscript, where some part is lost or effaced; a space where something is wanting; a break.,
H as in Hiatus (n.) The concurrence of two vowels in two successive words or syllables.,
H as in Hibernacle (n.) That which serves for protection or shelter in winter; winter quarters; as, the hibernacle of an animal or a plant.,
H as in Hibernaculum (n.) A winter bud, in which the rudimentary foliage or flower, as of most trees and shrubs in the temperate zone, is protected by closely overlapping scales.,
H as in Hibernaculum (n.) A little case in which certain insects pass the winter.,
H as in Hibernaculum (n.) Winter home or abiding place.,
H as in Hibernal (a.) Belonging or relating to winter; wintry; winterish.,
H as in Hibernated (imp. & p. p.) of Hibernate,
H as in Hibernating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hibernate,
H as in Hibernate (v. i.) To winter; to pass the season of winter in close quarters, in a torpid or lethargic state, as certain mammals, reptiles, and insects.,
H as in Hibernation (n.) The act or state of hibernating.,
H as in Hibernian (a.) Of or pertaining to Hibernia, now Ireland; Irish.,
H as in Hibernian (n.) A native or an inhabitant of Ireland.,
H as in Hibernicism (n.) Alt. of Hibernianism,
H as in Hibernianism (n.) An idiom or mode of speech peculiar to the Irish.,
H as in Hiberno-Celtic (n.) The native language of the Irish; that branch of the Celtic languages spoken by the natives of Ireland. Also adj.,
H as in Hibiscus (n.) A genus of plants (herbs, shrubs, or trees), some species of which have large, showy flowers. Some species are cultivated in India for their fiber, which is used as a substitute for hemp. See Althea, Hollyhock, and Manoe.,
H as in Hiccius doctius () A juggler.,
H as in Hiccough (n.) A modified respiratory movement; a spasmodic inspiration, consisting of a sudden contraction of the diaphragm, accompanied with closure of the glottis, so that further entrance of air is prevented, while the impulse of the column of air entering and striking upon the closed glottis produces a sound, or hiccough.,
H as in Hiccoughed (imp. & p. p.) of Hiccough,
H as in Hiccoughing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hiccough,
H as in Hiccough (v. i.) To have a hiccough or hiccoughs.,
H as in Hickory (n.) An American tree of the genus Carya, of which there are several species. The shagbark is the C. alba, and has a very rough bark; it affords the hickory nut of the markets. The pignut, or brown hickory, is the C. glabra. The swamp hickory is C. amara, having a nut whose shell is very thin and the kernel bitter.,
H as in Hicksite (n.) A member or follower of the "liberal" party, headed by Elias Hicks, which, because of a change of views respecting the divinity of Christ and the Atonement, seceded from the conservative portion of the Society of Friends in the United States, in 1827.,
H as in Hickup (n. & v. i.) See Hiccough.,
H as in Hickwall (n.) Alt. of Hickway,
H as in Hickway (n.) The lesser spotted woodpecker (Dendrocopus minor) of Europe.,
H as in Hid () imp. & p. p. of Hide. See Hidden.,
H as in Hidage (n.) A tax formerly paid to the kings of England for every hide of land.,
H as in Hidalgo (n.) A title, denoting a Spanish nobleman of the lower class.,
H as in Hidden (p. p. & a.) from Hide. Concealed; put out of view; secret; not known; mysterious.,
H as in Hiddenite (n.) An emerald-green variety of spodumene found in North Carolina; lithia emerald, -- used as a gem.,
H as in Hiddenly (adv.) In a hidden manner.,
H as in Hid (imp.) of Hide,
H as in Hidden (p. p.) of Hide,
H as in Hid () of Hide,
H as in Hiding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hide,
H as in Hide (v. t.) To conceal, or withdraw from sight; to put out of view; to secrete.,
H as in Hide (v. t.) To withhold from knowledge; to keep secret; to refrain from avowing or confessing.,
H as in Hide (v. t.) To remove from danger; to shelter.,
H as in Hide (v. i.) To lie concealed; to keep one's self out of view; to be withdrawn from sight or observation.,
H as in Hide (n.) An abode or dwelling.,
H as in Hide (n.) A measure of land, common in Domesday Book and old English charters, the quantity of which is not well ascertained, but has been differently estimated at 80, 100, and 120 acres.,
H as in Hide (n.) The skin of an animal, either raw or dressed; -- generally applied to the undressed skins of the larger domestic animals, as oxen, horses, etc.,
H as in Hide (n.) The human skin; -- so called in contempt.,
H as in Hided (imp. & p. p.) of Hide,
H as in Hiding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hide,
H as in Hide (v. t.) To flog; to whip.,
H as in Hidebound (a.) Having the skin adhering so closely to the ribs and back as not to be easily loosened or raised; -- said of an animal.,
H as in Hidebound (a.) Having the bark so close and constricting that it impedes the growth; -- said of trees.,
H as in Hidebound (a.) Untractable; bigoted; obstinately and blindly or stupidly conservative.,
H as in Hidebound (a.) Niggardly; penurious.,
H as in Hideous (a.) Frightful, shocking, or offensive to the eyes; dreadful to behold; as, a hideous monster; hideous looks.,
H as in Hideous (a.) Distressing or offensive to the ear; exciting terror or dismay; as, a hideous noise.,
H as in Hideous (a.) Hateful; shocking.,
H as in Hider (n.) One who hides or conceals.,
H as in Hiding (n.) The act of hiding or concealing, or of withholding from view or knowledge; concealment.,
H as in Hiding (n.) A flogging.,
H as in Hied (imp. & p. p.) of Hie,
H as in Hying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hie,
H as in Hie (v. i.) To hasten; to go in haste; -- also often with the reciprocal pronoun.,
H as in Hie (n.) Haste; diligence.,
H as in Hiems (n.) Winter.,
H as in Hierapicra (n.) A warming cathartic medicine, made of aloes and canella bark.,
H as in Hierarch (n.) One who has high and controlling authority in sacred things; the chief of a sacred order; as, princely hierarchs.,
H as in Hierarchal (a.) Alt. of Hierarchic,
H as in Hierarchic (a.) Pertaining to a hierarch.,
H as in Hierarchical (a.) Pertaining to a hierarchy.,
H as in Hierarchism (n.) The principles or authority of a hierarchy.,
H as in Hierarchies (pl. ) of Hierarchy,
H as in Hierarchy (n.) Dominion or authority in sacred things.,
H as in Hierarchy (n.) A body of officials disposed organically in ranks and orders each subordinate to the one above it; a body of ecclesiastical rulers.,
H as in Hierarchy (n.) A form of government administered in the church by patriarchs, metropolitans, archbishops, bishops, and, in an inferior degree, by priests.,
H as in Hierarchy (n.) A rank or order of holy beings.,
H as in Hieratic (a.) Consecrated to sacred uses; sacerdotal; pertaining to priests.,
H as in Hierocracy (n.) Government by ecclesiastics; a hierarchy.,
H as in Hieroglyph (a.) Alt. of Hieroglyphic,
H as in Hieroglyphic (a.) A sacred character; a character in picture writing, as of the ancient Egyptians, Mexicans, etc. Specifically, in the plural, the picture writing of the ancient Egyptian priests. It is made up of three, or, as some say, four classes of characters: first, the hieroglyphic proper, or figurative, in which the representation of the object conveys the idea of the object itself; second, the ideographic, consisting of symbols representing ideas, not sounds, as an ostrich feather is a symbol of truth; third, the phonetic, consisting of symbols employed as syllables of a word, or as letters of the alphabet, having a certain sound, as a hawk represented the vowel a.,
H as in Hieroglyphic (a.) Any character or figure which has, or is supposed to have, a hidden or mysterious significance; hence, any unintelligible or illegible character or mark.,
H as in Hieroglyphic (a.) Alt. of Hieroglyphical,
H as in Hieroglyphical (a.) Emblematic; expressive of some meaning by characters, pictures, or figures; as, hieroglyphic writing; a hieroglyphic obelisk.,
H as in Hieroglyphical (a.) Resembling hieroglyphics; not decipherable.,
H as in Hieroglyphically (adv.) In hieroglyphics.,
H as in Hieroglyphist (n.) One versed in hieroglyphics.,
H as in Hierogram (n.) A form of sacred or hieratic writing.,
H as in Hierogrammatic (a.) Written in, or pertaining to, hierograms; expressive of sacred writing.,
H as in Hierogrammatist (n.) A writer of hierograms; also, one skilled in hieroglyphics.,
H as in Hierographic (a.) Alt. of Hierographical,
H as in Hierographical (a.) Of or pertaining to sacred writing.,
H as in Hierography (n.) Sacred writing.,
H as in Hierolatry (n.) The worship of saints or sacred things.,
H as in Hierologic (a.) Alt. of Hierological,
H as in Hierological (a.) Pertaining to hierology.,
H as in Hierologist (n.) One versed in, or whostudies, hierology.,
H as in Hierology (n.) A treatise on sacred things; especially, the science which treats of the ancient writings and inscriptions of the Egyptians, or a treatise on that science.,
H as in Hieromancy (n.) Divination by observing the objects offered in sacrifice.,
H as in Hiermartyr (n.) A priest who becomes a martyr.,
H as in Hieromnemon (n.) The sacred secretary or recorder sent by each state belonging to the Amphictyonic Council, along with the deputy or minister.,
H as in Hieromnemon (n.) A magistrate who had charge of religious matters, as at Byzantium.,
H as in Hieron (n.) A consecrated place; esp., a temple.,
H as in Hieronymite (n.) See Jeronymite.,
H as in Hierophant (n.) The presiding priest who initiated candidates at the Eleusinian mysteries; hence, one who teaches the mysteries and duties of religion.,
H as in Hierophantic (a.) Of or relating to hierophants or their teachings.,
H as in Hieroscopy (n.) Divination by inspection of entrails of victims offered in sacrifice.,
H as in -cae (pl. ) of Hierotheca,
H as in Hierotheca (n.) A receptacle for sacred objects.,
H as in Hierourgy (n.) A sacred or holy work or worship.,
H as in Hifalutin (n.) See Highfaluting.,
H as in Higgled (imp. & p. p.) of Higgle,
H as in Higgling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Higgle,
H as in Higgle (v. i.) To hawk or peddle provisions.,
H as in Higgle (v. i.) To chaffer; to stickle for small advantages in buying and selling; to haggle.,
H as in Higgledy-piggledy (adv.) In confusion; topsy-turvy.,
H as in Higgler (n.) One who higgles.,
H as in High (v. i.) To hie.,
H as in High (superl.) Elevated above any starting point of measurement, as a line, or surface; having altitude; lifted up; raised or extended in the direction of the zenith; lofty; tall; as, a high mountain, tower, tree; the sun is high.,
H as in High (superl.) Regarded as raised up or elevated; distinguished; remarkable; conspicuous; superior; -- used indefinitely or relatively, and often in figurative senses, which are understood from the connection,
H as in High (superl.) Elevated in character or quality, whether moral or intellectual; preeminent; honorable; as, high aims, or motives.,
H as in High (superl.) Exalted in social standing or general estimation, or in rank, reputation, office, and the like; dignified; as, she was welcomed in the highest circles.,
H as in High (superl.) Of noble birth; illustrious; as, of high family.,
H as in High (superl.) Of great strength, force, importance, and the like; strong; mighty; powerful; violent; sometimes, triumphant; victorious; majestic, etc.; as, a high wind; high passions.,
H as in High (superl.) Very abstract; difficult to comprehend or surmount; grand; noble.,
H as in High (superl.) Costly; dear in price; extravagant; as, to hold goods at a high price.,
H as in High (superl.) Arrogant; lofty; boastful; proud; ostentatious; -- used in a bad sense.,
H as in High (superl.) Possessing a characteristic quality in a supreme or superior degree; as, high (i. e., intense) heat; high (i. e., full or quite) noon; high (i. e., rich or spicy) seasoning; high (i. e., complete) pleasure; high (i. e., deep or vivid) color; high (i. e., extensive, thorough) scholarship, etc.,
H as in High (superl.) Strong-scented; slightly tainted; as, epicures do not cook game before it is high.,
H as in High (superl.) Acute or sharp; -- opposed to grave or low; as, a high note.,
H as in High (superl.) Made with a high position of some part of the tongue in relation to the palate, as / (/ve), / (f/d). See Guide to Pronunciation, // 10, 11.,
H as in High (adv.) In a high manner; in a high place; to a great altitude; to a great degree; largely; in a superior manner; eminently; powerfully.,
H as in High (n.) An elevated place; a superior region; a height; the sky; heaven.,
H as in High (n.) People of rank or high station; as, high and low.,
H as in High (n.) The highest card dealt or drawn.,
H as in High (v. i.) To rise; as, the sun higheth.,
H as in Highbinder (n.) A ruffian; one who hounds, or spies upon, another; app. esp. to the members of certain alleged societies among the Chinese.,
H as in High-blown (a.) Inflated, as with conceit.,
H as in Highborn (a.) Of noble birth.,
H as in High-bred (a.) Bred in high life; of pure blood.,
H as in High-built (a.) Of lofty structure; tall.,
H as in High-church (a.) Of or pertaining to, or favoring, the party called the High Church, or their doctrines or policy. See High Church, under High, a.,
H as in High-churchism (n.) The principles of the high-church party.,
H as in -men (pl. ) of High-churchman,
H as in High-churchman (n.) One who holds high-church principles.,
H as in High-churchman-ship (n.) The state of being a high-churchman.,
H as in High-colored (a.) Having a strong, deep, or glaring color; flushed.,
H as in High-colored (a.) Vivid; strong or forcible in representation; hence, exaggerated; as, high-colored description.,
H as in High-embowed (a.) Having lofty arches.,
H as in Highering (a.) Rising higher; ascending.,
H as in Highfaluting (n.) High-flown, bombastic language.,
H as in High-fed (a.) Pampered; fed luxuriously.,
H as in High-finished (a.) Finished with great care; polished.,
H as in Highflier (n.) One who is extravagant in pretensions, opinions, or manners.,
H as in High-flown (a.) Elevated; proud.,
H as in High-flown (a.) Turgid; extravagant; bombastic; inflated; as, high-flown language.,
H as in High-flushed (a.) Elated.,
H as in Highflying (a.) Extravagant in opinions or ambition.,
H as in High-go (n.) A spree; a revel.,
H as in High-handed (a.) Overbearing; oppressive; arbitrary; violent; as, a high-handed act.,
H as in High-hearted (a.) Full of courage or nobleness; high-souled.,
H as in High-hoe (n.) The European green woodpecker or yaffle.,
H as in High-holder (n.) The flicker; -- called also high-hole.,
H as in Highland (n.) Elevated or mountainous land; (often in the pl.) an elevated region or country; as, the Highlands of Scotland.,
H as in Highlander (n.) An inhabitant of highlands, especially of the Highlands of Scotland.,
H as in Highlandry (n.) Highlanders, collectively.,
H as in High-low (n.) A laced boot, ankle high.,
H as in Highly (adv.) In a high manner, or to a high degree; very much; as, highly esteemed.,
H as in Highmen (n. pl.) Loaded dice so contrived as to turn up high numbers.,
H as in High-mettled (a.) Having abundance of mettle; ardent; full of fire; as, a high-mettled steed.,
H as in High-minded (a.) Proud; arrogant.,
H as in High-minded (a.) Having, or characterized by, honorable pride; of or pertaining to elevated principles and feelings; magnanimous; -- opposed to mean.,
H as in High-mindedness (n.) The quality of being highminded; nobleness; magnanimity.,
H as in Highmost (a.) Highest.,
H as in Highness (n.) The state of being high; elevation; loftiness.,
H as in Highness (n.) A title of honor given to kings, princes, or other persons of rank; as, His Royal Highness.,
H as in High-palmed (a.) Having high antlers; bearing full-grown antlers aloft.,
H as in High-pressure (a.) Having or involving a pressure greatly exceeding that of the atmosphere; -- said of steam, air, water, etc., and of steam, air, or hydraulic engines, water wheels, etc.,
H as in High-pressure (a.) Fig.: Urgent; intense; as, a high-pressure business or social life.,
H as in High priest () A chief priest; esp., the head of the Jewish priesthood.,
H as in High-priesthood (n.) The office, dignity, or position of a high priest.,
H as in High-priestship (n.) High-priesthood.,
H as in High-principled (a.) Possessed of noble or honorable principles.,
H as in High-proof (a.) Highly rectified; very strongly alcoholic; as, high-proof spirits.,
H as in High-proof (a.) So as to stand any test.,
H as in High-raised (a.) Elevated; raised aloft; upreared.,
H as in High-raised (a.) Elated with great ideas or hopes.,
H as in High-reaching (a.) Reaching high or upward; hence, ambitious; aspiring.,
H as in High-red (a.) Of a strong red color.,
H as in Highroad (n.) A highway; a much traveled or main road.,
H as in High-seasoned (a.) Enriched with spice and condiments; hence, exciting; piquant.,
H as in High-sighted (a.) Looking upward; supercilious.,
H as in High-souled (a.) Having a high or noble spirit; honorable.,
H as in High-sounding (a.) Pompous; noisy; ostentatious; as, high-sounding words or titles.,
H as in High-spirited (a.) Full of spirit or natural fire; haughty; courageous; impetuous; not brooking restraint or opposition.,
H as in High-stepper (n.) A horse that moves with a high step or proud gait; hence, a person having a proud bearing.,
H as in High-stomached (a.) Having a lofty spirit; haughty.,
H as in High-strung (a.) Strung to a high pitch; spirited; sensitive; as, a high-strung horse.,
H as in High-swelling (a.) Inflated; boastful.,
H as in Hight (n.) A variant of Height.,
H as in Hight (imp.) of Hight,
H as in Hot () of Hight,
H as in Hight (p. p.) of Hight,
H as in Hote () of Hight,
H as in Hoten () of Hight,
H as in Hight (v. t. & i.) To be called or named.,
H as in Hight (v. t. & i.) To command; to direct; to impel.,
H as in Hight (v. t. & i.) To commit; to intrust.,
H as in Hight (v. t. & i.) To promise.,
H as in Hightener (n.) That which heightens.,
H as in Highth (n.) Variant of Height.,
H as in High-toned (a.) High in tone or sound.,
H as in High-toned (a.) Elevated; high-principled; honorable.,
H as in High-top (n.) A ship's masthead.,
H as in Highty-tighty (a.) Hoity-toity.,
H as in Highway (n.) A road or way open to the use of the public; a main road or thoroughfare.,
H as in Highwaymen (pl. ) of Highwayman,
H as in Highwayman (n.) One who robs on the public road; a highway robber.,
H as in High-wrought (a.) Wrought with fine art or skill; elaborate.,
H as in High-wrought (a.) Worked up, or swollen, to a high degree; as, a highwrought passion.,
H as in Higre (n.) See Eagre.,
H as in Hig-taper (n.) A plant of the genus Verbascum (V. Thapsus); the common mullein. [Also high-taper and hag-taper.],
H as in Hijera (n.) Alt. of Hijra,
H as in Hijra (n.) See Hegira.,
H as in Hilal (a.) Of or pertaining to a hilum.,
H as in Hilar (a.) Belonging to the hilum.,
H as in Hilarious (a.) Mirthful; noisy; merry.,
H as in Hilarity (n.) Boisterous mirth; merriment; jollity.,
H as in Hilary term () Formerly, one of the four terms of the courts of common law in England, beginning on the eleventh of January and ending on the thirty-first of the same month, in each year; -- so called from the festival of St. Hilary, January 13th.,
H as in Hilding (n.) A base, menial wretch.,
H as in Hilding (a.) Base; spiritless.,
H as in Hile (v. t.) To hide. See Hele.,
H as in Hile (n.) Same as Hilum.,
H as in Hill (n.) A natural elevation of land, or a mass of earth rising above the common level of the surrounding land; an eminence less than a mountain.,
H as in Hill (n.) The earth raised about the roots of a plant or cluster of plants. [U. S.] See Hill, v. t.,
H as in Hill (v. t.) A single cluster or group of plants growing close together, and having the earth heaped up about them; as, a hill of corn or potatoes.,
H as in Hilled (imp. & p. p.) of Hill,
H as in Hilling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hill,
H as in Hill (v. t.) To surround with earth; to heap or draw earth around or upon; as, to hill corn.,
H as in Hilliness (n.) The state of being hilly.,
H as in Hilling (n.) The act or process of heaping or drawing earth around plants.,
H as in Hillock (n.) A small hill.,
H as in Hillside (n.) The side or declivity of a hill.,
H as in Hilltop (n.) The top of a hill.,
H as in Hilly (a.) Abounding with hills; uneven in surface; as, a hilly country.,
H as in Hilly (a.) Lofty; as, hilly empire.,
H as in Hilt (n.) A handle; especially, the handle of a sword, dagger, or the like.,
H as in Hilted (a.) Having a hilt; -- used in composition; as, basket-hilted, cross-hilted.,
H as in Hilum (n.) The eye of a bean or other seed; the mark or scar at the point of attachment of an ovule or seed to its base or support; -- called also hile.,
H as in Hilum (n.) The part of a gland, or similar organ, where the blood vessels and nerves enter; the hilus; as, the hilum of the kidney.,
H as in Hilus (n.) Same as Hilum, 2.,
H as in Him (pron.) Them. See Hem.,
H as in Him (pron.) The objective case of he. See He.,
H as in Himalayan (a.) Of or pertaining to the Himalayas, the great mountain chain in Hindostan.,
H as in Himpne (n.) A hymn.,
H as in Himself (pron.) An emphasized form of the third person masculine pronoun; -- used as a subject usually with he; as, he himself will bear the blame; used alone in the predicate, either in the nominative or objective case; as, it is himself who saved himself.,
H as in Himself (pron.) One's true or real character; one's natural temper and disposition; the state of being in one's right or sane mind (after unconsciousness, passion, delirium, or abasement); as, the man has come to himself.,
H as in Himself (pron. pl.) Alt. of Himselven,
H as in Himselven (pron. pl.) Themselves. See Hemself.,
H as in Himselve (pron.) See 1st Himself.,
H as in Himyaric (a.) Alt. of Himyaritic,
H as in Himyaritic (a.) Pertaining to Himyar, an ancient king of Yemen, in Arabia, or to his successors or people; as, the Himjaritic characters, language, etc.; applied esp. to certain ancient inscriptions showing the primitive type of the oldest form of the Arabic, still spoken in Southern Arabia.,
H as in Hin (n.) A Hebrew measure of liquids, containing three quarts, one pint, one gill, English measure.,
H as in Hind (n.) The female of the red deer, of which the male is the stag.,
H as in Hind (n.) A spotted food fish of the genus Epinephelus, as E. apua of Bermuda, and E. Drummond-hayi of Florida; -- called also coney, John Paw, spotted hind.,
H as in Hind (n.) A domestic; a servant.,
H as in Hind (n.) A peasant; a rustic; a farm servant.,
H as in Hind (a.) In the rear; -- opposed to front; of or pertaining to the part or end which follows or is behind, in opposition to the part which leads or is before; as, the hind legs or hind feet of a quadruped; the hind man in a procession.,
H as in Hindberry (n.) The raspberry.,
H as in Hindbrain (n.) The posterior of the three principal divisions of the brain, including the epencephalon and metencephalon. Sometimes restricted to the epencephalon only.,
H as in Hinder (a.) Of or belonging to that part or end which is in the rear, or which follows; as, the hinder part of a wagon; the hinder parts of a horse.,
H as in Hindered (imp. & p. p.) of Hinder,
H as in Hindering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hinder,
H as in Hinder (a.) To keep back or behind; to prevent from starting or moving forward; to check; to retard; to obstruct; to bring to a full stop; -- often followed by from; as, an accident hindered the coach; drought hinders the growth of plants; to hinder me from going.,
H as in Hinder (a.) To prevent or embarrass; to debar; to shut out.,
H as in Hinder (v. i.) To interpose obstacles or impediments; to be a hindrance.,
H as in Hinderance (n.) Same as Hindrance.,
H as in Hinderer (n.) One who, or that which, hinders.,
H as in Hinderest (a.) Hindermost; -- superl. of Hind, a.,
H as in Hinderling (a.) A worthless, base, degenerate person or animal.,
H as in Hindermost (a.) Alt. of Hindmost,
H as in Hindmost (a.) Furthest in or toward the rear; last.,
H as in Hindgut (n.) The posterior part of the alimentary canal, including the rectum, and sometimes the large intestine also.,
H as in Hindi (n.) The name given by Europeans to that form of the Hindustani language which is chiefly spoken by native Hindoos. In employs the Devanagari character, in which Sanskrit is written.,
H as in Hindleys screw () A screw cut on a solid whose sides are arcs of the periphery of a wheel into the teeth of which the screw is intended to work. It is named from the person who first used the form.,
H as in Hindoos (pl. ) of Hindu,
H as in Hindus (pl. ) of Hindu,
H as in Hindoo (n.) Alt. of Hindu,
H as in Hindu (n.) A native inhabitant of Hindostan. As an ethnical term it is confined to the Dravidian and Aryan races; as a religious name it is restricted to followers of the Veda.,
H as in Hindooism (n.) Alt. of Hinduism,
H as in Hinduism (n.) The religious doctrines and rites of the Hindoos; Brahmanism.,
H as in Hindoostanee (a.) Alt. of Hindustani,
H as in Hindustani (a.) Of or pertaining to the Hindoos or their language.,
H as in Hindustani (n.) The language of Hindostan; the name given by Europeans to the most generally spoken of the modern Aryan languages of India. It is Hindi with the addition of Persian and Arabic words.,
H as in Hindrance (v. t.) The act of hindering, or the state of being hindered.,
H as in Hindrance (v. t.) That which hinders; an impediment.,
H as in Hindu (n.) Same as Hindoo.,
H as in Hine (n.) A servant; a farm laborer; a peasant; a hind.,
H as in Hinge (n.) The hook with its eye, or the joint, on which a door, gate, lid, etc., turns or swings; a flexible piece, as a strip of leather, which serves as a joint to turn on.,
H as in Hinge (n.) That on which anything turns or depends; a governing principle; a cardinal point or rule; as, this argument was the hinge on which the question turned.,
H as in Hinge (n.) One of the four cardinal points, east, west, north, or south.,
H as in Hinged (imp. & p. p.) of Hinge,
H as in Hinging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hinge,
H as in Hinge (v. t.) To attach by, or furnish with, hinges.,
H as in Hinge (v. t.) To bend.,
H as in Hinge (v. i.) To stand, depend, hang, or turn, as on a hinge; to depend chiefly for a result or decision or for force and validity; -- usually with on or upon; as, the argument hinges on this point.,
H as in Hinged (a.) Furnished with hinges.,
H as in Hingeless (a.) Without a hinge or joint.,
H as in Hink (n.) A reaping hook.,
H as in Hinniate (v. i.) Alt. of Hinny,
H as in Hinny (v. i.) To neigh; to whinny.,
H as in Hinnies (pl. ) of Hinny,
H as in Hinny (n.) A hybrid between a stallion and an ass.,
H as in Hinny (n.) A term of endearment; darling; -- corrupted from honey.,
H as in Hinted (imp. & p. p.) of Hint,
H as in Hinting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hint,
H as in Hint (v. t.) To bring to mind by a slight mention or remote allusion; to suggest in an indirect manner; as, to hint a suspicion.,
H as in Hint (v. i.) To make an indirect reference, suggestion, or allusion; to allude vaguely to something.,
H as in Hint (n.) A remote allusion; slight mention; intimation; insinuation; a suggestion or reminder, without a full declaration or explanation; also, an occasion or motive.,
H as in Hintingly (adv.) In a hinting manner.,
H as in Hip (n.) The projecting region of the lateral parts of one side of the pelvis and the hip joint; the haunch; the huckle.,
H as in Hip (n.) The external angle formed by the meeting of two sloping sides or skirts of a roof, which have their wall plates running in different directions.,
H as in Hip (n.) In a bridge truss, the place where an inclined end post meets the top chord.,
H as in Hipped (imp. & p. p.) of Hip,
H as in Hipping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hip,
H as in Hip (v. t.) To dislocate or sprain the hip of, to fracture or injure the hip bone of (a quadruped) in such a manner as to produce a permanent depression of that side.,
H as in Hip (v. t.) To throw (one's adversary) over one's hip in wrestling (technically called cross buttock).,
H as in Hip (v. t.) To make with a hip or hips, as a roof.,
H as in Hip (n.) The fruit of a rosebush, especially of the English dog-rose (Rosa canina).,
H as in Hip (interj.) Used to excite attention or as a signal; as, hip, hip, hurra!,
H as in Hip (n.) Alt. of Hipps,
H as in Hipps (n.) See Hyp, n.,
H as in Hiphalt (a.) Lame in the hip.,
H as in Hippa (n.) Alt. of Hippe,
H as in Hippe (n.) A genus of marine decapod crustaceans, which burrow rapidly in the sand by pushing themselves backward; -- called also bait bug. See Illust. under Anomura.,
H as in Hipparion (n.) An extinct genus of Tertiary mammals allied to the horse, but three-toed, having on each foot a small lateral hoof on each side of the main central one. It is believed to be one of the ancestral genera of the Horse family.,
H as in Hipped (a.) Alt. of Hippish,
H as in Hippish (a.) Somewhat hypochondriac; melancholy. See Hyppish.,
H as in Hippobosca (n.) A genus of dipterous insects including the horsefly or horse tick.,
H as in Hippocamp (n.) See Hippocampus.,
H as in Hippocampal (a.) Of or pertaining to the hippocampus.,
H as in Hippocampus (n.) A fabulous monster, with the head and fore quarters of a horse joined to the tail of a dolphin or other fish (Hippocampus brevirostris), -- seen in Pompeian paintings, attached to the chariot of Neptune.,
H as in Hippocampus (n.) A genus of lophobranch fishes of several species in which the head and neck have some resemblance to those of a horse; -- called also sea horse.,
H as in Hippocampus (n.) A name applied to either of two ridges of white matter in each lateral ventricle of the brain. The larger is called hippocampus major or simply hippocampus. The smaller, hippocampus minor, is called also ergot and calcar.,
H as in Hippocentaur (n.) Same as Centaur.,
H as in Hippocras (n.) A cordial made of spiced wine, etc.,
H as in Hippocrates (n.) A famous Greek physician and medical writer, born in Cos, about 460 B. C.,
H as in Hippocratic (a.) Of or pertaining to Hippocrates, or to his teachings.,
H as in Hippocratism (n.) The medical philosophy or system of Hippocrates.,
H as in Hippocrene (n.) A fountain on Mount Helicon in Boeotia, fabled to have burst forth when the ground was struck by the hoof of Pegasus. Also, its waters, which were supposed to impart poetic inspiration.,
H as in Hippocrepian (n.) One of an order of fresh-water Bryozoa, in which the tentacles are on a lophophore, shaped like a horseshoe. See Phylactolaema.,
H as in Hippocrepiform (a.) Shaped like a horseshoe.,
H as in Hippodame (n.) A fabulous sea monster.,
H as in Hippodrome (n.) A place set apart for equestrian and chariot races.,
H as in Hippodrome (n.) An arena for equestrian performances; a circus.,
H as in Hippogriff (n.) A fabulous winged animal, half horse and half griffin.,
H as in Hippolith (n.) A concretion, or kind of bezoar, from the intestines of the horse.,
H as in Hippopathology (n.) The science of veterinary medicine; the pathology of the horse.,
H as in Hippophagi (n. pl.) Eaters of horseflesh.,
H as in Hippophagism (n.) Hippophagy.,
H as in Hippophagist (n.) One who eats horseflesh.,
H as in Hippophagous (a.) Feeding on horseflesh; -- said of certain nomadic tribes, as the Tartars.,
H as in Hippophagy (n.) The act or practice of feeding on horseflesh.,
H as in Hippophile (n.) One who loves horses.,
H as in Hippopotamuses (pl. ) of Hippopotamus,
H as in Hippopotami (pl. ) of Hippopotamus,
H as in Hippopotamus (n.) A large, amphibious, herbivorous mammal (Hippopotamus amphibius), common in the rivers of Africa. It is allied to the hogs, and has a very thick, naked skin, a thick and square head, a very large muzzle, small eyes and ears, thick and heavy body, and short legs. It is supposed to be the behemoth of the Bible. Called also zeekoe, and river horse. A smaller species (H. Liberiencis) inhabits Western Africa.,
H as in Hippotomy (n.) Anatomy of the horse.,
H as in Hippuric (a.) Obtained from the urine of horses; as, hippuric acid.,
H as in Hippurite (n.) A fossil bivalve mollusk of the genus Hippurites, of many species, having a conical, cup-shaped under valve, with a flattish upper valve or lid. Hippurites are found only in the Cretaceous rocks.,
H as in Hip-roofed (a.) Having a hip roof.,
H as in Hipshot (a.) Having the hip dislocated; hence, having one hip lower than the other.,
H as in Hip tree () The dog-rose.,
H as in Hir (pron.) See Here, pron.,
H as in Hircic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or derived from, mutton suet; -- applied by Chevreul to an oily acid which was obtained from mutton suet, and to which he attributed the peculiar taste and smell of that substance. The substance has also been called hircin.,
H as in Hircin (n.) Hircic acid. See Hircic.,
H as in Hircine (a.) Alt. of Hircinous,
H as in Hircinous (a.) Goatlike; of or pertaining to a goat or the goats.,
H as in Hircinous (a.) Of a strong goatish smell.,
H as in Hire (pron.) See Here, pron.,
H as in Hire (n.) The price, reward, or compensation paid, or contracted to be paid, for the temporary use of a thing or a place, for personal service, or for labor; wages; rent; pay.,
H as in Hire (n.) A bailment by which the use of a thing, or the services and labor of a person, are contracted for at a certain price or reward.,
H as in Hired (imp. & p. p.) of Hire,
H as in Hiring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hire,
H as in Hire (n.) To procure (any chattel or estate) from another person, for temporary use, for a compensation or equivalent; to purchase the use or enjoyment of for a limited time; as, to hire a farm for a year; to hire money.,
H as in Hire (n.) To engage or purchase the service, labor, or interest of (any one) for a specific purpose, by payment of wages; as, to hire a servant, an agent, or an advocate.,
H as in Hire (n.) To grant the temporary use of, for compensation; to engage to give the service of, for a price; to let; to lease; -- now usually with out, and often reflexively; as, he has hired out his horse, or his time.,
H as in Hireless (a.) Without hire.,
H as in Hireling (n.) One who is hired, or who serves for wages; esp., one whose motive and interest in serving another are wholly gainful; a mercenary.,
H as in Hireling (a.) Serving for hire or wages; venal; mercenary.,
H as in Hirer (n.) One who hires.,
H as in Hires (pron.) Alt. of Hirs,
H as in Hirs (pron.) Hers; theirs. See Here, pron.,
H as in Hirsute (a.) Rough with hair; set with bristles; shaggy.,
H as in Hirsute (a.) Rough and coarse; boorish.,
H as in Hirsute (a.) Pubescent with coarse or stiff hairs.,
H as in Hirsute (a.) Covered with hairlike feathers, as the feet of certain birds.,
H as in Hirsuteness (n.) Hairiness.,
H as in Hirtellous (a.) Pubescent with minute and somewhat rigid hairs.,
H as in Hirudine (a.) Of or pertaining to the leeches.,
H as in Hirudinea (n. pl.) An order of Annelida, including the leeches; -- called also Hirudinei.,
H as in Hirudo (n.) A genus of leeches, including the common medicinal leech. See Leech.,
H as in Hirundine (a.) Like or pertaining to the swallows.,
H as in Hirundo (n.) A genus of birds including the swallows and martins.,
H as in His (pron.) Belonging or pertaining to him; -- used as a pronominal adjective or adjective pronoun; as, tell John his papers are ready; formerly used also for its, but this use is now obsolete.,
H as in His (pron.) The possessive of he; as, the book is his.,
H as in Hisingerite (n.) A soft black, iron ore, nearly earthy, a hydrous silicate of iron.,
H as in Hispanic (a.) Of or pertaining to Spain or its language; as, Hispanic words.,
H as in Hispanicism (n.) A Spanish idiom or mode of speech.,
H as in Hispanicize (v. t.) To give a Spanish form or character to; as, to Hispanicize Latin words.,
H as in Hispid (a.) Rough with bristles or minute spines.,
H as in Hispid (a.) Beset with stiff hairs or bristles.,
H as in Hispidulous (a.) Minutely hispid.,
H as in Hissed (imp. & p. p.) of Hiss,
H as in Hissing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hiss,
H as in Hiss (v. i.) To make with the mouth a prolonged sound like that of the letter s, by driving the breath between the tongue and the teeth; to make with the mouth a sound like that made by a goose or a snake when angered; esp., to make such a sound as an expression of hatred, passion, or disapproval.,
H as in Hiss (v. i.) To make a similar noise by any means; to pass with a sibilant sound; as, the arrow hissed as it flew.,
H as in Hiss (v. t.) To condemn or express contempt for by hissing.,
H as in Hiss (v. t.) To utter with a hissing sound.,
H as in Hiss (n.) A prolonged sound like that letter s, made by forcing out the breath between the tongue and teeth, esp. as a token of disapprobation or contempt.,
H as in Hiss (n.) Any sound resembling that above described,
H as in Hiss (n.) The noise made by a serpent.,
H as in Hiss (n.) The note of a goose when irritated.,
H as in Hiss (n.) The noise made by steam escaping through a narrow orifice, or by water falling on a hot stove.,
H as in Hissing (n.) The act of emitting a hiss or hisses.,
H as in Hissing (n.) The occasion of contempt; the object of scorn and derision.,
H as in Hissingly (adv.) With a hissing sound.,
H as in Hist (interj.) Hush; be silent; -- a signal for silence.,
H as in Histiology (n.) Same as Histology.,
H as in Histogenesis (n.) The formation and development of organic tissues; histogeny; -- the opposite of histolysis.,
H as in Histogenesis (n.) Germ history of cells, and of the tissues composed of cells.,
H as in Histogenetic (a.) Tissue-producing; connected with the formation and development of the organic tissues.,
H as in Histogeny (n.) Same as Histogenesis.,
H as in Histographer (n.) One who describes organic tissues; an histologist.,
H as in Histographical (a.) Of or pertaining to histography.,
H as in Histography (n.) A description of, or treatise on, organic tissues.,
H as in Histohaematin (n.) One of a class of respiratory pigments, widely distributed in the animal kingdom, capable of ready oxidation and reduction.,
H as in Histoid (a.) Resembling the normal tissues; as, histoid tumors.,
H as in Histologic (a.) Alt. of Histological,
H as in Histological (a.) Pertaining to histology, or to the microscopic structure of the tissues of living organisms.,
H as in Histologist (n.) One versed in histology.,
H as in Histology (n.) That branch of biological science, which treats of the minute (microscopic) structure of animal and vegetable tissues; -- called also histiology.,
H as in Histolysis (n.) The decay and dissolution of the organic tissues and of the blood.,
H as in Histolytic (a.) Of or pertaining to histolysis, or the degeneration of tissues.,
H as in Histonomy (n.) The science which treats of the laws relating to organic tissues, their formation, development, functions, etc.,
H as in Histophyly (n.) The tribal history of cells, a division of morphophyly.,
H as in Historial (a.) Historical.,
H as in Historian (n.) A writer of history; a chronicler; an annalist.,
H as in Historian (n.) One versed or well informed in history.,
H as in Historic (a.) Alt. of Historical,
H as in Historical (a.) Of or pertaining to history, or the record of past events; as, an historical poem; the historic page.,
H as in Historically (adv.) In the manner of, or in accordance with, history.,
H as in Historicize (v. t.) To record or narrate in the manner of a history; to chronicle.,
H as in Historied (a.) Related in history.,
H as in Historier (n.) An historian.,
H as in Historiette (n.) Historical narration on a small scale; a brief recital; a story.,
H as in Histority (v. t.) To record in or as history.,
H as in Historiographer (n.) An historian; a writer of history; especially, one appointed or designated to write a history; also, a title bestowed by some governments upon historians of distinction.,
H as in Historiographership (n.) The office of an historiographer.,
H as in Historiography (n.) The art of employment of an historiographer.,
H as in Historiology (n.) A discourse on history.,
H as in Historionomer (n.) One versed in the phenomena of history and the laws controlling them.,
H as in Historize (v. t.) To relate as history; to chronicle; to historicize.,
H as in Histories (pl. ) of History,
H as in History (n.) A learning or knowing by inquiry; the knowledge of facts and events, so obtained; hence, a formal statement of such information; a narrative; a description; a written record; as, the history of a patient's case; the history of a legislative bill.,
H as in History (n.) A systematic, written account of events, particularly of those affecting a nation, institution, science, or art, and usually connected with a philosophical explanation of their causes; a true story, as distinguished from a romance; -- distinguished also from annals, which relate simply the facts and events of each year, in strict chronological order; from biography, which is the record of an individual's life; and from memoir, which is history composed from personal experience, observation, and memory.,
H as in History (v. t.) To narrate or record.,
H as in Histotomy (n.) The dissection of organic tissues.,
H as in Histozyme (n.) A soluble ferment occurring in the animal body, to the presence of which many normal decompositions and synthetical processes are supposed to be due.,
H as in Histrion (n.) A player.,
H as in Histrionic (a.) Alt. of Histrionical,
H as in Histrionical (a.) Of or relating to the stage or a stageplayer; befitting a theatre; theatrical; -- sometimes in a bad sense.,
H as in Histrionicism (n.) The histronic art; stageplaying.,
H as in Histrionism (n.) Theatrical representation; acting; affectation.,
H as in Histrionize (v. t.) To act; to represent on the stage, or theatrically.,
H as in Hit (pron.) It.,
H as in Hit () 3d pers. sing. pres. of Hide, contracted from hideth.,
H as in Hit (imp. & p. p.) of Hit,
H as in Hitting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hit,
H as in Hit (v. t.) To reach with a stroke or blow; to strike or touch, usually with force; especially, to reach or touch (an object aimed at).,
H as in Hit (v. t.) To reach or attain exactly; to meet according to the occasion; to perform successfully; to attain to; to accord with; to be conformable to; to suit.,
H as in Hit (v. t.) To guess; to light upon or discover.,
H as in Hit (v. t.) To take up, or replace by a piece belonging to the opposing player; -- said of a single unprotected piece on a point.,
H as in Hit (v. i.) To meet or come in contact; to strike; to clash; -- followed by against or on.,
H as in Hit (v. i.) To meet or reach what was aimed at or desired; to succeed, -- often with implied chance, or luck.,
H as in Hit (n.) A striking against; the collision of one body against another; the stroke that touches anything.,
H as in Hit (n.) A stroke of success in an enterprise, as by a fortunate chance; as, he made a hit.,
H as in Hit (n.) A peculiarly apt expression or turn of thought; a phrase which hits the mark; as, a happy hit.,
H as in Hit (n.) A game won at backgammon after the adversary has removed some of his men. It counts less than a gammon.,
H as in Hit (n.) A striking of the ball; as, a safe hit; a foul hit; -- sometimes used specifically for a base hit.,
H as in Hit. (adj.) having become very popular or acclaimed; -- said of entertainment performances; as, a hit record, a hit movie.,
H as in Hitch (v. t.) To become entangled or caught; to be linked or yoked; to unite; to cling.,
H as in Hitch (v. t.) To move interruptedly or with halts, jerks, or steps; -- said of something obstructed or impeded.,
H as in Hitch (v. t.) To hit the legs together in going, as horses; to interfere.,
H as in Hitched (imp. & p. p.) of Hitch,
H as in Hitching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hitch,
H as in Hitch (v. t.) To hook; to catch or fasten as by a hook or a knot; to make fast, unite, or yoke; as, to hitch a horse, or a halter.,
H as in Hitch (v. t.) To move with hitches; as, he hitched his chair nearer.,
H as in Hitch (n.) A catch; anything that holds, as a hook; an impediment; an obstacle; an entanglement.,
H as in Hitch (n.) The act of catching, as on a hook, etc.,
H as in Hitch (n.) A stop or sudden halt; a stoppage; an impediment; a temporary obstruction; an obstacle; as, a hitch in one's progress or utterance; a hitch in the performance.,
H as in Hitch (n.) A sudden movement or pull; a pull up; as, the sailor gave his trousers a hitch.,
H as in Hitch (n.) A knot or noose in a rope which can be readily undone; -- intended for a temporary fastening; as, a half hitch; a clove hitch; a timber hitch, etc.,
H as in Hitch (n.) A small dislocation of a bed or vein.,
H as in Hitchel (n. & v. t.) See Hatchel.,
H as in Hithe (n.) A port or small haven; -- used in composition; as, Lambhithe, now Lambeth.,
H as in Hither (adv.) To this place; -- used with verbs signifying motion, and implying motion toward the speaker; correlate of hence and thither; as, to come or bring hither.,
H as in Hither (adv.) To this point, source, conclusion, design, etc.; -- in a sense not physical.,
H as in Hither (a.) Being on the side next or toward the person speaking; nearer; -- correlate of thither and farther; as, on the hither side of a hill.,
H as in Hither (a.) Applied to time: On the hither side of, younger than; of fewer years than.,
H as in Hithermost (a.) Nearest on this side.,
H as in Hitherto (adv.) To this place; to a prescribed limit.,
H as in Hitherto (adv.) Up to this time; as yet; until now.,
H as in Hitherward (adv.) Toward this place; hither.,
H as in Hitter (n.) One who hits or strikes; as, a hard hitter.,
H as in Hive (n.) A box, basket, or other structure, for the reception and habitation of a swarm of honeybees.,
H as in Hive (n.) The bees of one hive; a swarm of bees.,
H as in Hive (n.) A place swarming with busy occupants; a crowd.,
H as in Hived (imp. & p. p.) of Hive,
H as in Hiving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hive,
H as in Hive (v. t.) To collect into a hive; to place in, or cause to enter, a hive; as, to hive a swarm of bees.,
H as in Hive (v. t.) To store up in a hive, as honey; hence, to gather and accumulate for future need; to lay up in store.,
H as in Hive (v. i.) To take shelter or lodgings together; to reside in a collective body.,
H as in Hiveless (a.) Destitute of a hive.,
H as in Hiver (n.) One who collects bees into a hive.,
H as in Hives (n.) The croup.,
H as in Hives (n.) An eruptive disease (Varicella globularis), allied to the chicken pox.,
H as in Hizz (v. i.) To hiss.,
H as in Ho (pron.) Who.,
H as in Ho (interj.) Alt. of Hoa,
H as in Hoa (interj.) A stop; a halt; a moderation of pace.,
H as in Ho (interj.) Alt. of Hoa,
H as in Hoa (interj.) Halloo! attend! -- a call to excite attention, or to give notice of approach.,
H as in Hoa (interj.) Stop! stand still! hold! -- a word now used by teamsters, but formerly to order the cessation of anything.,
H as in Hoar (a.) White, or grayish white; as, hoar frost; hoar cliffs.,
H as in Hoar (a.) Gray or white with age; hoary.,
H as in Hoar (a.) Musty; moldy; stale.,
H as in Hoar (n.) Hoariness; antiquity.,
H as in Hoar (v. t.) To become moldy or musty.,
H as in Hoard (n.) See Hoarding, 2.,
H as in Hoard (n.) A store, stock, or quantity of anything accumulated or laid up; a hidden supply; a treasure; as, a hoard of provisions; a hoard of money.,
H as in Hoarded (imp. & p. p.) of Hoard,
H as in Hoarding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hoard,
H as in Hoard (v. t.) To collect and lay up; to amass and deposit in secret; to store secretly, or for the sake of keeping and accumulating; as, to hoard grain.,
H as in Hoard (v. i.) To lay up a store or hoard, as of money.,
H as in Hoarder (n.) One who hoards.,
H as in Hoarding (n.) A screen of boards inclosing a house and materials while builders are at work.,
H as in Hoarding (n.) A fence, barrier, or cover, inclosing, surrounding, or concealing something.,
H as in Hoared (a.) Moldy; musty.,
H as in Hoarfrost (n.) The white particles formed by the congelation of dew; white frost.,
H as in Hoarhound (n.) Same as Horehound.,
H as in Hoariness (n.) The state of being hoary.,
H as in Hoarse (superl.) Having a harsh, rough, grating voice or sound, as when affected with a cold; making a rough, harsh cry or sound; as, the hoarse raven.,
H as in Hoarse (superl.) Harsh; grating; discordant; -- said of any sound.,
H as in Hoarsely (adv.) With a harsh, grating sound or voice.,
H as in Hoarsened (imp. & p. p.) of Hoarsen,
H as in Hoarsening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hoarsen,
H as in Hoarsen (v. t.) To make hoarse.,
H as in Hoarseness (n.) Harshness or roughness of voice or sound, due to mucus collected on the vocal cords, or to swelling or looseness of the cords.,
H as in Hoarstone (n.) A stone designating the /ounds of an estate; a landmark.,
H as in Hoary (a.) White or whitish.,
H as in Hoary (a.) White or gray with age; hoar; as, hoary hairs.,
H as in Hoary (a.) remote in time past; as, hoary antiquity.,
H as in Hoary (a.) Moldy; mossy; musty.,
H as in Hoary (a.) Of a pale silvery gray.,
H as in Hoary (a.) Covered with short, dense, grayish white hairs; canescent.,
H as in Hoatzin (n.) Same as Hoazin.,
H as in Hoax (n.) A deception for mockery or mischief; a deceptive trick or story; a practical joke.,
H as in Hoaxed (imp. & p. p.) of Hoax,
H as in Hoaxing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hoax,
H as in Hoax (v. t.) To deceive by a story or a trick, for sport or mischief; to impose upon sportively.,
H as in Hoaxer (n.) One who hoaxes.,
H as in Hoazin (n.) A remarkable South American bird (Opisthocomus cristatus); the crested touraco. By some zoologists it is made the type of a distinct order (Opisthocomi).,
H as in Hob (n.) The hub of a wheel. See Hub.,
H as in Hob (n.) The flat projection or iron shelf at the side of a fire grate, where things are put to be kept warm.,
H as in Hob (n.) A threaded and fluted hardened steel cutter, resembling a tap, used in a lathe for forming the teeth of screw chasers, worm wheels, etc.,
H as in Hob (n.) A fairy; a sprite; an elf.,
H as in Hob (n.) A countryman; a rustic; a clown.,
H as in Hobanob (v. i.) Alt. of Hobandnob,
H as in Hobandnob (v. i.) Same as Hobnob.,
H as in Hobbism (n.) The philosophical system of Thomas Hobbes, an English materialist (1588-1679); esp., his political theory that the most perfect form of civil government is an absolute monarchy with despotic control over everything relating to law, morals, and religion.,
H as in Hobbist (n.) One who accepts the doctrines of Thomas Hobbes.,
H as in Hobbled (imp. & p. p.) of Hobble,
H as in Hobbling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hobble,
H as in Hobble (n. i.) To walk lame, bearing chiefly on one leg; to walk with a hitch or hop, or with crutches.,
H as in Hobble (n. i.) To move roughly or irregularly; -- said of style in writing.,
H as in Hobble (v. t.) To fetter by tying the legs; to hopple; to clog.,
H as in Hobble (v. t.) To perplex; to embarrass.,
H as in Hobble (n.) An unequal gait; a limp; a halt; as, he has a hobble in his gait.,
H as in Hobble (n.) Same as Hopple.,
H as in Hobble (n.) Difficulty; perplexity; embarrassment.,
H as in Hobblebush (n.) A low bush (Viburnum lantanoides) having long, straggling branches and handsome flowers. It is found in the Northern United States. Called also shinhopple.,
H as in Hobbledehoy (n.) Alt. of Hobbletehoy,
H as in Hobbletehoy (n.) A youth between boy and man; an awkward, gawky young fellow .,
H as in Hobbler (n.) One who hobbles.,
H as in Hobbler (n.) One who by his tenure was to maintain a horse for military service; a kind of light horseman in the Middle Ages who was mounted on a hobby.,
H as in Hobblingly (adv.) With a limping step.,
H as in Hobbly (a.) Rough; uneven; causing one to hobble; as a hobbly road.,
H as in Hobbies (pl. ) of Hobby,
H as in Hobby (n.) A small, strong-winged European falcon (Falco subbuteo), formerly trained for hawking.,
H as in Hobby (n.) Alt. of Hobbyhorse,
H as in Hobbyhorse (n.) A strong, active horse, of a middle size, said to have been originally from Ireland; an ambling nag.,
H as in Hobbyhorse (n.) A stick, often with the head or figure of a horse, on which boys make believe to ride.,
H as in Hobbyhorse (n.) A subject or plan upon which one is constantly setting off; a favorite and ever-recurring theme of discourse, thought, or effort; that which occupies one's attention unduly, or to the weariness of others; a ruling passion.,
H as in Hobbyhorsical (n.) Pertaining to, or having, a hobby or whim; eccentric; whimsical.,
H as in Hobgoblin (n.) A frightful goblin; an imp; a bugaboo; also, a name formerly given to the household spirit, Robin Goodfellow.,
H as in Hobiler (n.) A light horseman. See 2d Hobbler.,
H as in Hobit (n.) A small mortar on a gun carriage, in use before the howitzer.,
H as in Hobnail (n.) A short, sharp-pointed, large-headed nail, -- used in shoeing houses and for studding the soles of heavy shoes.,
H as in Hobnail (n.) A clownish person; a rustic.,
H as in Hobnail (v. t.) To tread down roughly, as with hobnailed shoes.,
H as in Hobnailed (a.) See with hobnails, as a shoe.,
H as in Hobnob (adv.) Have or have not; -- a familiar invitation to reciprocal drinking.,
H as in Hobnob (adv.) At random; hit or miss. (Obs.),
H as in Hornobbed (imp. & p. p.) of Hobnob,
H as in Hornobbing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hobnob,
H as in Hobnob (v. i.) To drink familiarly (with another).,
H as in Hobnob (v. i.) To associate familiarly; to be on intimate terms.,
H as in Hobnob (n.) Familiar, social intercourse.,
H as in Hobornob (adv.) See Hobnob.,
H as in Hoboy (n.) A hautboy or oboe.,
H as in Hobson's choice () A choice without an alternative; the thing offered or nothing.,
H as in Hocco (n.) The crested curassow; -- called also royal pheasant. See Curassow.,
H as in Hochepot (n.) Hotchpot.,
H as in Hock (n.) A Rhenish wine, of a light yellow color, either sparkling or still. The name is also given indiscriminately to all Rhenish wines.,
H as in Hock (n.) Alt. of Hough,
H as in Hough (n.) The joint in the hind limb of quadrupeds between the leg and shank, or tibia and tarsus, and corresponding to the ankle in man.,
H as in Hough (n.) A piece cut by butchers, esp. in pork, from either the front or hind leg, just above the foot.,
H as in Hough (n.) The popliteal space; the ham.,
H as in Hock (v. t.) To disable by cutting the tendons of the hock; to hamstring; to hough.,
H as in Hockamore (n.) A Rhenish wine. [Obs.] See Hock.,
H as in Hockday (n.) A holiday commemorating the expulsion of the Danes, formerly observed on the second Tuesday after Easter; -- called also hocktide.,
H as in Hockey (n.) A game in which two parties of players, armed with sticks curved or hooked at the end, attempt to drive any small object (as a ball or a bit of wood) toward opposite goals.,
H as in Hockey (n.) The stick used by the players.,
H as in Hockherb (n.) The mallow.,
H as in Hockled (imp. & p. p.) of Hockle,
H as in Hockling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hockle,
H as in Hockle (v. t.) To hamstring; to hock; to hough.,
H as in Hockle (v. t.) To mow, as stubble.,
H as in Hocus (v. t.) To deceive or cheat.,
H as in Hocus (v. t.) To adulterate; to drug; as, liquor is said to be hocused for the purpose of stupefying the drinker.,
H as in Hocus (v. t.) To stupefy with drugged liquor.,
H as in Hocus (n.) One who cheats or deceives.,
H as in Hocus (n.) Drugged liquor.,
H as in Hocuspocus (n.) A term used by jugglers in pretended incantations.,
H as in Hocuspocus (n.) A juggler or trickster.,
H as in Hocuspocus (n.) A juggler's trick; a cheat; nonsense.,
H as in Hocuspocus (v. t.) To cheat.,
H as in Hod (n.) A kind of wooden tray with a handle, borne on the shoulder, for carrying mortar, brick, etc.,
H as in Hod (n.) A utensil for holding coal; a coal scuttle.,
H as in Hoddengray (a.) Applied to coarse cloth made of undyed wool, formerly worn by Scotch peasants.,
H as in Hoddy (n.) See Dun crow, under Dun, a.,
H as in Hoddydoddy (n.) An awkward or foolish person.,
H as in Hodgepodge (n.) A mixed mass; a medley. See Hotchpot.,
H as in Hodgkin's disease () A morbid condition characterized by progressive anaemia and enlargement of the lymphatic glands; -- first described by Dr. Hodgkin, an English physician.,
H as in Hodiern (a.) Alt. of Hodiernal,
H as in Hodiernal (a.) Of this day; belonging to the present day.,
H as in Hodmen (pl. ) of Hodman,
H as in Hodman (n.) A man who carries a hod; a mason's tender.,
H as in Hodmandod (n.) See Dodman.,
H as in Hodograph (n.) A curve described by the moving extremity of a line the other end of which is fixed, this line being constantly parallel to the direction of motion of, and having its length constantly proportional to the velocity of, a point moving in any path; -used in investigations respecting central forces.,
H as in Hodometer (n.) See Odometer.,
H as in Hoe (n.) A tool chiefly for digging up weeds, and arranging the earth about plants in fields and gardens. It is made of a flat blade of iron or steel having an eye or tang by which it is attached to a wooden handle at an acute angle.,
H as in Hoe (n.) The horned or piked dogfish. See Dogfish.,
H as in Hoed (imp. & p. p.) of Hoe,
H as in Hoeing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hoe,
H as in Hoe (v. t.) To cut, dig, scrape, turn, arrange, or clean, with a hoe; as, to hoe the earth in a garden; also, to clear from weeds, or to loosen or arrange the earth about, with a hoe; as, to hoe corn.,
H as in Hoe (v. i.) To use a hoe; to labor with a hoe.,
H as in Hoecake (n.) A cake of Indian meal, water, and salt, baked before the fire or in the ashes; -- so called because often cooked on a hoe.,
H as in Hoemother (n.) The basking or liver shark; -- called also homer. See Liver shark, under Liver.,
H as in Hoful (a.) Careful; wary.,
H as in Hog (n.) A quadruped of the genus Sus, and allied genera of Suidae; esp., the domesticated varieties of S. scrofa, kept for their fat and meat, called, respectively, lard and pork; swine; porker; specifically, a castrated boar; a barrow.,
H as in Hog (n.) A mean, filthy, or gluttonous fellow.,
H as in Hog (n.) A young sheep that has not been shorn.,
H as in Hog (n.) A rough, flat scrubbing broom for scrubbing a ship's bottom under water.,
H as in Hog (n.) A device for mixing and stirring the pulp of which paper is made.,
H as in Hogged (imp. & p. p.) of Hog,
H as in Hogging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hog,
H as in Hog (v. t.) To cut short like bristles; as, to hog the mane of a horse.,
H as in Hog (v. t.) To scrub with a hog, or scrubbing broom.,
H as in Hog (v. i.) To become bent upward in the middle, like a hog's back; -- said of a ship broken or strained so as to have this form.,
H as in Hogback (n.) An upward curve or very obtuse angle in the upper surface of any member, as of a timber laid horizontally; -- the opposite of camber.,
H as in Hogback (n.) See Hogframe.,
H as in Hogback (n.) A ridge formed by tilted strata; hence, any ridge with a sharp summit, and steeply sloping sides.,
H as in Hogchain (n.) A chain or tie rod, in a boat or barge, to prevent the vessel from hogging.,
H as in Hogchoker (n.) An American sole (Achirus lineatus, or A. achirus), related to the European sole, but of no market value.,
H as in Hogcote (n.) A shed for swine; a sty.,
H as in Hogfish (n.) A large West Indian and Florida food fish (Lachnolaemus).,
H as in Hogfish (n.) The pigfish or sailor's choice.,
H as in Hogfish (n.) An American fresh-water fish; the log perch.,
H as in Hogfish (n.) A large, red, spiny-headed, European marine fish (Scorpaena scrofa).,
H as in Hogframe (n.) A trussed frame extending fore and aft, usually above deck, and intended to increase the longitudinal strength and stiffness. Used chiefly in American river and lake steamers. Called also hogging frame, and hogback.,
H as in Hogged (a.) Broken or strained so as to have an upward curve between the ends. See Hog, v. i.,
H as in Hogger (n.) A stocking without a foot, worn by coal miners at work.,
H as in Hoggerel (n.) A sheep of the second year. [Written also hogrel.] Ash.,
H as in Hoggerpipe (n.) The upper terminal pipe of a mining pump.,
H as in Hogger-pump (n.) The for pump in the pit.,
H as in Hoggery (n.) Hoggish character or manners; selfishness; greed; beastliness.,
H as in Hogget (n.) A young boar of the second year.,
H as in Hogget (n.) A sheep or colt alter it has passed its first year.,
H as in Hogging (n.) Drooping at the ends; arching;-in distinction from sagging.,
H as in Hoggish (a.) Swinish; gluttonous; filthy; selfish.,
H as in Hogh (n.) A hill; a cliff.,
H as in Hogherd (n.) A swineherd.,
H as in Hogmanay (n.) The old name, in Scotland, for the last day of the year, on which children go about singing, and receive a dole of bread or cakes; also, the entertainment given on that day to a visitor, or the gift given to an applicant.,
H as in Hognosesnake () A harmless North American snake of the genus Heterodon, esp. H. platyrhynos; -- called also puffing adder, blowing adder, and sand viper.,
H as in Hognut (n.) The pignut.,
H as in Hognut (n.) In England, the Bunium flexuosum, a tuberous plant.,
H as in Hogo (n.) High flavor; strong scent.,
H as in Hogpen (n.) A pen or sty for hogs.,
H as in Hogreeve (n.) A civil officer charged with the duty of impounding hogs running at large.,
H as in Hogringer (n.) One who puts rings into the snouts of hogs.,
H as in Hog's-back (n.) A hogback.,
H as in Hogscore (n.) A distance lime brawn across the rink or course between the middle line and the tee.,
H as in Hogshead (n.) An English measure of capacity, containing 63 wine gallons, or about 52/ imperial gallons; a half pipe.,
H as in Hogshead (n.) A large cask or barrel, of indefinite contents; esp. one containing from 100 to 140 gallons.,
H as in Hogskin (n.) Leather tanned from a hog's skin. Also used adjectively.,
H as in Hogsties (pl. ) of Hogsty,
H as in Hogsty (n.) A pen, house, or inclosure, for hogs.,
H as in Hogwash (n.) Swill.,
H as in Hogweed (n.) A common weed (Ambrosia artemisiaege). See Ambrosia, 3.,
H as in Hogweed (n.) In England, the Heracleum Sphondylium.,
H as in Hoiden (n.) A rude, clownish youth.,
H as in Hoiden (n.) A rude, bold girl; a romp.,
H as in Hoiden (a.) Rustic; rude; bold.,
H as in Hoiden (v. i.) To romp rudely or indecently.,
H as in Hoidenhood (n.) State of being a hoiden.,
H as in Hoidenish (a.) Like, or appropriate to, a hoiden.,
H as in Hoise (v. t.) To hoist.,
H as in Hoisted (imp. & p. p.) of Hoist,
H as in Hoisting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hoist,
H as in Hoist (v. t.) To raise; to lift; to elevate; esp., to raise or lift to a desired elevation, by means of tackle, as a sail, a flag, a heavy package or weight.,
H as in Hoist (n.) That by which anything is hoisted; the apparatus for lifting goods.,
H as in Hoist (n.) The act of hoisting; a lift.,
H as in Hoist (n.) The perpendicular height of a flag, as opposed to the fly, or horizontal length when flying from a staff.,
H as in Hoist (n.) The height of a fore-and-aft sail next the mast or stay.,
H as in Hoist (p. p.) Hoisted.,
H as in Hoistaway (n.) A mechanical lift. See Elevator.,
H as in Hoistway (n.) An opening for the hoist, or elevator, in the floor of a wareroom.,
H as in Hoit (v. i.) To leap; to caper; to romp noisily.,
H as in Hoity-toity (a.) Thoughtless; giddy; flighty; also, haughty; patronizing; as, to be in hoity-toity spirits, or to assume hoity-toity airs; used also as an exclamation, denoting surprise or disapprobation, with some degree of contempt.,
H as in Hokeday (n.) Same as Hockday.,
H as in Hoker (n.) Scorn; derision; abusive talk.,
H as in Hol (a.) Whole.,
H as in Holaspidean (a.) Having a single series of large scutes on the posterior side of the tarsus; -- said of certain birds.,
H as in Holcad (n.) A large ship of burden, in ancient Greece.,
H as in Hold (n.) The whole interior portion of a vessel below the lower deck, in which the cargo is stowed.,
H as in Held (imp. & p. p.) of Hold,
H as in Holding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hold,
H as in Holden () of Hold,
H as in Hold (v. t.) To cause to remain in a given situation, position, or relation, within certain limits, or the like; to prevent from falling or escaping; to sustain; to restrain; to keep in the grasp; to retain.,
H as in Hold (v. t.) To retain in one's keeping; to maintain possession of, or authority over; not to give up or relinquish; to keep; to defend.,
H as in Hold (v. t.) To have; to possess; to be in possession of; to occupy; to derive title to; as, to hold office.,
H as in Hold (v. t.) To impose restraint upon; to limit in motion or action; to bind legally or morally; to confine; to restrain.,
H as in Hold (v. t.) To maintain in being or action; to carry on; to prosecute, as a course of conduct or an argument; to continue; to sustain.,
H as in Hold (v. t.) To prosecute, have, take, or join in, as something which is the result of united action; as to, hold a meeting, a festival, a session, etc.; hence, to direct and bring about officially; to conduct or preside at; as, the general held a council of war; a judge holds a court; a clergyman holds a service.,
H as in Hold (v. t.) To receive and retain; to contain as a vessel; as, this pail holds milk; hence, to be able to receive and retain; to have capacity or containing power for.,
H as in Hold (v. t.) To accept, as an opinion; to be the adherent of, openly or privately; to persist in, as a purpose; to maintain; to sustain.,
H as in Hold (v. t.) To consider; to regard; to esteem; to account; to think; to judge.,
H as in Hold (v. t.) To bear, carry, or manage; as he holds himself erect; he holds his head high.,
H as in Hold (n. i.) In general, to keep one's self in a given position or condition; to remain fixed. Hence:,
H as in Hold (n. i.) Not to more; to halt; to stop;-mostly in the imperative.,
H as in Hold (n. i.) Not to give way; not to part or become separated; to remain unbroken or unsubdued.,
H as in Hold (n. i.) Not to fail or be found wanting; to continue; to last; to endure a test or trial; to abide; to persist.,
H as in Hold (n. i.) Not to fall away, desert, or prove recreant; to remain attached; to cleave;-often with with, to, or for.,
H as in Hold (n. i.) To restrain one's self; to refrain.,
H as in Hold (n. i.) To derive right or title; -- generally with of.,
H as in Hold (n.) The act of holding, as in or with the hands or arms; the manner of holding, whether firm or loose; seizure; grasp; clasp; gripe; possession; -- often used with the verbs take and lay.,
H as in Hold (n.) The authority or ground to take or keep; claim.,
H as in Hold (n.) Binding power and influence.,
H as in Hold (n.) Something that may be grasped; means of support.,
H as in Hold (n.) A place of confinement; a prison; confinement; custody; guard.,
H as in Hold (n.) A place of security; a fortified place; a fort; a castle; -- often called a stronghold.,
H as in Hold (n.) A character [thus /] placed over or under a note or rest, and indicating that it is to be prolonged; -- called also pause, and corona.,
H as in Holdback (n.) Check; hindrance; restraint; obstacle.,
H as in Holdback (n.) The projection or loop on the thill of a vehicle. to which a strap of the harness is attached, to hold back a carriage when going down hill, or in backing; also, the strap or part of the harness so used.,
H as in Holder (n.) One who is employed in the hold of a vessel.,
H as in Holder (n.) One who, or that which, holds.,
H as in Holder (n.) One who holds land, etc., under another; a tenant.,
H as in Holder (n.) The payee of a bill of exchange or a promissory note, or the one who owns or holds it.,
H as in Holder-forth (n.) One who speaks in public; an haranguer; a preacher.,
H as in Holdfast (n.) Something used to secure and hold in place something else, as a long fiat-headed nail, a catch a hook, a clinch, a clamp, etc.; hence, a support.,
H as in Holdfast (n.) A conical or branching body, by which a seaweed is attached to its support, and differing from a root in that it is not specially absorbent of moisture.,
H as in Holding (n.) The act or state of sustaining, grasping, or retaining.,
H as in Holding (n.) A tenure; a farm or other estate held of another.,
H as in Holding (n.) That which holds, binds, or influences.,
H as in Holding (n.) The burden or chorus of a song.,
H as in Hole (a.) Whole.,
H as in Hole (n.) A hollow place or cavity; an excavation; a pit; an opening in or through a solid body, a fabric, etc.; a perforation; a rent; a fissure.,
H as in Hole (n.) An excavation in the ground, made by an animal to live in, or a natural cavity inhabited by an animal; hence, a low, narrow, or dark lodging or place; a mean habitation.,
H as in Hole (n.) To cut, dig, or bore a hole or holes in; as, to hole a post for the insertion of rails or bars.,
H as in Hole (n.) To drive into a hole, as an animal, or a billiard ball.,
H as in Hole (v. i.) To go or get into a hole.,
H as in Holethnic (a.) Of or pertaining to a holethnos or parent race.,
H as in Holethnos (n.) A parent stock or race of people, not yet divided into separate branches or tribes.,
H as in Holibut (n.) See Halibut.,
H as in Holidam (n.) See Halidom.,
H as in Holiday (n.) A consecrated day; religious anniversary; a day set apart in honor of some person, or in commemoration of some event. See Holyday.,
H as in Holiday (n.) A day of exemption from labor; a day of amusement and gayety; a festival day.,
H as in Holiday (n.) A day fixed by law for suspension of business; a legal holiday.,
H as in Holiday (a.) Of or pertaining to a festival; cheerful; joyous; gay.,
H as in Holiday (a.) Occurring rarely; adapted for a special occasion.,
H as in Holily (adv.) Piously; with sanctity; in a holy manner.,
H as in Holily (adv.) Sacredly; inviolably.,
H as in Holiness (n.) The state or quality of being holy; perfect moral integrity or purity; freedom from sin; sanctity; innocence.,
H as in Holiness (n.) The state of being hallowed, or consecrated to God or to his worship; sacredness.,
H as in Holing (n.) Undercutting in a bed of coal, in order to bring down the upper mass.,
H as in Holla (interj.) Hollo.,
H as in Hollaed (imp. & p. p.) of Holla,
H as in Hollaing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Holla,
H as in Holla (v. i.) See Hollo, v. i.,
H as in Holland (n.) A kind of linen first manufactured in Holland; a linen fabric used for window shades, children's garments, etc.; as, brown or unbleached hollands.,
H as in Hollander (n.) A native or one of the people of Holland; a Dutchman.,
H as in Hollander (n.) A very hard, semi-glazed, green or dark brown brick, which will not absorb water; -- called also, Dutch clinker.,
H as in Hollandish (a.) Relating to Holland; Dutch.,
H as in Hollands (n.) Gin made in Holland.,
H as in Hollands (n.) See Holland.,
H as in Hollo (interj. & n.) Ho there; stop; attend; hence, a loud cry or a call to attract attention; a halloo.,
H as in Holloed (imp. & p. p.) of Hollo,
H as in Holloing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hollo,
H as in Hollo (interj.) To call out or exclaim; to halloo. This form is now mostly replaced by hello.,
H as in Holloa (n. & v. i.) Same as Hollo.,
H as in Hollow (a.) Having an empty space or cavity, natural or artificial, within a solid substance; not solid; excavated in the interior; as, a hollow tree; a hollow sphere.,
H as in Hollow (a.) Depressed; concave; gaunt; sunken.,
H as in Hollow (a.) Reverberated from a cavity, or resembling such a sound; deep; muffled; as, a hollow roar.,
H as in Hollow (a.) Not sincere or faithful; false; deceitful; not sound; as, a hollow heart; a hollow friend.,
H as in Hollow (n.) A cavity, natural or artificial; an unfilled space within anything; a hole, a cavern; an excavation; as the hollow of the hand or of a tree.,
H as in Hollow (n.) A low spot surrounded by elevations; a depressed part of a surface; a concavity; a channel.,
H as in Hollowed (imp. & p. p.) of Hollow,
H as in Hollowing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hollow,
H as in Hollow (v. t.) To make hollow, as by digging, cutting, or engraving; to excavate.,
H as in Hollow (adv.) Wholly; completely; utterly; -- chiefly after the verb to beat, and often with all; as, this story beats the other all hollow. See All, adv.,
H as in Hollow (interj.) Hollo.,
H as in Hollow (v. i.) To shout; to hollo.,
H as in Hollow (v. t.) To urge or call by shouting.,
H as in Hollow-hearted (a.) Insincere; deceitful; not sound and true; having a cavity or decayed spot within.,
H as in Hollow-horned (a.) Having permanent horns with a bony core, as cattle.,
H as in Hollowly (adv.) Insincerely; deceitfully.,
H as in Hollowness (n.) State of being hollow.,
H as in Hollowness (n.) Insincerity; unsoundness; treachery.,
H as in Holly (adv.) Wholly.,
H as in Holly (n.) A tree or shrub of the genus Ilex. The European species (Ilex Aguifolium) is best known, having glossy green leaves, with a spiny, waved edge, and bearing berries that turn red or yellow about Michaelmas.,
H as in Holly (n.) The holm oak. See 1st Holm.,
H as in Hollyhock (n.) A species of Althaea (A. rosea), bearing flowers of various colors; -- called also rose mallow.,
H as in Holm (n.) A common evergreen oak, of Europe (Quercus Ilex); -- called also ilex, and holly.,
H as in Holm (n.) An islet in a river.,
H as in Holm (n.) Low, flat land.,
H as in Holmia (n.) An oxide of holmium.,
H as in Holmium (n.) A rare element said to be contained in gadolinite.,
H as in Holmos (n.) A name given to a vase having a rounded body,
H as in Holmos (n.) A closed vessel of nearly spherical form on a high stem or pedestal.,
H as in Holmos (n.) A drinking cup having a foot and stem.,
H as in Holo- () A combining form fr. Gr. "o`los whole.,
H as in Holoblast (n.) an ovum composed entirely of germinal matter. See Meroblast.,
H as in Holoblastic (a.) Undergoing complete segmentation; composed entirely of germinal matter, the whole of the yolk undergoing fission; -- opposed to meroblastic.,
H as in Holocaust (n.) A burnt sacrifice; an offering, the whole of which was consumed by fire, among the Jews and some pagan nations.,
H as in Holocaust (n.) Sacrifice or loss of many lives, as by the burning of a theater or a ship. [An extended use not authorized by careful writers.],
H as in Holocephali (n. pl.) An order of elasmobranch fishes, including, among living species, only the chimaeras; -- called also Holocephala. See Chimaera; also Illustration in Appendix.,
H as in Holocryptic (a.) Wholly or completely concealing; incapable of being deciphered.,
H as in Holocrystalline (a.) Completely crystalline; -- said of a rock like granite, all the constituents of which are crystalline.,
H as in Holograph (n.) A document, as a letter, deed, or will, wholly in the handwriting of the person from whom it proceeds and whose act it purports to be.,
H as in Holographic (a.) Of the nature of a holograph; pertaining to holographs.,
H as in Holohedral (a.) Having all the planes required by complete symmetry, -- in opposition to hemihedral.,
H as in Holohemihedral (a.) Presenting hemihedral forms, in which all the sectants have halt the whole number of planes.,
H as in Holometabola (n. pl.) Those insects which have a complete metamorphosis; metabola.,
H as in Holometabolic (a.) Having a complete metamorphosis;-said of certain insects, as the butterflies and bees.,
H as in Holometer (n.) An instrument for making of angular measurements.,
H as in Holophanerous (a.) Same as Holometabolic.,
H as in Holophotal (a.) Causing no loss of light; -- applied to reflectors which throw back the rays of light without perceptible loss.,
H as in Holophote (n.) A lamp with lenses or reflectors to collect the rays of light and throw them in a given direction; -- used in lighthouses.,
H as in Holophrastic (a.) Expressing a phrase or sentence in a single word, -- as is the case in the aboriginal languages of America.,
H as in Holophytic (a.) Wholly or distinctively vegetable.,
H as in Holorhinal (a.) Having the nasal bones contiguous.,
H as in Holosiderite (n.) Meteoric iron; a meteorite consisting of metallic iron without stony matter.,
H as in Holostean (a.) Pertaining to the Holostei.,
H as in Holostei (n. pl.) An extensive division of ganoids, including the gar pike, bowfin, etc.; the bony ganoids. See Illustration in Appendix.,
H as in Holosteric (a.) Wholly solid; -- said of a barometer constructed of solid materials to show the variations of atmospheric pressure without the use of liquids, as the aneroid.,
H as in Holostomata (n. pl.) An artificial division of gastropods, including those that have an entire aperture.,
H as in Holostomate (a.) Same as Holostomatous.,
H as in Holostomatous (a.) Having an entire aperture; -- said of many univalve shells.,
H as in Holostome (n.) One of the Holostomata.,
H as in Holostraca (n. pl.) A division of phyllopod Crustacea, including those that are entirely covered by a bivalve shell.,
H as in Holothure (n.) A holothurian.,
H as in Holothurian (a.) Belonging to the Holothurioidea.,
H as in Holothurian (n.) One of the Holothurioidea.,
H as in Holothurioidea (n. pl.) One of the classes of echinoderms.,
H as in Holotricha (n. pl.) A group of ciliated Infusoria, having cilia all over the body.,
H as in Holour (n.) A whoremonger.,
H as in Holp () Alt. of Holpen,
H as in Holpen () imp. & p. p. of Help.,
H as in Holsom (a.) Wholesome.,
H as in Holster (n.) A leather case for a pistol, carried by a horseman at the bow of his saddle.,
H as in Holstered (a.) Bearing holsters.,
H as in Holt () 3d pers. sing. pres. of Hold, contr. from holdeth.,
H as in Holt (n.) A piece of woodland; especially, a woody hill.,
H as in Holt (n.) A deep hole in a river where there is protection for fish; also, a cover, a hole, or hiding place.,
H as in Holwe (a.) Hollow.,
H as in Holy (superl.) Set apart to the service or worship of God; hallowed; sacred; reserved from profane or common use; holy vessels; a holy priesthood.,
H as in Holy (superl.) Spiritually whole or sound; of unimpaired innocence and virtue; free from sinful affections; pure in heart; godly; pious; irreproachable; guiltless; acceptable to God.,
H as in Holy cross () The cross as the symbol of Christ's crucifixion.,
H as in Holyday (n.) A religious festival.,
H as in Holyday (n.) A secular festival; a holiday.,
H as in Holystone (n.) A stone used by seamen for scrubbing the decks of ships.,
H as in Holystone (v. t.) To scrub with a holystone, as the deck of a vessel.,
H as in Homacanth (a.) Having the dorsal fin spines symmetrical, and in the same line; -- said of certain fishes.,
H as in Homage (n.) A symbolical acknowledgment made by a feudal tenant to, and in the presence of, his lord, on receiving investiture of fee, or coming to it by succession, that he was his man, or vassal; profession of fealty to a sovereign.,
H as in Homage (n.) Respect or reverential regard; deference; especially, respect paid by external action; obeisance.,
H as in Homage (n.) Reverence directed to the Supreme Being; reverential worship; devout affection.,
H as in Homaged (imp. & p. p.) of Homage,
H as in Homaging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Homage,
H as in Homage (v. t.) To pay reverence to by external action.,
H as in Homage (v. t.) To cause to pay homage.,
H as in Homageable (a.) Subject to homage.,
H as in Homager (n.) One who does homage, or holds land of another by homage; a vassal.,
H as in Homalographic (a.) Same as Homolographic.,
H as in Homaloid (a.) Alt. of Homaloidal,
H as in Homaloidal (a.) Flat; even; -- a term applied to surfaces and to spaces, whether real or imagined, in which the definitions, axioms, and postulates of Euclid respecting parallel straight lines are assumed to hold true.,
H as in Homarus (n.) A genus of decapod Crustacea, including the common lobsters.,
H as in Homatropine (n.) An alkaloid, prepared from atropine, and from other sources. It is chemically related to atropine, and is used for the same purpose.,
H as in Homaxonial (a.) Relating to that kind of homology or symmetry, the mathematical conception of organic form, in which all axes are equal. See under Promorphology.,
H as in Home (n.) See Homelyn.,
H as in Home (n.) One's own dwelling place; the house in which one lives; esp., the house in which one lives with his family; the habitual abode of one's family; also, one's birthplace.,
H as in Home (n.) One's native land; the place or country in which one dwells; the place where one's ancestors dwell or dwelt.,
H as in Home (n.) The abiding place of the affections, especially of the domestic affections.,
H as in Home (n.) The locality where a thing is usually found, or was first found, or where it is naturally abundant; habitat; seat; as, the home of the pine.,
H as in Home (n.) A place of refuge and rest; an asylum; as, a home for outcasts; a home for the blind; hence, esp., the grave; the final rest; also, the native and eternal dwelling place of the soul.,
H as in Home (n.) The home base; he started for home.,
H as in Home (a.) Of or pertaining to one's dwelling or country; domestic; not foreign; as home manufactures; home comforts.,
H as in Home (a.) Close; personal; pointed; as, a home thrust.,
H as in Home (adv.) To one's home or country; as in the phrases, go home, come home, carry home.,
H as in Home (adv.) Close; closely.,
H as in Home (adv.) To the place where it belongs; to the end of a course; to the full length; as, to drive a nail home; to ram a cartridge home.,
H as in Homeborn (a.) Native; indigenous; not foreign.,
H as in Homeborn (a.) Of or pertaining to the home or family.,
H as in Home-bound (a.) Kept at home.,
H as in Home-bred (a.) Bred at home; domestic; not foreign.,
H as in Home-bred (a.) Not polished; rude; uncultivated.,
H as in Home-coming (n.) Return home.,
H as in Home-driven (a.) Driven to the end, as a nail; driven close.,
H as in Home-dwelling (a.) Keeping at home.,
H as in Home-felt (a.) Felt in one's own breast; inward; private.,
H as in Homefield (n.) A field adjacent to its owner's home.,
H as in Home-keeping (a.) Staying at home; not gadding.,
H as in Home-keeping (n.) A staying at home.,
H as in Homeless (a.) Destitute of a home.,
H as in Homelike (a.) Like a home; comfortable; cheerful; cozy; friendly.,
H as in Homelily (adv.) Plainly; inelegantly.,
H as in Homeliness (n.) Domesticity; care of home.,
H as in Homeliness (n.) Familiarity; intimacy.,
H as in Homeliness (n.) Plainness; want of elegance or beauty.,
H as in Homeliness (n.) Coarseness; simplicity; want of refinement; as, the homeliness of manners, or language.,
H as in Homeling (n.) A person or thing belonging to a home or to a particular country; a native; as, a word which is a homeling.,
H as in Homely (n.) Belonging to, or having the characteristics of, home; domestic; familiar; intimate.,
H as in Homely (n.) Plain; unpretending; rude in appearance; unpolished; as, a homely garment; a homely house; homely fare; homely manners.,
H as in Homely (n.) Of plain or coarse features; uncomely; -- contrary to handsome.,
H as in Homely (adv.) Plainly; rudely; coarsely; as, homely dressed.,
H as in Homelyn (n.) The European sand ray (Raia maculata); -- called also home, mirror ray, and rough ray.,
H as in Homemade (a.) Made at home; of domestic manufacture; made either in a private family or in one's own country.,
H as in Homeopath (n.) A practitioner of homeopathy.,
H as in Homeopathic (a.) Of or pertaining to homeopathy; according to the principles of homeopathy.,
H as in Homeopathically (adv.) According to the practice of homeopathy.,
H as in Homeopathist (n.) A believer in, or practitioner of, homeopathy.,
H as in Homeopathy (n.) The art of curing, founded on resemblances; the theory and its practice that disease is cured (tuto, cito, et jucunde) by remedies which produce on a healthy person effects similar to the symptoms of the complaint under which the patient suffers, the remedies being usually administered in minute doses. This system was founded by Dr. Samuel Hahnemann, and is opposed to allopathy, or heteropathy.,
H as in Homer (n.) A carrier pigeon remarkable for its ability to return home from a distance.,
H as in Homer (n.) See Hoemother.,
H as in Homer (n.) A Hebrew measure containing, as a liquid measure, ten baths, equivalent to fifty-five gallons, two quarts, one pint; and, as a dry measure, ten ephahs, equivalent to six bushels, two pecks, four quarts.,
H as in Homeric (a.) Of or pertaining to Homer, the most famous of Greek poets; resembling the poetry of Homer.,
H as in Homesick (a.) Pining for home; in a nostalgic condition.,
H as in Home-speaking (n.) Direct, forcible, and effective speaking.,
H as in Homespun (a.) Spun or wrought at home; of domestic manufacture; coarse; plain.,
H as in Homespun (a.) Plain in manner or style; not elegant; rude; coarse.,
H as in Homespun (n.) Cloth made at home; as, he was dressed in homespun.,
H as in Homespun (n.) An unpolished, rustic person.,
H as in Homestall (n.) Place of a home; homestead.,
H as in Homestead (n.) The home place; a home and the inclosure or ground immediately connected with it.,
H as in Homestead (n.) The home or seat of a family; place of origin.,
H as in Homestead (n.) The home and appurtenant land and buildings owned by the head of a family, and occupied by him and his family.,
H as in Homesteader (n.) One who has entered upon a portion of the public land with the purpose of acquiring ownership of it under provisions of the homestead law, so called; one who has acquired a homestead in this manner.,
H as in Homeward (a.) Being in the direction of home; as, the homeward way.,
H as in Homeward (adv.) Alt. of Homewards,
H as in Homewards (adv.) Toward home; in the direction of one's house, town, or country.,
H as in Homicidal (a.) Pertaining to homicide; tending to homicide; murderous.,
H as in Homicide (v. t.) The killing of one human being by another.,
H as in Homicide (v. t.) One who kills another; a manslayer.,
H as in Homiform (a.) In human form.,
H as in Homilete (n.) A homilist.,
H as in Homiletic (a.) Alt. of Homiletical,
H as in Homiletical (a.) Of or pertaining to familiar intercourse; social; affable; conversable; companionable.,
H as in Homiletical (a.) Of or pertaining to homiletics; hortatory.,
H as in Homiletics (n.) The art of preaching; that branch of theology which treats of homilies or sermons, and the best method of preparing and delivering them.,
H as in Homilist (n.) One who prepares homilies; one who preaches to a congregation.,
H as in Homilite (n.) A borosilicate of iron and lime, near datolite in form and composition.,
H as in Homilies (pl. ) of Homily,
H as in Homily (n.) A discourse or sermon read or pronounced to an audience; a serious discourse.,
H as in Homily (n.) A serious or tedious exhortation in private on some moral point, or on the conduct of life.,
H as in Homing (a.) Home-returning; -- used specifically of carrier pigeons.,
H as in Hominy (n.) Maize hulled and broken, and prepared for food by being boiled in water.,
H as in Homish (a.) Like a home or a home circle.,
H as in Hommock (n.) A small eminence of a conical form, of land or of ice; a knoll; a hillock. See Hummock.,
H as in Hommocky (a.) Filled with hommocks; piled in the form of hommocks; -- said of ice.,
H as in Homo- () A combining form from Gr. "omo`s, one and the same, common, joint.,
H as in Homocategoric (a.) Belonging to the same category of individuality; -- a morphological term applied to organisms so related.,
H as in Homocentric (a.) Having the same center.,
H as in Homocercal (a.) Having the tail nearly or quite symmetrical, the vertebral column terminating near its base; -- opposed to heterocercal.,
H as in Homocercy (n.) The possession of a homocercal tail.,
H as in Homocerebrin (n.) A body similar to, or identical with, cerebrin.,
H as in Homochromous (a.) Having all the florets in the same flower head of the same color.,
H as in Homodemic (a.) A morphological term signifying development, in the case of multicellular organisms, from the same unit deme or unit of the inferior orders of individuality.,
H as in Homodermic (a.) Relating to homodermy; originating from the same germ layer.,
H as in Homodermy (n.) Homology of the germinal layers.,
H as in Homodont (a.) Having all the teeth similar in front, as in the porpoises; -- opposed to heterodont.,
H as in Homodromal (a.) Alt. of Homodromous,
H as in Homodromous (a.) Running in the same direction; -- said of stems twining round a support, or of the spiral succession of leaves on stems and their branches.,
H as in Homodromous (a.) Moving in the same direction; -- said of a lever or pulley in which the resistance and the actuating force are both on the same side of the fulcrum or axis.,
H as in Homodynamic (a.) Homodynamous.,
H as in Homodynamous (a.) Pertaining to, or involving, homodynamy; as, successive or homodynamous parts in plants and animals.,
H as in Homodynamy (n.) The homology of metameres. See Metamere.,
H as in Homoeomeria (n.) The state or quality of being homogeneous in elements or first principles; likeness or identity of parts.,
H as in Homoeomeric (a.) Alt. of Homoeomerical,
H as in Homoeomerical (a.) Pertaining to, or characterized by, sameness of parts; receiving or advocating the doctrine of homogeneity of elements or first principles.,
H as in Homoeomerous (a.) Having the main artery of the leg parallel with the sciatic nerve; -- said of certain birds.,
H as in Homoeomery (n.) Same as Homoeomeria.,
H as in Homoeomorphism (n.) A near similarity of crystalline forms between unlike chemical compounds. See Isomorphism.,
H as in Homoeomorphous (a.) Manifesting homoeomorphism.,
H as in Homoeopathic (n.) Alt. of Homoeopathy,
H as in Homoeopathist (n.) Alt. of Homoeopathy,
H as in Homoeopathy (n.) Same as Homeopathic, Homeopathist, Homeopathy.,
H as in Homoeothermal (a.) See Homoiothermal.,
H as in Homoeozoic (a.) Pertaining to, or including, similar forms or kinds of life; as, homoeozoic belts on the earth's surface.,
H as in Homogamous (a.) Having all the flowers alike; -- said of such composite plants as Eupatorium, and the thistels.,
H as in Homogamy (n.) The condition of being homogamous.,
H as in Homogangliate (a.) Having the ganglia of the nervous system symmetrically arranged, as in certain invertebrates; -- opposed to heterogangliate.,
H as in Homogene (a.) Homogeneous.,
H as in Homogeneal (a.) Homogeneous.,
H as in Homogenealness (n.) Homogeneousness.,
H as in Homogeneity (n.) Same as Homogeneousness.,
H as in Homogeneous (a.) Of the same kind of nature; consisting of similar parts, or of elements of the like nature; -- opposed to heterogeneous; as, homogeneous particles, elements, or principles; homogeneous bodies.,
H as in Homogeneous (a.) Possessing the same number of factors of a given kind; as, a homogeneous polynomial.,
H as in Homogeneousness (n.) Sameness 9kind or nature; uniformity of structure or material.,
H as in Homogenesis (n.) That method of reproduction in which the successive generations are alike, the offspring, either animal or plant, running through the same cycle of existence as the parent; gamogenesis; -- opposed to heterogenesis.,
H as in Homogenetic (a.) Homogenous; -- applied to that class of homologies which arise from similarity of structure, and which are taken as evidences of common ancestry.,
H as in Homogenous (a.) Having a resemblance in structure, due to descent from a common progenitor with subsequent modification; homogenetic; -- applied both to animals and plants. See Homoplastic.,
H as in Homogeny (n.) Joint nature.,
H as in Homogeny (n.) The correspondence of common descent; -- a term used to supersede homology by Lankester, who also used homoplasy to denote any superinduced correspondence of position and structure in parts embryonically distinct (other writers using the term homoplasmy). Thus, there is homogeny between the fore limb of a mammal and the wing of a bird; but the right and left ventricles of the heart in both are only in homoplasy with each other, these having arisen independently since the divergence of both groups from a univentricular ancestor.,
H as in Homogonous (a.) Having all the flowers of a plant alike in respect to the stamens and pistils.,
H as in Homogony (n.) The condition of having homogonous flowers.,
H as in Homograph (n.) One of two or more words identical in orthography, but having different derivations and meanings; as, fair, n., a market, and fair, a., beautiful.,
H as in Homographic (a.) Employing a single and separate character to represent each sound; -- said of certain methods of spelling words.,
H as in Homographic (a.) Possessing the property of homography.,
H as in Homography (n.) That method of spelling in which every sound is represented by a single character, which indicates that sound and no other.,
H as in Homography (n.) A relation between two figures, such that to any point of the one corresponds one and but one point in the other, and vise versa. Thus, a tangent line rolling on a circle cuts two fixed tangents of the circle in two sets of points that are homographic.,
H as in Homoioptoton (n.) A figure in which the several parts of a sentence end with the same case, or inflection generally.,
H as in Homoiothermal (a.) Maintaining a uniform temperature; haematothermal; homothermic; -- applied to warm-bodied animals, because they maintain a nearly uniform temperature in spite of the great variations in the surrounding air; in distinct from the cold-blooded (poikilothermal) animals, whose body temperature follows the variations in temperature of the surrounding medium.,
H as in Homoiousian (n.) One of the semi-Arians of the 4th century, who held that the Son was of like, but not the same, essence or substance with the Father; -- opposed to homoousian.,
H as in Homoiousian (a.) Of or pertaining to Homoiousians, or their belief.,
H as in Homologated (imp. & p. p.) of Homologate,
H as in Homologating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Homologate,
H as in Homologate (v. t.) To approve; to allow; to confirm; as, the court homologates a proceeding.,
H as in Homologation (n.) Confirmation or ratification (as of something otherwise null and void), by a court or a grantor.,
H as in Homological (a.) Pertaining to homology; having a structural affinity proceeding from, or base upon, that kind of relation termed homology.,
H as in Homologinic (a.) Pertaining to, or characterized by, homology; as, homologinic qualities, or differences.,
H as in Homologize (v. t.) To determine the homologies or structural relations of.,
H as in Homologon (n.) See Homologue.,
H as in Homologoumena (n. pl.) Those books of the New Testament which were acknowledged as canonical by the early church; -- distinguished from antilegomena.,
H as in Homologous (a.) Having the same relative position, proportion, value, or structure.,
H as in Homologous (a.) Corresponding in relative position and proportion.,
H as in Homologous (a.) Having the same relative proportion or value, as the two antecedents or the two consequents of a proportion.,
H as in Homologous (a.) Characterized by homology; belonging to the same type or series; corresponding in composition and properties. See Homology, 3.,
H as in Homologous (a.) Being of the same typical structure; having like relations to a fundamental type to structure; as, those bones in the hand of man and the fore foot of a horse are homologous that correspond in their structural relations, that is, in their relations to the type structure of the fore limb in vertebrates.,
H as in Homolographic (a.) Preserving the mutual relations of parts, especially as to size and form; maintaining relative proportion.,
H as in Homologue (n.) That which is homologous to something else; as, the corresponding sides, etc., of similar polygons are the homologues of each other; the members or terms of an homologous series in chemistry are the homologues of each other; one of the bones in the hand of man is the homologue of that in the paddle of a whale.,
H as in Homology (n.) The quality of being homologous; correspondence; relation; as, the homologyof similar polygons.,
H as in Homology (n.) Correspondence or relation in type of structure in contradistinction to similarity of function; as, the relation in structure between the leg and arm of a man; or that between the arm of a man, the fore leg of a horse, the wing of a bird, and the fin of a fish, all these organs being modifications of one type of structure.,
H as in Homology (n.) The correspondence or resemblance of substances belonging to the same type or series; a similarity of composition varying by a small, regular difference, and usually attended by a regular variation in physical properties; as, there is an homology between methane, CH4, ethane, C2H6, propane, C3H8, etc., all members of the paraffin series. In an extended sense, the term is applied to the relation between chemical elements of the same group; as, chlorine, bromine, and iodine are said to be in homology with each other. Cf. Heterology.,
H as in Homomallous (a.) Uniformly bending or curving to one side; -- said of leaves which grow on several sides of a stem.,
H as in Homomorphic (a.) Alt. of Homomorphous,
H as in Homomorphous (a.) Characterized by homomorphism.,
H as in Homomorphism (n.) Same as Homomorphy.,
H as in Homomorphism (n.) The possession, in one species of plants, of only one kind of flowers; -- opposed to heteromorphism, dimorphism, and trimorphism.,
H as in Homomorphism (n.) The possession of but one kind of larvae or young, as in most insects.,
H as in Homomorphy (n.) Similarity of form; resemblance in external characters, while widely different in fundamental structure; resemblance in geometric ground form. See Homophyly, Promorphology.,
H as in Homonomous (a.) Of or pertaining to homonomy.,
H as in Homonomy (n.) The homology of parts arranged on transverse axes.,
H as in Homonym (n.) A word having the same sound as another, but differing from it in meaning; as the noun bear and the verb bear.,
H as in Homonymous (a.) Having the same name or designation; standing in the same relation; -- opposed to heteronymous.,
H as in Homonymous (a.) Having the same name or designation, but different meaning or relation; hence, equivocal; ambiguous.,
H as in Homonymously (adv.) In an homonymous manner; so as to have the same name or relation.,
H as in Homonymously (adv.) Equivocally; ambiguously.,
H as in Homonymy (n.) Sameness of name or designation; identity in relations.,
H as in Homonymy (n.) Sameness of name or designation of things or persons which are different; ambiguity.,
H as in Homoorgan () Same as Homoplast.,
H as in Homoousian (n.) One of those, in the 4th century, who accepted the Nicene creed, and maintained that the Son had the same essence or substance with the Father; -- opposed to homoiousian.,
H as in Homoousian (a.) Of or pertaining to the Homoousians, or to the doctrines they held.,
H as in Homophone (n.) A letter or character which expresses a like sound with another.,
H as in Homophone (n.) A word having the same sound as another, but differing from it in meaning and usually in spelling; as, all and awl; bare and bear; rite, write, right, and wright.,
H as in Homophonic (a.) Alt. of Homophonous,
H as in Homophonous (a.) Originally, sounding alike; of the same pitch; unisonous; monodic.,
H as in Homophonous (a.) Now used for plain harmony, note against note, as opposed to polyphonic harmony, in which the several parts move independently, each with its own melody.,
H as in Homophonous (a.) Expressing the same sound by a different combination of letters; as, bay and bey.,
H as in Homophony (n.) Sameness of sound.,
H as in Homophony (n.) Sameness of sound; unison.,
H as in Homophony (n.) Plain harmony, as opposed to polyphony. See Homophonous.,
H as in Homophylic (a.) Relating to homophily.,
H as in Homophyly (n.) That form of homology due to common ancestry (phylogenetic homology), in opposition to homomorphy, to which genealogic basis is wanting.,
H as in Homoplasmy (n.) Resemblance between different plants or animals, in external shape, in general habit, or in organs, which is not due to descent from a common ancestor, but to similar surrounding circumstances.,
H as in Homoplast (n.) One of the plastids composing the idorgan of Haeckel; -- also called homoorgan.,
H as in Homoplastic (a.) Of or pertaining to homoplasty; as, homoplasticorgans; homoplastic forms.,
H as in Homoplasty (n.) The formation of homologous tissues.,
H as in Homoplasy (n.) See Homogeny.,
H as in Homopolic (a.) In promorphology, pertaining to or exhibiting that kind of organic form, in which the stereometric ground form is a pyramid, with similar poles. See Promorphology.,
H as in Homopter (n.) One of the Homoptera.,
H as in Homoptera (n. pl.) A suborder of Hemiptera, in which both pairs of wings are similar in texture, and do not overlap when folded, as in the cicada. See Hemiptera.,
H as in Homopteran (n.) An homopter.,
H as in Homopterous (a.) Of or pertaining to the Homoptera.,
H as in Homostyled (a.) Having only one form of pistils; -- said of the flowers of some plants.,
H as in Homosystemic (a.) Developing, in the case of multicellular organisms, from the same embryonic systems into which the secondary unit (gastrula or plant enbryo) differentiates.,
H as in Homotaxia (n.) Same as Homotaxis.,
H as in Homotaxial (a.) Alt. of Homotaxic,
H as in Homotaxic (a.) Relating to homotaxis.,
H as in Homotaxis (n.) Similarly in arrangement of parts; -- the opposite of heterotaxy.,
H as in Homotaxy (n.) Same as Homotaxis.,
H as in Homothermic (a.) Alt. of Homothermous,
H as in Homothermous (a.) Warm-blooded; homoiothermal; haematothermal.,
H as in Homotonous (a.) Of the same tenor or tone; equable; without variation.,
H as in Homotropal (a.) Alt. of Homotropous,
H as in Homotropous (a.) Turned in the same direction with something else.,
H as in Homotropous (a.) Having the radicle of the seed directed towards the hilum.,
H as in Homotypal (a.) Of the same type of structure; pertaining to a homotype; as, homotypal parts.,
H as in Homotype (n.) That which has the same fundamental type of structure with something else; thus, the right arm is the homotype of the right leg; one arm is the homotype of the other, etc.,
H as in Homotypic (a.) Alt. of Homotypical,
H as in Homotypical (a.) Same as Homotypal.,
H as in Homotypy (n.) A term suggested by Haeckel to be instead of serial homology. See Homotype.,
H as in Homunculi (pl. ) of Homunculus,
H as in Homunculus (n.) A little man; a dwarf; a manikin.,
H as in Hond (n.) Hand.,
H as in Hone (v. i.) To pine; to lament; to long.,
H as in Hone (n.) A kind of swelling in the cheek.,
H as in Hone (n.) A stone of a fine grit, or a slab, as of metal, covered with an abrading substance or powder, used for sharpening cutting instruments, and especially for setting razors; an oilstone.,
H as in Honed (imp. & p. p.) of Hone,
H as in Honing (p]. pr. & vb. n.) of Hone,
H as in Hone (v. t.) To sharpen on, or with, a hone; to rub on a hone in order to sharpen; as, to hone a razor.,
H as in Honest (a.) Decent; honorable; suitable; becoming.,
H as in Honest (a.) Characterized by integrity or fairness and straight/forwardness in conduct, thought, speech, etc.; upright; just; equitable; trustworthy; truthful; sincere; free from fraud, guile, or duplicity; not false; -- said of persons and acts, and of things to which a moral quality is imputed; as, an honest judge or merchant; an honest statement; an honest bargain; an honest business; an honest book; an honest confession.,
H as in Honest (a.) Open; frank; as, an honest countenance.,
H as in Honest (a.) Chaste; faithful; virtuous.,
H as in Honest (a.) To adorn; to grace; to honor; to make becoming, appropriate, or honorable.,
H as in Honestation (n.) The act of honesting; grace; adornment.,
H as in Honestetee (n.) Honesty; honorableness.,
H as in Honestly (adv.) Honorably; becomingly; decently.,
H as in Honestly (adv.) In an honest manner; as, a contract honestly made; to live honestly; to speak honestly.,
H as in Honesty (a.) Honor; honorableness; dignity; propriety; suitableness; decency.,
H as in Honesty (a.) The quality or state of being honest; probity; fairness and straightforwardness of conduct, speech, etc.; integrity; sincerity; truthfulness; freedom from fraud or guile.,
H as in Honesty (a.) Chastity; modesty.,
H as in Honesty (a.) Satin flower; the name of two cruciferous herbs having large flat pods, the round shining partitions of which are more beautiful than the blossom; -- called also lunary and moonwort. Lunaria biennis is common honesty; L. rediva is perennial honesty.,
H as in Honewort (n.) An umbelliferous plant of the genus Sison (S. Amomum); -- so called because used to cure a swelling called a hone.,
H as in Honey (n.) A sweet viscid fluid, esp. that collected by bees from flowers of plants, and deposited in the cells of the honeycomb.,
H as in Honey (n.) That which is sweet or pleasant, like honey.,
H as in Honey (n.) Sweet one; -- a term of endearment.,
H as in Honeyed (imp. & p. p.) of Honey,
H as in Honeying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Honey,
H as in Honey (v. i.) To be gentle, agreeable, or coaxing; to talk fondly; to use endearments; also, to be or become obsequiously courteous or complimentary; to fawn.,
H as in Honey (v. t.) To make agreeable; to cover or sweeten with, or as with, honey.,
H as in Honey-bag (n.) The receptacle for honey in a honeybee.,
H as in Honeybee (n.) Any bee of the genus Apis, which lives in communities and collects honey, esp. the common domesticated hive bee (Apis mellifica), the Italian bee (A. ligustica), and the Arabiab bee (A. fasciata). The two latter are by many entomologists considered only varieties of the common hive bee. Each swarm of bees consists of a large number of workers (barren females), with, ordinarily, one queen or fertile female, but in the swarming season several young queens, and a number of males or drones, are produced.,
H as in Honeybird (n.) The honey guide.,
H as in Honeycomb (n.) A mass of hexagonal waxen cells, formed by bees, and used by them to hold their honey and their eggs.,
H as in Honeycomb (n.) Any substance, as a easting of iron, a piece of worm-eaten wood, or of triple, etc., perforated with cells like a honeycomb.,
H as in Honeycombed (a.) Formed or perforated like a honeycomb.,
H as in Honeydew (n.) A sweet, saccharine substance, found on the leaves of trees and other plants in small drops, like dew. Two substances have been called by this name; one exuded from the plants, and the other secreted by certain insects, esp. aphids.,
H as in Honeydew (n.) A kind of tobacco moistened with molasses.,
H as in Honeyed (a.) Covered with honey.,
H as in Honeyed (a.) Sweet, as, honeyed words.,
H as in Honeyless (a.) Destitute of honey.,
H as in Honeymoon (n.) The first month after marriage.,
H as in Honey-mouthed (a.) Soft to sweet in speech; persuasive.,
H as in Honeystone (n.) See Mellite.,
H as in Honeysucker (n.) See Honey eater, under Honey.,
H as in Honeysuckle (n.) One of several species of flowering plants, much admired for their beauty, and some for their fragrance.,
H as in Honeysuckled (a.) Covered with honeysuckles.,
H as in Honey-sweet (a.) Sweet as honey.,
H as in Honey-tongued (a.) Sweet speaking; persuasive; seductive.,
H as in Honeyware (n.) See Badderlocks.,
H as in Honeywort (n.) A European plant of the genus Cerinthe, whose flowers are very attractive to bees.,
H as in Hong (n.) A mercantile establishment or factory for foreign trade in China, as formerly at Canton; a succession of offices connected by a common passage and used for business or storage.,
H as in Hong (v. t. & i.) To hang.,
H as in Honied (a.) See Honeyed.,
H as in Honiton lace () A kind of pillow lace, remarkable for the beauty of its figures; -- so called because chiefly made in Honiton, England.,
H as in Honk (n.) The cry of a wild goose.,
H as in Honor (n.) Esteem due or paid to worth; high estimation; respect; consideration; reverence; veneration; manifestation of respect or reverence.,
H as in Honor (n.) That which rightfully attracts esteem, respect, or consideration; self-respect; dignity; courage; fidelity; especially, excellence of character; high moral worth; virtue; nobleness; specif., in men, integrity; uprightness; trustworthness; in women, purity; chastity.,
H as in Honor (n.) A nice sense of what is right, just, and true, with course of life correspondent thereto; strict conformity to the duty imposed by conscience, position, or privilege.,
H as in Honor (n.) That to which esteem or consideration is paid; distinguished position; high rank.,
H as in Honor (n.) Fame; reputation; credit.,
H as in Honor (n.) A token of esteem paid to worth; a mark of respect; a ceremonial sign of consideration; as, he wore an honor on his breast; military honors; civil honors.,
H as in Honor (n.) A cause of respect and fame; a glory; an excellency; an ornament; as, he is an honor to his nation.,
H as in Honor (n.) A title applied to the holders of certain honorable civil offices, or to persons of rank; as, His Honor the Mayor. See Note under Honorable.,
H as in Honor (n.) A seigniory or lordship held of the king, on which other lordships and manors depended.,
H as in Honor (n.) Academic or university prizes or distinctions; as, honors in classics.,
H as in Honor (n.) The ace, king, queen, and jack of trumps. The ten and nine are sometimes called Dutch honors.,
H as in Honored (imp. & p. p.) of Honor,
H as in Honoring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Honor,
H as in Honor (n.) To regard or treat with honor, esteem, or respect; to revere; to treat with deference and submission; when used of the Supreme Being, to reverence; to adore; to worship.,
H as in Honor (n.) To dignify; to raise to distinction or notice; to bestow honor upon; to elevate in rank or station; to ennoble; to exalt; to glorify; hence, to do something to honor; to treat in a complimentary manner or with civility.,
H as in Honor (n.) To accept and pay when due; as, to honora bill of exchange.,
H as in Honorable (a.) Worthy of honor; fit to be esteemed or regarded; estimable; illustrious.,
H as in Honorable (a.) High-minded; actuated by principles of honor, or a scrupulous regard to probity, rectitude, or reputation.,
H as in Honorable (a.) Proceeding from an upright and laudable cause, or directed to a just and proper end; not base; irreproachable; fair; as, an honorable motive.,
H as in Honorable (a.) Conferring honor, or produced by noble deeds.,
H as in Honorable (a.) Worthy of respect; regarded with esteem; to be commended; consistent with honor or rectitude.,
H as in Honorable (a.) Performed or accompanied with marks of honor, or with testimonies of esteem; an honorable burial.,
H as in Honorable (a.) Of reputable association or use; respectable.,
H as in Honorable (a.) An epithet of respect or distinction; as, the honorable Senate; the honorable gentleman.,
H as in Honorableness (n.) The state of being honorable; eminence; distinction.,
H as in Honorableness (n.) Conformity to the principles of honor, probity, or moral rectitude; fairness; uprightness; reputableness.,
H as in Honorably (adv.) In an honorable manner; in a manner showing, or consistent with, honor.,
H as in Honorably (adv.) Decently; becomingly.,
H as in Honorarium (a.) Alt. of Honorary,
H as in Honorary (a.) A fee offered to professional men for their services; as, an honorarium of one thousand dollars.,
H as in Honorary (a.) An honorary payment, usually in recognition of services for which it is not usual or not lawful to assign a fixed business price.,
H as in Honorary (a.) Done as a sign or evidence of honor; as, honorary services.,
H as in Honorary (a.) Conferring honor, or intended merely to confer honor without emolument; as, an honorary degree.,
H as in Honorary (a.) Holding a title or place without rendering service or receiving reward; as, an honorary member of a society.,
H as in Honorer (n.) One who honors.,
H as in Honorific (a.) Conferring honor; tending to honor.,
H as in Honorless (a.) Destitute of honor; not honored.,
H as in Hont (n. & v.) See under Hunt.,
H as in Hoo (interj.) See Ho.,
H as in Hoo (interj.) Hurrah! -- an exclamation of triumphant joy.,
H as in -hood () A termination denoting state, condition, quality, character, totality, as in manhood, childhood, knighthood, brotherhood. Sometimes it is written, chiefly in obsolete words, in the form -head.,
H as in Hood (n.) State; condition.,
H as in Hood (n.) A covering or garment for the head or the head and shoulders, often attached to the body garment,
H as in Hood (n.) A soft covering for the head, worn by women, which leaves only the face exposed.,
H as in Hood (n.) A part of a monk's outer garment, with which he covers his head; a cowl.,
H as in Hood (n.) A like appendage to a cloak or loose overcoat, that may be drawn up over the head at pleasure.,
H as in Hood (n.) An ornamental fold at the back of an academic gown or ecclesiastical vestment; as, a master's hood.,
H as in Hood (n.) A covering for a horse's head.,
H as in Hood (n.) A covering for a hawk's head and eyes. See Illust. of Falcon.,
H as in Hood (n.) Anything resembling a hood in form or use,
H as in Hood (n.) The top or head of a carriage.,
H as in Hood (n.) A chimney top, often contrived to secure a constant draught by turning with the wind.,
H as in Hood (n.) A projecting cover above a hearth, forming the upper part of the fireplace, and confining the smoke to the flue.,
H as in Hood (n.) The top of a pump.,
H as in Hood (n.) A covering for a mortar.,
H as in Hood (n.) The hood-shaped upper petal of some flowers, as of monkshood; -- called also helmet.,
H as in Hood (n.) A covering or porch for a companion hatch.,
H as in Hood (n.) The endmost plank of a strake which reaches the stem or stern.,
H as in Hooded (imp. & p. p.) of Hood,
H as in Hooding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hood,
H as in Hood (v. t.) To cover with a hood; to furnish with a hood or hood-shaped appendage.,
H as in Hood (v. t.) To cover; to hide; to blind.,
H as in Hoodcap (n.) See Hooded seal, under Hooded.,
H as in Hooded (a.) Covered with a hood.,
H as in Hooded (a.) Furnished with a hood or something like a hood.,
H as in Hooded (a.) Hood-shaped; esp. (Bot.), rolled up like a cornet of paper; cuculate, as the spethe of the Indian turnip.,
H as in Hooded (a.) Having the head conspicuously different in color from the rest of the plumage; -- said of birds.,
H as in Hooded (a.) Having a hoodlike crest or prominence on the head or neck; as, the hooded seal; a hooded snake.,
H as in Hoodless (a.) Having no hood.,
H as in Hoodlum (n.) A young rowdy; a rough, lawless fellow.,
H as in Hoodman (n.) The person blindfolded in the game called hoodman-blind.,
H as in Hoodman-blind (n.) An old term for blindman's buff.,
H as in Hood molding () Alt. of Hood moulding,
H as in Hood moulding () A projecting molding over the head of an arch, forming the outermost member of the archivolt; -- called also hood mold.,
H as in Hoodoo (n.) One who causes bad luck.,
H as in Hoodwink (v. t.) To blind by covering the eyes.,
H as in Hoodwink (v. t.) To cover; to hide.,
H as in Hoodwink (v. t.) To deceive by false appearance; to impose upon.,
H as in Hoody (n.) The hooded crow; also, in Scotland, the hooded gull.,
H as in Hoofs (pl. ) of Hoof,
H as in Hooves (pl. ) of Hoof,
H as in Hoof (n.) The horny substance or case that covers or terminates the feet of certain animals, as horses, oxen, etc.,
H as in Hoof (n.) A hoofed animal; a beast.,
H as in Hoof (n.) See Ungula.,
H as in Hoof (v. i.) To walk as cattle.,
H as in Hoof (v. i.) To be on a tramp; to foot.,
H as in Hoofbound (a.) Having a dry and contracted hoof, which occasions pain and lameness.,
H as in Hoofed (a.) Furnished with hoofs.,
H as in Hoofless (a.) Destitute of hoofs.,
H as in Hook (n.) A piece of metal, or other hard material, formed or bent into a curve or at an angle, for catching, holding, or sustaining anything; as, a hook for catching fish; a hook for fastening a gate; a boat hook, etc.,
H as in Hook (n.) That part of a hinge which is fixed to a post, and on which a door or gate hangs and turns.,
H as in Hook (n.) An implement for cutting grass or grain; a sickle; an instrument for cutting or lopping; a billhook.,
H as in Hook (n.) See Eccentric, and V-hook.,
H as in Hook (n.) A snare; a trap.,
H as in Hook (n.) A field sown two years in succession.,
H as in Hook (n.) The projecting points of the thigh bones of cattle; -- called also hook bones.,
H as in Hooked (imp. & p. p.) of Hook,
H as in Hooking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hook,
H as in Hook (v. t.) To catch or fasten with a hook or hooks; to seize, capture, or hold, as with a hook, esp. with a disguised or baited hook; hence, to secure by allurement or artifice; to entrap; to catch; as, to hook a dress; to hook a trout.,
H as in Hook (v. t.) To seize or pierce with the points of the horns, as cattle in attacking enemies; to gore.,
H as in Hook (v. t.) To steal.,
H as in Hook (v. i.) To bend; to curve as a hook.,
H as in Hookah (n.) A pipe with a long, flexible stem, so arranged that the smoke is cooled by being made to pass through water.,
H as in Hook-billed (a.) Having a strongly curved bill.,
H as in Hooked (a.) Having the form of a hook; curvated; as, the hooked bill of a bird.,
H as in Hooked (a.) Provided with a hook or hooks.,
H as in Hookedness (n.) The state of being bent like a hook; incurvation.,
H as in Hooker (n.) One who, or that which, hooks.,
H as in Hooker (n.) A Dutch vessel with two masts.,
H as in Hooker (n.) A fishing boat with one mast, used on the coast of Ireland.,
H as in Hooker (n.) A sailor's contemptuous term for any antiquated craft.,
H as in Hooke's gearing () Spur gearing having teeth slanting across the face of the wheel, sometimes slanting in opposite directions from the middle.,
H as in Hooke's joint () A universal joint. See under Universal.,
H as in Hookey (n.) See Hockey.,
H as in Hooklet (n.) A little hook.,
H as in Hook-nosed (a.) Having a hooked or aquiline nose.,
H as in Hooky (a.) Full of hooks; pertaining to hooks.,
H as in Hool (a.) Whole.,
H as in Hoolock (n.) A small black gibbon (Hylobates hoolock), found in the mountains of Assam.,
H as in Hoom (n.) Home.,
H as in Hoonoomaun (n.) An Indian monkey. See Entellus.,
H as in Hoop (n.) A pliant strip of wood or metal bent in a circular form, and united at the ends, for holding together the staves of casks, tubs, etc.,
H as in Hoop (n.) A ring; a circular band; anything resembling a hoop, as the cylinder (cheese hoop) in which the curd is pressed in making cheese.,
H as in Hoop (n.) A circle, or combination of circles, of thin whalebone, metal, or other elastic material, used for expanding the skirts of ladies' dresses; crinoline; -- used chiefly in the plural.,
H as in Hoop (n.) A quart pot; -- so called because originally bound with hoops, like a barrel. Also, a portion of the contents measured by the distance between the hoops.,
H as in Hoop (n.) An old measure of capacity, variously estimated at from one to four pecks.,
H as in Hooped (imp. & p. p.) of Hoop,
H as in Hooping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hoop,
H as in Hoop (v. t.) To bind or fasten with hoops; as, to hoop a barrel or puncheon.,
H as in Hoop (v. t.) To clasp; to encircle; to surround.,
H as in Hoop (v. i.) To utter a loud cry, or a sound imitative of the word, by way of call or pursuit; to shout.,
H as in Hoop (v. i.) To whoop, as in whooping cough. See Whoop.,
H as in Hoop (v. t.) To drive or follow with a shout.,
H as in Hoop (v. t.) To call by a shout or peculiar cry.,
H as in Hoop (n.) A shout; a whoop, as in whooping cough.,
H as in Hoop (n.) The hoopoe. See Hoopoe.,
H as in Hooper (n.) One who hoops casks or tubs; a cooper.,
H as in Hooper (n.) The European whistling, or wild, swan (Olor cygnus); -- called also hooper swan, whooping swan, and elk.,
H as in Hoopoe (n.) Alt. of Hoopoo,
H as in Hoopoo (n.) A European bird of the genus Upupa (U. epops), having a beautiful crest, which it can erect or depress at pleasure. Called also hoop, whoop. The name is also applied to several other species of the same genus and allied genera.,
H as in Hoosier (n.) A nickname given to an inhabitant of the State of Indiana.,
H as in Hooted (imp. & p. p.) of Hoot,
H as in Hooting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hoot,
H as in Hoot (v. i.) To cry out or shout in contempt.,
H as in Hoot (v. i.) To make the peculiar cry of an owl.,
H as in Hoot (v. t.) To assail with contemptuous cries or shouts; to follow with derisive shouts.,
H as in Hoot (n.) A derisive cry or shout.,
H as in Hoot (n.) The cry of an owl.,
H as in Hoove (n.) A disease in cattle consisting in inflammation of the stomach by gas, ordinarily caused by eating too much green food; tympany; bloating.,
H as in Hooven (a.) Alt. of Hoven,
H as in Hoven (a.) Affected with hoove; as, hooven, or hoven, cattle.,
H as in Hopped (imp. & p. p.) of Hop,
H as in Hopping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hop,
H as in Hop (v. i.) To move by successive leaps, as toads do; to spring or jump on one foot; to skip, as birds do.,
H as in Hop (v. i.) To walk lame; to limp; to halt.,
H as in Hop (v. i.) To dance.,
H as in Hop (n.) A leap on one leg, as of a boy; a leap, as of a toad; a jump; a spring.,
H as in Hop (n.) A dance; esp., an informal dance of ball.,
H as in Hop (n.) A climbing plant (Humulus Lupulus), having a long, twining, annual stalk. It is cultivated for its fruit (hops).,
H as in Hop (n.) The catkin or strobilaceous fruit of the hop, much used in brewing to give a bitter taste.,
H as in Hop (n.) The fruit of the dog-rose. See Hip.,
H as in Hop (v. t.) To impregnate with hops.,
H as in Hop (v. i.) To gather hops. [Perhaps only in the form Hopping, vb. n.],
H as in Hopbine (n.) Alt. of Hopbind,
H as in Hopbind (n.) The climbing stem of the hop.,
H as in Hope (n.) A sloping plain between mountain ridges.,
H as in Hope (n.) A small bay; an inlet; a haven.,
H as in Hope (n.) A desire of some good, accompanied with an expectation of obtaining it, or a belief that it is obtainable; an expectation of something which is thought to be desirable; confidence; pleasing expectancy.,
H as in Hope (n.) One who, or that which, gives hope, furnishes ground of expectation, or promises desired good.,
H as in Hope (n.) That which is hoped for; an object of hope.,
H as in Hoped (imp. & p. p.) of Hope,
H as in Hoping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hope,
H as in Hope (v. i.) To entertain or indulge hope; to cherish a desire of good, or of something welcome, with expectation of obtaining it or belief that it is obtainable; to expect; -- usually followed by for.,
H as in Hope (v. i.) To place confidence; to trust with confident expectation of good; -- usually followed by in.,
H as in Hope (v. t.) To desire with expectation or with belief in the possibility or prospect of obtaining; to look forward to as a thing desirable, with the expectation of obtaining it; to cherish hopes of.,
H as in Hope (v. t.) To expect; to fear.,
H as in Hopeful (a.) Full of hope, or agreeable expectation; inclined to hope; expectant.,
H as in Hopeful (a.) Having qualities which excite hope; affording promise of good or of success; as, a hopeful youth; a hopeful prospect.,
H as in Hopeite (n.) A hydrous phosphate of zinc in transparent prismatic crystals.,
H as in Hopeless (a.) Destitute of hope; having no expectation of good; despairing.,
H as in Hopeless (a.) Giving no ground of hope; promising nothing desirable; desperate; as, a hopeless cause.,
H as in Hopeless (a.) Unhoped for; despaired of.,
H as in Hoper (n.) One who hopes.,
H as in Hopingly (adv.) In a hopeful manner.,
H as in Hoplite (n.) A heavy-armed infantry soldier.,
H as in Hop-o'-my-thumb (n.) Alt. of Hop-thumb,
H as in Hop-thumb (n.) A very diminutive person.,
H as in Hopped (p. a.) Impregnated with hops.,
H as in Hopper (n.) One who, or that which, hops.,
H as in Hopper (n.) A chute, box, or receptacle, usually funnel-shaped with an opening at the lower part, for delivering or feeding any material, as to a machine; as, the wooden box with its trough through which grain passes into a mill by joining or shaking, or a funnel through which fuel passes into a furnace, or coal, etc., into a car.,
H as in Hopper (n.) See Grasshopper, 2.,
H as in Hopper (n.) A game. See Hopscotch.,
H as in Hopper (n.) See Grasshopper, and Frog hopper, Grape hopper, Leaf hopper, Tree hopper, under Frog, Grape, Leaf, and Tree.,
H as in Hopper (n.) The larva of a cheese fly.,
H as in Hopper (n.) A vessel for carrying waste, garbage, etc., out to sea, so constructed as to discharge its load by a mechanical contrivance; -- called also dumping scow.,
H as in Hopperings (n.) Gravel retaining in the hopper of a cradle.,
H as in Hoppestere (a.) An unexplained epithet used by Chaucer in reference to ships. By some it is defined as "dancing (on the wave)"; by others as "opposing," "warlike.",
H as in Hoppet (n.) A hand basket; also, a dish used by miners for measuring ore.,
H as in Hoppet (n.) An infant in arms.,
H as in Hopping (n.) The act of one who, or that which, hops; a jumping, frisking, or dancing.,
H as in Hopping (n.) A gathering of hops.,
H as in Hoppled (imp. & p. p.) of Hopple,
H as in Hoppling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hopple,
H as in Hopple (v. t.) To impede by a hopple; to tie the feet of (a horse or a cow) loosely together; to hamper; to hobble; as, to hopple an unruly or straying horse.,
H as in Hopple (v. t.) Fig.: To entangle; to hamper.,
H as in Hopple (n.) A fetter for horses, or cattle, when turned out to graze; -- chiefly used in the plural.,
H as in Hopplebush (n.) Same as Hobblebush.,
H as in Hoppo (n.) A collector of customs, as at Canton; an overseer of commerce.,
H as in Hoppo (n.) A tribunal or commission having charge of the revenue derived from trade and navigation.,
H as in Hopscotch (n.) A child's game, in which a player, hopping on one foot, drives a stone from one compartment to another of a figure traced or scotched on the ground; -- called also hoppers.,
H as in Hop-thumb (n.) See Hop-o'-my-thumb.,
H as in Hopyard (n.) A field where hops are raised.,
H as in Horal (a.) Of or pertaining to an hour, or to hours.,
H as in Horaly (adv.) Hourly.,
H as in Horary (a.) Of or pertaining to an hour; noting the hours.,
H as in Horary (a.) Occurring once an hour; continuing an hour; hourly; ephemeral.,
H as in Horatian (a.) Of or pertaining to Horace, the Latin poet, or resembling his style.,
H as in Horde (n.) A wandering troop or gang; especially, a clan or tribe of a nomadic people migrating from place to place for the sake of pasturage, plunder, etc.; a predatory multitude.,
H as in Hordeic (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, barley; as, hordeic acid, an acid identical or isomeric with lauric acid.,
H as in Hordein (n.) A peculiar starchy matter contained in barley. It is complex mixture.,
H as in Hordeolum (n.) A small tumor upon the eyelid, resembling a grain of barley; a sty.,
H as in Hordock (n.) An unidentified plant mentioned by Shakespeare, perhaps equivalent to burdock.,
H as in Hore (a.) Hoar.,
H as in Horehound (n.) A plant of the genus Marrubium (M. vulgare), which has a bitter taste, and is a weak tonic, used as a household remedy for colds, coughing, etc.,
H as in Horizon (n.) The circle which bounds that part of the earth's surface visible to a spectator from a given point; the apparent junction of the earth and sky.,
H as in Horizon (n.) A plane passing through the eye of the spectator and at right angles to the vertical at a given place; a plane tangent to the earth's surface at that place; called distinctively the sensible horizon.,
H as in Horizon (n.) A plane parallel to the sensible horizon of a place, and passing through the earth's center; -- called also rational / celestial horizon.,
H as in Horizon (n.) The unbroken line separating sky and water, as seen by an eye at a given elevation, no land being visible.,
H as in Horizon (n.) The epoch or time during which a deposit was made.,
H as in Horizon (n.) The chief horizontal line in a picture of any sort, which determines in the picture the height of the eye of the spectator; in an extended landscape, the representation of the natural horizon corresponds with this line.,
H as in Horizontal (a.) Pertaining to, or near, the horizon.,
H as in Horizontal (a.) Parallel to the horizon; on a level; as, a horizontalline or surface.,
H as in Horizontal (a.) Measured or contained in a plane of the horizon; as, horizontal distance.,
H as in Horizontality (n.) The state or quality of being horizontal.,
H as in Horizontally (adv.) In a horizontal direction or position; on a level; as, moving horizontally.,
H as in Hormogonium (n.) A chain of small cells in certain algae, by which the plant is propogated.,
H as in Horn (n.) A hard, projecting, and usually pointed organ, growing upon the heads of certain animals, esp. of the ruminants, as cattle, goats, and the like. The hollow horns of the Ox family consist externally of true horn, and are never shed.,
H as in Horn (n.) The antler of a deer, which is of bone throughout, and annually shed and renewed.,
H as in Horn (n.) Any natural projection or excrescence from an animal, resembling or thought to resemble a horn in substance or form; esp.: (a) A projection from the beak of a bird, as in the hornbill. (b) A tuft of feathers on the head of a bird, as in the horned owl. (c) A hornlike projection from the head or thorax of an insect, or the head of a reptile, or fish. (d) A sharp spine in front of the fins of a fish, as in the horned pout.,
H as in Horn (n.) An incurved, tapering and pointed appendage found in the flowers of the milkweed (Asclepias).,
H as in Horn (n.) Something made of a horn, or in resemblance of a horn,
H as in Horn (n.) A wind instrument of music; originally, one made of a horn (of an ox or a ram); now applied to various elaborately wrought instruments of brass or other metal, resembling a horn in shape.,
H as in Horn (n.) A drinking cup, or beaker, as having been originally made of the horns of cattle.,
H as in Horn (n.) The cornucopia, or horn of plenty.,
H as in Horn (n.) A vessel made of a horn; esp., one designed for containing powder; anciently, a small vessel for carrying liquids.,
H as in Horn (n.) The pointed beak of an anvil.,
H as in Horn (n.) The high pommel of a saddle; also, either of the projections on a lady's saddle for supporting the leg.,
H as in Horn (n.) The Ionic volute.,
H as in Horn (n.) The outer end of a crosstree; also, one of the projections forming the jaws of a gaff, boom, etc.,
H as in Horn (n.) A curved projection on the fore part of a plane.,
H as in Horn (n.) One of the projections at the four corners of the Jewish altar of burnt offering.,
H as in Horn (n.) One of the curved ends of a crescent; esp., an extremity or cusp of the moon when crescent-shaped.,
H as in Horn (n.) The curving extremity of the wing of an army or of a squadron drawn up in a crescentlike form.,
H as in Horn (n.) The tough, fibrous material of which true horns are composed, being, in the Ox family, chiefly albuminous, with some phosphate of lime; also, any similar substance, as that which forms the hoof crust of horses, sheep, and cattle; as, a spoon of horn.,
H as in Horn (n.) A symbol of strength, power, glory, exaltation, or pride.,
H as in Horn (n.) An emblem of a cuckold; -- used chiefly in the plural.,
H as in Horn (v. t.) To furnish with horns; to give the shape of a horn to.,
H as in Horn (v. t.) To cause to wear horns; to cuckold.,
H as in Hornbeak (n.) A fish. See Hornfish.,
H as in Hornbeam (n.) A tree of the genus Carpinus (C. Americana), having a smooth gray bark and a ridged trunk, the wood being white and very hard. It is common along the banks of streams in the United States, and is also called ironwood. The English hornbeam is C. Betulus. The American is called also blue beech and water beech.,
H as in Hornbill (n.) Any bird of the family Bucerotidae, of which about sixty species are known, belonging to numerous genera. They inhabit the tropical parts of Asia, Africa, and the East Indies, and are remarkable for having a more or less horn-like protuberance, which is usually large and hollow and is situated on the upper side of the beak. The size of the hornbill varies from that of a pigeon to that of a raven, or even larger. They feed chiefly upon fruit, but some species eat dead animals.,
H as in Hornblende (n.) The common black, or dark green or brown, variety of amphibole. (See Amphibole.) It belongs to the aluminous division of the species, and is also characterized by its containing considerable iron. Also used as a general term to include the whole species.,
H as in Hornblendic (a.) Composed largely of hornblende; resembling or relating to hornblende.,
H as in Hornblower (n.) One who, or that which, blows a horn.,
H as in Hornbook (n.) The first book for children, or that from which in former times they learned their letters and rudiments; -- so called because a sheet of horn covered the small, thin board of oak, or the slip of paper, on which the alphabet, digits, and often the Lord's Prayer, were written or printed; a primer.,
H as in Hornbook (n.) A book containing the rudiments of any science or branch of knowledge; a manual; a handbook.,
H as in Hornbug (n.) A large nocturnal beetle of the genus Lucanus (as L. capreolus, and L. dama), having long, curved upper jaws, resembling a sickle. The grubs are found in the trunks of old trees.,
H as in Horned (a.) Furnished with a horn or horns; furnished with a hornlike process or appendage; as, horned cattle; having some part shaped like a horn.,
H as in Hornedness (n.) The condition of being horned.,
H as in Hornel (n.) The European sand eel.,
H as in Horner (n.) One who works or deal in horn or horns.,
H as in Horner (n.) One who winds or blows the horn.,
H as in Horner (n.) One who horns or cuckolds.,
H as in Horner (n.) The British sand lance or sand eel (Ammodytes lanceolatus).,
H as in Hornet (n.) A large, strong wasp. The European species (Vespa crabro) is of a dark brown and yellow color. It is very pugnacious, and its sting is very severe. Its nest is constructed of a paperlike material, and the layers of comb are hung together by columns. The American white-faced hornet (V. maculata) is larger and has similar habits.,
H as in Hornfish (n.) The garfish or sea needle.,
H as in Hornfoot (a.) Having hoofs; hoofed.,
H as in Hornify (v. t.) To horn; to cuckold.,
H as in Horning (n.) Appearance of the moon when increasing, or in the form of a crescent.,
H as in Hornish (a.) Somewhat like horn; hard.,
H as in Hornito (n.) A low, oven-shaped mound, common in volcanic regions, and emitting smoke and vapors from its sides and summit.,
H as in Hornless (a.) Having no horn.,
H as in Horn-mad (a.) Quite mad; -- raving crazy.,
H as in Hornotine (n.) A yearling; a bird of the year.,
H as in Hornowl (n.) See Horned Owl.,
H as in Hornpike (n.) The garfish.,
H as in Hornpipe (n.) An instrument of music formerly popular in Wales, consisting of a wooden pipe, with holes at intervals. It was so called because the bell at the open end was sometimes made of horn.,
H as in Hornpipe (n.) A lively tune played on a hornpipe, for dancing; a tune adapted for such playing.,
H as in Hornpout (n.) See Horned pout, under Horned.,
H as in Hornsnake (n.) A harmless snake (Farancia abacura), found in the Southern United States. The color is bluish black above, red below.,
H as in Hornstone (n.) A siliceous stone, a variety of quartz, closely resembling flint, but more brittle; -- called also chert.,
H as in Horntail (n.) Any one of family (Uroceridae) of large hymenopterous insects, allied to the sawflies. The larvae bore in the wood of trees. So called from the long, stout ovipositors of the females.,
H as in Hornwork (n.) An outwork composed of two demibastions joined by a curtain. It is connected with the works in rear by long wings.,
H as in Hornwort (n.) An aquatic plant (Ceratophyllum), with finely divided leaves.,
H as in Hornwrack (n.) A bryozoan of the genus Flustra.,
H as in Horny (superl.) Having horns or hornlike projections.,
H as in Horny (superl.) Composed or made of horn, or of a substance resembling horn; of the nature of horn.,
H as in Horny (superl.) Hard; callous.,
H as in Horny-handed (a.) Having the hands horny and callous from labor.,
H as in Hornyhead (n.) Any North American river chub of the genus Hybopsis, esp. H. biguttatus.,
H as in Horography (n.) An account of the hours.,
H as in Horography (n.) The art of constructing instruments for making the hours, as clocks, watches, and dials.,
H as in Horologe (n.) A servant who called out the hours.,
H as in Horologe (n.) An instrument indicating the time of day; a timepiece of any kind; a watch, clock, or dial.,
H as in Horologer (n.) A maker or vender of clocks and watches; one skilled in horology.,
H as in Horological (a.) Relating to a horologe, or to horology.,
H as in Horologiographer (n.) A maker of clocks, watches, or dials.,
H as in Horologiographic (a.) Of or pertaining to horologiography.,
H as in Horologiography (n.) An account of instruments that show the hour.,
H as in Horologiography (n.) The art of constructing clocks or dials; horography.,
H as in Horologist (n.) One versed in horology.,
H as in Horology (n.) The science of measuring time, or the principles and art of constructing instruments for measuring and indicating portions of time, as clocks, watches, dials, etc.,
H as in Horometer (n.) An instrument for measuring time.,
H as in Horometrical (a.) Belonging to horometry.,
H as in Horometry (n.) The art, practice, or method of measuring time by hours and subordinate divisions.,
H as in Horopter (n.) The line or surface in which are situated all the points which are seen single while the point of sight, or the adjustment of the eyes, remains unchanged.,
H as in Horopteric (a.) Of or pertaining to the horopter.,
H as in Horoscope (n.) The representation made of the aspect of the heavens at the moment of a person's birth, by which the astrologer professed to foretell the events of the person's life; especially, the sign of the zodiac rising above the horizon at such a moment.,
H as in Horoscope (n.) The diagram or scheme of twelve houses or signs of the zodiac, into which the whole circuit of the heavens was divided for the purposes of such prediction of fortune.,
H as in Horoscope (n.) The planisphere invented by Jean Paduanus.,
H as in Horoscope (n.) A table showing the length of the days and nights at all places.,
H as in Horoscoper (n.) Alt. of Horoscopist,
H as in Horoscopist (n.) One versed in horoscopy; an astrologer.,
H as in Horoscopy (n.) The art or practice of casting horoscopes, or observing the disposition of the stars, with a view to prediction events.,
H as in Horoscopy (n.) Aspect of the stars at the time of a person's birth.,
H as in Horrendous (a.) Fearful; frightful.,
H as in Horrent (a.) Standing erect, as bristles; covered with bristling points; bristled; bristling.,
H as in Horrible (a.) Exciting, or tending to excite, horror or fear; dreadful; terrible; shocking; hideous; as, a horrible sight; a horrible story; a horrible murder.,
H as in Horribleness (n.) The state or quality of being horrible; dreadfulness; hideousness.,
H as in Horribly (adv.) In a manner to excite horror; dreadfully; terribly.,
H as in Horrid (a.) Rough; rugged; bristling.,
H as in Horrid (a.) Fitted to excite horror; dreadful; hideous; shocking; hence, very offensive.,
H as in Horridly (adv.) In a horrid manner.,
H as in Horridness (n.) The quality of being horrid.,
H as in Horrific (a.) Causing horror; frightful.,
H as in Horrification (n.) That which causes horror.,
H as in Horrified (imp. & p. p.) of Horrify,
H as in Horrifying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Horrify,
H as in Horrify (v. t.) To cause to feel horror; to strike or impress with horror; as, the sight horrified the beholders.,
H as in Horripilation (n.) A real or fancied bristling of the hair of the head or body, resulting from disease, terror, chilliness, etc.,
H as in Horrisonant (a.) Horrisonous.,
H as in Horrisonous (a.) Sounding dreadfully; uttering a terrible sound.,
H as in Horror (n.) A bristling up; a rising into roughness; tumultuous movement.,
H as in Horror (n.) A shaking, shivering, or shuddering, as in the cold fit which precedes a fever; in old medical writings, a chill of less severity than a rigor, and more marked than an algor.,
H as in Horror (n.) A painful emotion of fear, dread, and abhorrence; a shuddering with terror and detestation; the feeling inspired by something frightful and shocking.,
H as in Horror (n.) That which excites horror or dread, or is horrible; gloom; dreariness.,
H as in Horror-sticken (a.) Struck with horror; horrified.,
H as in Horror-struck (a.) Horror-stricken; horrified.,
H as in Hors de combat () Out of the combat; disabled from fighting.,
H as in Horse (n.) A hoofed quadruped of the genus Equus; especially, the domestic horse (E. caballus), which was domesticated in Egypt and Asia at a very early period. It has six broad molars, on each side of each jaw, with six incisors, and two canine teeth, both above and below. The mares usually have the canine teeth rudimentary or wanting. The horse differs from the true asses, in having a long, flowing mane, and the tail bushy to the base. Unlike the asses it has callosities, or chestnuts, on all its legs. The horse excels in strength, speed, docility, courage, and nobleness of character, and is used for drawing, carrying, bearing a rider, and like purposes.,
H as in Horse (n.) The male of the genus horse, in distinction from the female or male; usually, a castrated male.,
H as in Horse (n.) Mounted soldiery; cavalry; -- used without the plural termination; as, a regiment of horse; -- distinguished from foot.,
H as in Horse (n.) A frame with legs, used to support something; as, a clotheshorse, a sawhorse, etc.,
H as in Horse (n.) A frame of timber, shaped like a horse, on which soldiers were made to ride for punishment.,
H as in Horse (n.) Anything, actual or figurative, on which one rides as on a horse; a hobby.,
H as in Horse (n.) A mass of earthy matter, or rock of the same character as the wall rock, occurring in the course of a vein, as of coal or ore; hence, to take horse -- said of a vein -- is to divide into branches for a distance.,
H as in Horse (n.) See Footrope, a.,
H as in Horse (a.) A breastband for a leadsman.,
H as in Horse (a.) An iron bar for a sheet traveler to slide upon.,
H as in Horse (a.) A jackstay.,
H as in Horsed (imp. & p. p.) of Horse,
H as in Horsing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Horse,
H as in Horse (v. t.) To provide with a horse, or with horses; to mount on, or as on, a horse.,
H as in Horse (v. t.) To sit astride of; to bestride.,
H as in Horse (v. t.) To cover, as a mare; -- said of the male.,
H as in Horse (v. t.) To take or carry on the back; as, the keeper, horsing a deer.,
H as in Horse (v. t.) To place on the back of another, or on a wooden horse, etc., to be flogged; to subject to such punishment.,
H as in Horse (v. i.) To get on horseback.,
H as in Horseback (n.) The back of a horse.,
H as in Horseback (n.) An extended ridge of sand, gravel, and bowlders, in a half-stratified condition.,
H as in Horse-chestnut (n.) The large nutlike seed of a species of Aesculus (Ae. Hippocastanum), formerly ground, and fed to horses, whence the name.,
H as in Horse-chestnut (n.) The tree itself, which was brought from Constantinople in the beginning of the sixteenth century, and is now common in the temperate zones of both hemispheres. The native American species are called buckeyes.,
H as in Horse-drench (n.) A dose of physic for a horse.,
H as in Horse-drench (n.) The appliance by which the dose is administred.,
H as in Horsefish (n.) The moonfish (Selene setipinnis).,
H as in Horsefish (n.) The sauger.,
H as in Horseflesh (n.) The flesh of horses.,
H as in Horseflesh (n.) Horses, generally; the qualities of a horse; as, he is a judge of horseflesh.,
H as in Horseflies (pl. ) of Horsefly,
H as in Horsefly (n.) Any dipterous fly of the family Tabanidae, that stings horses, and sucks their blood.,
H as in Horsefly (n.) The horse tick or forest fly (Hippobosca).,
H as in Horsefeet (pl. ) of Horsefoot,
H as in Horsefoot (n.) The coltsfoot.,
H as in Horsefoot (n.) The Limulus or horseshoe crab.,
H as in Horse Guards () A body of cavalry so called; esp., a British regiment, called the Royal Horse Guards, which furnishes guards of state for the sovereign.,
H as in Horsehair (n.) A hair of a horse, especially one from the mane or tail; the hairs of the mane or tail taken collectively; a fabric or tuft made of such hairs.,
H as in Horsehead (n.) The silver moonfish (Selene vomer).,
H as in Horsehide (n.) The hide of a horse.,
H as in Horsehide (n.) Leather made of the hide of a horse.,
H as in Horse-jockey (n.) A professional rider and trainer of race horses.,
H as in Horse-jockey (n.) A trainer and dealer in horses.,
H as in Horseknop (n.) Knapweed.,
H as in Horselaugh (n.) A loud, boisterous laugh; a guffaw.,
H as in Horse-leech (n.) A large blood-sucking leech (Haemopsis vorax), of Europe and Northern Africa. It attacks the lips and mouths of horses.,
H as in Horse-leech (n.) A farrier; a veterinary surgeon.,
H as in Horse-leechery (n.) The business of a farrier; especially, the art of curing the diseases of horses.,
H as in Horse-litter (n.) A carriage hung on poles, and borne by and between two horses.,
H as in Horsemen (pl. ) of Horseman,
H as in Horseman (n.) A rider on horseback; one skilled in the management of horses; a mounted man.,
H as in Horseman (n.) A mounted soldier; a cavalryman.,
H as in Horseman (n.) A land crab of the genus Ocypoda, living on the coast of Brazil and the West Indies, noted for running very swiftly.,
H as in Horseman (n.) A West Indian fish of the genus Eques, as the light-horseman (E. lanceolatus).,
H as in Horsemanship (n.) The act or art of riding, and of training and managing horses; manege.,
H as in Horsemint (n.) A coarse American plant of the Mint family (Monarda punctata).,
H as in Horsemint (n.) In England, the wild mint (Mentha sylvestris).,
H as in Horsenail (n.) A thin, pointed nail, with a heavy flaring head, for securing a horsehoe to the hoof; a horsehoe nail.,
H as in Horseplay (n.) Rude, boisterous play.,
H as in Horsepond (n.) A pond for watering horses.,
H as in Horse power () The power which a horse exerts.,
H as in Horse power () A unit of power, used in stating the power required to drive machinery, and in estimating the capabilities of animals or steam engines and other prime movers for doing work. It is the power required for the performance of work at the rate of 33,000 English units of work per minute; hence, it is the power that must be exerted in lifting 33,000 pounds at the rate of one foot per minute, or 550 pounds at the rate of one foot per second, or 55 pounds at the rate of ten feet per second, etc.,
H as in Horse power () A machine worked by a horse, for driving other machinery; a horse motor.,
H as in Horse-radish (n.) A plant of the genus Nasturtium (N. Armoracia), allied to scurvy grass, having a root of a pungent taste, much used, when grated, as a condiment and in medicine.,
H as in Horserake (n.) A rake drawn by a horse.,
H as in Horseshoe (n.) A shoe for horses, consisting of a narrow plate of iron in form somewhat like the letter U, nailed to a horse's hoof.,
H as in Horseshoe (n.) Anything shaped like a horsehoe crab.,
H as in Horseshoe (n.) The Limulus of horsehoe crab.,
H as in Horseshoer (n.) One who shoes horses.,
H as in Horseshoeing (n.) The act or employment of shoeing horses.,
H as in Horsetail (n.) A leafless plant, with hollow and rushlike stems. It is of the genus Equisetum, and is allied to the ferns. See Illust. of Equisetum.,
H as in Horsetail (n.) A Turkish standard, denoting rank.,
H as in Horseweed (n.) A composite plant (Erigeron Canadensis), which is a common weed.,
H as in Horsewhip (n.) A whip for horses.,
H as in Horsewhip (v. t.) To flog or chastise with a horsewhip.,
H as in Horsewomen (pl. ) of Horsewoman,
H as in Horsewoman (n.) A woman who rides on horseback.,
H as in Horsewood (n.) A West Indian tree (Calliandra latifolia) with showy, crimson blossoms.,
H as in Horseworm (n.) The larva of a botfly.,
H as in Horsiness (n.) The condition or quality of being a horse; that which pertains to a horse.,
H as in Horsiness (n.) Fondness for, or interest in, horses.,
H as in Horsly (a.) Horselike.,
H as in Horsy (a.) Pertaining to, or suggestive of, a horse, or of horse racing; as, horsy manners; garments of fantastically horsy fashions.,
H as in Hortation (n.) The act of exhorting, inciting, or giving advice; exhortation.,
H as in Hortative (a.) Giving exhortation; advisory; exhortative.,
H as in Hortative (n.) An exhortation.,
H as in Hortatory (a.) Giving exhortation or advise; encouraging; exhortatory; inciting; as, a hortatory speech.,
H as in Hortensial (a.) Fit for a garden.,
H as in Horticultor (n.) One who cultivates a garden.,
H as in Horticultural (a.) Of or pertaining to horticulture, or the culture of gardens or orchards.,
H as in Horticulture (n.) The cultivation of a garden or orchard; the art of cultivating gardens or orchards.,
H as in Horticulturist (n.) One who practices horticulture.,
H as in Hortulan (a.) Belonging to a garden.,
H as in Hortus siccus () A collection of specimens of plants, dried and preserved, and arranged systematically; an herbarium.,
H as in Hortyard (n.) An orchard.,
H as in Hosannas (pl. ) of Hosanna,
H as in Hosanna (n.) A Hebrew exclamation of praise to the Lord, or an invocation of blessings.,
H as in Hose (pl. ) of Hose,
H as in Hosen (pl. ) of Hose,
H as in Hose (n.) Close-fitting trousers or breeches, as formerly worn, reaching to the knee.,
H as in Hose (n.) Covering for the feet and lower part of the legs; a stocking or stockings.,
H as in Hose (n.) A flexible pipe, made of leather, India rubber, or other material, and used for conveying fluids, especially water, from a faucet, hydrant, or fire engine.,
H as in Hosen (n. pl.) See Hose.,
H as in Hosier (n.) One who deals in hose or stocking, or in goods knit or woven like hose.,
H as in Hosiery (n.) The business of a hosier.,
H as in Hosiery (n.) Stockings, in general; goods knit or woven like hose.,
H as in Hospice (n.) A convent or monastery which is also a place of refuge or entertainment for travelers on some difficult road or pass, as in the Alps; as, the Hospice of the Great St. Bernard.,
H as in Hospitable (a.) Receiving and entertaining strangers or guests with kindness and without reward; kind to strangers and guests; characterized by hospitality.,
H as in Hospitable (a.) Proceeding from or indicating kindness and generosity to guests and strangers; as, hospitable rites.,
H as in Hospitableness (n.) The quality of being hospitable; hospitality.,
H as in Hospitably (adv.) In a hospitable manner.,
H as in Hospitage (n.) Hospitality.,
H as in Hospital (n.) A place for shelter or entertainment; an inn.,
H as in Hospital (n.) A building in which the sick, injured, or infirm are received and treated; a public or private institution founded for reception and cure, or for the refuge, of persons diseased in body or mind, or disabled, infirm, or dependent, and in which they are treated either at their own expense, or more often by charity in whole or in part; a tent, building, or other place where the sick or wounded of an army cared for.,
H as in Hospital (a.) Hospitable.,
H as in Hospitaler (n.) One residing in a hospital, for the purpose of receiving the poor, the sick, and strangers.,
H as in Hospitaler (n.) One of an order of knights who built a hospital at Jerusalem for pilgrims, A. D. 1042. They were called Knights of St. John of Jerusalem, and after the removal of the order to Malta, Knights of Malta.,
H as in Hospitalism (n.) A vitiated condition of the body, due to long confinement in a hospital, or the morbid condition of the atmosphere of a hospital.,
H as in Hospitalities (pl. ) of Hospitality,
H as in Hospitality (n.) The act or practice of one who is hospitable; reception and entertainment of strangers or guests without reward, or with kind and generous liberality.,
H as in Hospitalize (v. t.) To render (a building) unfit for habitation, by long continued use as a hospital.,
H as in Hospitate (v. i.) To receive hospitality; to be a guest.,
H as in Hospitate (v. t.) To receive with hospitality; to lodge as a guest.,
H as in Hospitium (n.) An inn; a lodging; a hospice.,
H as in Hospitium (n.) An inn of court.,
H as in Hospodar (n.) A title borne by the princes or governors of Moldavia and Wallachia before those countries were united as Roumania.,
H as in Host (n.) The consecrated wafer, believed to be the body of Christ, which in the Mass is offered as a sacrifice; also, the bread before consecration.,
H as in Host (n.) An army; a number of men gathered for war.,
H as in Host (n.) Any great number or multitude; a throng.,
H as in Host (n.) One who receives or entertains another, whether gratuitously or for compensation; one from whom another receives food, lodging, or entertainment; a landlord.,
H as in Host (v. t.) To give entertainment to.,
H as in Host (v. i.) To lodge at an inn; to take up entertainment.,
H as in Hostage (n.) A person given as a pledge or security for the performance of the conditions of a treaty or stipulations of any kind, on the performance of which the person is to be released.,
H as in Hostel (n.) An inn.,
H as in Hostel (n.) A small, unendowed college in Oxford or Cambridge.,
H as in Hosteler (n.) The keeper of a hostel or inn.,
H as in Hosteler (n.) A student in a hostel, or small unendowed collede in Oxford or Cambridge.,
H as in Hostelry (n.) An inn; a lodging house.,
H as in Hostess (n.) A female host; a woman who hospitably entertains guests at her house.,
H as in Hostess (n.) A woman who entertains guests for compensation; a female innkeeper.,
H as in Hostess-ship (n.) The character, personality, or office of a hostess.,
H as in Hostie (n.) The consecrated wafer; the host.,
H as in Hostile (a.) Belonging or appropriate to an enemy; showing the disposition of an enemy; showing ill will and malevolence, or a desire to thwart and injure; occupied by an enemy or enemies; inimical; unfriendly; as, a hostile force; hostile intentions; a hostile country; hostile to a sudden change.,
H as in Hostile (n.) An enemy; esp., an American Indian in arms against the whites; -- commonly in the plural.,
H as in Hostilely (adv.) In a hostile manner.,
H as in Hostilities (pl. ) of Hostility,
H as in Hostility (n.) State of being hostile; public or private enemy; unfriendliness; animosity.,
H as in Hostility (n.) An act of an open enemy; a hostile deed; especially in the plural, acts of warfare; attacks of an enemy.,
H as in Hostilize (v. t.) To make hostile; to cause to become an enemy.,
H as in Hosting (n.) An encounter; a battle.,
H as in Hosting (n.) A muster or review.,
H as in Hostler (n.) An innkeeper. [Obs.] See Hosteler.,
H as in Hostler (n.) The person who has the care of horses at an inn or stable; hence, any one who takes care of horses; a groom; -- so called because the innkeeper formerly attended to this duty in person.,
H as in Hostler (n.) The person who takes charge of a locomotive when it is left by the engineer after a trip.,
H as in Hostless (a.) Inhospitable.,
H as in Hostry (n.) A hostelry; an inn or lodging house.,
H as in Hostry (n.) A stable for horses.,
H as in Hot () imp. & p. p. of Hote.,
H as in Hot (superl.) Having much sensible heat; exciting the feeling of warmth in a great degree; very warm; -- opposed to cold, and exceeding warm in degree; as, a hot stove; hot water or air.,
H as in Hot (superl.) Characterized by heat, ardor, or animation; easily excited; firely; vehement; passionate; violent; eager.,
H as in Hot (superl.) Lustful; lewd; lecherous.,
H as in Hot (superl.) Acrid; biting; pungent; as, hot as mustard.,
H as in Hotbed (n.) A bed of earth heated by fermenting manure or other substances, and covered with glass, intended for raising early plants, or for nourishing exotics.,
H as in Hotbed (n.) A place which favors rapid growth or development; as, a hotbed of sedition.,
H as in Hot blast () See under Blast.,
H as in Hot-blooded (a.) Having hot blood; excitable; high-spirited; irritable; ardent; passionate.,
H as in Hot-brained (a.) Ardent in temper; violent; rash; impetuous; as, hot-brained youth.,
H as in Hotchpot (n.) Alt. of Hotchpotch,
H as in Hotchpotch (n.) A mingled mass; a confused mixture; a stew of various ingredients; a hodgepodge.,
H as in Hotchpotch (n.) A blending of property for equality of division, as when lands given in frank-marriage to one daughter were, after the death of the ancestor, blended with the lands descending to her and to her sisters from the same ancestor, and then divided in equal portions among all the daughters. In modern usage, a mixing together, or throwing into a common mass or stock, of the estate left by a person deceased and the amounts advanced to any particular child or children, for the purpose of a more equal division, or of equalizing the shares of all the children; the property advanced being accounted for at its value when given.,
H as in Hotcockles (n.) A childish play, in which one covers his eyes, and guesses who strikes him or his hand placed behind him.,
H as in Hatte (pres. & imp.) of Hote,
H as in Hot () of Hote,
H as in Hote (p. p.) of Hote,
H as in Hoten () of Hote,
H as in Hot () of Hote,
H as in Hote (v. t. & i.) To command; to enjoin.,
H as in Hote (v. t. & i.) To promise.,
H as in Hote (v. t. & i.) To be called; to be named.,
H as in Hotel (n.) A house for entertaining strangers or travelers; an inn or public house, of the better class.,
H as in Hotel (n.) In France, the mansion or town residence of a person of rank or wealth.,
H as in Hotel-de-ville (n.) A city hall or townhouse.,
H as in Hotel-Dieu (n.) A hospital.,
H as in Hoten () p. p. of Hote.,
H as in Hotfoot (adv.) In haste; foothot.,
H as in Hot-head (n.) A violent, passionate person; a hasty or impetuous person; as, the rant of a hot-head.,
H as in Hot-headed (a.) Fiery; violent; rash; hasty; impetuous; vehement.,
H as in Hothouse (n.) A house kept warm to shelter tender plants and shrubs from the cold air; a place in which the plants of warmer climates may be reared, and fruits ripened.,
H as in Hothouse (n.) A bagnio, or bathing house.,
H as in Hothouse (n.) A brothel; a bagnio.,
H as in Hothouse (n.) A heated room for drying green ware.,
H as in Hot-livered (a.) Of an excitable or irritable temperament; irascible.,
H as in Hotly (a.) In a hot or fiery manner; ardently; vehemently; violently; hastily; as, a hotly pursued.,
H as in Hotly (a.) In a lustful manner; lustfully.,
H as in Hot-mouthed (a.) Headstrong.,
H as in Hotness (n.) The quality or state of being hot.,
H as in Hotness (n.) Heat or excitement of mind or manner; violence; vehemence; impetuousity; ardor; fury.,
H as in Hotpress (v. t.) To apply to, in conjunction with mechanical pressure, for the purpose of giving a smooth and glosay surface, or to express oil, etc.; as, to hotpress paper, linen, etc.,
H as in Hotpressed (a.) Pressed while heat is applied. See Hotpress, v. t.,
H as in Hot-short (a.) More or less brittle when heated; as, hot-short iron.,
H as in Hot-spirited (a.) Having a fiery spirit; hot-headed.,
H as in Hotspur (n.) A rash, hot-headed man.,
H as in Hotspur (a.) Alt. of Hotspurred,
H as in Hotspurred (a.) Violent; impetuous; headstrong.,
H as in Hottentot (n.) One of a degraded and savage race of South Africa, with yellowish brown complexion, high cheek bones, and wooly hair growing in tufts.,
H as in Hottentot (n.) The language of the Hottentots, which is remarkable for its clicking sounds.,
H as in Hottentotism (n.) A term employed to describe one of the varieties of stammering.,
H as in Houdah (n.) See Howdah.,
H as in Hough (n.) Same as Hock, a joint.,
H as in Houghed (imp. & p. p.) of Hough,
H as in Houghing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hough,
H as in Hough (v. t.) Same as Hock, to hamstring.,
H as in Hough (n.) An adz; a hoe.,
H as in Hough (v. t.) To cut with a hoe.,
H as in Houlet (n.) An owl. See Howlet.,
H as in Hoult (n.) A piece of woodland; a small wood. [Obs.] See Holt.,
H as in Hound (n.) A variety of the domestic dog, usually having large, drooping ears, esp. one which hunts game by scent, as the foxhound, bloodhound, deerhound, but also used for various breeds of fleet hunting dogs, as the greyhound, boarhound, etc.,
H as in Hound (n.) A despicable person.,
H as in Hound (n.) A houndfish.,
H as in Hound (n.) Projections at the masthead, serving as a support for the trestletrees and top to rest on.,
H as in Hound (n.) A side bar used to strengthen portions of the running gear of a vehicle.,
H as in Hounded (imp. & p. p.) of Hound,
H as in Hounding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hound,
H as in Hound (v. t.) To set on the chase; to incite to pursuit; as, to hounda dog at a hare; to hound on pursuers.,
H as in Hound (v. t.) To hunt or chase with hounds, or as with hounds.,
H as in Houndfish (n.) Any small shark of the genus Galeus or Mustelus, of which there are several species, as the smooth houndfish (G. canis), of Europe and America; -- called also houndshark, and dogfish.,
H as in Hounding (n.) The act of one who hounds.,
H as in Hounding (n.) The part of a mast below the hounds and above the deck.,
H as in Hound's-tongue (n.) A biennial weed (Cynoglossum officinale), with soft tongue-shaped leaves, and an offensive odor. It bears nutlets covered with barbed or hooked prickles. Called also dog's-tongue.,
H as in Houp (n.) See Hoopoe.,
H as in Hour (n.) The twenty-fourth part of a day; sixty minutes.,
H as in Hour (n.) The time of the day, as expressed in hours and minutes, and indicated by a timepiece; as, what is the hour? At what hour shall we meet?,
H as in Hour (n.) Fixed or appointed time; conjuncture; a particular time or occasion; as, the hour of greatest peril; the man for the hour.,
H as in Hour (n.) Certain prayers to be repeated at stated times of the day, as matins and vespers.,
H as in Hour (n.) A measure of distance traveled.,
H as in Hourglass (n.) An instrument for measuring time, especially the interval of an hour. It consists of a glass vessel having two compartments, from the uppermost of which a quantity of sand, water, or mercury occupies an hour in running through a small aperture unto the lower.,
H as in Houris (pl. ) of Houri,
H as in Houri (n.) A nymph of paradise; -- so called by the Mohammedans.,
H as in Hourly (a.) Happening or done every hour; occurring hour by hour; frequent; often repeated; renewed hour by hour; continual.,
H as in Hourly (adv.) Every hour; frequently; continually.,
H as in Hours (n. pl.) Goddess of the seasons, or of the hours of the day.,
H as in Housage (n.) A fee for keeping goods in a house.,
H as in Houses (pl. ) of House,
H as in House (n.) A structure intended or used as a habitation or shelter for animals of any kind; but especially, a building or edifice for the habitation of man; a dwelling place, a mansion.,
H as in House (n.) Household affairs; domestic concerns; particularly in the phrase to keep house. See below.,
H as in House (n.) Those who dwell in the same house; a household.,
H as in House (n.) A family of ancestors, descendants, and kindred; a race of persons from the same stock; a tribe; especially, a noble family or an illustrious race; as, the house of Austria; the house of Hanover; the house of Israel.,
H as in House (n.) One of the estates of a kingdom or other government assembled in parliament or legislature; a body of men united in a legislative capacity; as, the House of Lords; the House of Commons; the House of Representatives; also, a quorum of such a body. See Congress, and Parliament.,
H as in House (n.) A firm, or commercial establishment.,
H as in House (n.) A public house; an inn; a hotel.,
H as in House (n.) A twelfth part of the heavens, as divided by six circles intersecting at the north and south points of the horizon, used by astrologers in noting the positions of the heavenly bodies, and casting horoscopes or nativities. The houses were regarded as fixed in respect to the horizon, and numbered from the one at the eastern horizon, called the ascendant, first house, or house of life, downward, or in the direction of the earth's revolution, the stars and planets passing through them in the reverse order every twenty-four hours.,
H as in House (n.) A square on a chessboard, regarded as the proper place of a piece.,
H as in House (n.) An audience; an assembly of hearers, as at a lecture, a theater, etc.; as, a thin or a full house.,
H as in House (n.) The body, as the habitation of the soul.,
H as in House (n.) The grave.,
H as in Housed (imp. & p. p.) of House,
H as in Housing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of House,
H as in House (v. t.) To take or put into a house; to shelter under a roof; to cover from the inclemencies of the weather; to protect by covering; as, to house one's family in a comfortable home; to house farming utensils; to house cattle.,
H as in House (v. t.) To drive to a shelter.,
H as in House (v. t.) To admit to residence; to harbor.,
H as in House (v. t.) To deposit and cover, as in the grave.,
H as in House (v. t.) To stow in a safe place; to take down and make safe; as, to house the upper spars.,
H as in House (v. i.) To take shelter or lodging; to abide to dwell; to lodge.,
H as in House (v. i.) To have a position in one of the houses. See House, n., 8.,
H as in Housebote (n.) Wood allowed to a tenant for repairing the house and for fuel. This latter is often called firebote. See Bote.,
H as in Housebreaker (n.) One who is guilty of the crime of housebreaking.,
H as in Housebreaking (n.) The act of breaking open and entering, with a felonious purpose, the dwelling house of another, whether done by day or night. See Burglary, and To break a house, under Break.,
H as in Housebuilder (n.) One whose business is to build houses; a housewright.,
H as in Housecarl (n.) A household servant; also, one of the bodyguard of King Canute.,
H as in Household (n.) Those who dwell under the same roof and compose a family.,
H as in Household (n.) A line of ancestory; a race or house.,
H as in Household (a.) Belonging to the house and family; domestic; as, household furniture; household affairs.,
H as in Householder (n.) The master or head of a family; one who occupies a house with his family.,
H as in Housekeeper (n.) One who occupies a house with his family; a householder; the master or mistress of a family.,
H as in Housekeeper (n.) One who does, or oversees, the work of keeping house; as, his wife is a good housekeeper; often, a woman hired to superintend the servants of a household and manage the ordinary domestic affairs.,
H as in Housekeeper (n.) One who exercises hospitality, or has a plentiful and hospitable household.,
H as in Housekeeper (n.) One who keeps or stays much at home.,
H as in Housekeeper (n.) A house dog.,
H as in Housekeeping (n.) The state of occupying a dwelling house as a householder.,
H as in Housekeeping (n.) Care of domestic concerns; management of a house and home affairs.,
H as in Housekeeping (n.) Hospitality; a liberal and hospitable table; a supply of provisions.,
H as in Housekeeping (a.) Domestic; used in a family; as, housekeeping commodities.,
H as in Housel (n.) The eucharist.,
H as in Housel (v. t.) To administer the eucharist to.,
H as in Houseleek (n.) A succulent plant of the genus Sempervivum (S. tectorum), originally a native of subalpine Europe, but now found very generally on old walls and roofs. It is very tenacious of life under drought and heat; -- called also ayegreen.,
H as in Houseless (a.) Destitute of the shelter of a house; shelterless; homeless; as, a houseless wanderer.,
H as in Houselessness (n.) The state of being houseless.,
H as in Houseline (n.) A small line of three strands used for seizing; -- called also housing.,
H as in Houseling (a.) Same as Housling.,
H as in Housemaid (n.) A female servant employed to do housework, esp. to take care of the rooms.,
H as in Housemate (n.) One who dwells in the same house with another.,
H as in Houseroom (n.) Room or place in a house; as, to give any one houseroom.,
H as in Housewarming (n.) A feast or merry-making made by or for a family or business firm on taking possession of a new house or premises.,
H as in Housewife (n.) The wife of a householder; the mistress of a family; the female head of a household.,
H as in Housewife (n.) A little case or bag for materials used in sewing, and for other articles of female work; -- called also hussy.,
H as in Housewife (n.) A hussy.,
H as in Housewife (v. t.) Alt. of Housewive,
H as in Housewive (v. t.) To manage with skill and economy, as a housewife or other female manager; to economize.,
H as in Housewifely (a.) Pertaining or appropriate to a housewife; domestic; economical; prudent.,
H as in Housewifery (n.) The business of the mistress of a family; female management of domestic concerns.,
H as in Housework (n.) The work belonging to housekeeping; especially, kitchen work, sweeping, scrubbing, bed making, and the like.,
H as in Housewright (n.) A builder of houses.,
H as in Housing (n.) The act of putting or receiving under shelter; the state of dwelling in a habitation.,
H as in Housing (n.) That which shelters or covers; houses, taken collectively.,
H as in Housing (n.) The space taken out of one solid, to admit the insertion of part of another, as the end of one timber in the side of another.,
H as in Housing (n.) A niche for a statue.,
H as in Housing (n.) A frame or support for holding something in place, as journal boxes, etc.,
H as in Housing (n.) That portion of a mast or bowsprit which is beneath the deck or within the vessel.,
H as in Housing (n.) A covering or protection, as an awning over the deck of a ship when laid up.,
H as in Housing (n.) A houseline. See Houseline.,
H as in Housing (n.) A cover or cloth for a horse's saddle, as an ornamental or military appendage; a saddlecloth; a horse cloth; in plural, trappings.,
H as in Housing (n.) An appendage to the hames or collar of a harness.,
H as in Housling (a.) Sacramental; as, housling fire.,
H as in Houss (n.) A saddlecloth; a housing.,
H as in Houtou (n.) A beautiful South American motmot.,
H as in Houve (n.) A head covering of various kinds; a hood; a coif; a cap.,
H as in Houyhnhnm (n.) One of the race of horses described by Swift in his imaginary travels of Lemuel Gulliver. The Houyhnhnms were endowed with reason and noble qualities; subject to them were Yahoos, a race of brutes having the form and all the worst vices of men.,
H as in Hove () imp. & p. p. of Heave.,
H as in Hove (v. i. & t.) To rise; to swell; to heave; to cause to swell.,
H as in Hove (v. i.) To hover around; to loiter; to lurk.,
H as in Hovel (n.) An open shed for sheltering cattle, or protecting produce, etc., from the weather.,
H as in Hovel (n.) A poor cottage; a small, mean house; a hut.,
H as in Hovel (n.) A large conical brick structure around which the firing kilns are grouped.,
H as in Hoveled (imp. & p. p.) of Hovel,
H as in Hovelled () of Hovel,
H as in Hoveling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hovel,
H as in Hovelling () of Hovel,
H as in Hovel (v. t.) To put in a hovel; to shelter.,
H as in Hoveler (n.) One who assists in saving life and property from a wreck; a coast boatman.,
H as in Hoveling (n.) A method of securing a good draught in chimneys by covering the top, leaving openings in the sides, or by carrying up two of the sides higher than the other two.,
H as in Hoven () p. p. of Heave.,
H as in Hoven (a.) Affected with the disease called hoove; as, hoven cattle.,
H as in Hover (n.) A cover; a shelter; a protection.,
H as in Hovered (imp. & p. p.) of Hover,
H as in Hovering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hover,
H as in Hover (v. i.) To hang fluttering in the air, or on the wing; to remain in flight or floating about or over a place or object; to be suspended in the air above something.,
H as in Hover (v. i.) To hang about; to move to and fro near a place, threateningly, watchfully, or irresolutely.,
H as in Hoverer (n.) A device in an incubator for protecting the young chickens and keeping them warm.,
H as in Hover-hawk (n.) The kestrel.,
H as in Hoveringly (adv.) In a hovering manner.,
H as in How (adv.) In what manner or way; by what means or process.,
H as in How (adv.) To what degree or extent, number or amount; in what proportion; by what measure or quality.,
H as in How (adv.) For what reason; from what cause.,
H as in How (adv.) In what state, condition, or plight.,
H as in How (adv.) By what name, designation, or title.,
H as in How (adv.) At what price; how dear.,
H as in Howadji (n.) A traveler.,
H as in Howadji (n.) A merchant; -- so called in the East because merchants were formerly the chief travelers.,
H as in Howbeit (conj.) Be it as it may; nevertheless; notwithstanding; although; albeit; yet; but; however.,
H as in Howdah (n.) A seat or pavilion, generally covered, fastened on the back of an elephant, for the rider or riders.,
H as in Howdy (n.) A midwife.,
H as in Howel (n.) A tool used by coopers for smoothing and chamfering rheir work, especially the inside of casks.,
H as in Howel (v. t.) To smooth; to plane; as, to howel a cask.,
H as in Howell (n.) The upper stage of a porcelian furnace.,
H as in However (adv.) In whetever manner, way, or degree.,
H as in However (adv.) At all events; at least; in any case.,
H as in However (conj.) Nevertheless; notwithstanding; yet; still; though; as, I shall not oppose your design; I can not, however, approve of it.,
H as in Howitz (n.) A howitzer.,
H as in Howitzer (n.) A gun so short that the projectile, which was hollow, could be put in its place by hand; a kind of mortar.,
H as in Howitzer (n.) A short, light, largebore cannon, usually having a chamber of smaller diameter than the rest of the bore, and intended to throw large projectiles with comparatively small charges.,
H as in Howker (n.) Same as Hooker.,
H as in Howled (imp. & p. p.) of Howl,
H as in Howling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Howl,
H as in Howl (v. i.) To utter a loud, protraced, mournful sound or cry, as dogs and wolves often do.,
H as in Howl (v. i.) To utter a sound expressive of distress; to cry aloud and mournfully; to lament; to wail.,
H as in Howl (v. i.) To make a noise resembling the cry of a wild beast.,
H as in Howl (v. t.) To utter with outcry.,
H as in Howl (n.) The protracted, mournful cry of a dog or a wolf, or other like sound.,
H as in Howl (n.) A prolonged cry of distress or anguish; a wail.,
H as in Howler (n.) One who howls.,
H as in Howler (n.) Any South American monkey of the genus Mycetes. Many species are known. They are arboreal in their habits, and are noted for the loud, discordant howling in which they indulge at night.,
H as in Howlet (n.) An owl; an owlet.,
H as in Howp (v. i.) To cry out; to whoop.,
H as in Howso (adv.) Howsoever.,
H as in Howsoever (adj. & conj.) In what manner soever; to whatever degree or extent; however.,
H as in Howsoever (adj. & conj.) Although; though; however.,
H as in Howve (n.) A hood. See Houve.,
H as in Hox (v. t.) To hock; to hamstring. See Hock.,
H as in Hoy (n.) A small coaster vessel, usually sloop-rigged, used in conveying passengers and goods from place to place, or as a tender to larger vessels in port.,
H as in Hoy (interj.) Ho! Halloe! Stop!,
H as in Hoyden (n.) Same as Hoiden.,
H as in Hoymen (pl. ) of Hoyman,
H as in Hoyman (n.) One who navigates a hoy.,
H as in Huanaco (n.) See Guanaco.,
H as in Hub (n.) The central part, usually cylindrical, of a wheel; the nave. See Illust. of Axle box.,
H as in Hub (n.) The hilt of a weapon.,
H as in Hub (n.) A rough protuberance or projecting obstruction; as, a hub in the road. [U.S.] See Hubby.,
H as in Hub (n.) A goal or mark at which quoits, etc., are cast.,
H as in Hub (n.) A hardened, engraved steel punch for impressing a device upon a die, used in coining, etc.,
H as in Hub (n.) A screw hob. See Hob, 3.,
H as in Hub (n.) A block for scotching a wheel.,
H as in Hubble-bubble (n.) A tobacco pipe, so arranged that the smoke passes through water, making a bubbling noise, whence its name. In India, the bulb containing the water is often a cocoanut shell.,
H as in Hubbub (v. i.) A loud noise of many confused voices; a tumult; uproar.,
H as in Hubby (a.) Full of hubs or protuberances; as, a road that has been frozen while muddy is hubby.,
H as in Hubner (n.) A mineral of brownish black color, occurring in columnar or foliated masses. It is native manganese tungstate.,
H as in Huch (n.) Alt. of Huchen,
H as in Huchen (n.) A large salmon (Salmo, / Salvelinus, hucho) inhabiting the Danube; -- called also huso, and bull trout.,
H as in Huck (v. i.) To higgle in trading.,
H as in Huckaback (n.) A kind of linen cloth with raised figures, used for towelings.,
H as in Huckle (n.) The hip; the haunch.,
H as in Huckle (n.) A bunch or part projecting like the hip.,
H as in Huckle-backed (a.) Round-shoulded.,
H as in Huckleberry (n.) The edible black or dark blue fruit of several species of the American genus Gaylussacia, shrubs nearly related to the blueberries (Vaccinium), and formerly confused with them. The commonest huckelberry comes from G. resinosa.,
H as in Huckleberry (n.) The shrub that bears the berries. Called also whortleberry.,
H as in Huckster (n.) A retailer of small articles, of provisions, and the like; a peddler; a hawker.,
H as in Huckster (n.) A mean, trickish fellow.,
H as in Huckstered (imp. & p. p.) of Huckster,
H as in Huckstering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Huckster,
H as in Huckster (v. i.) To deal in small articles, or in petty bargains.,
H as in Hucksterage (n.) The business of a huckster; small dealing; peddling.,
H as in Hucksterer (n.) A huckster.,
H as in Huckstress (n.) A female huckster.,
H as in Hud (n.) A huck or hull, as of a nut.,
H as in Huddled (imp. & p. p.) of Huddle,
H as in Huddling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Huddle,
H as in Huddle (v. i.) To press together promiscuously, from confusion, apprehension, or the like; to crowd together confusedly; to press or hurry in disorder; to crowd.,
H as in Huddle (v. t.) To crowd (things) together to mingle confusedly; to assemble without order or system.,
H as in Huddle (v. t.) To do, make, or put, in haste or roughly; hence, to do imperfectly; -- usually with a following preposition or adverb; as, to huddle on; to huddle up; to huddle together.,
H as in Huddle (n.) A crowd; a number of persons or things crowded together in a confused manner; tumult; confusion.,
H as in Huddler (n.) One who huddles things together.,
H as in Hudge (n.) An iron bucket for hoisting coal or ore.,
H as in Hudibrastic (a.) Similar to, or in the style of, the poem "Hudibras," by Samuel Butler; in the style of doggerel verse.,
H as in Hudsonian (a.) Of or pertaining to Hudson's Bay or to the Hudson River; as, the Hudsonian curlew.,
H as in Hue (n.) Color or shade of color; tint; dye.,
H as in Hue (n.) A predominant shade in a composition of primary colors; a primary color modified by combination with others.,
H as in Hue (n.) A shouting or vociferation.,
H as in Hued (a.) Having color; -- usually in composition; as, bright-hued; many-hued.,
H as in Hueless (a.) Destitute of color.,
H as in Huer (n.) One who cries out or gives an alarm; specifically, a balker; a conder. See Balker.,
H as in Huffed (imp. & p. p.) of Huff,
H as in Huffing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Huff,
H as in Huff (v. t.) To swell; to enlarge; to puff up; as, huffed up with air.,
H as in Huff (v. t.) To treat with insolence and arrogance; to chide or rebuke with insolence; to hector; to bully.,
H as in Huff (v. t.) To remove from the board (the piece which could have captured an opposing piece). See Huff, v. i., 3.,
H as in Huff (v. i.) To enlarge; to swell up; as, bread huffs.,
H as in Huff (v. i.) To bluster or swell with anger, pride, or arrogance; to storm; to take offense.,
H as in Huff (v. i.) To remove from the board a man which could have captured a piece but has not done so; -- so called because it was the habit to blow upon the piece.,
H as in Huff (n.) A swell of sudden anger or arrogance; a fit of disappointment and petulance or anger; a rage.,
H as in Huff (n.) A boaster; one swelled with a false opinion of his own value or importance.,
H as in Huffcap (n.) A blusterer; a bully.,
H as in Huffcap (a.) Blustering; swaggering.,
H as in Huffer (n.) A bully; a blusterer.,
H as in Huffiness (n.) The state of being huffish; petulance; bad temper.,
H as in Huffingly (adv.) Blusteringly; arrogantly.,
H as in Huffish (a.) Disposed to be blustering or arrogant; petulant.,
H as in Huffy (a.) Puffed up; as, huffy bread.,
H as in Huffy (a.) Characterized by arrogance or petulance; easily offended.,
H as in Hugged (imp. & p. p.) of Hug,
H as in Hugging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hug,
H as in Hug (v. i.) To cower; to crouch; to curl up.,
H as in Hug (v. i.) To crowd together; to cuddle.,
H as in Hug (v. t.) To press closely within the arms; to clasp to the bosom; to embrace.,
H as in Hug (v. t.) To hold fast; to cling to; to cherish.,
H as in Hug (v. t.) To keep close to; as, to hug the land; to hug the wind.,
H as in Hug (n.) A close embrace or clasping with the arms, as in affection or in wrestling.,
H as in Huge (superl.) Very large; enormous; immense; excessive; -- used esp. of material bulk, but often of qualities, extent, etc.; as, a huge ox; a huge space; a huge difference.,
H as in Hugger (n.) One who hugs or embraces.,
H as in Hugger (v. t. & i.) To conceal; to lurk ambush.,
H as in Hugger-mugger (n.) Privacy; secrecy. Commonly in the phrase in hugger-mugger, with haste and secrecy.,
H as in Hugger-mugger (a.) Secret; clandestine; sly.,
H as in Hugger-mugger (a.) Confused; disorderly; slovenly; mean; as, hugger-mugger doings.,
H as in Huggle (v. t.) To hug.,
H as in Huguenot (n.) A French Protestant of the period of the religious wars in France in the 16th century.,
H as in Huguenotism (n.) The religion of the Huguenots in France.,
H as in Hugy (a.) Vast.,
H as in Huia bird () A New Zealand starling (Heteralocha acutirostris), remarkable for the great difference in the form and length of the bill in the two sexes, that of the male being sharp and straight, that of the female much longer and strongly curved.,
H as in Huisher (n.) See Usher.,
H as in Huisher (v. t.) To usher.,
H as in Huke (n.) An outer garment worn in Europe in the Middle Ages.,
H as in Hulan (n.) See Uhlan.,
H as in Hulch (n.) A hunch.,
H as in Hulchy (a.) Swollen; gibbous.,
H as in Hulk (n.) The body of a ship or decked vessel of any kind; esp., the body of an old vessel laid by as unfit for service.,
H as in Hulk (n.) A heavy ship of clumsy build.,
H as in Hulk (n.) Anything bulky or unwieldly.,
H as in Hulk (v. t.) To take out the entrails of; to disembowel; as, to hulk a hare.,
H as in Hulking (a.) Alt. of Hulky,
H as in Hulky (a.) Bulky; unwiedly.,
H as in Hull (v. t.) The outer covering of anything, particularly of a nut or of grain; the outer skin of a kernel; the husk.,
H as in Hull (v. t.) The frame or body of a vessel, exclusive of her masts, yards, sails, and rigging.,
H as in Hulled (imp. & p. p.) of Hull,
H as in Hulling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hull,
H as in Hull (v. t.) To strip off or separate the hull or hulls of; to free from integument; as, to hull corn.,
H as in Hull (v. t.) To pierce the hull of, as a ship, with a cannon ball.,
H as in Hull (v. i.) To toss or drive on the water, like the hull of a ship without sails.,
H as in Hullabaloo (n.) A confused noise; uproar; tumult.,
H as in Hulled (a.) Deprived of the hulls.,
H as in Huller (n.) One who, or that which, hulls; especially, an agricultural machine for removing the hulls from grain; a hulling machine.,
H as in Hullo (interj.) See Hollo.,
H as in Hully (a.) Having or containing hulls.,
H as in Huloist (n.) See Hyloist.,
H as in Hulotheism (n.) See Hylotheism.,
H as in Hulver (n.) Holly, an evergreen shrub or tree.,
H as in Hummed (imp. & p. p.) of Hum,
H as in Humming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hum,
H as in Hum (v. i.) To make a low, prolonged sound, like that of a bee in flight; to drone; to murmur; to buzz; as, a top hums.,
H as in Hum (v. i.) To make a nasal sound, like that of the letter m prolonged, without opening the mouth, or articulating; to mumble in monotonous undertone; to drone.,
H as in Hum (v. i.) To make an inarticulate sound, like h'm, through the nose in the process of speaking, from embarrassment or a affectation; to hem.,
H as in Hum (v. i.) To express satisfaction by a humming noise.,
H as in Hum (v. i.) To have the sensation of a humming noise; as, my head hums, -- a pathological condition.,
H as in Hum (v. t.) To sing with shut mouth; to murmur without articulation; to mumble; as, to hum a tune.,
H as in Hum (v. t.) To express satisfaction with by humming.,
H as in Hum (v. t.) To flatter by approving; to cajole; to impose on; to humbug.,
H as in Hum (n.) A low monotonous noise, as of bees in flight, of a swiftly revolving top, of a wheel, or the like; a drone; a buzz.,
H as in Hum (n.) Any inarticulate and buzzing sound,
H as in Hum (n.) The confused noise of a crowd or of machinery, etc., heard at a distance; as, the hum of industry.,
H as in Hum (n.) A buzz or murmur, as of approbation.,
H as in Hum (n.) An imposition or hoax.,
H as in Hum (interj.) An inarticulate nasal sound or murmur, like h'm, uttered by a speaker in pause from embarrassment, affectation, etc.,
H as in Hum (interj.) A kind of strong drink formerly used.,
H as in Hum (interj.) Ahem; hem; an inarticulate sound uttered in a pause of speech implying doubt and deliberation.,
H as in Human (a.) Belonging to man or mankind; having the qualities or attributes of a man; of or pertaining to man or to the race of man; as, a human voice; human shape; human nature; human sacrifices.,
H as in Human (n.) A human being.,
H as in Humanate (a.) Indued with humanity.,
H as in Humane (a.) Pertaining to man; human.,
H as in Humane (a.) Having the feelings and inclinations creditable to man; having a disposition to treat other human beings or animals with kindness; kind; benevolent.,
H as in Humane (a.) Humanizing; exalting; tending to refine.,
H as in Humanics (n.) The study of human nature.,
H as in Humanify (v. t.) To make human; to invest with a human personality; to incarnate.,
H as in Humanism (n.) Human nature or disposition; humanity.,
H as in Humanism (n.) The study of the humanities; polite learning.,
H as in Humanist (n.) One of the scholars who in the field of literature proper represented the movement of the Renaissance, and early in the 16th century adopted the name Humanist as their distinctive title.,
H as in Humanist (n.) One who purposes the study of the humanities, or polite literature.,
H as in Humanist (n.) One versed in knowledge of human nature.,
H as in Humanistic (a.) Of or pertaining to humanity; as, humanistic devotion.,
H as in Humanistic (a.) Pertaining to polite kiterature.,
H as in Humanitarian (a.) Pertaining to humanitarians, or to humanitarianism; as, a humanitarian view of Christ's nature.,
H as in Humanitarian (a.) Content with right affections and actions toward man; ethical, as distinguished from religious; believing in the perfectibility of man's nature without supernatural aid.,
H as in Humanitarian (a.) Benevolent; philanthropic.,
H as in Humanitarian (n.) One who denies the divinity of Christ, and believes him to have been merely human.,
H as in Humanitarian (n.) One who limits the sphere of duties to human relations and affections, to the exclusion or disparagement of the religious or spiritual.,
H as in Humanitarian (n.) One who is actively concerned in promoting the welfare of his kind; a philanthropist.,
H as in Humanitarianism (n.) The distinctive tenet of the humanitarians in denying the divinity of Christ; also, the whole system of doctrine based upon this view of Christ.,
H as in Humanitarianism (n.) The doctrine that man's obligations are limited to, and dependent alone upon, man and the human relations.,
H as in Humanitian (n.) A humanist.,
H as in Humanities (pl. ) of Humanity,
H as in Humanity (n.) The quality of being human; the peculiar nature of man, by which he is distinguished from other beings.,
H as in Humanity (n.) Mankind collectively; the human race.,
H as in Humanity (n.) The quality of being humane; the kind feelings, dispositions, and sympathies of man; especially, a disposition to relieve persons or animals in distress, and to treat all creatures with kindness and tenderness.,
H as in Humanity (n.) Mental cultivation; liberal education; instruction in classical and polite literature.,
H as in Humanity (n.) The branches of polite or elegant learning; as language, rhetoric, poetry, and the ancient classics; belles-letters.,
H as in Humanization (n.) The act of humanizing.,
H as in Humanized (imp. & p. p.) of Humanize,
H as in Humanizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Humanize,
H as in Humanize (v. t.) To render human or humane; to soften; to make gentle by overcoming cruel dispositions and rude habits; to refine or civilize.,
H as in Humanize (v. t.) To give a human character or expression to.,
H as in Humanize (v. t.) To convert into something human or belonging to man; as, to humanize vaccine lymph.,
H as in Humanize (v. i.) To become or be made more humane; to become civilized; to be ameliorated.,
H as in Humanizer (n.) One who renders humane.,
H as in Humankind (n.) Mankind.,
H as in Humanly (adv.) In a human manner; after the manner of men; according to the knowledge or wisdom of men; as, the present prospects, humanly speaking, promise a happy issue.,
H as in Humanly (adv.) Kindly; humanely.,
H as in Humanness (n.) The quality or state of being human.,
H as in Humate (n.) A salt of humic acid.,
H as in Humation (n.) Interment; inhumation.,
H as in Humbird (n.) Humming bird.,
H as in Humble (superl.) Near the ground; not high or lofty; not pretentious or magnificent; unpretending; unassuming; as, a humble cottage.,
H as in Humble (superl.) Thinking lowly of one's self; claiming little for one's self; not proud, arrogant, or assuming; thinking one's self ill-deserving or unworthy, when judged by the demands of God; lowly; waek; modest.,
H as in Humble (a.) Hornless. See Hummel.,
H as in Humbled (imp. & p. p.) of Humble,
H as in Humbling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Humble,
H as in Humble (v. t.) To bring low; to reduce the power, independence, or exaltation of; to lower; to abase; to humilate.,
H as in Humble (v. t.) To make humble or lowly in mind; to abase the pride or arrogance of; to reduce the self-sufficiently of; to make meek and submissive; -- often used rexlexively.,
H as in Humblebee (n.) The bumblebee.,
H as in Humblehead (n.) Humble condition or estate; humility.,
H as in Humbleness (n.) The quality of being humble; humility; meekness.,
H as in Humbler (n.) One who, or that which, humbles some one.,
H as in Humbles (n. pl.) Entrails of a deer.,
H as in Humblesse (n.) Humbleness; abasement; low obeisance.,
H as in Humbly (adv.) With humility; lowly.,
H as in Humbug (n.) An imposition under fair pretenses; something contrived in order to deceive and mislead; a trick by cajolery; a hoax.,
H as in Humbug (n.) A spirit of deception; cajolery; trickishness.,
H as in Humbug (n.) One who deceives or misleads; a deceitful or trickish fellow; an impostor.,
H as in Humbugged (imp. & p. p.) of Humbug,
H as in Humbugging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Humbug,
H as in Humbug (v. t.) To deceive; to impose; to cajole; to hoax.,
H as in Humbugger (n.) One who humbugs.,
H as in Humbuggery (n.) The practice of imposition.,
H as in Humdrum (a.) Monotonous; dull; commonplace.,
H as in Humdrum (n.) A dull fellow; a bore.,
H as in Humdrum (n.) Monotonous and tedious routine.,
H as in Humdrum (n.) A low cart with three wheels, drawn by one horse.,
H as in Humect (v. t.) Alt. of Humectate,
H as in Humectate (v. t.) To moisten; to wet.,
H as in Humectant (a.) Diluent.,
H as in Humectant (n.) A diluent drink or medicine.,
H as in Humectation (n.) A moistening.,
H as in Humective (a.) Tending to moisten.,
H as in Humeral (a.) Of or pertaining to the humerus, or upper part of the arm; brachial.,
H as in Humeri (pl. ) of Humerus,
H as in Humerus (n.) The bone of the brachium, or upper part of the arm or fore limb.,
H as in Humerus (n.) The part of the limb containing the humerus; the brachium.,
H as in Humic (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, vegetable mold; as, humic acid. See Humin.,
H as in Humicubation (n.) The act or practice of lying on the ground.,
H as in Humid (a.) Containing sensible moisture; damp; moist; as, a humidair or atmosphere; somewhat wet or watery; as, humid earth; consisting of water or vapor.,
H as in Humidity (n.) Moisture; dampness; a moderate degree of wetness, which is perceptible to the eye or touch; -- used especially of the atmosphere, or of anything which has absorbed moisture from the atmosphere, as clothing.,
H as in Humidness (n.) Humidity.,
H as in Humifuse (a.) Spread over the surface of the ground; procumbent.,
H as in Humiliant (a.) Humiliating; humbling.,
H as in Humiliated (imp. & p. p.) of Humiliate,
H as in Humiliating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Humiliate,
H as in Humiliate (v. t.) To reduce to a lower position in one's own eyes, or in the eyes of others; to humble; to mortify.,
H as in Humiliation (n.) The act of humiliating or humbling; abasement of pride; mortification.,
H as in Humiliation (n.) The state of being humiliated, humbled, or reduced to lowliness or submission.,
H as in Humilities (pl. ) of Humility,
H as in Humility (n.) The state or quality of being humble; freedom from pride and arrogance; lowliness of mind; a modest estimate of one's own worth; a sense of one's own unworthiness through imperfection and sinfulness; self-abasement; humbleness.,
H as in Humility (n.) An act of submission or courtesy.,
H as in Humin (n.) A bitter, brownish yellow, amorphous substance, extracted from vegetable mold, and also produced by the action of acids on certain sugars and carbohydrates; -- called also humic acid, ulmin, gein, ulmic or geic acid, etc.,
H as in Humiri (n.) A fragrant balsam obtained from Brazilian trees of the genus Humirium.,
H as in Humite (n.) A mineral of a transparent vitreous brown color, found in the ejected masses of Vesuvius. It is a silicate of iron and magnesia, containing fluorine.,
H as in Hummel (v. t.) To separate from the awns; -- said of barley.,
H as in Hummel (a.) Having no awns or no horns; as, hummelcorn; a hummel cow.,
H as in Hummeler (n.) One who, or a machine which, hummels.,
H as in Hummer (n.) One who, or that which, hums; one who applauds by humming.,
H as in Hummer (n.) A humming bird.,
H as in Humming (a.) Emitting a murmuring sound; droning; murmuring; buzzing.,
H as in Humming (n.) A sound like that made by bees; a low, murmuring sound; a hum.,
H as in Hummock (n.) A rounded knoll or hillock; a rise of ground of no great extent, above a level surface.,
H as in Hummock (n.) A ridge or pile of ice on an ice field.,
H as in Hummock (n.) Timbered land. See Hammock.,
H as in Hummocking (n.) The process of forming hummocks in the collision of Arctic ice.,
H as in Hummocky (a.) Abounding in hummocks.,
H as in Hummum (n.) A sweating bath or place for sweating.,
H as in Humor (n.) Moisture, especially, the moisture or fluid of animal bodies, as the chyle, lymph, etc.; as, the humors of the eye, etc.,
H as in Humor (n.) A vitiated or morbid animal fluid, such as often causes an eruption on the skin.,
H as in Humor (n.) State of mind, whether habitual or temporary (as formerly supposed to depend on the character or combination of the fluids of the body); disposition; temper; mood; as, good humor; ill humor.,
H as in Humor (n.) Changing and uncertain states of mind; caprices; freaks; vagaries; whims.,
H as in Humor (n.) That quality of the imagination which gives to ideas an incongruous or fantastic turn, and tends to excite laughter or mirth by ludicrous images or representations; a playful fancy; facetiousness.,
H as in Humored (imp. & p. p.) of Humor,
H as in Humoring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Humor,
H as in Humor (v. t.) To comply with the humor of; to adjust matters so as suit the peculiarities, caprices, or exigencies of; to adapt one's self to; to indulge by skillful adaptation; as, to humor the mind.,
H as in Humor (v. t.) To help on by indulgence or compliant treatment; to soothe; to gratify; to please.,
H as in Humoral (a.) Pertaining to, or proceeding from, the humors; as, a humoral fever.,
H as in Humoralism (n.) The state or quality of being humoral.,
H as in Humoralism (n.) The doctrine that diseases proceed from the humors; humorism.,
H as in Humoralist (n.) One who favors the humoral pathology or believes in humoralism.,
H as in Humorism (n.) The theory founded on the influence which the humors were supposed to have in the production of disease; Galenism.,
H as in Humorism (n.) The manner or disposition of a humorist; humorousness.,
H as in Humorist (n.) One who attributes diseases of the state of the humors.,
H as in Humorist (n.) One who has some peculiarity or eccentricity of character, which he indulges in odd or whimsical ways.,
H as in Humorist (n.) One who displays humor in speaking or writing; one who has a facetious fancy or genius; a wag; a droll.,
H as in Humoristic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a humorist.,
H as in Humorize (v. t.) To humor.,
H as in Humorless (a.) Destitute of humor.,
H as in Humorous (a.) Moist; humid; watery.,
H as in Humorous (a.) Subject to be governed by humor or caprice; irregular; capricious; whimsical.,
H as in Humorous (a.) Full of humor; jocular; exciting laughter; playful; as, a humorous story or author; a humorous aspect.,
H as in Humorously (adv.) Capriciously; whimsically.,
H as in Humorously (adv.) Facetiously; wittily.,
H as in Humorousness (n.) Moodiness; capriciousness.,
H as in Humorousness (n.) Facetiousness; jocularity.,
H as in Humorsome (a.) Moody; whimsical; capricious.,
H as in Humorsome (a.) Jocose; witty; humorous.,
H as in Humorsomely (adv.) Pleasantly; humorously.,
H as in Humorsomeness (n.) Quality of being humorsome.,
H as in Hump (n.) A protuberance; especially, the protuberance formed by a crooked back.,
H as in Hump (n.) A fleshy protuberance on the back of an animal, as a camel or whale.,
H as in Humpback (n.) A crooked back; a humped back.,
H as in Humpback (n.) A humpbacked person; a hunchback.,
H as in Humpback (n.) Any whale of the genus Megaptera, characterized by a hump or bunch on the back. Several species are known. The most common ones in the North Atlantic are Megaptera longimana of Europe, and M. osphyia of America; that of the California coasts is M. versabilis.,
H as in Humpback (n.) A small salmon (Oncorhynchus gorbuscha), of the northwest coast of America.,
H as in Humpbacked (a.) Having a humped back.,
H as in Humped (a.) Having a hump, as the back.,
H as in Humph (interj.) An exclamation denoting surprise, or contempt, doubt, etc.,
H as in Humpless (a.) Without a hump.,
H as in Hump-shouldered (a.) Having high, hunched shoulders.,
H as in Humpy (a.) Full of humps or bunches; covered with protuberances; humped.,
H as in Humstrum (n.) An instrument out of tune or rudely constructed; music badly played.,
H as in Humulin (n.) An extract of hops.,
H as in Humus (n.) That portion of the soil formed by the decomposition of animal or vegetable matter. It is a valuable constituent of soils.,
H as in Hun (n.) One of a warlike nomadic people of Northern Asia who, in the 5th century, under Atilla, invaded and conquered a great part of Europe.,
H as in Hunch (n.) A hump; a protuberance.,
H as in Hunch (n.) A lump; a thick piece; as, a hunch of bread.,
H as in Hunch (n.) A push or thrust, as with the elbow.,
H as in Hunched (imp. & p. p.) of Hunch,
H as in Hunching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hunch,
H as in Hunch (v. t.) To push or jostle with the elbow; to push or thrust suddenly.,
H as in Hunch (v. t.) To thrust out a hump or protuberance; to crook, as the back.,
H as in Hunchback (n.) A back with a hunch or hump; also, a hunchbacked person.,
H as in Hunchbacked (a.) Having a humped back.,
H as in Hundred (n.) The product of ten mulitplied by ten, or the number of ten times ten; a collection or sum, consisting of ten times ten units or objects; five score. Also, a symbol representing one hundred units, as 100 or C.,
H as in Hundred (n.) A division of a country in England, supposed to have originally contained a hundred families, or freemen.,
H as in Hundred (a.) Ten times ten; five score; as, a hundred dollars.,
H as in Hundreder (n.) An inhabitant or freeholder of a hundred.,
H as in Hundreder (n.) A person competent to serve on a jury, in an action for land in the hundred to which he belongs.,
H as in Hundreder (n.) One who has the jurisdiction of a hundred; and sometimes, a bailiff of a hundred.,
H as in Hundredfold (n.) A hundred times as much or as many.,
H as in Hundredth (a.) Coming last of a hundred successive individuals or units.,
H as in Hundredth (a.) Forming one of a hundred equal parts into which anything is divided; the tenth of a tenth.,
H as in Hundredth (n.) One of a hundred equal parts into which one whole is, or may be, divided; the quotient of a unit divided by a hundred.,
H as in Hundredweight (n.) A denomination of weight, containing 100, 112, or 120 pounds avoirdupois, according to differing laws or customs. By the legal standard of England it is 112 pounds. In most of the United States, both in practice and by law, it is 100 pounds avoirdupois, the corresponding ton of 2,000 pounds, sometimes called the short ton, being the legal ton.,
H as in Hung () imp. & p. p. of Hang.,
H as in Hungarian (a.) Of or pertaining to Hungary or to the people of Hungary.,
H as in Hungarian (n.) A native or one of the people of Hungary.,
H as in Hungary (n.) A country in Central Europe, now a part of the Austro-Hungarian Empire.,
H as in Hunger (n.) An uneasy sensation occasioned normally by the want of food; a craving or desire for food.,
H as in Hunger (n.) Any strong eager desire.,
H as in Hungered (imp. & p. p.) of Hunger,
H as in Hungering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hunger,
H as in Hunger (n.) To feel the craving or uneasiness occasioned by want of food; to be oppressed by hunger.,
H as in Hunger (n.) To have an eager desire; to long.,
H as in Hunger (v. t.) To make hungry; to famish.,
H as in Hunger-bit (a.) Alt. of Hunger-bitten,
H as in Hunger-bitten (a.) Pinched or weakened by hunger.,
H as in Hungered (a.) Hungry; pinched for food.,
H as in Hungerer (n.) One who hungers; one who longs.,
H as in Hungerly (a.) Wanting food; starved.,
H as in Hungerly (adv.) With keen appetite.,
H as in Hunger-starve (v. t.) To starve with hunger; to famish.,
H as in Hungred (a.) Hungered; hungry.,
H as in Hungrily (adv.) In a hungry manner; voraciously.,
H as in Hungry (superl.) Feeling hunger; having a keen appetite; feeling uneasiness or distress from want of food; hence, having an eager desire.,
H as in Hungry (superl.) Showing hunger or a craving desire; voracious.,
H as in Hungry (superl.) Not rich or fertile; poor; barren; starved; as, a hungry soil.,
H as in Hunk (n.) A large lump or piece; a hunch; as, a hunk of bread.,
H as in Hunker (n.) Originally, a nickname for a member of the conservative section of the Democratic party in New York; hence, one opposed to progress in general; a fogy.,
H as in Hunkerism (n.) Excessive conservatism; hostility to progress.,
H as in Hunks (n.) A covetous, sordid man; a miser; a niggard.,
H as in Hunted (imp. & p. p.) of Hunt,
H as in Hunting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hunt,
H as in Hunt (v. t.) To search for or follow after, as game or wild animals; to chase; to pursue for the purpose of catching or killing; to follow with dogs or guns for sport or exercise; as, to hunt a deer.,
H as in Hunt (v. t.) To search diligently after; to seek; to pursue; to follow; -- often with out or up; as, to hunt up the facts; to hunt out evidence.,
H as in Hunt (v. t.) To drive; to chase; -- with down, from, away, etc.; as, to hunt down a criminal; he was hunted from the parish.,
H as in Hunt (v. t.) To use or manage in the chase, as hounds.,
H as in Hunt (v. t.) To use or traverse in pursuit of game; as, he hunts the woods, or the country.,
H as in Hunt (v. i.) To follow the chase; to go out in pursuit of game; to course with hounds.,
H as in Hunt (v. i.) To seek; to pursue; to search; -- with for or after.,
H as in Hunt (n.) The act or practice of chasing wild animals; chase; pursuit; search.,
H as in Hunt (n.) The game secured in the hunt.,
H as in Hunt (n.) A pack of hounds.,
H as in Hunt (n.) An association of huntsmen.,
H as in Hunt (n.) A district of country hunted over.,
H as in Hunt-counter (n.) A worthless dog that runs back on the scent; a blunderer.,
H as in Hunte (n.) A hunter.,
H as in Hunter (n.) One who hunts wild animals either for sport or for food; a huntsman.,
H as in Hunter (n.) A dog that scents game, or is trained to the chase; a hunting dog.,
H as in Hunter (n.) A horse used in the chase; especially, a thoroughbred, bred and trained for hunting.,
H as in Hunter (n.) One who hunts or seeks after anything, as if for game; as, a fortune hunter a place hunter.,
H as in Hunter (n.) A kind of spider. See Hunting spider, under Hunting.,
H as in Hunter (n.) A hunting watch, or one of which the crystal is protected by a metallic cover.,
H as in Hunterian (a.) Discovered or described by John Hunter, an English surgeon; as, the Hunterian chancre. See Chancre.,
H as in Hunting (n.) The pursuit of game or of wild animals.,
H as in Huntress (n.) A woman who hunts or follows the chase; as, the huntress Diana.,
H as in Huntsmen (pl. ) of Huntsman,
H as in Huntsman (n.) One who hunts, or who practices hunting.,
H as in Huntsman (n.) The person whose office it is to manage the chase or to look after the hounds.,
H as in Huntsmanship (n.) The art or practice of hunting, or the qualification of a hunter.,
H as in Hunt's-up (n.) A tune played on the horn very early in the morning to call out the hunters; hence, any arousing sound or call.,
H as in Hurden (n.) A coarse kind of linen; -- called also harden.,
H as in Hurdle (n.) A movable frame of wattled twigs, osiers, or withes and stakes, or sometimes of iron, used for inclosing land, for folding sheep and cattle, for gates, etc.; also, in fortification, used as revetments, and for other purposes.,
H as in Hurdle (n.) In England, a sled or crate on which criminals were formerly drawn to the place of execution.,
H as in Hurdle (n.) An artificial barrier, variously constructed, over which men or horses leap in a race.,
H as in Hurdleed (imp. & p. p.) of Hurdle,
H as in Hurdleing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hurdle,
H as in Hurdle (v. t.) To hedge, cover, make, or inclose with hurdles.,
H as in Hurdlework (n.) Work after manner of a hurdle.,
H as in Hurds (n.) The coarse part of flax or hemp; hards.,
H as in Hurdy-gurdy (n.) A stringled instrument, lutelike in shape, in which the sound is produced by the friction of a wheel turned by a crank at the end, instead of by a bow, two of the strings being tuned as drones, while two or more, tuned in unison, are modulated by keys.,
H as in Hurdy-gurdy (n.) In California, a water wheel with radial buckets, driven by the impact of a jet.,
H as in Hurkaru (n.) In India, a running footman; a messenger.,
H as in Hurled (imp. & p. p.) of Hurl,
H as in Hurling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hurl,
H as in Hurl (v. t.) To send whirling or whizzing through the air; to throw with violence; to drive with great force; as, to hurl a stone or lance.,
H as in Hurl (v. t.) To emit or utter with vehemence or impetuosity; as, to hurl charges or invective.,
H as in Hurl (v. t.) To twist or turn.,
H as in Hurl (v. i.) To hurl one's self; to go quickly.,
H as in Hurl (v. i.) To perform the act of hurling something; to throw something (at another).,
H as in Hurl (v. i.) To play the game of hurling. See Hurling.,
H as in Hurl (n.) The act of hurling or throwing with violence; a cast; a fling.,
H as in Hurl (n.) Tumult; riot; hurly-burly.,
H as in Hurl (n.) A table on which fiber is stirred and mixed by beating with a bowspring.,
H as in Hurlbat (n.) See Whirlbat.,
H as in Hurlbone (n.) See Whirlbone.,
H as in Hurlbone (n.) A bone near the middle of the buttock of a horse.,
H as in Hurler (n.) One who hurls, or plays at hurling.,
H as in Hurling (n.) The act of throwing with force.,
H as in Hurling (n.) A kind of game at ball, formerly played.,
H as in Hurlwind (n.) A whirlwind.,
H as in Hurly (n.) Noise; confusion; uproar.,
H as in Hurly-burly (n.) Tumult; bustle; confusion.,
H as in Huronian (a.) Of or pertaining to certain non-fossiliferous rocks on the borders of Lake Huron, which are supposed to correspond in time to the latter part of the Archaean age.,
H as in Huron-Iroquous (n.) A linguistic group of warlike North American Indians, belonging to the same stock as the Algonquins, and including several tribes, among which were the Five Nations. They formerly occupied the region about Lakes Erie and Ontario, and the larger part of New York.,
H as in Hurons (n. pl.) ; sing. Huron. (Ethnol.) A powerful and warlike tribe of North American Indians of the Algonquin stock. They formerly occupied the country between Lakes Huron, Erie, and Ontario, but were nearly exterminated by the Five Nations about 1650.,
H as in Hurr (v. i.) To make a rolling or burring sound.,
H as in Hurrah (interj.) Alt. of Hurra,
H as in Hurra (interj.) A word used as a shout of joy, triumph, applause, encouragement, or welcome.,
H as in Hurrah (n.) A cheer; a shout of joy, etc.,
H as in Hurrah (v. i.) To utter hurrahs; to huzza.,
H as in Hurrah (v. t.) To salute, or applaud, with hurrahs.,
H as in Hurricane (n.) A violent storm, characterized by extreme fury and sudden changes of the wind, and generally accompanied by rain, thunder, and lightning; -- especially prevalent in the East and West Indies. Also used figuratively.,
H as in Hurricanoes (pl. ) of Hurricano,
H as in Hurricano (n.) A waterspout; a hurricane.,
H as in Hurried (a.) Urged on; hastened; going or working at speed; as, a hurried writer; a hurried life.,
H as in Hurried (a.) Done in a hurry; hence, imperfect; careless; as, a hurried job.,
H as in Hurrier (n.) One who hurries or urges.,
H as in Hurries (n.) A staith or framework from which coal is discharged from cars into vessels.,
H as in Hurried (imp. & p. p.) of Hurry,
H as in Hurrying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hurry,
H as in Hurry (v. t.) To hasten; to impel to greater speed; to urge on.,
H as in Hurry (v. t.) To impel to precipitate or thoughtless action; to urge to confused or irregular activity.,
H as in Hurry (v. t.) To cause to be done quickly.,
H as in Hurry (v. i.) To move or act with haste; to proceed with celerity or precipitation; as, let us hurry.,
H as in Hurry (n.) The act of hurrying in motion or business; pressure; urgency; bustle; confusion.,
H as in Hurryingly (adv.) In a hurrying manner.,
H as in Hurry-skurry (adv.) Confusedly; in a bustle.,
H as in Hurst (n.) A wood or grove; -- a word used in the composition of many names, as in Hazlehurst.,
H as in Hurt (n.) A band on a trip-hammer helve, bearing the trunnions.,
H as in Hurt (n.) A husk. See Husk, 2.,
H as in Hurt (imp. & p. p.) of Hurt,
H as in Hurting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hurt,
H as in Hurt (v. t.) To cause physical pain to; to do bodily harm to; to wound or bruise painfully.,
H as in Hurt (v. t.) To impar the value, usefulness, beauty, or pleasure of; to damage; to injure; to harm.,
H as in Hurt (v. t.) To wound the feelings of; to cause mental pain to; to offend in honor or self-respect; to annoy; to grieve.,
H as in Hurter (n.) A bodily injury causing pain; a wound, bruise, or the like.,
H as in Hurter (n.) An injury causing pain of mind or conscience; a slight; a stain; as of sin.,
H as in Hurter (n.) Injury; damage; detriment; harm; mischief.,
H as in Hurter (n.) One who hurts or does harm.,
H as in Hurter (v. t.) A butting piece; a strengthening piece, esp.: (Mil.) A piece of wood at the lower end of a platform, designed to prevent the wheels of gun carriages from injuring the parapet.,
H as in Hurtful (a.) Tending to impair or damage; injurious; mischievous; occasioning loss or injury; as, hurtful words or conduct.,
H as in Hurtled (imp. & p. p.) of Hurtle,
H as in Hurtling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hurtle,
H as in Hurtle (v. t.) To meet with violence or shock; to clash; to jostle.,
H as in Hurtle (v. t.) To move rapidly; to wheel or rush suddenly or with violence; to whirl round rapidly; to skirmish.,
H as in Hurtle (v. t.) To make a threatening sound, like the clash of arms; to make a sound as of confused clashing or confusion; to resound.,
H as in Hurtle (v. t.) To move with violence or impetuosity; to whirl; to brandish.,
H as in Hurtle (v. t.) To push; to jostle; to hurl.,
H as in Hurtleberry (n.) See Whortleberry.,
H as in Hurtless (a.) Doing no injury; harmless; also, unhurt; without injury or harm.,
H as in Husband (n.) The male head of a household; one who orders the economy of a family.,
H as in Husband (n.) A cultivator; a tiller; a husbandman.,
H as in Husband (n.) One who manages or directs with prudence and economy; a frugal person; an economist.,
H as in Husband (n.) A married man; a man who has a wife; -- the correlative to wife.,
H as in Husband (n.) The male of a pair of animals.,
H as in Husbanded (imp. & p. p.) of Husband,
H as in Husbanding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Husband,
H as in Husband (v. t.) To direct and manage with frugality; to use or employ to good purpose and the best advantage; to spend, apply, or use, with economy.,
H as in Husband (v. t.) To cultivate, as land; to till.,
H as in Husband (v. t.) To furnish with a husband.,
H as in Husbandable (a.) Capable of being husbanded, or managed with economy.,
H as in Husbandage (n.) The commission or compensation allowed to a ship's husband.,
H as in Husbandless (a.) Destitute of a husband.,
H as in Husbandly (a.) Frugal; thrifty.,
H as in Husbandmen (pl. ) of Husbandman,
H as in Husbandman (n.) The master of a family.,
H as in Husbandman (n.) A farmer; a cultivator or tiller of the ground.,
H as in Husbandry (n.) Care of domestic affairs; economy; domestic management; thrift.,
H as in Husbandry (n.) The business of a husbandman, comprehending the various branches of agriculture; farming.,
H as in Hushed (imp. & p. p.) of Hush,
H as in Hushing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hush,
H as in Hush (v. t.) To still; to silence; to calm; to make quiet; to repress the noise or clamor of.,
H as in Hush (v. t.) To appease; to allay; to calm; to soothe.,
H as in Hush (v. i.) To become or to keep still or quiet; to become silent; -- esp. used in the imperative, as an exclamation; be still; be silent or quiet; make no noise.,
H as in Hush (n.) Stillness; silence; quiet.,
H as in Hush (a.) Silent; quiet.,
H as in Husher (n.) An usher.,
H as in Hushing (n.) The process of washing ore, or of uncovering mineral veins, by a heavy discharge of water from a reservoir; flushing; -- also called booming.,
H as in Husk (n.) The external covering or envelope of certain fruits or seeds; glume; hull; rind; in the United States, especially applied to the covering of the ears of maize.,
H as in Husk (n.) The supporting frame of a run of millstones.,
H as in Husked (imp. & p. p.) of Husk,
H as in Husking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Husk,
H as in Husk (v. t.) To strip off the external covering or envelope of; as, to husk Indian corn.,
H as in Husked (a.) Covered with a husk.,
H as in Husked (a.) Stripped of husks; deprived of husks.,
H as in Huskily (adv.) In a husky manner; dryly.,
H as in Huskiness (n.) The state of being husky.,
H as in Huskiness (n.) Roughness of sound; harshness; hoarseness; as, huskiness of voice.,
H as in Husking (n.) The act or process of stripping off husks, as from Indian corn.,
H as in Husking (n.) A meeting of neighbors or friends to assist in husking maize; -- called also,
H as in Husky (n.) Abounding with husks; consisting of husks.,
H as in Husky (a.) Rough in tone; harsh; hoarse; raucous; as, a husky voice.,
H as in Huso (n.) A large European sturgeon (Acipenser huso), inhabiting the region of the Black and Caspian Seas. It sometimes attains a length of more than twelve feet, and a weight of two thousand pounds. Called also hausen.,
H as in Huso (n.) The huchen, a large salmon.,
H as in Hussar (n.) Originally, one of the national cavalry of Hungary and Croatia; now, one of the light cavalry of European armies.,
H as in Hussite (n.) A follower of John Huss, the Bohemian reformer, who was adjudged a heretic and burnt alive in 1415.,
H as in Hussy (n.) A housewife or housekeeper.,
H as in Hussy (n.) A worthless woman or girl; a forward wench; a jade; -- used as a term of contempt or reproach.,
H as in Hussy (n.) A pert girl; a frolicsome or sportive young woman; -- used jocosely.,
H as in Hussy (n.) A case or bag. See Housewife, 2.,
H as in Hustings (n. pl.) A court formerly held in several cities of England; specif., a court held in London, before the lord mayor, recorder, and sheriffs, to determine certain classes of suits for the recovery of lands within the city. In the progress of law reform this court has become unimportant.,
H as in Hustings (n. pl.) Any one of the temporary courts held for the election of members of the British Parliament.,
H as in Hustings (n. pl.) The platform on which candidates for Parliament formerly stood in addressing the electors.,
H as in Hustled (imp. & p. p.) of Hustle,
H as in Hustling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hustle,
H as in Hustle (v. t.) To shake together in confusion; to push, jostle, or crowd rudely; to handle roughly; as, to hustle a person out of a room.,
H as in Hustle (v. i.) To push or crows; to force one's way; to move hustily and with confusion; a hurry.,
H as in Huswife (n.) A female housekeeper; a woman who manages domestic affairs; a thirfty woman.,
H as in Huswife (n.) A worthless woman; a hussy.,
H as in Huswife (n.) A case for sewing materials. See Housewife.,
H as in Huswife (v. t.) To manage with frugality; -- said of a woman.,
H as in Huswifely (a.) Like a huswife; capable; economical; prudent.,
H as in Huswifely (adv.) In a huswifely manner.,
H as in Huswifery (n.) The business of a housewife; female domestic economy and skill.,
H as in Hut (n.) A small house, hivel, or cabin; a mean lodge or dwelling; a slightly built or temporary structure.,
H as in Hutted (imp. & p. p.) of Hutch,
H as in Hutting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hutch,
H as in Hutch (v. t. & i.) To place in huts; to live in huts; as, to hut troops in winter quarters.,
H as in Hutch (n.) A chest, box, coffer, bin, coop, or the like, in which things may be stored, or animals kept; as, a grain hutch; a rabbit hutch.,
H as in Hutch (n.) A measure of two Winchester bushels.,
H as in Hutch (n.) The case of a flour bolt.,
H as in Hutch (n.) A car on low wheels, in which coal is drawn in the mine and hoisted out of the pit.,
H as in Hutch (n.) A jig for washing ore.,
H as in Hutched (imp. & p. p.) of Hutch,
H as in Hutching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hutch,
H as in Hutch (v. t.) To hoard or lay up, in a chest.,
H as in Hutch (v. t.) To wash (ore) in a box or jig.,
H as in Hutchunsonian (n.) A follower of John Hutchinson of Yorkshire, England, who believed that the Hebrew Scriptures contained a complete system of natural science and of theology.,
H as in Huttonian (a.) Relating to what is now called the Plutonic theory of the earth, first advanced by Dr. James Hutton.,
H as in Huxter (n. & v. i.) See Huckster.,
H as in Huyghenian (a.) Pertaining to, or invented by, Christian Huyghens, a Dutch astronomer of the seventeenth century; as, the Huyghenian telescope.,
H as in Huzz (v. i.) To buzz; to murmur.,
H as in Huzza (interj.) A word used as a shout of joy, exultation, approbation, or encouragement.,
H as in Huzza (n.) A shout of huzza; a cheer; a hurrah.,
H as in Huzzaed (imp. & p. p.) of Huzza,
H as in Huzzaing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Huzza,
H as in Huzza (v. i.) To shout huzza; to cheer.,
H as in Huzza (v. t.) To receive or attend with huzzas.,
H as in Hy (a.) High.,
H as in Hyacine (n.) A hyacinth.,
H as in Hyacinth (n.) A bulbous plant of the genus Hyacinthus, bearing beautiful spikes of fragrant flowers. H. orientalis is a common variety.,
H as in Hyacinth (n.) A plant of the genus Camassia (C. Farseri), called also Eastern camass; wild hyacinth.,
H as in Hyacinth (n.) The name also given to Scilla Peruviana, a Mediterranean plant, one variety of which produces white, and another blue, flowers; -- called also, from a mistake as to its origin, Hyacinth of Peru.,
H as in Hyacinth (n.) A red variety of zircon, sometimes used as a gem. See Zircon.,
H as in Hyacinthian (a.) Hyacinthine.,
H as in Hyacinthine (a.) Belonging to the hyacinth; resemblingthe hyacinth; in color like the hyacinth.,
H as in Hyades (n.pl.) Alt. of Hyads,
H as in Hyads (n.pl.) A cluster of five stars in the face of the constellation Taurus, supposed by the ancients to indicate the coming of rainy weather when they rose with the sun.,
H as in Hyaena (n.) Same as Hyena.,
H as in Hyalea (n.) A pteroid of the genus Cavolina. See Pteropoda, and Illustration in Appendix.,
H as in Hyalescence (n.) The process of becoming, or the state of being, transparent like glass.,
H as in Hyaline (a.) Glassy; resembling glass; consisting of glass; transparent, like crystal.,
H as in Hyaline (n.) A poetic term for the sea or the atmosphere.,
H as in Hyaline (n.) The pellucid substance, present in cells in process of development, from which, according to some embryologists, the cell nucleous originates.,
H as in Hyaline (n.) The main constituent of the walls of hydatid cysts; a nitrogenous body, which, by decomposition, yields a dextrogyrate sugar, susceptible of alcoholic fermentation.,
H as in Hyalite (n.) A pellucid variety of opal in globules looking like colorless gum or resin; -- called also Muller's glass.,
H as in Hyalograph (n.) An instrument for tracing designs on glass.,
H as in Hyalography (n.) Art of writing or engraving on glass.,
H as in Hyaloid (a.) Resembling glass; vitriform; transparent; hyaline; as, the hyaloid membrane, a very delicate membrane inclosing the vitreous humor of the eye.,
H as in Hyalonema (n.) A genus of hexactinelline sponges, having a long stem composed of very long, slender, transparent, siliceous fibres twisted together like the strands of a color. The stem of the Japanese species (H. Sieboldii), called glass-rope, has long been in use as an ornament. See Glass-rope.,
H as in Hyalophane (n.) A species of the feldspar group containing barium. See Feldspar.,
H as in Hyalospongia (n. pl.) An order of vitreous sponges, having glassy six-rayed, siliceous spicules; -- called also Hexactinellinae.,
H as in Hyalotype (n.) A photographic picture copied from the negative on glass; a photographic transparency.,
H as in Hybernacle () Alt. of Hybernation,
H as in Hybernate () Alt. of Hybernation,
H as in Hybernation () See Hibernacle, Hibernate, Hibernation.,
H as in Hyblaean (a.) Pertaining to Hybla, an ancient town of Sicily, famous for its bees.,
H as in Hybodont (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, an extinct genus of sharks (Hybodus), especially in the form of the teeth, which consist of a principal median cone with smaller lateral ones.,
H as in Hybodus (n.) An extinct genus of sharks having conical, compressed teeth.,
H as in Hybrid (n.) The offspring of the union of two distinct species; an animal or plant produced from the mixture of two species. See Mongrel.,
H as in Hybrid (a.) Produced from the mixture of two species; as, plants of hybrid nature.,
H as in Hybridism (n.) The state or quality of being hybrid.,
H as in Hybridist (n.) One who hybridizes.,
H as in Hybridity (n.) Hybridism.,
H as in Hybridizable (a.) Capable of forming a hybrid, or of being subjected to a hybridizing process; capable of producing a hybrid by union with another species or stock.,
H as in Hybridization (n.) The act of hybridizing, or the state of being hybridized.,
H as in Hybridized (imp. & p. p.) of Hybridize,
H as in Hybridizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hybridize,
H as in Hybridize (v. t.) To render hybrid; to produce by mixture of stocks.,
H as in Hybridizer (n.) One who hybridizes.,
H as in Hybridous (a.) Same as Hybrid.,
H as in Hydage (n.) A land tax. See Hidage.,
H as in Hydantoic (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, hydantoin. See Glycoluric.,
H as in Hydantoin (n.) A derivative of urea, C3H4N2O2, obtained from allantion, as a white, crystalline substance, with a sweetish taste; -- called also glycolyl urea.,
H as in Hydatid (n.) A membranous sac or bladder filled with a pellucid fluid, found in various parts of the bodies of animals, but unconnected with the tissues. It is usually formed by parasitic worms, esp. by larval tapeworms, as Echinococcus and Coenurus. See these words in the Vocabulary.,
H as in Hydatiform (a.) Resembling a hydatid.,
H as in Hydatoid (a.) Resembling water; watery; aqueous; hyaloid.,
H as in Hydr- () See under Hydro-.,
H as in Hydras (pl. ) of Hydra,
H as in Hydrae (pl. ) of Hydra,
H as in Hydra (n.) A serpent or monster in the lake or marsh of Lerna, in the Peloponnesus, represented as having many heads, one of which, when cut off, was immediately succeeded by two others, unless the wound was cauterized. It was slain by Hercules. Hence, a terrible monster.,
H as in Hydra (n.) Hence: A multifarious evil, or an evil having many sources; not to be overcome by a single effort.,
H as in Hydra (n.) Any small fresh-water hydroid of the genus Hydra, usually found attached to sticks, stones, etc., by a basal sucker.,
H as in Hydra (n.) A southern constellation of great length lying southerly from Cancer, Leo, and Virgo.,
H as in Hydrachnid (n.) An aquatic mite of the genus Hydrachna. The hydrachnids, while young, are parasitic on fresh-water mussels.,
H as in Hydracid (n.) An acid containing hydrogen; -- sometimes applied to distinguish acids like hydrochloric, hydrofluoric, and the like, which contain no oxygen, from the oxygen acids or oxacids. See Acid.,
H as in Hydracrylic (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, an isomeric variety of lastic acid that breaks down into acrylic acid and water.,
H as in Hydractinian (n.) Any species or marine hydroids, of the genus Hydractinia and allied genera. These hydroids form, by their rootstalks, a firm, chitinous coating on shells and stones, and esp. on spiral shells occupied by hermit crabs. See Illust. of Athecata.,
H as in Hydraemia (n.) An abnormally watery state of the blood; anaemia.,
H as in Hydragogue (a.) Causing a discharge of water; expelling serum effused into any part of the body, as in dropsy.,
H as in Hydragogue (n.) A hydragogue medicine, usually a cathartic or diuretic.,
H as in Hydramide (n.) One of a group of crystalline bodies produced by the action of ammonia on certain aldehydes.,
H as in Hydramine (n.) One of a series of artificial, organic bases, usually produced as thick viscous liquids by the action of ammonia on ethylene oxide. They have the properties both of alcohol and amines.,
H as in Hydrangea (n.) A genus of shrubby plants bearing opposite leaves and large heads of showy flowers, white, or of various colors. H. hortensis, the common garden species, is a native of China or Japan.,
H as in Hydrant (n.) A discharge pipe with a valve and spout at which water may be drawn from the mains of waterworks; a water plug.,
H as in Hydranth (n.) One of the nutritive zooids of a hydroid colony. Also applied to the proboscis or manubrium of a hydroid medusa. See Illust. of Hydroidea.,
H as in Hydrargochloride (n.) A compound of the bichloride of mercury with another chloride.,
H as in Hydrargyrate (a.) Of or pertaining to mercury; containing, or impregnated with, mercury.,
H as in Hydrargyrism (n.) A diseased condition produced by poisoning with hydrargyrum, or mercury; mercurialism.,
H as in Hydrargyrum (n.) Quicksilver; mercury.,
H as in Hydrarthrosis (n.) An effusion of watery liquid into the cavity of a joint.,
H as in Hydrastine (n.) An alkaloid, found in the rootstock of the golden seal (Hydrastis Canadensis), and extracted as a bitter, white, crystalline substance. It is used as a tonic and febrifuge.,
H as in Hydra-tainted (a.) Dipped in the gall of the fabulous hydra; poisonous; deadly.,
H as in Hydrate (n.) A compound formed by the union of water with some other substance, generally forming a neutral body, as certain crystallized salts.,
H as in Hydrate (n.) A substance which does not contain water as such, but has its constituents (hydrogen, oxygen, hydroxyl) so arranged that water may be eliminated; hence, a derivative of, or compound with, hydroxyl; hydroxide; as, ethyl hydrate, or common alcohol; calcium hydrate, or slaked lime.,
H as in Hydrated (imp. & p. p.) of Hydrate,
H as in Hydrating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hydrate,
H as in Hydrate (v. t.) To form into a hydrate; to combine with water.,
H as in Hydrated (a.) Formed into a hydrate; combined with water.,
H as in Hydration (n.) The act of becoming, or state of being, a hydrate.,
H as in Hydraulic (a.) Of or pertaining to hydraulics, or to fluids in motion; conveying, or acting by, water; as, an hydraulic clock, crane, or dock.,
H as in Hydraulical (a.) Hydraulic.,
H as in Hydraulicon (n.) An ancient musical instrument played by the action of water; a water organ.,
H as in Hydraulics (n.) That branch of science, or of engineering, which treats of fluids in motion, especially of water, its action in rivers and canals, the works and machinery for conducting or raising it, its use as a prime mover, and the like.,
H as in Hydrazine (n.) Any one of a series of nitrogenous bases, resembling the amines and produced by the reduction of certain nitroso and diazo compounds; as, methyl hydrazine, phenyl hydrazine, etc. They are derivatives of hydrazine proper, H2N.NH2, which is a doubled amido group, recently (1887) isolated as a stable, colorless gas, with a peculiar, irritating odor. As a base it forms distinct salts. Called also diamide, amidogen, (or more properly diamidogen), etc.,
H as in Hydrencephsloid (a.) Same as Hydrocephaloid.,
H as in Hydria (n.) A water jar; esp., one with a large rounded body, a small neck, and three handles. Some of the most beautiful Greek vases are of this form.,
H as in Hydriad (n.) A water nymph.,
H as in Hydric (a.) Pertaining to, or containing, hydrogen; as, hydric oxide.,
H as in Hydride (n.) A compound of the binary type, in which hydrogen is united with some other element.,
H as in Hydriform (a.) Having the form or structure of a hydra.,
H as in Hydrina (n. pl.) The group of hydroids to which the fresh-water hydras belong.,
H as in Hydriodate (n.) Same as Hydriodide.,
H as in Hydriodic (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, hydrogen and iodine; -- said of an acid produced by the combination of these elements.,
H as in Hydriodide (n.) A compound of hydriodic acid with a base; -- distinguished from an iodide, in which only the iodine combines with the base.,
H as in Hydro- () Alt. of Hydr-,
H as in Hydr- () A combining form from Gr. /, /, water (see Hydra).,
H as in Hydr- () A combining form of hydrogen, indicating hydrogen as an ingredient, as hydrochloric; or a reduction product obtained by hydrogen, as hydroquinone.,
H as in Hydrobarometer (n.) An instrument for determining the depth of the sea water by its pressure.,
H as in Hydrobilirubin (n.) A body formed from bilirubin, identical with urobilin.,
H as in Hydrobranchiata (n. pl.) An extensive artificial division of gastropod mollusks, including those that breathe by gills, as contrasted with the Pulmonifera.,
H as in Hydrobromate (n.) Same as Hydrobromide.,
H as in Hydrobromic (a.) Composed of hydrogen and bromine; as, hydrobromic acid.,
H as in Hydrobromide (n.) A compound of hydrobromic acid with a base; -- distinguished from a bromide, in which only the bromine unites with the base.,
H as in Hydrocarbon (n.) A compound containing only hydrogen and carbon, as methane, benzene, etc.; also, by extension, any of their derivatives.,
H as in Hydrocarbonaceous (a.) Of the nature, or containing, hydrocarbons.,
H as in Hydrocarbonate (n.) A hydrocarbon.,
H as in Hydrocarbonate (n.) A hydrous carbonate, as malachite.,
H as in Hydrocarbostyril (n.) A white, crystalline, nitrogenous hydrocarbon, C9H9NO, obtained from certain derivatives of cinnamic acid and closely related to quinoline and carbostyril.,
H as in Hydrocarburet (n.) Carbureted hydrogen; also, a hydrocarbon.,
H as in Hydrocauli (pl. ) of Hydrocaulus,
H as in Hydrocaulus (n.) The hollow stem of a hydroid, either simple or branched. See Illust. of Gymnoblastea and Hydroidea.,
H as in Hydrocele (n.) A collection of serous fluid in the areolar texture of the scrotum or in the coverings, especially in the serous sac, investing the testicle or the spermatic cord; dropsy of the testicle.,
H as in Hydrocephalic (a.) Relating to, or connected with, hydrocephalus, or dropsy of the brain.,
H as in Hydrocephaloid (a.) Resembling hydrocephalus.,
H as in Hydrocephalous (a.) Having hydrocephalus.,
H as in Hydrocephalus (n.) An accumulation of liquid within the cavity of the cranium, especially within the ventricles of the brain; dropsy of the brain. It is due usually to tubercular meningitis. When it occurs in infancy, it often enlarges the head enormously.,
H as in Hydrochlorate (n.) Same as Hydrochloride.,
H as in Hydrochloric (a.) Pertaining to, or compounded of, chlorine and hydrogen gas; as, hydrochloric acid; chlorhydric.,
H as in Hydrochloride (n.) A compound of hydrochloric acid with a base; -- distinguished from a chloride, where only chlorine unites with the base.,
H as in Hydrocorallia (n. pl.) A division of Hydroidea, including those genera that secrete a stony coral, as Millepora and Stylaster. Two forms of zooids in life project from small pores in the coral and resemble those of other hydroids. See Millepora.,
H as in Hydrocyanate (n.) See Hydrocyanide.,
H as in Hydrocyanic (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from the combination of, hydrogen and cyanogen.,
H as in Hydrocyanide (n.) A compound of hydrocyanic acid with a base; -- distinguished from a cyanide, in which only the cyanogen so combines.,
H as in Hydrodynamic (a.) Alt. of Hydrodynamical,
H as in Hydrodynamical (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, the dynamical action of water of a liquid; of or pertaining to water power.,
H as in Hydrodynamics (n.) That branch of the science of mechanics which relates to fluids, or, as usually limited, which treats of the laws of motion and action of nonelastic fluids, whether as investigated mathematically, or by observation and experiment; the principles of dynamics, as applied to water and other fluids.,
H as in Hydrodynamometer (n.) An instrument to measure the velocity of a liquid current by the force of its impact.,
H as in Hydro-electric (a.) Pertaining to, employed in, or produced by, the evolution of electricity by means of a battery in which water or steam is used.,
H as in Hydro-extractor (n.) An apparatus for drying anything, as yarn, cloth, sugar, etc., by centrifugal force; a centrifugal.,
H as in Hydroferricyanic (n.) Pertaining to, or containing, or obtained from, hydrogen, ferric iron, and cyanogen; as, hydroferricyanic acid. See Ferricyanic.,
H as in Hydroferrocyanic (a.) Pertaining to, or containing, or obtained from, hydrogen, ferrous iron, and cyanogen; as, hydroferrocyanic acid. See Ferrocyanic.,
H as in Hydrofluate (n.) A supposed compound of hydrofluoris acid and a base; a fluoride.,
H as in Hydrofluoric (a.) Pertaining to, or containing, hydrogen and fluorine; fluohydric; as, hydrofluoric acid.,
H as in Hydrofluosilicate (n.) A salt of hydrofluosilic acid; a silicofluoride. See Silicofluoride.,
H as in Hydrofluosilicic (a.) Pertaining to, or denoting, a compound consisting of a double fluoride of hydrogen and silicon; silicofluoric. See Silicofluoric.,
H as in Hydrogalvanic (a.) Pertaining to, produced by, or consisting of, electricity evolved by the action or use of fluids; as, hydrogalvanic currents.,
H as in Hydrogen (n.) A gaseous element, colorless, tasteless, and odorless, the lightest known substance, being fourteen and a half times lighter than air (hence its use in filling balloons), and over eleven thousand times lighter than water. It is very abundant, being an ingredient of water and of many other substances, especially those of animal or vegetable origin. It may by produced in many ways, but is chiefly obtained by the action of acids (as sulphuric) on metals, as zinc, iron, etc. It is very inflammable, and is an ingredient of coal gas and water gas. It is standard of chemical equivalents or combining weights, and also of valence, being the typical monad. Symbol H. Atomic weight 1.,
H as in Hydrogenated (imp. & p. p.) of Hydrogenate,
H as in Hydrogenating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hydrogenate,
H as in Hydrogenate (v. t.) To hydrogenize.,
H as in Hydrogenation (n.) The act of combining with hydrogen, or the state of being so combined.,
H as in Hydrogenide (n.) A binary compound containing hydrogen; a hydride. [R.] See Hydride.,
H as in Hydrogenium (n.) Hydrogen; -- called also in view of its supposed metallic nature.,
H as in Hydrogenized (imp. & p. p.) of Hydrogenize,
H as in Hydrogenizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hydrogenize,
H as in Hydrogenize (v. t.) To combine with hydrogen; to treat with, or subject to the action of, hydrogen; to reduce; -- contrasted with oxidize.,
H as in Hydrogenous (a.) Of or pertaining to hydrogen; containing hydrogen.,
H as in Hydrognosy (n.) A treatise upon, or a history and description of, the water of the earth.,
H as in Hydrogode (n.) The negative pole or cathode.,
H as in Hydrographer (n.) One skilled in the hydrography; one who surveys, or draws maps or charts of, the sea, lakes, or other waters, with the adjacent shores; one who describes the sea or other waters.,
H as in Hydrographic (a.) Alt. of Hydrographical,
H as in Hydrographical (a.) Of or relating to hydrography.,
H as in Hydrography (n.) The art of measuring and describing the sea, lakes, rivers, and other waters, with their phenomena.,
H as in Hydrography (n.) That branch of surveying which embraces the determination of the contour of the bottom of a harbor or other sheet of water, the depth of soundings, the position of channels and shoals, with the construction of charts exhibiting these particulars.,
H as in Hydroguret (n.) A hydride.,
H as in Hydroid (a.) Related to, or resembling, the hydra; of or pertaining to the Hydroidea.,
H as in Hydroid (n.) One of the Hydroideas.,
H as in Hydroidea (n. pl.) An extensive order of Hydrozoa or Acalephae.,
H as in Hydrokinetic (a.) Of or pertaining to the motions of fluids, or the forces which produce or affect such motions; -- opposed to hydrostatic.,
H as in Hydrological (a.) Of or pertaining to hydrology.,
H as in Hydrologist (n.) One skilled in hydrology.,
H as in Hydrology (n.) The science of water, its properties, phenomena, and distribution over the earth's surface.,
H as in Hydrolytic (a.) Tending to remove or separate water; eliminating water.,
H as in Hydromagnesite (n.) A hydrous carbonate of magnesia occurring in white, early, amorphous masses.,
H as in Hydromancy (n.) Divination by means of water, -- practiced by the ancients.,
H as in Hydromantic (a.) Of or pertaining to divination by water.,
H as in Hydromechanics (n.) That branch of physics which treats of the mechanics of liquids, or of their laws of equilibrium and of motion.,
H as in Hydromedusae (pl. ) of Hydromedusa,
H as in Hydromedusa (n.) Any medusa or jellyfish which is produced by budding from a hydroid. They are called also Craspedota, and naked-eyed medusae.,
H as in Hydromel (n.) A liquor consisting of honey diluted in water, and after fermentation called mead.,
H as in Hydromellonic (a.) See Cyamellone.,
H as in Hydrometallurgical (a.) Of or pertaining to hydrometallurgy; involving the use of liquid reagents in the treatment or reduction of ores.,
H as in Hydrometallurgy (n.) The art or process of assaying or reducing ores by means of liquid reagents.,
H as in Hydrometeor (n.) A meteor or atmospheric phenomenon dependent upon the vapor of water; -- in the pl., a general term for the whole aqueous phenomena of the atmosphere, as rain, snow, hail, etc.,
H as in Hydrometeorological (a.) Of or pertaining to hydrometeorology, or to rain, clouds, storms, etc.,
H as in Hydrometeorology (n.) That branch of meteorology which relates to, or treats of, water in the atmosphere, or its phenomena, as rain, clouds, snow, hail, storms, etc.,
H as in Hydrometer (n.) An instrument for determining the specific gravities of liquids, and thence the strength spirituous liquors, saline solutions, etc.,
H as in Hydrometer (n.) An instrument, variously constructed, used for measuring the velocity or discharge of water, as in rivers, from reservoirs, etc., and called by various specific names according to its construction or use, as tachometer, rheometer, hydrometer, pendulum, etc.; a current gauge.,
H as in Hydrometric (a.) Alt. of Hydrometrical,
H as in Hydrometrical (a.) Of or pertaining to an hydrometer, or to the determination of the specific gravity of fluids.,
H as in Hydrometrical (a.) Of or pertaining to measurement of the velocity, discharge, etc., of running water.,
H as in Hydrometrical (a.) Made by means of an hydrometer; as, hydrometric observations.,
H as in Hydrometrograph (n.) An instrument for determining and recording the quantity of water discharged from a pipe, orifice, etc., in a given time.,
H as in Hydrometry (n.) The art of determining the specific gravity of liquids, and thence the strength of spirituous liquors, saline solutions, etc.,
H as in Hydrometry (n.) The art or operation of measuring the velocity or discharge of running water, as in rivers, etc.,
H as in Hydromica (n.) A variety of potash mica containing water. It is less elastic than ordinary muscovite.,
H as in Hydronephrosis (n.) An accumulation of urine in the pelvis of the kidney, occasioned by obstruction in the urinary passages.,
H as in Hydropath (n.) A hydropathist.,
H as in Hydropathic (a.) Alt. of Hydropathical,
H as in Hydropathical (a.) Of or pertaining to hydropathy.,
H as in Hydropathist (n.) One who practices hydropathy; a water-cure doctor.,
H as in Hydropathy (n.) The water cure; a mode of treating diseases by the copious and frequent use of pure water, both internally and externally.,
H as in Hydroperitoneum (n.) Same as Ascites.,
H as in Hydrophane (n.) A semitranslucent variety of opal that becomes translucent or transparent on immersion in water.,
H as in Hydrophanous (a.) Made transparent by immersion in water.,
H as in Hydrophid (n.) Any sea snake of the genus Hydrophys and allied genera. These snakes are venomous, live upon fishes, and have a flattened tail for swimming.,
H as in Hydrophlorone (n.) A white, crystalline benzene derivative, C8H10O2, obtained by the reduction of phlorone.,
H as in Hydrophobia (n.) An abnormal dread of water, said to be a symptom of canine madness; hence:,
H as in Hydrophobia (n.) The disease caused by a bite form, or inoculation with the saliva of, a rabid creature, of which the chief symptoms are, a sense of dryness and construction in the throat, causing difficulty in deglutition, and a marked heightening of reflex excitability, producing convulsions whenever the patient attempts to swallow, or is disturbed in any way, as by the sight or sound of water; rabies; canine madness.,
H as in Hydrophobic (a.) Of or pertaining to hydrophobia; producing or caused by rabies; as, hydrophobic symptoms; the hydrophobic poison.,
H as in Hydrophoby (n.) See Hydrophobia.,
H as in Hydrophora (n. pl.) The Hydroidea.,
H as in Hydrophore (n.) An instrument used for the purpose of obtaining specimens of water from any desired depth, as in a river, a lake, or the ocean.,
H as in Hydrophyllia (pl. ) of Hydrophyllium,
H as in Hydrophylliums (pl. ) of Hydrophyllium,
H as in Hydrophyllium (n.) One of the flat, leaflike, protective zooids, covering other zooids of certain Siphonophora.,
H as in Hydrophyte (n.) An aquatic plant; an alga.,
H as in Hydrophytology (n.) The branch of botany which treats of water plants.,
H as in Hydropic (a.) Alt. of Hydropical,
H as in Hydropical (a.) Dropsical, or resembling dropsy.,
H as in Hydropically (adv.) In a hydropical manner.,
H as in Hydropiper (n.) A species (Polygonum Hydropiper) of knotweed with acrid foliage; water pepper; smartweed.,
H as in Hydropneumatic (a.) Pertaining to, or depending upon, both liquid and gaseous substances; as, hydropneumatic apparatus for collecting gases over water or other liquids.,
H as in Hydropsy (n.) Same as Dropsy.,
H as in Hydropult (n.) A machine for throwing water by hand power, as a garden engine, a fire extinguisher, etc.,
H as in Hydroquinone (n.) A white crystalline substance, C6H4(OH)2, obtained by the reduction of quinone. It is a diacid phenol, resembling, and metameric with, pyrocatechin and resorcin. Called also dihydroxy benzene.,
H as in Hydrorhizae (pl. ) of Hydrorhiza,
H as in Hydrorhizas (pl. ) of Hydrorhiza,
H as in Hydrorhiza (n.) The rootstock or decumbent stem by which a hydroid is attached to other objects. See Illust. under Hydroidea.,
H as in Hydrosalt (n.) A salt supposed to be formed by a hydracid and a base.,
H as in Hydrosalt (n.) An acid salt.,
H as in Hydrosalt (n.) A hydrous salt; a salt combined with water of hydration or crystallization.,
H as in Hydroscope (n.) An instrument designed to mark the presence of water, especially in air.,
H as in Hydroscope (n.) A kind of water clock, used anciently for measuring time, the water tricking from an orifice at the end of a graduated tube.,
H as in Hydrosome (n.) Alt. of Hydrosoma,
H as in Hydrosoma (n.) All the zooids of a hydroid colony collectively, including the nutritive and reproductive zooids, and often other kinds.,
H as in Hydrosorbic (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, an acid obtained from sorbic acid when this takes up hydrogen; as, hydrosorbic acid.,
H as in Hydrostat (n.) A contrivance or apparatus to prevent the explosion of steam boilers.,
H as in Hydrostatic (a.) Alt. of Hydrostatical,
H as in Hydrostatical (a.) Of or relating to hydrostatics; pertaining to, or in accordance with, the principles of the equilibrium of fluids.,
H as in Hydrostatically (adv.) According to hydrostatics, or to hydrostatic principles.,
H as in Hydrostatician (n.) One who is versed or skilled in hydrostatics.,
H as in Hydrostatics (n.) The branch of science which relates to the pressure and equilibrium of nonelastic fluids, as water, mercury, etc.; the principles of statics applied to water and other liquids.,
H as in Hydrosulphate (n.) Same as Hydrosulphurent.,
H as in Hydrosulphide (n.) One of a series of compounds, derived from hydrogen sulphide by the replacement of half its hydrogen by a base or basic radical; as, potassium hydrosulphide, KSH. The hydrosulphides are analogous to the hydrates and include the mercaptans.,
H as in Hydrosulphite (n.) A saline compound of hydrosulphurous acid and a base.,
H as in Hydrosulphuret (n.) A hydrosulphide.,
H as in Hydrosulphureted (a.) Combined with hydrogen sulphide.,
H as in Hydrosulphuric (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, hydrogen and sulphur; as, hydrosulphuric acid, a designation applied to the solution of hydrogen sulphide in water.,
H as in Hydrosulphurous (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, an acid obtained by the reduction of sulphurous acid. See Hyposulphurous acid, under Hyposulphurous.,
H as in Hydrotellurate (n.) A salt formed by the union of hydrotelluric acid and the base.,
H as in Hydrotelluric (a.) Formed by hydrogen and tellurium; as, hydrotelluric acid, or hydrogen telluride.,
H as in Hydrothecae (pl. ) of Hydrotheca,
H as in Hydrothecas (pl. ) of Hydrotheca,
H as in Hydrotheca (n.) One of the calicles which, in some Hydroidea (Thecaphora), protect the hydrants. See Illust. of Hydroidea, and Campanularian.,
H as in Hydrotherapy (n.) See Hydropathy.,
H as in Hydrothermal (a.) Of or pertaining to hot water; -- used esp. with reference to the action of heated waters in dissolving, redepositing, and otherwise producing mineral changes within the crust of the globe.,
H as in Hydrothorax (n.) An accumulation of serous fluid in the cavity of the chest.,
H as in Hydrotic (a.) Causing a discharge of water or phlegm.,
H as in Hydrotic (n.) A hydrotic medicine.,
H as in Hydrotical (a.) Hydrotic.,
H as in Hydrotrope (n.) A device for raising water by the direct action of steam; a pulsometer.,
H as in Hydrotropic (a.) Turning or bending towards moisture, as roots.,
H as in Hydrotropism (n.) A tendency towards moisture.,
H as in Hydrous (a.) Containing water; watery.,
H as in Hydrous (a.) Containing water of hydration or crystallization.,
H as in Hydroxanthane (n.) A persulphocyanate.,
H as in Hydroxanthic (a.) Persulphocyanic.,
H as in Hydroxide (n.) A hydrate; a substance containing hydrogen and oxygen, made by combining water with an oxide, and yielding water by elimination. The hydroxides are regarded as compounds of hydroxyl, united usually with basic element or radical; as, calcium hydroxide ethyl hydroxide.,
H as in Hydroxy- () A combining form, also used adjectively, indicating hydroxyl as an ingredient.,
H as in Hydroxyl (n.) A compound radical, or unsaturated group, HO, consisting of one atom of hydrogen and one of oxygen. It is a characteristic part of the hydrates, the alcohols, the oxygen acids, etc.,
H as in Hydroxylamine (n.) A nitrogenous, organic base, NH2.OH, resembling ammonia, and produced by a modified reduction of nitric acid. It is usually obtained as a volatile, unstable solution in water. It acts as a strong reducing agent.,
H as in Hydrozoa (n. pl.) The Acalephae; one of the classes of coelenterates, including the Hydroidea, Discophora, and Siphonophora.,
H as in Hydrozoal (a.) Of or pertaining to the Hydrozoa.,
H as in Hydrozoa (pl. ) of Hydrozoon,
H as in Hydrozoons (pl. ) of Hydrozoon,
H as in Hydrozoon (n.) One of the Hydrozoa.,
H as in Hydruret (n.) A binary compound of hydrogen; a hydride.,
H as in Hydrus (n.) A constellation of the southern hemisphere, near the south pole.,
H as in Hye (n. & v.) See Hie.,
H as in Hyemal (a.) Belonging to winter; done in winter.,
H as in Hyemate (v. i.) To pass the winter.,
H as in Hyemation (n.) The passing of a winter in a particular place; a wintering.,
H as in Hyemation (n.) The act of affording shelter in winter.,
H as in Hyen (n.) A hyena.,
H as in Hyenas (pl. ) of Hyena,
H as in Hyena (n.) Any carnivorous mammal of the family Hyaenidae, of which three living species are known. They are large and strong, but cowardly. They feed chiefly on carrion, and are nocturnal in their habits.,
H as in Hyetal (a.) Of or pertaining to rain; descriptive of the distribution of rain, or of rainy regions.,
H as in Hyetograph (n.) A chart or graphic representation of the average distribution of rain over the surface of the earth.,
H as in Hyetographic (a.) Of or pertaining to to hyetography.,
H as in Hyetography (n.) The branch of physical science which treats of the geographical distribution of rain.,
H as in Hygeia (n.) The goddess of health, daughter of Esculapius.,
H as in Hygeian (a.) Relating to Hygeia, the goddess of health; of or pertaining to health, or its preservation.,
H as in Hygeist (n.) One skilled in hygiena; a hygienist.,
H as in Hygieist (n.) A hygienist.,
H as in Hygiene (n.) That department of sanitary science which treats of the preservation of health, esp. of households and communities; a system of principles or rules designated for the promotion of health.,
H as in Hygienic (a.) Of or pertaining to health or hygiene; sanitary.,
H as in Hygienics (n.) The science of health; hygiene.,
H as in Hygienism (n.) Hygiene.,
H as in Hygienist (n.) One versed in hygiene.,
H as in Hygiology (n.) A treatise on, or the science of, the preservation of health.,
H as in Hygrine (n.) An alkaloid associated with cocaine in coca leaves (Erythroxylon coca), and extracted as a thick, yellow oil, having a pungent taste and odor.,
H as in Hygrodeik (n.) A form of hygrometer having wet and dry bulb thermometers, with an adjustable index showing directly the percentage of moisture in the air, etc.,
H as in Hygrograph (n.) An instrument for recording automatically the variations of the humidity of the atmosphere.,
H as in Hygrology (n.) The science which treats of the fluids of the body.,
H as in Hygrometer (n.) An instrument for measuring the degree of moisture of the atmosphere.,
H as in Hygrometric (a.) Alt. of Hygrometrical,
H as in Hygrometrical (a.) Of or pertaining to hygrometry; made with, or according to, the hygrometer; as, hygrometric observations.,
H as in Hygrometrical (a.) Readily absorbing and retaining moisture; as, hygrometric substances, like potash.,
H as in Hygrometry (n.) That branch of physics which relates to the determination of the humidity of bodies, particularly of the atmosphere, with the theory and use of the instruments constructed for this purpose.,
H as in Hygrophanous (a.) Having such a structure as to be diaphanous when moist, and opaque when dry.,
H as in Hygrophthalmic (a.) Serving to moisten the eye; -- sometimes applied to the lachrymal ducts.,
H as in Hygroplasm (n.) The fluid portion of the cell protoplasm, in opposition to stereoplasm, the solid or insoluble portion. The latter is supposed to be partly nutritive and partly composed of idioplasm.,
H as in Hygroscope (n.) An instrument which shows whether there is more or less moisture in the atmosphere, without indicating its amount.,
H as in Hygroscopic (a.) Of or pertaining to, or indicated by, the hygroscope; not readily manifest to the senses, but capable of detection by the hygroscope; as, glass is often covered with a film of hygroscopic moisture.,
H as in Hygroscopic (a.) Having the property of readily inbibing moisture from the atmosphere, or of the becoming coated with a thin film of moisture, as glass, etc.,
H as in Hygroscopicity (n.) The property possessed by vegetable tissues of absorbing or discharging moisture according to circumstances.,
H as in Hygrostatics (n.) The science or art of comparing or measuring degrees of moisture.,
H as in Hyke (n.) See Haik, and Huke.,
H as in Hylaeosaur (n.) Alt. of Hylaeosaurus,
H as in Hylaeosaurus (n.) A large Wealden dinosaur from the Tilgate Forest, England. It was about twenty feet long, protected by bony plates in the skin, and armed with spines.,
H as in Hylarchical (a.) Presiding over matter.,
H as in Hyleosaur (n.) Same as Hylaeosaur.,
H as in Hylic (a.) Of or pertaining to matter; material; corporeal; as, hylic influences.,
H as in Hylicist (n.) A philosopher who treats chiefly of matter; one who adopts or teaches hylism.,
H as in Hylism (n.) A theory which regards matter as the original principle of evil.,
H as in Hylobate (n.) Any species of the genus Hylobates; a gibbon, or long-armed ape. See Gibbon.,
H as in Hylodes (n.) The piping frog (Hyla Pickeringii), a small American tree frog, which in early spring, while breeding in swamps and ditches, sings with high, shrill, but musical, notes.,
H as in Hyloism (n.) Same as Hylotheism.,
H as in Hyloist (n.) Same as Hylotheist.,
H as in Hylopathism (n.) The doctrine that matter is sentient.,
H as in Hylopathist (n.) One who believes in hylopathism.,
H as in Hylophagous (a.) Eating green shoots, as certain insects do.,
H as in Hylotheism (n.) The doctrine of belief that matter is God, or that there is no God except matter and the universe; pantheism. See Materialism.,
H as in Hylotheist (n.) One who believes in hylotheism.,
H as in Hylozoic (a.) Of or pertaining to hylozoism.,
H as in Hylozoism (n.) The doctrine that matter possesses a species of life and sensation, or that matter and life are inseparable.,
H as in Hylozoist (n.) A believer in hylozoism.,
H as in Hymar (n.) The wild ass of Persia.,
H as in Hymen (n.) A fold of muscous membrane often found at the orifice of the vagina; the vaginal membrane.,
H as in Hymen (n.) A fabulous deity; according to some, the son of Apollo and Urania, according to others, of Bacchus and Venus. He was the god of marriage, and presided over nuptial solemnities.,
H as in Hymen (n.) Marriage; union as if by marriage.,
H as in Hymeneal (n.) Alt. of Hymenean,
H as in Hymenean (n.) Of or pertaining to marriage; as, hymeneal rites.,
H as in Hymeneal (n.) Alt. of Hymenean,
H as in Hymenean (n.) A marriage song.,
H as in Hymenia (pl. ) of Hymenium,
H as in Hymeniums (pl. ) of Hymenium,
H as in Hymenium (n.) The spore-bearing surface of certain fungi, as that on the gills of a mushroom.,
H as in Hymenogeny (n.) The production of artificial membranes by contact of two fluids, as albumin and fat, by which the globules of the latter are surrounded by a thin film of the former.,
H as in Hymenomycetes (n. pl.) One of the great divisions of fungi, containing those species in which the hymenium is completely exposed.,
H as in Hymenophore (n.) That part of a fungus which is covered with the hymenium.,
H as in Hymenopter (n.) One of the Hymenoptera.,
H as in Hymenoptera (n. pl.) An extensive order of insects, including the bees, ants, ichneumons, sawflies, etc.,
H as in Hymenopteral (a.) Alt. of Hymenopterous,
H as in Hymenopterous (a.) Like, or characteristic of, the Hymenoptera; pertaining to the Hymenoptera.,
H as in Hymenopteran (n.) One of the Hymenoptera.,
H as in Hymn (n.) An ode or song of praise or adoration; especially, a religious ode, a sacred lyric; a song of praise or thankgiving intended to be used in religious service; as, the Homeric hymns; Watts' hymns.,
H as in Hymned (imp. & p. p.) of Hymn,
H as in Hymning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hymn,
H as in Hymn (v. t.) To praise in song; to worship or extol by singing hymns; to sing.,
H as in Hymn (v. i.) To sing in praise or adoration.,
H as in Hymnal (n.) A collection of hymns; a hymn book.,
H as in Hymnic (a.) Relating to hymns, or sacred lyrics.,
H as in Hymning (a.) Praising with hymns; singing.,
H as in Hymning (n.) The singing of hymns.,
H as in Hymnist (n.) A writer of hymns.,
H as in Hymnody (n.) Hymns, considered collectively; hymnology.,
H as in Hymnographer (n.) One who writes on the subject of hymns.,
H as in Hymnographer (n.) A writer or composed of hymns.,
H as in Hymnography (n.) The art or act of composing hymns.,
H as in Hymnologist (n.) A composer or compiler of hymns; one versed in hymnology.,
H as in Hymnology (n.) The hymns or sacred lyrics composed by authors of a particular country or period; as, the hymnology of the eighteenth century; also, the collective body of hymns used by any particular church or religious body; as, the Anglican hymnology.,
H as in Hymnology (n.) A knowledge of hymns; a treatise on hymns.,
H as in Hympne (n.) A hymn.,
H as in Hyndreste (a.) See Hinderest.,
H as in Hyne (n.) A servant. See Hine.,
H as in Hyo- () A prexif used in anatomy, and generally denoting connection with the hyoid bone or arch; as, hyoglossal, hyomandibular, hyomental, etc.,
H as in Hyoganoidei (n. pl.) A division of ganoid fishes, including the gar pikes and bowfins.,
H as in Hyoglossal (a.) Pertaining to or connecting the tongue and hyodean arch; as, the hyoglossal membrane.,
H as in Hyoglossal (a.) Of or pertaining to the hyoglossus muscle.,
H as in Hyoglossus (n.) A flat muscle on either side of the tongue, connecting it with the hyoid bone.,
H as in Hyoid (a.) Having the form of an arch, or of the Greek letter upsilon [/].,
H as in Hyoid (a.) Of or pertaining to the bony or cartilaginous arch which supports the tongue. Sometimes applied to the tongue itself.,
H as in Hyoid (n.) The hyoid bone.,
H as in Hyoideal (a.) Alt. of Hyoidean,
H as in Hyoidean (a.) Same as Hyoid, a.,
H as in Hyomandibular (a.) Pertaining both to the hyoidean arch and the mandible or lower jaw; as, the hyomandibular bone or cartilage, a segment of the hyoid arch which connects the lower jaw with the skull in fishes.,
H as in Hyomandibular (n.) The hyomandibular bone or cartilage.,
H as in Hyomental (a.) Between the hyoid bone and the lower jaw, pertaining to them; suprahyoid; submaxillary; as, the hyomental region of the front of the neck.,
H as in Hyopastron (n.) The second lateral plate in the plastron of turtles; -- called also hyosternum.,
H as in Hyoscine (n.) An alkaloid found with hyoscyamine (with which it is also isomeric) in henbane, and extracted as a white, amorphous, semisolid substance.,
H as in Hyoscyamine (n.) An alkaloid found in henbane (Hyoscyamus niger), and regarded as its active principle. It is also found with other alkaloids in the thorn apple and deadly nightshade. It is extracted as a white crystalline substance, with a sharp, offensive taste. Hyoscyamine is isomeric with atropine, is very poisonous, and is used as a medicine for neuralgia, like belladonna. Called also hyoscyamia, duboisine, etc.,
H as in Hyoscyamus (n.) A genus of poisonous plants of the Nightshade family; henbane.,
H as in Hyoscyamus (n.) The leaves of the black henbane (Hyoscyamus niger), used in neuralgic and pectorial troubles.,
H as in Hyosternal (a.) Between the hyoid bone and the sternum, or pertaining to them; infrahyoid; as, the hyosternal region of the neck.,
H as in Hyosternal (a.) Pertaining to the hyosternum of turtles.,
H as in Hyosternum (n.) See Hyoplastron.,
H as in Hyostylic (a.) Having the mandible suspended by the hyomandibular, or upper part of the hyoid arch, as in fishes, instead of directly articulated with the skull as in mammals; -- said of the skull.,
H as in Hyp (n.) An abbreviation of hypochonaria; -- usually in plural.,
H as in Hyp (v. t.) To make melancholy.,
H as in Hypaethral (a.) Alt. of Hypethral,
H as in Hypethral (a.) Exposed to the air; wanting a roof; -- applied to a building or part of a building.,
H as in Hypallage (n.) A figure consisting of a transference of attributes from their proper subjects to other. Thus Virgil says, "dare classibus austros," to give the winds to the fleets, instead of dare classibus austris, to give the fleets to the winds.,
H as in Hypanthia (pl. ) of Hypanthium,
H as in Hypanthiums (pl. ) of Hypanthium,
H as in Hypanthium (n.) A fruit consisting in large part of a receptacle, enlarged below the calyx, as in the Calycanthus, the rose hip, and the pear.,
H as in Hypapophyles (pl. ) of Hypapophysis,
H as in Hypapophysis (n.) A process, or other element, of a vertebra developed from the ventral side of the centrum, as haemal spines, and chevron bones.,
H as in Hyparterial (a.) Situated below an artery; applied esp. to the branches of the bronchi given off below the point where the pulmonary artery crosses the bronchus.,
H as in Hypaspist (n.) A shield-bearer or armor-bearer.,
H as in Hypaxial (a.) Beneath the axis of the skeleton; subvertebral; hyposkeletal.,
H as in Hyper- () A prefix signifying over, above; as, hyperphysical, hyperthyrion; also, above measure, abnormally great, excessive; as, hyperaemia, hyperbola, hypercritical, hypersecretion.,
H as in Hyper- () A prefix equivalent to super- or per-; as hyperoxide, or peroxide. [Obs.] See Per-.,
H as in Hyperaemia (n.) A superabundance or congestion of blood in an organ or part of the body.,
H as in Hyperaesthesia (n.) A state of exalted or morbidly increased sensibility of the body, or of a part of it.,
H as in Hyperapophyses (pl. ) of Hyperapophysis,
H as in Hyperapophysis (n.) A lateral and backward-projecting process on the dorsal side of a vertebra.,
H as in Hyperaspist (n.) One who holds a shield over another; hence, a defender.,
H as in Hyperbatic (a.) Of or pertaining to an hyperbaton; transposed; inverted.,
H as in Hyperbaton (n.) A figurative construction, changing or inverting the natural order of words or clauses; as, "echoed the hills" for "the hills echoed.",
H as in Hyperbola (n.) A curve formed by a section of a cone, when the cutting plane makes a greater angle with the base than the side of the cone makes. It is a plane curve such that the difference of the distances from any point of it to two fixed points, called foci, is equal to a given distance. See Focus. If the cutting plane be produced so as to cut the opposite cone, another curve will be formed, which is also an hyperbola. Both curves are regarded as branches of the same hyperbola. See Illust. of Conic section, and Focus.,
H as in Hyperbole (n.) A figure of speech in which the expression is an evident exaggeration of the meaning intended to be conveyed, or by which things are represented as much greater or less, better or worse, than they really are; a statement exaggerated fancifully, through excitement, or for effect.,
H as in Hyperbolic (a.) Alt. of Hyperbolical,
H as in Hyperbolical (a.) Belonging to the hyperbola; having the nature of the hyperbola.,
H as in Hyperbolical (a.) Relating to, containing, or of the nature of, hyperbole; exaggerating or diminishing beyond the fact; exceeding the truth; as, an hyperbolical expression.,
H as in Hyperbolically (adv.) In the form of an hyperbola.,
H as in Hyperbolically (adv.) With exaggeration; in a manner to express more or less than the truth.,
H as in Hyperboliform (a.) Having the form, or nearly the form, of an hyperbola.,
H as in Hyperbolism (n.) The use of hyperbole.,
H as in Hyperbolist (n.) One who uses hyperboles.,
H as in Hyperbolized (imp. & p. p.) of Hyperbolize,
H as in Hyperbolizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hyperbolize,
H as in Hyperbolize (v. i.) To speak or write with exaggeration.,
H as in Hyperbolize (v. t.) To state or represent hyperbolically.,
H as in Hyperboloid (n.) A surface of the second order, which is cut by certain planes in hyperbolas; also, the solid, bounded in part by such a surface.,
H as in Hyperboloid (a.) Having some property that belongs to an hyperboloid or hyperbola.,
H as in Hyperborean (a.) Of or pertaining to the region beyond the North wind, or to its inhabitants.,
H as in Hyperborean (a.) Northern; belonging to, or inhabiting, a region in very far north; most northern; hence, very cold; fright, as, a hyperborean coast or atmosphere.,
H as in Hyperborean (n.) One of the people who lived beyond the North wind, in a land of perpetual sunshine.,
H as in Hyperborean (n.) An inhabitant of the most northern regions.,
H as in Hypercarbureted (a.) Having an excessive proportion of carbonic acid; -- said of bicarbonates or acid carbonates.,
H as in Hypercatalectic (a.) Having a syllable or two beyond measure; as, a hypercatalectic verse.,
H as in Hyperchloric (a.) See Perchloric.,
H as in Hyperchromatism (n.) The condition of having an unusual intensity of color.,
H as in Hypercritic (n.) One who is critical beyond measure or reason; a carping critic; a captious censor.,
H as in Hypercritic (a.) Hypercritical.,
H as in Hypercritical (a.) Over critical; unreasonably or unjustly critical; carping; captious.,
H as in Hypercritical (a.) Excessively nice or exact.,
H as in Hypercritically (adv.) In a hypercritical manner.,
H as in Hypercriticise (v. t.) To criticise with unjust severity; to criticise captiously.,
H as in Hypercriticism (n.) Excessive criticism, or unjust severity or rigor of criticism; zoilism.,
H as in Hyperdicrotic (a.) Excessive dicrotic; as, a hyperdicrotic pulse.,
H as in Hyperdicrotism (n.) A hyperdicrotic condition.,
H as in Hyperdicrotous (a.) Hyperdicrotic.,
H as in Hyperdulia (n.) Veneration or worship given to the Virgin Mary as the most exalted of mere creatures; higher veneration than dulia.,
H as in Hyperduly (n.) Hyperdulia.,
H as in Hyperesthesia (n.) Same as Hyperaesthesia.,
H as in Hypericum (n.) A genus of plants, generally with dotted leaves and yellow flowers; -- called also St. John's-wort.,
H as in Hyperinosis (n.) A condition of the blood, characterized by an abnormally large amount of fibrin, as in many inflammatory diseases.,
H as in Hyperion (n.) The god of the sun; in the later mythology identified with Apollo, and distinguished for his beauty.,
H as in Hyperkinesis (n.) Abnormally increased muscular movement; spasm.,
H as in Hyperkinetic (a.) Of or pertaining to hyperkinesis.,
H as in Hypermetamorphosis (n.) A kind of metamorphosis, in certain insects, in which the larva itself undergoes remarkable changes of form and structure during its growth.,
H as in Hypermeter (n.) A verse which has a redundant syllable or foot; a hypercatalectic verse.,
H as in Hypermeter (n.) Hence, anything exceeding the ordinary standard.,
H as in Hypermetrical (a.) Having a redundant syllable; exceeding the common measure.,
H as in Hypermetropia (n.) Alt. of Hypermetropy,
H as in Hypermetropy (n.) A condition of the eye in which, through shortness of the eyeball or fault of the refractive media, the rays of light come to a focus behind the retina; farsightedness; -- called also hyperopia. Cf. Emmetropia.,
H as in Hypermyriorama (n.) A show or exhibition having a great number of scenes or views.,
H as in Hyperoartia (n. pl.) An order of marsipobranchs including the lampreys. The suckerlike moth contains numerous teeth; the nasal opening is in the middle of the head above, but it does not connect with the mouth. See Cyclostoma, and Lamprey.,
H as in Hyperopia (n.) Hypermetropia.,
H as in Hyperorganic (a.) Higher than, or beyond the sphere of, the organic.,
H as in Hyperorthodoxy (n.) Orthodoxy pushed to excess.,
H as in Hyperotreta (n. pl.) An order of marsipobranchs, including the Myxine or hagfish and the genus Bdellostoma. They have barbels around the mouth, one tooth on the plate, and a communication between the nasal aperture and the throat. See Hagfish.,
H as in Hyperoxide (n.) A compound having a relatively large percentage of oxygen; a peroxide.,
H as in Hyperoxygenated (a.) Alt. of Hyperoxygenized,
H as in Hyperoxygenized (a.) Combined with a relatively large amount of oxygen; -- said of higher oxides.,
H as in Hyperoxymuriate (n.) A perchlorate.,
H as in Hyperoxymuriatic (a.) Perchloric; as, hyperoxymuriatic acid.,
H as in Hyperphysical (a.) Above or transcending physical laws; supernatural.,
H as in Hyperplasia (n.) An increase in, or excessive growth of, the normal elements of any part.,
H as in Hyperplastic (a.) Of or pertaining to hyperplasia.,
H as in Hyperplastic (a.) Tending to excess of formative action.,
H as in Hypernoea (n.) Abnormal breathing, due to slightly deficient arterialization of the blood; -- in distinction from eupnoea. See Eupnoea, and Dispnoea.,
H as in Hyperpyrexia (n.) A condition of excessive fever; an elevation of temperature in a disease, in excess of the limit usually observed in that disease.,
H as in Hypersecretion (n.) Morbid or excessive secretion, as in catarrh.,
H as in Hypersensibility (n.) See Hyperaesthesia.,
H as in Hyperspace (n.) An imagined space having more than three dimensions.,
H as in Hypersthene (n.) An orthorhombic mineral of the pyroxene group, of a grayish or greenish black color, often with a peculiar bronzelike luster (schiller) on the cleavage surface.,
H as in Hypersthenic (a.) Composed of, or containing, hypersthene.,
H as in Hyperthetical (a.) Exaggerated; excessive; hyperbolical.,
H as in Hyperthyrion (n.) That part of the architrave which is over a door or window.,
H as in Hypertrophic (a.) Alt. of Hypertrophical,
H as in Hypertrophical (a.) Of or pertaining to hypertrophy; affected with, or tending to, hypertrophy.,
H as in Hypertrophied (a.) Excessively developed; characterized by hypertrophy.,
H as in Hypertrophy (n.) A condition of overgrowth or excessive development of an organ or part; -- the opposite of atrophy.,
H as in Hyphae (n. pl.) The long, branching filaments of which the mycelium (and the greater part of the plant) of a fungus is formed. They are also found enveloping the gonidia of lichens, making up a large part of their structure.,
H as in Hyphen (n.) A mark or short dash, thus [-], placed at the end of a line which terminates with a syllable of a word, the remainder of which is carried to the next line; or between the parts of many a compound word; as in fine-leaved, clear-headed. It is also sometimes used to separate the syllables of words.,
H as in Hyphened (imp. & p. p.) of Hyphen,
H as in Hyphening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hyphen,
H as in Hyphen (v. t.) To connect with, or separate by, a hyphen, as two words or the parts of a word.,
H as in Hyphenated (a.) United by hyphens; hyphened; as, a hyphenated or hyphened word.,
H as in Hyphomycetes (n. pl.) One of the great division of fungi, containing those species which have naked spores borne on free or only fasciculate threads.,
H as in Hypidiomorphic (a.) Partly idiomorphic; -- said of rock a portion only of whose constituents have a distinct crystalline form.,
H as in Hypinosis (n.) A diminution in the normal amount of fibrin present in the blood.,
H as in Hypnagogic (a.) Leading to sleep; -- applied to the illusions of one who is half asleep.,
H as in Hypnobate (n.) A somnambulist.,
H as in Hypnocyst (n.) A cyst in which some unicellular organisms temporarily inclose themselves, from which they emerge unchanged, after a period of drought or deficiency of food. In some instances, a process of spore formation seems to occur within such cysts.,
H as in Hypnogenic (a.) Relating to the production of hypnotic sleep; as, the so-called hypnogenic pressure points, pressure upon which is said to cause an attack of hypnotic sleep.,
H as in Hypnologist (n.) One who is versed in hypnology.,
H as in Hypnology (n.) A treatise on sleep; the doctrine of sleep.,
H as in Hypnosis (n.) Supervention of sleep.,
H as in Hypnotic (a.) Having the quality of producing sleep; tending to produce sleep; soporific.,
H as in Hypnotic (a.) Of or pertaining to hypnotism; in a state of hypnotism; liable to hypnotism; as, a hypnotic condition.,
H as in Hypnotic (n.) Any agent that produces, or tends to produce, sleep; an opiate; a soporific; a narcotic.,
H as in Hypnotic (n.) A person who exhibits the phenomena of, or is subject to, hypnotism.,
H as in Hypnotism (n.) A form of sleep or somnambulism brought on by artificial means, in which there is an unusual suspension of some powers, and an unusual activity of others. It is induced by an action upon the nerves, through the medium of the senses, as in persons of very feeble organization, by gazing steadly at a very bright object held before the eyes, or by pressure upon certain points of the surface of the body.,
H as in Hypnotization (n.) The act or process of producing hypnotism.,
H as in Hypnotized (imp. & p. p.) of Hypnotize,
H as in Hypnotizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hypnotize,
H as in Hypnotize (v. t.) To induce hypnotism in; to place in a state of hypnotism.,
H as in Hypnotizer (n.) One who hypnotizes.,
H as in Hypnum (n.) The largest genus of true mosses; feather moss.,
H as in Hypo- () A prefix signifying a less quantity, or a low state or degree, of that denoted by the word with which it is joined, or position under or beneath.,
H as in Hypo- () A prefix denoting that the element to the name of which it is prefixed enters with a low valence, or in a low state of oxidization, usually the lowest, into the compounds indicated; as, hyposulphurous acid.,
H as in Hypo (n.) Hypochondria.,
H as in Hypo (n.) Sodium hyposulphite, or thiosulphate, a solution of which is used as a bath to wash out the unchanged silver salts in a picture.,
H as in Hypoarian (a.) Of or pertaining to a hypoarion.,
H as in Hypoaria (pl. ) of Hypoarion,
H as in Hypoarion (n.) An oval lobe beneath each of the optic lobes in many fishes; one of the inferior lobes.,
H as in Hypoblast (n.) The inner or lower layer of the blastoderm; -- called also endoderm, entoderm, and sometimes hypoderm. See Illust. of Blastoderm, Delamination, and Ectoderm.,
H as in Hypoblastic (a.) Relating to, or connected with, the hypoblast; as, the hypoic sac.,
H as in Hypobole (n.) A figure in which several things are mentioned that seem to make against the argument, or in favor of the opposite side, each of them being refuted in order.,
H as in Hypobranchial (a.) Pertaining to the segment between the basibranchial and the ceratobranchial in a branchial arch.,
H as in Hypobranchial (n.) A hypobranchial bone or cartilage.,
H as in Hypocarp (n.) Alt. of Hypocarpium,
H as in Hypocarpium (n.) A fleshy enlargement of the receptacle, or for the stem, below the proper fruit, as in the cashew. See Illust. of Cashew.,
H as in Hypocarpogean (a.) Producing fruit below the ground.,
H as in Hypocaust (n.) A furnace, esp. one connected with a series of small chambers and flues of tiles or other masonry through which the heat of a fire was distributed to rooms above. This contrivance, first used in bath, was afterwards adopted in private houses.,
H as in Hypochlorite (n.) A salt of hypochlorous acid; as, a calcium hypochloride.,
H as in Hypochlorous (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, chlorine having a valence lower than in chlorous compounds.,
H as in Hypochondres (n. pl.) The hypochondriac regions. See Hypochondrium.,
H as in Hypochondria (n.) Hypochondriasis; melancholy; the blues.,
H as in Hypochondriac (a.) Of or pertaining to hypochondria, or the hypochondriac regions.,
H as in Hypochondriac (a.) Affected, characterized, or produced, by hypochondriasis.,
H as in Hypochondriac (n.) A person affected with hypochondriasis.,
H as in Hypochondriacal (a.) Same as Hypochondriac, 2.,
H as in Hypochondriacism (n.) Hypochondriasis.,
H as in Hypochondriasis (n.) A mental disorder in which melancholy and gloomy views torment the affected person, particularly concerning his own health.,
H as in Hypochondriasm (n.) Hypochondriasis.,
H as in Hypochondria (pl. ) of Hypochondrium,
H as in Hypochondriums (pl. ) of Hypochondrium,
H as in Hypochondrium (n.) Either of the hypochondriac regions.,
H as in Hypochondry (n.) Hypochondriasis.,
H as in Hypocist (n.) An astringent inspissated juice obtained from the fruit of a plant (Cytinus hypocistis), growing from the roots of the Cistus, a small European shrub.,
H as in Hypocleida (pl. ) of Hypocleidium,
H as in Hypocleidiums (pl. ) of Hypocleidium,
H as in Hypocleidium (n.) A median process on the furculum, or merrythought, of many birds, where it is connected with the sternum.,
H as in Hypocoristic (a.) Endearing; diminutive; as, the hypocoristic form of a name.,
H as in Hypocrateriform (a.) hypocraterimorphous; salver-shaped.,
H as in Hypocraterimorphous (a.) Salver-shaped; having a slender tube, expanding suddenly above into a bowl-shaped or spreading border, as in the blossom of the phlox and the lilac.,
H as in Hypocrisies (pl. ) of Hypocrisy,
H as in Hypocrisy (n.) The act or practice of a hypocrite; a feigning to be what one is not, or to feel what one does not feel; a dissimulation, or a concealment of one's real character, disposition, or motives; especially, the assuming of false appearance of virtue or religion; a simulation of goodness.,
H as in Hypocrite (n.) One who plays a part; especially, one who, for the purpose of winning approbation of favor, puts on a fair outside seeming; one who feigns to be other and better than he is; a false pretender to virtue or piety; one who simulates virtue or piety.,
H as in Hypocritely (adv.) Hypocritically.,
H as in Hypocritic (a.) See Hypocritical.,
H as in Hypocritical (a.) Of or pertaining to a hypocrite, or to hypocrisy; as, a hypocriticalperson; a hypocritical look; a hypocritical action.,
H as in Hypocrystalline (a.) Partly crystalline; -- said of rock which consists of crystals imbedded in a glassy ground mass.,
H as in Hypocycloid (n.) A curve traced by a point in the circumference of a circle which rolls on the concave side in the fixed circle. Cf. Epicycloid, and Trochoid.,
H as in -tyla (pl. ) of Hypodactylum,
H as in Hypodactylum (n.) The under side of the toes.,
H as in Hypoderm (n.) Same as Hypoblast.,
H as in Hypoderma (n.) A layer of tissue beneath the epidermis in plants, and performing the physiological function of strengthening the epidermal tissue. In phanerogamous plants it is developed as collenchyma.,
H as in Hypoderma (n.) An inner cellular layer which lies beneath the chitinous cuticle of arthropods, annelids, and some other invertebrates.,
H as in Hypodermatic (a.) Hypodermic.,
H as in Hypodermic (a.) Of or pertaining to the parts under the skin.,
H as in Hypodermis (n.) Same as Hypoblast.,
H as in Hypodermis (n.) Same as Hypoderma, 2.,
H as in Hypodicrotic (a.) Alt. of Hypodicrotous,
H as in Hypodicrotous (a.) Exhibiting retarded dicrotism; as, a hypodicrotic pulse curve.,
H as in Hypogaeic (a.) Pertaining to, or obtained from, the peanut, or earthnut (Arachis hypogaea).,
H as in Hypogastric (a.) Of or pertaining to the hypogastrium or the hypogastric region.,
H as in Hypogastrium (n.) The lower part of the abdomen.,
H as in Hypogean (a.) Hypogeous.,
H as in Hypogene (a.) Formed or crystallized at depths the earth's surface; -- said of granite, gneiss, and other rocks, whose crystallization is believed of have taken place beneath a great thickness of overlying rocks. Opposed to epigene.,
H as in Hypogeous (a.) Growing under ground; remaining under ground; ripening its fruit under ground.,
H as in Hypogea (pl. ) of Hypogeum,
H as in Hypogeum (n.) The subterraneous portion of a building, as in amphitheaters, for the service of the games; also, subterranean galleries, as the catacombs.,
H as in Hypoglossal (a.) Under the tongue; -- applied esp., in the higher vertebrates, to the twelfth or last pair of cranial nerves, which are distributed to the base of the tongue.,
H as in Hypoglossal (n.) One of the hypoglossal nerves.,
H as in Hypognatous (a.) Having the maxilla, or lower jaw, longer than the upper, as in the skimmer.,
H as in Hypogyn (n.) An hypogynous plant.,
H as in Hypogynous (a.) Inserted below the pistil or pistils; -- said of sepals, petals, and stamens; having the sepals, petals, and stamens inserted below the pistil; -- said of a flower or a plant.,
H as in Hypohyal (a.) Pertaining to one or more small elements in the hyoidean arch of fishes, between the caratohyal and urohyal.,
H as in Hypohyal (n.) One of the hypohyal bones or cartilages.,
H as in Hyponastic (a.) Exhibiting a downward convexity caused by unequal growth. Cf. Epinastic.,
H as in Hyponasty (n.) Downward convexity, or convexity of the inferior surface.,
H as in Hyponitrite (n.) A salt of hyponitrous acid.,
H as in Hyponitrous (a.) Containing or derived from nitrogen having a lower valence than in nitrous compounds.,
H as in Hypopharynx (n.) An appendage or fold on the lower side of the pharynx, in certain insects.,
H as in Hypophosphate (n.) A salt of hypophosphoric acid.,
H as in Hypophosphite (n.) A salt of hypophosphorous acid.,
H as in Hypophosphoric (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, or containing, phosphorus in a lower state of oxidation than in phosphoric compounds; as, hypophosphoric acid.,
H as in Hypophosphorous (a.) Pertaining to, or containing, phosphorus in a lower state of oxidation than in phosphoric compounds; as, hypophosphorous acid.,
H as in Hypophyllous (a.) Being or growing on the under side of a leaf, as the fruit dots of ferns.,
H as in Hypophysial (a.) Of or pertaining to the hypophysis; pituitary.,
H as in Hypophysis (n.) See Pituitary body, under Pituitary.,
H as in Hypophysis (n.) Cataract.,
H as in Hypoplastra (pl. ) of Hypoplastron,
H as in Hypoplastron (n.) The third lateral plate in the plastron of turtles; -- called also hyposternum.,
H as in Hypoptila (pl. ) of Hypoptilum,
H as in Hypoptilums (pl. ) of Hypoptilum,
H as in Hypoptilum (n.) An accessory plume arising from the posterior side of the stem of the contour feathers of many birds; -- called also aftershaft. See Illust. of Feather.,
H as in Hyporadii (pl. ) of Hyporadius,
H as in Hyporadius (n.) One of the barbs of the hypoptilum, or aftershaft of a feather. See Feather.,
H as in Hyporhachides (pl. ) of Hyporhachis,
H as in Hyporhachis (n.) The stem of an aftershaft or hypoptilum.,
H as in Hyposkeletal (a.) Beneath the endoskeleton; hypaxial; as, the hyposkeletal muscles; -- opposed to episkeletal.,
H as in Hypospadias (n.) A deformity of the penis, in which the urethra opens upon its under surface.,
H as in Hypostases (pl. ) of Hypostasis,
H as in Hypostasis (n.) That which forms the basis of anything; underlying principle; a concept or mental entity conceived or treated as an existing being or thing.,
H as in Hypostasis (n.) Substance; subsistence; essence; person; personality; -- used by the early theologians to denote any one of the three subdivisions of the Godhead, the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit.,
H as in Hypostasis (n.) Principle; an element; -- used by the alchemists in speaking of salt, sulphur, and mercury, which they considered as the three principles of all material bodies.,
H as in Hypostasis (n.) That which is deposited at the bottom of a fluid; sediment.,
H as in Hypostasize (v. t.) To make into a distinct substance; to conceive or treat as an existing being; to hypostatize.,
H as in Hypostatic (a.) Alt. of Hypostatical,
H as in Hypostatical (a.) Relating to hypostasis, or substance; hence, constitutive, or elementary.,
H as in Hypostatical (a.) Personal, or distinctly personal; relating to the divine hypostases, or substances.,
H as in Hypostatical (a.) Depending upon, or due to, deposition or setting; as, hypostatic cognestion, cognestion due to setting of blood by gravitation.,
H as in Hypostatically (adv.) In a hypostatic manner.,
H as in Hypostatize (v. t.) To make into, or regarded as, a separate and distinct substance.,
H as in Hypostatize (v. t.) To attribute actual or personal existence to.,
H as in Hyposterna (pl. ) of Hyposternum,
H as in Hyposternums (pl. ) of Hyposternum,
H as in Hyposternum (n.) See Hypoplastron.,
H as in Hypostome (n.) Alt. of Hypostoma,
H as in Hypostoma (n.) The lower lip of trilobites, crustaceans, etc.,
H as in Hypostrophe (n.) The act of a patient turning himself.,
H as in Hypostrophe (n.) A relapse, or return of a disease.,
H as in Hypostyle (a.) Resting upon columns; constructed by means of columns; -- especially applied to the great hall at Karnak.,
H as in Hyposulphate (n.) A salt of hyposulphuric acid.,
H as in Hyposulphite (n.) A salt of what was formerly called hyposulphurous acid; a thiosulphate.,
H as in Hyposulphite (n.) A salt of hyposulphurous acid proper.,
H as in Hyposulphuric (a.) Pertaining to, or containing, sulphur in a lower state of oxidation than in the sulphuric compounds; as, hyposulphuric acid.,
H as in Hyposulphurous (a.) Pertaining to, or containing, sulphur, all, or a part, in a low state of oxidation.,
H as in Hypotarsi (pl. ) of Hypotarsus,
H as in Hypotarsus (n.) A process on the posterior side of the tarsometatarsus of many birds; the calcaneal process.,
H as in Hypotenuse (n.) Alt. of Hypothenuse,
H as in Hypothenuse (n.) The side of a right-angled triangle that is opposite to the right angle.,
H as in Hypothec (n.) A landlord's right, independently of stipulation, over the stocking (cattle, implements, etc.), and crops of his tenant, as security for payment of rent.,
H as in Hypotheca (n.) An obligation by which property of a debtor was made over to his creditor in security of his debt.,
H as in Hypothecated (imp. & p. p.) of Hypothecate,
H as in Hypothecating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hypothecate,
H as in Hypothecate (v. t.) To subject, as property, to liability for a debt or engagement without delivery of possession or transfer of title; to pledge without delivery of possession; to mortgage, as ships, or other personal property; to make a contract by bottomry. See Hypothecation, Bottomry.,
H as in Hypothecation (n.) The act or contract by which property is hypothecated; a right which a creditor has in or to the property of his debtor, in virtue of which he may cause it to be sold and the price appropriated in payment of his debt. This is a right in the thing, or jus in re.,
H as in Hypothecation (n.) A contract whereby, in consideration of money advanced for the necessities of the ship, the vessel, freight, or cargo is made liable for its repayment, provided the ship arrives in safety. It is usually effected by a bottomry bond. See Bottomry.,
H as in Hypothecator (n.) One who hypothecates or pledges anything as security for the repayment of money borrowed.,
H as in Hypothenal (a.) Alt. of Hypothenar,
H as in Hypothenar (a.) Of or pertaining to the prominent part of the palm of the hand above the base of the little finger, or a corresponding part in the forefoot of an animal; as, the hypothenar eminence.,
H as in Hypothenar (n.) The hypothenar eminence.,
H as in Hypothenusal (a.) Of or pertaining to hypothenuse.,
H as in Hypothenuse (n.) Same as Hypotenuse.,
H as in Hypotheses (pl. ) of Hypothesis,
H as in Hypothesis (n.) A supposition; a proposition or principle which is supposed or taken for granted, in order to draw a conclusion or inference for proof of the point in question; something not proved, but assumed for the purpose of argument, or to account for a fact or an occurrence; as, the hypothesis that head winds detain an overdue steamer.,
H as in Hypothesis (n.) A tentative theory or supposition provisionally adopted to explain certain facts, and to guide in the investigation of others; hence, frequently called a working hypothesis.,
H as in Hypothetic (a.) Alt. of Hypothetical,
H as in Hypothetical (a.) Characterized by, or of the nature of, an hypothesis; conditional; assumed without proof, for the purpose of reasoning and deducing proof, or of accounting for some fact or phenomenon.,
H as in Hypothetist (n.) One who proposes or supports an hypothesis.,
H as in Hypotrachelium (n.) Same as Gorgerin.,
H as in Hypotricha (n. pl.) A division of ciliated Infusoria in which the cilia cover only the under side of the body.,
H as in Hypotrochoid (n.) A curve, traced by a point in the radius, or radius produced, of a circle which rolls upon the concave side of a fixed circle. See Hypocycloid, Epicycloid, and Trochoid.,
H as in Hypotyposis (n.) A vivid, picturesque description of scenes or events.,
H as in Hypoxanthin (n.) A crystalline, nitrogenous substance, closely related to xanthin and uric acid, widely distributed through the animal body, but especially in muscle tissue; -- called also sarcin, sarkin.,
H as in Hypozoic (a.) Anterior in age to the lowest rocks which contain organic remains.,
H as in Hyppish (a.) Affected with hypochondria; hypped.,
H as in Hyppogriff (n.) See Hyppogriff.,
H as in Hypsiloid (a.) Resembling the Greek letter / in form; hyoid.,
H as in Hypsometer (n.) An instrument for measuring heights by observation of barometric pressure; esp., one for determining heights by ascertaining the boiling point of water. It consists of a vessel for water, with a lamp for heating it, and an inclosed thermometer for showing the temperature of ebullition.,
H as in Hypsometric (a.) Alt. of Hypsometrical,
H as in Hypsometrical (a.) Of or pertaining to hypsometry.,
H as in Hypsometry (n.) That branch of the science of geodesy which has to do with the measurement of heights, either absolutely with reference to the sea level, or relatively.,
H as in Hypural (a.) Under the tail; -- applied to the bones which support the caudal fin rays in most fishes.,
H as in Hyracoid (a.) Of or pertaining to the Hyracoidea.,
H as in Hyracoid (n.) One of the Hyracoidea.,
H as in Hyracoidea (n. pl.) An order of small hoofed mammals, comprising the single living genus Hyrax.,
H as in Hyrax (n.) Any animal of the genus Hyrax, of which about four species are known. They constitute the order Hyracoidea. The best known species are the daman (H. Syriacus) of Palestine, and the klipdas (H. capensis) of South Africa. Other species are H. arboreus and H. Sylvestris, the former from Southern, and the latter from Western, Africa. See Daman.,
H as in Hyrcanian (a.) Alt. of Hyrcan,
H as in Hyrcan (a.) Of or pertaining to Hyrcania, an ancient country or province of Asia, southeast of the Caspian (which was also called the Hyrcanian) Sea.,
H as in Hyrse (n.) Millet.,
H as in Hyrst (n.) A wood. See Hurst.,
H as in Hyson (n.) A fragrant kind of green tea.,
H as in Hyssop (n.) A plant (Hyssopus officinalis). The leaves have an aromatic smell, and a warm, pungent taste.,
H as in Hysteranthous (a.) Having the leaves expand after the flowers have opened.,
H as in Hysteresis (n.) A lagging or retardation of the effect, when the forces acting upon a body are changed, as if from velocity or internal friction; a temporary resistance to change from a condition previously induced, observed in magnetism, thermoelectricity, etc., on reversal of polarity.,
H as in Hysteria (n.) A nervous affection, occurring almost exclusively in women, in which the emotional and reflex excitability is exaggerated, and the will power correspondingly diminished, so that the patient loses control over the emotions, becomes the victim of imaginary sensations, and often falls into paroxism or fits.,
H as in Hysteric (a.) Alt. of Hysterical,
H as in Hysterical (a.) Of or pertaining to hysteria; affected, or troubled, with hysterics; convulsive, fitful.,
H as in Hysterics (n. pl.) Hysteria.,
H as in Hysteroepilepsy (n.) A disease resembling hysteria in its nature, and characterized by the occurrence of epileptiform convulsions, which can often be controlled or excited by pressure on the ovaries, and upon other definite points in the body.,
H as in Hysterogenic (a.) Producing hysteria; as, the hysterogenicpressure points on the surface of the body, pressure upon which is said both to produce and arrest an attack of hysteria.,
H as in Hysterology (n.) A figure by which the ordinary course of thought is inverted in expression, and the last put first; -- called also hysteron proteron.,
H as in Hysteron proteron () A figure in which the natural order of sense is reversed; hysterology; as, valet atque vivit, "he is well and lives.",
H as in Hysteron proteron () An inversion of logical order, in which the conclusion is put before the premises, or the thing proved before the evidence.,
H as in Hysterophyte (n.) A plant, like the fungus, which lives on dead or living organic matter.,
H as in Hysterotomy (n.) The Caesarean section. See under Caesarean.,
H as in Hystricine (a.) Like or pertaining to the porcupines.,
H as in Hystricomorphous (a.) Like, or allied to, the porcupines; -- said of a group (Hystricomorpha) of rodents.,
H as in Hystrix (n.) A genus of rodents, including the porcupine.,
H as in Hythe (n.) A small haven. See Hithe.,
