O as in O () O, the fifteenth letter of the English alphabet, derives its form, value, and name from the Greek O, through the Latin. The letter came into the Greek from the Ph/nician, which possibly derived it ultimately from the Egyptian. Etymologically, the letter o is most closely related to a, e, and u; as in E. bone, AS. ban; E. stone, AS. stan; E. broke, AS. brecan to break; E. bore, AS. beran to bear; E. dove, AS. d/fe; E. toft, tuft; tone, tune; number, F. nombre.,
O as in O () Among the ancients, O was a mark of triple time, from the notion that the ternary, or number 3, is the most perfect of numbers, and properly expressed by a circle, the most perfect figure.,
O as in O's (pl. ) of O,
O as in Oes (pl. ) of O,
O as in O (n.) The letter O, or its sound.,
O as in O (n.) Something shaped like the letter O; a circle or oval.,
O as in O (n.) A cipher; zero.,
O as in O' () A prefix to Irish family names, which signifies grandson or descendant of, and is a character of dignity; as, O'Neil, O'Carrol.,
O as in O' (prep.) A shortened form of of or on.,
O as in O (a.) One.,
O as in O (interj.) An exclamation used in calling or directly addressing a person or personified object; also, as an emotional or impassioned exclamation expressing pain, grief, surprise, desire, fear, etc.,
O as in Oad (n.) See Woad.,
O as in Oaf (n.) Originally, an elf's child; a changeling left by fairies or goblins; hence, a deformed or foolish child; a simpleton; an idiot.,
O as in Oafish (a.) Like an oaf; simple.,
O as in Oak (n.) Any tree or shrub of the genus Quercus. The oaks have alternate leaves, often variously lobed, and staminate flowers in catkins. The fruit is a smooth nut, called an acorn, which is more or less inclosed in a scaly involucre called the cup or cupule. There are now recognized about three hundred species, of which nearly fifty occur in the United States, the rest in Europe, Asia, and the other parts of North America, a very few barely reaching the northern parts of South America and Africa. Many of the oaks form forest trees of grand proportions and live many centuries. The wood is usually hard and tough, and provided with conspicuous medullary rays, forming the silver grain.,
O as in Oak (n.) The strong wood or timber of the oak.,
O as in Oaken (a.) Made or consisting of oaks or of the wood of oaks.,
O as in Oaker (n.) See Ocher.,
O as in Oakling (n.) A young oak.,
O as in Oakum (n.) The material obtained by untwisting and picking into loose fiber old hemp ropes; -- used for calking the seams of ships, stopping leaks, etc.,
O as in Oakum (n.) The coarse portion separated from flax or hemp in nackling.,
O as in Oaky (n.) Resembling oak; strong.,
O as in Oar (n) An implement for impelling a boat, being a slender piece of timber, usually ash or spruce, with a grip or handle at one end and a broad blade at the other. The part which rests in the rowlock is called the loom.,
O as in Oar (n) An oarsman; a rower; as, he is a good oar.,
O as in Oar (n) An oarlike swimming organ of various invertebrates.,
O as in Oared (imp. & p. p.) of Oar,
O as in Oaring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Oar,
O as in Oar (v. t. & i.) To row.,
O as in Oared (a.) Furnished with oars; -- chiefly used in composition; as, a four-oared boat.,
O as in Oared (a.) Having feet adapted for swimming.,
O as in Oared (a.) Totipalmate; -- said of the feet of certain birds. See Illust. of Aves.,
O as in Oarfish (n.) The ribbon fish.,
O as in Oarfoot (n.) Any crustacean of the genus Remipes.,
O as in Oar-footed (a.) Having feet adapted for swimming.,
O as in Oarless (a.) Without oars.,
O as in Oarlock (n.) The notch, fork, or other device on the gunwale of a boat, in which the oar rests in rowing. See Rowlock.,
O as in Oarsmen (pl. ) of Oarsman,
O as in Oarsman (n.) One who uses, or is skilled in the use of, an oar; a rower.,
O as in Oarsweed (n.) Any large seaweed of the genus Laminaria; tangle; kelp. See Kelp.,
O as in Oary (a.) Having the form or the use of an oar; as, the swan's oary feet.,
O as in Oases (pl. ) of Oasis,
O as in Oasis (n.) A fertile or green spot in a waste or desert, esp. in a sandy desert.,
O as in Oast (n.) A kiln to dry hops or malt; a cockle.,
O as in Oats (pl. ) of Oat,
O as in Oat (n.) A well-known cereal grass (Avena sativa), and its edible grain; -- commonly used in the plural and in a collective sense.,
O as in Oat (n.) A musical pipe made of oat straw.,
O as in Oatcake (n.) A cake made of oatmeal.,
O as in Oaten (a.) Consisting of an oat straw or stem; as, an oaten pipe.,
O as in Oaten (a.) Made of oatmeal; as, oaten cakes.,
O as in Oaths (pl. ) of Oath,
O as in Oath (n.) A solemn affirmation or declaration, made with a reverent appeal to God for the truth of what is affirmed.,
O as in Oath (n.) A solemn affirmation, connected with a sacred object, or one regarded as sacred, as the temple, the altar, the blood of Abel, the Bible, the Koran, etc.,
O as in Oath (n.) An appeal (in verification of a statement made) to a superior sanction, in such a form as exposes the party making the appeal to an indictment for perjury if the statement be false.,
O as in Oath (n.) A careless and blasphemous use of the name of the divine Being, or anything divine or sacred, by way of appeal or as a profane exclamation or ejaculation; an expression of profane swearing.,
O as in Oathable (a.) Capable of having an oath administered to.,
O as in Oathbreaking (n.) The violation of an oath; perjury.,
O as in Oatmeal (n.) Meal made of oats.,
O as in Oatmeal (n.) A plant of the genus Panicum; panic grass.,
O as in Ob- () A prefix signifying to, toward, before, against, reversely, etc.; also, as a simple intensive; as in oblige, to bind to; obstacle, something standing before; object, lit., to throw against; obovate, reversely, ovate. Ob- is commonly assimilated before c, f, g, and p, to oc-, of-, og-, and op-.,
O as in Obcompressed (a.) Compressed or flattened antero-posteriorly, or in a way opposite to the usual one.,
O as in Obconic (a.) Alt. of Obconical,
O as in Obconical (a.) Conical, but having the apex downward; inversely conical.,
O as in Obcordate (a.) Heart-shaped, with the attachment at the pointed end; inversely cordate: as, an obcordate petal or leaf.,
O as in Obdiplostemonous (a.) Having twice as many stamens as petals, those of the outer set being opposite the petals; -- said of flowers.,
O as in Obdiplostemony (n.) The condition of being obdiplostemonous.,
O as in Obdormition (n.) Sleep.,
O as in Obduce (v. t.) To draw over, as a covering.,
O as in Obduct (v. t.) To draw over; to cover.,
O as in Obduction (n.) The act of drawing or laying over, as a covering.,
O as in Obduracy (n.) The duality or state of being obdurate; invincible hardness of heart; obstinacy.,
O as in Obdurate (a.) Hardened in feelings, esp. against moral or mollifying influences; unyielding; hard-hearted; stubbornly wicked.,
O as in Obdurate (a.) Hard; harsh; rugged; rough; intractable.,
O as in Obdurate (v. t.) To harden.,
O as in Obduration (n.) A hardening of the heart; hardness of heart.,
O as in Obdure (v. t.) To harden.,
O as in Obdure (a.) Alt. of Obdured,
O as in Obdured (a.) Obdurate; hard.,
O as in Obdureness (n.) Alt. of Obduredness,
O as in Obduredness (n.) Hardness.,
O as in Obbe (n.) See Obi.,
O as in Obeah (n.) Same as Obi.,
O as in Obeah (a.) Of or pertaining to obi; as, the obeah man.,
O as in Obedible (a.) Obedient.,
O as in Obedience (n.) The act of obeying, or the state of being obedient; compliance with that which is required by authority; subjection to rightful restraint or control.,
O as in Obedience (n.) Words or actions denoting submission to authority; dutifulness.,
O as in Obedience (n.) A following; a body of adherents; as, the Roman Catholic obedience, or the whole body of persons who submit to the authority of the pope.,
O as in Obedience (n.) A cell (or offshoot of a larger monastery) governed by a prior.,
O as in Obedience (n.) One of the three monastic vows.,
O as in Obedience (n.) The written precept of a superior in a religious order or congregation to a subject.,
O as in Obedienciary (n.) One yielding obedience.,
O as in Obedient (a.) Subject in will or act to authority; willing to obey; submissive to restraint, control, or command.,
O as in Obediential (a.) According to the rule of obedience.,
O as in Obediently (adv.) In an obedient manner; with obedience.,
O as in Obeisance (n.) Obedience.,
O as in Obeisance (n.) A manifestation of obedience; an expression of difference or respect; homage; a bow; a courtesy.,
O as in Obeisancy (n.) See Obeisance.,
O as in Obeisant (a.) Ready to obey; reverent; differential; also, servilely submissive.,
O as in Obelion (n.) The region of the skull between the two parietal foramina where the closure of the sagittal suture usually begins.,
O as in Obeliscal (a.) Formed like an obelisk.,
O as in Obelisk (n.) An upright, four-sided pillar, gradually tapering as it rises, and terminating in a pyramid called pyramidion. It is ordinarily monolithic. Egyptian obelisks are commonly covered with hieroglyphic writing from top to bottom.,
O as in Obelisk (n.) A mark of reference; -- called also dagger [/]. See Dagger, n., 2.,
O as in Obelisked (imp. & p. p.) of Obelisk,
O as in Obelisking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Obelisk,
O as in Obelisk (v. t.) To mark or designate with an obelisk.,
O as in Obelized (imp. & p. p.) of Obelize,
O as in Obelizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Obelize,
O as in Obelize (v. t.) To designate with an obelus; to mark as doubtful or spirituous.,
O as in Obeli (pl. ) of Obelus,
O as in Obelus (n.) A mark [thus /, or � ]; -- so called as resembling a needle. In old MSS. or editions of the classics, it marks suspected passages or readings.,
O as in Obequitate (v. i.) To ride about.,
O as in Oberon (n.) The king of the fairies, and husband of Titania or Queen Mab.,
O as in Oberration (n.) A wandering about.,
O as in Obese (a.) Excessively corpulent; fat; fleshy.,
O as in Obeseness (n.) Quality of being obese; obesity.,
O as in Obesity (n.) The state or quality of being obese; incumbrance of flesh.,
O as in Obeyed (imp. & p. p.) of Obey,
O as in Obeying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Obey,
O as in Obey (v. t.) To give ear to; to execute the commands of; to yield submission to; to comply with the orders of.,
O as in Obey (v. t.) To submit to the authority of; to be ruled by.,
O as in Obey (v. t.) To yield to the impulse, power, or operation of; as, a ship obeys her helm.,
O as in Obey (v. i.) To give obedience.,
O as in Obeyer (n.) One who yields obedience.,
O as in Obeyingly (adv.) Obediently; submissively.,
O as in Obfirm (v. t.) Alt. of Obfirmate,
O as in Obfirmate (v. t.) To make firm; to harden in resolution.,
O as in Obfirmation (n.) Hardness of heart; obduracy.,
O as in Obfuscate (a.) Obfuscated; darkened; obscured.,
O as in Obfuscated (imp. & p. p.) of Obfuscate,
O as in Obfuscating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Obfuscate,
O as in Obfuscate (v. t.) To darken; to obscure; to becloud; hence, to confuse; to bewilder.,
O as in Obfuscation (n.) The act of darkening or bewildering; the state of being darkened.,
O as in Obi (n.) A species of sorcery, probably of African origin, practiced among the negroes of the West Indies.,
O as in Obi (n.) A charm or fetich.,
O as in Obimbricate (a.) Imbricated, with the overlapping ends directed downward.,
O as in Obit (n.) Death; decease; the date of one's death.,
O as in Obit (n.) A funeral solemnity or office; obsequies.,
O as in Obit (n.) A service for the soul of a deceased person on the anniversary of the day of his death.,
O as in Obiter (adv.) In passing; incidentally; by the way.,
O as in Obitual (a.) Of or pertaining to obits, or days when obits are celebrated; as, obitual days.,
O as in Obituarily (adv.) In the manner of an obituary.,
O as in Obiyuary (a.) Of or pertaining to the death of a person or persons; as, an obituary notice; obituary poetry.,
O as in Obituaries (pl. ) of Obituary,
O as in Obituary (n.) That which pertains to, or is called forth by, the obit or death of a person; esp., an account of a deceased person; a notice of the death of a person, accompanied by a biographical sketch.,
O as in Obituary (n.) A list of the dead, or a register of anniversary days when service is performed for the dead.,
O as in Objected (imp. & p. p.) of Object,
O as in Objecting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Object,
O as in Object (v. t.) To set before or against; to bring into opposition; to oppose.,
O as in Object (v. t.) To offer in opposition as a criminal charge or by way of accusation or reproach; to adduce as an objection or adverse reason.,
O as in Object (v. i.) To make opposition in words or argument; -- usually followed by to.,
O as in Object (v. t.) That which is put, or which may be regarded as put, in the way of some of the senses; something visible or tangible; as, he observed an object in the distance; all the objects in sight; he touched a strange object in the dark.,
O as in Object (v. t.) That which is set, or which may be regarded as set, before the mind so as to be apprehended or known; that of which the mind by any of its activities takes cognizance, whether a thing external in space or a conception formed by the mind itself; as, an object of knowledge, wonder, fear, thought, study, etc.,
O as in Object (v. t.) That by which the mind, or any of its activities, is directed; that on which the purpose are fixed as the end of action or effort; that which is sought for; end; aim; motive; final cause.,
O as in Object (v. t.) Sight; show; appearance; aspect.,
O as in Object (v. t.) A word, phrase, or clause toward which an action is directed, or is considered to be directed; as, the object of a transitive verb.,
O as in Object (a.) Opposed; presented in opposition; also, exposed.,
O as in Objectable (a.) Such as can be presented in opposition; that may be put forward as an objection.,
O as in Objectify (v. t.) To cause to become an object; to cause to assume the character of an object; to render objective.,
O as in Objection (n.) The act of objecting; as, to prevent agreement, or action, by objection.,
O as in Objection (n.) That which is, or may be, presented in opposition; an adverse reason or argument; a reason for objecting; obstacle; impediment; as, I have no objection to going; unreasonable objections.,
O as in Objection (n.) Cause of trouble; sorrow.,
O as in Objectionable (a.) Liable to objection; likely to be objected to or disapproved of; offensive; as, objectionable words.,
O as in Objectist (n.) One who adheres to, or is skilled in, the objective philosophy.,
O as in Objectivate (v. t.) To objectify.,
O as in Objectivation (n.) Converting into an object.,
O as in Objective (a.) Of or pertaining to an object.,
O as in Objective (a.) Of or pertaining to an object; contained in, or having the nature or position of, an object; outward; external; extrinsic; -- an epithet applied to whatever ir exterior to the mind, or which is simply an object of thought or feeling, and opposed to subjective.,
O as in Objective (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, the case which follows a transitive verb or a preposition, being that case in which the direct object of the verb is placed. See Accusative, n.,
O as in Objective (n.) The objective case.,
O as in Objective (n.) An object glass. See under Object, n.,
O as in Objective (n.) Same as Objective point, under Objective, a.,
O as in Objectively (adv.) In the manner or state of an object; as, a determinate idea objectively in the mind.,
O as in Objectiveness (n.) Objectivity.,
O as in Objectivity (n.) The state, quality, or relation of being objective; character of the object or of the objective.,
O as in Obectize (v. t.) To make an object of; to regard as an object; to place in the position of an object.,
O as in Objectless (a.) Having no object; purposeless.,
O as in Objector (n.) One who objects; one who offers objections to a proposition or measure.,
O as in Objibways (n.pl.) See Chippeways.,
O as in Objicient (n.) One who makes objection; an objector.,
O as in Objuration (n.) A binding by oath.,
O as in Objurgated (imp. & p. p.) of Objurgate,
O as in Objurgating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Objurgate,
O as in Objurgate (v. t.) To chide; to reprove.,
O as in Objurgation (n.) The act of objurgating; reproof.,
O as in Objurgatory (a.) Designed to objurgate or chide; containing or expressing reproof; culpatory.,
O as in Oblanceolate (a.) Lanceolate in the reversed order, that is, narrowing toward the point of attachment more than toward the apex.,
O as in Oblate (a.) Flattened or depressed at the poles; as, the earth is an oblate spheroid.,
O as in Oblate (a.) Offered up; devoted; consecrated; dedicated; -- used chiefly or only in the titles of Roman Catholic orders. See Oblate, n.,
O as in Oblate (a.) One of an association of priests or religious women who have offered themselves to the service of the church. There are three such associations of priests, and one of women, called oblates.,
O as in Oblate (a.) One of the Oblati.,
O as in Oblateness (n.) The quality or state of being oblate.,
O as in Oblati (n. pl.) Children dedicated in their early years to the monastic state.,
O as in Oblati (n. pl.) A class of persons, especially in the Middle Ages, who offered themselves and their property to a monastery.,
O as in Oblation (n.) The act of offering, or of making an offering.,
O as in Oblation (n.) Anything offered or presented in worship or sacred service; an offering; a sacrifice.,
O as in Oblation (n.) A gift or contribution made to a church, as for the expenses of the eucharist, or for the support of the clergy and the poor.,
O as in Oblationer (n.) One who makes an offering as an act worship or reverence.,
O as in Oblatrate (v. i.) To bark or snarl, as a dog.,
O as in Oblatration (n.) The act of oblatrating; a barking or snarling.,
O as in Oblata (pl. ) of Oblatum,
O as in Oblatum (n.) An oblate spheroid; a figure described by the revolution of an ellipse about its minor axis. Cf. Oblongum.,
O as in Oblectate (v. t.) To delight; to please greatly.,
O as in Oblectation (n.) The act of pleasing highly; the state of being greatly pleased; delight.,
O as in Obligable (a.) Acknowledging, or complying with, obligation; trustworthy.,
O as in Obligated (imp. & p. p.) of Obligate,
O as in Obligating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Obligate,
O as in Obligate (v. t.) To bring or place under obligation, moral or legal; to hold by a constraining motive.,
O as in Obligate (v. t.) To bind or firmly hold to an act; to compel; to constrain; to bind to any act of duty or courtesy by a formal pledge.,
O as in Obligation (n.) The act of obligating.,
O as in Obligation (n.) That which obligates or constrains; the binding power of a promise, contract, oath, or vow, or of law; that which constitutes legal or moral duty.,
O as in Obligation (n.) Any act by which a person becomes bound to do something to or for anouther, or to forbear something; external duties imposed by law, promise, or contract, by the relations of society, or by courtesy, kindness, etc.,
O as in Obligation (n.) The state of being obligated or bound; the state of being indebted for an act of favor or kindness; as, to place others under obligations to one.,
O as in Obligation (n.) A bond with a condition annexed, and a penalty for nonfulfillment. In a larger sense, it is an acknowledgment of a duty to pay a certain sum or do a certain things.,
O as in Obligato (a.) See Obbligato.,
O as in Obligatorily (adv.) In an obligatory manner; by reason of obligation.,
O as in Obligatoriness (n.) The quality or state of being obligatory.,
O as in Obligatory (a.) Binding in law or conscience; imposing duty or obligation; requiring performance or forbearance of some act; -- often followed by on or upon; as, obedience is obligatory on a soldier.,
O as in Obliged (imp. & p. p.) of Oblige,
O as in Obliging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Oblige,
O as in Oblige (v. t.) To attach, as by a bond.,
O as in Oblige (v. t.) To constrain by physical, moral, or legal force; to put under obligation to do or forbear something.,
O as in Oblige (v. t.) To bind by some favor rendered; to place under a debt; hence, to do a favor to; to please; to gratify; to accommodate.,
O as in Obligee (n.) The person to whom another is bound, or the person to whom a bond is given.,
O as in Obligement (n.) Obligation.,
O as in Obliger (n.) One who, or that which, obliges.,
O as in Obliging (a.) Putting under obligation; disposed to oblige or do favors; hence, helpful; civil; kind.,
O as in Obligor (n.) The person who binds himself, or gives his bond to another.,
O as in Obliquation (n.) The act of becoming oblique; a turning to one side; obliquity; as, the obliquation of the eyes.,
O as in Obliquation (n.) Deviation from moral rectitude.,
O as in Oblique (a.) Not erect or perpendicular; neither parallel to, nor at right angles from, the base; slanting; inclined.,
O as in Oblique (a.) Not straightforward; indirect; obscure; hence, disingenuous; underhand; perverse; sinister.,
O as in Oblique (a.) Not direct in descent; not following the line of father and son; collateral.,
O as in Oblique (n.) An oblique line.,
O as in Obliqued (imp. & p. p.) of Oblique,
O as in Obliquing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Oblique,
O as in Oblique (v. i.) To deviate from a perpendicular line; to move in an oblique direction.,
O as in Oblique (v. i.) To march in a direction oblique to the line of the column or platoon; -- formerly accomplished by oblique steps, now by direct steps, the men half-facing either to the right or left.,
O as in Oblique-angled (a.) Having oblique angles; as, an oblique-angled triangle.,
O as in Obliquely (adv.) In an oblique manner; not directly; indirectly.,
O as in Obliqueness (n.) Quality or state of being oblique.,
O as in Obliquities (pl. ) of Obliquity,
O as in Obliquity (n.) The condition of being oblique; deviation from a right line; deviation from parallelism or perpendicularity; the amount of such deviation; divergence; as, the obliquity of the ecliptic to the equator.,
O as in Obliquity (n.) Deviation from ordinary rules; irregularity; deviation from moral rectitude.,
O as in Oblite (a.) Indistinct; slurred over.,
O as in Obliterated (imp. & p. p.) of Obliterate,
O as in Obliterating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Obliterate,
O as in Obliterate (v. t.) To erase or blot out; to efface; to render undecipherable, as a writing.,
O as in Obliterate (v. t.) To wear out; to remove or destroy utterly by any means; to render imperceptible; as. to obliterate ideas; to obliterate the monuments of antiquity.,
O as in Obliterate (a.) Scarcely distinct; -- applied to the markings of insects.,
O as in Obliteration (n.) The act of obliterating, or the state of being obliterated; extinction.,
O as in Obliterative (a.) Tending or serving to obliterate.,
O as in Oblivion (n.) The act of forgetting, or the state of being forgotten; cessation of remembrance; forgetfulness.,
O as in Oblivion (n.) Official ignoring of offenses; amnesty, or general pardon; as, an act of oblivion.,
O as in Oblivious (a.) Promoting oblivion; causing forgetfulness.,
O as in Oblivious (a.) Evincing oblivion; forgetful.,
O as in Oblocutor (n.) A disputer; a gainsayer.,
O as in Oblong (a.) Having greater length than breadth, esp. when rectangular.,
O as in Oblong (n.) A rectangular figure longer than it is broad; hence, any figure longer than it is broad.,
O as in Oblongata (n.) The medulla oblongata.,
O as in Oblongatal (a.) Of or pertaining to the medulla oblongata; medullar.,
O as in Oblongish (a.) Somewhat oblong.,
O as in Oblongly (adv.) In an oblong form.,
O as in Oblongness (n.) State or quality of being oblong.,
O as in Oblong-ovate (a.) Between oblong and ovate, but inclined to the latter.,
O as in Oblonga (pl. ) of Oblongum,
O as in Oblongum (n.) A prolate spheroid; a figure described by the revolution of an ellipse about its greater axis. Cf. Oblatum, and see Ellipsoid of revolution, under Ellipsoid.,
O as in Obloquious (a.) Containing obloquy; reproachful,
O as in Obloquy (n.) Censorious speech; defamatory language; language that casts contempt on men or their actions; blame; reprehension.,
O as in Obloquy (n.) Cause of reproach; disgrace.,
O as in Obluctation (n.) A struggle against; resistance; opposition.,
O as in Obmutescence (n.) A becoming dumb; loss of speech.,
O as in Obmutescence (n.) A keeping silent or mute.,
O as in Obnoxious (a.) Subject; liable; exposed; answerable; amenable; -- with to.,
O as in Obnoxious (a.) Liable to censure; exposed to punishment; reprehensible; blameworthy.,
O as in Obnoxious (a.) Offensive; odious; hateful; as, an obnoxious statesman; a minister obnoxious to the Whigs.,
O as in Obnubilate (v. t.) To cloud; to obscure.,
O as in Oboe (n.) One of the higher wind instruments in the modern orchestra, yet of great antiquity, having a penetrating pastoral quality of tone, somewhat like the clarinet in form, but more slender, and sounded by means of a double reed; a hautboy.,
O as in Oboist (n.) A performer on the oboe.,
O as in Obolary (a.) Possessing only small coins; impoverished.,
O as in Obole (n.) A weight of twelve grains; or, according to some, of ten grains, or half a scruple.,
O as in Obolize (v. t.) See Obelize.,
O as in Obolo (n.) A copper coin, used in the Ionian Islands, about one cent in value.,
O as in Oboli (pl. ) of Obolus,
O as in Obolus (n.) A small silver coin of Athens, the sixth part of a drachma, about three cents in value.,
O as in Obolus (n.) An ancient weight, the sixth part of a drachm.,
O as in Obomegoid (a.) Obversely omegoid.,
O as in Oboval (a.) Obovate.,
O as in Obovate (a.) Inversely ovate; ovate with the narrow end downward; as, an obovate leaf.,
O as in Obreption (n.) The act of creeping upon with secrecy or by surprise.,
O as in Obreption (n.) The obtaining gifts of escheat by fraud or surprise.,
O as in Obreptitious (a.) Done or obtained by surprise; with secrecy, or by concealment of the truth.,
O as in Obrogate (v. t.) To annul indirectly by enacting a new and contrary law, instead of by expressly abrogating or repealing the old one.,
O as in Obrok (n.) A rent.,
O as in Obrok (n.) A poll tax paid by peasants absent from their lord's estate.,
O as in Obscene (a/) Offensive to chastity or modesty; expressing of presenting to the mind or view something which delicacy, purity, and decency forbid to be exposed; impure; as, obscene language; obscene pictures.,
O as in Obscene (a/) Foul; fifthy; disgusting.,
O as in Obscene (a/) Inauspicious; ill-omened.,
O as in Obscenities (pl. ) of Obscenity,
O as in Obscenity (n.) That quality in words or things which presents what is offensive to chasity or purity of mind; obscene or impure lanquage or acts; moral impurity; lewdness; obsceneness; as, the obscenity of a speech, or a picture.,
O as in Obscurant (n.) One who obscures; one who prevents enlightenment or hinders the progress of knowledge and wisdom.,
O as in Obscurantism (n.) The system or the principles of the obscurants.,
O as in Obscurantist (n.) Same as Obscurant.,
O as in Obscuration (v. t.) The act or operation of obscuring; the state of being obscured; as, the obscuration of the moon in an eclipse.,
O as in Obscure (superl.) Covered over, shaded, or darkened; destitute of light; imperfectly illuminated; dusky; dim.,
O as in Obscure (superl.) Of or pertaining to darkness or night; inconspicuous to the sight; indistinctly seen; hidden; retired; remote from observation; unnoticed.,
O as in Obscure (superl.) Not noticeable; humble; mean.,
O as in Obscure (superl.) Not easily understood; not clear or legible; abstruse or blind; as, an obscure passage or inscription.,
O as in Obscure (superl.) Not clear, full, or distinct; clouded; imperfect; as, an obscure view of remote objects.,
O as in Obscured (imp. & p. p.) of Obscure,
O as in Obscuring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Obscure,
O as in Obscure (a.) To render obscure; to darken; to make dim; to keep in the dark; to hide; to make less visible, intelligible, legible, glorious, beautiful, or illustrious.,
O as in Obscure (v. i.) To conceal one's self; to hide; to keep dark.,
O as in Obscure (n.) Obscurity.,
O as in Obscurely (adv.) In an obscure manner.,
O as in Obscurement (n.) The act of obscuring, or the state of being obscured; obscuration.,
O as in Obscureness (n.) Obscurity.,
O as in Obscurer (n.) One who, or that which, obscures.,
O as in Obscurity (n.) The quality or state of being obscure; darkness; privacy; inconspicuousness; unintelligibleness; uncertainty.,
O as in Obsecrated (imp. & p. p.) of Obsecrate,
O as in Obsecrating (p. pr. & vb, n.) of Obsecrate,
O as in Obsecrate (v. t.) To beseech; to supplicate; to implore.,
O as in Obsecration (n.) The act of obsecrating or imploring; as, the obsecrations of the Litany, being those clauses beginning with "By.",
O as in Obsecration (n.) A figure of speech in which the orator implores the assistance of God or man.,
O as in Obsecratory (a.) Expressing, or used in, entreaty; supplicatory.,
O as in Obsequent (a.) Obedient; submissive; obsequious.,
O as in Obsequience (n.) Obsequiousness.,
O as in Obsequies (n.pl.) See Obsequy.,
O as in Obsequious (a.) Promptly obedient, or submissive, to the will of another; compliant; yielding to the desires of another; devoted.,
O as in Obsequious (a.) Servilely or meanly attentive; compliant to excess; cringing; fawning; as, obsequious flatterer, parasite.,
O as in Obsequious (a.) Of or pertaining to obsequies; funereal.,
O as in Obsequiously (adv.) In an obsequious manner; compliantly; fawningly.,
O as in Obsequiously (adv.) In a manner appropriate to obsequies.,
O as in Obsequiousness (n.) The quality or state of being obsequious.,
O as in Obsequies (pl. ) of Obsequy,
O as in Obsequy (n.) The last duty or service to a person, rendered after his death; hence, a rite or ceremony pertaining to burial; -- now used only in the plural.,
O as in Obsequy (n.) Obsequiousness.,
O as in Observable (a.) Worthy or capable of being observed; discernible; noticeable; remarkable.,
O as in Observance (n.) The act or practice of observing or noticing with attention; a heeding or keeping with care; performance; -- usually with a sense of strictness and fidelity; as, the observance of the Sabbath is general; the strict observance of duties.,
O as in Observance (n.) An act, ceremony, or rite, as of worship or respect; especially, a customary act or service of attention; a form; a practice; a rite; a custom.,
O as in Observance (n.) Servile attention; sycophancy.,
O as in Observancy (n.) Observance.,
O as in Observanda (pl. ) of Observandum,
O as in Observandum (n.) A thing to be observed.,
O as in Observant (a.) Taking notice; viewing or noticing attentively; watchful; attentive; as, an observant spectator; observant habits.,
O as in Observant (a.) Submissively attentive; obediently watchful; regardful; mindful; obedient (to); -- with of, as, to be observant of rules.,
O as in Observant (n.) One who observes forms and rules.,
O as in Observant (n.) A sycophantic servant.,
O as in Observant (n.) An Observantine.,
O as in Observantine (n.) One of a branch of the Order of Franciscans, who profess to adhere more strictly than the Conventuals to the intention of the founder, especially as to poverty; -- called also Observants.,
O as in Observantly (adv.) In an observant manner.,
O as in Observation (n.) The act or the faculty of observing or taking notice; the act of seeing, or of fixing the mind upon, anything.,
O as in Observation (n.) The result of an act, or of acts, of observing; view; reflection; conclusion; judgment.,
O as in Observation (n.) Hence: An expression of an opinion or judgment upon what one has observed; a remark.,
O as in Observation (n.) Performance of what is prescribed; adherence in practice; observance.,
O as in Observation (n.) The act of recognizing and noting some fact or occurrence in nature, as an aurora, a corona, or the structure of an animal.,
O as in Observation (n.) Specifically, the act of measuring, with suitable instruments, some magnitude, as the time of an occultation, with a clock; the right ascension of a star, with a transit instrument and clock; the sun's altitude, or the distance of the moon from a star, with a sextant; the temperature, with a thermometer, etc.,
O as in Observation (n.) The information so acquired.,
O as in Observational (a.) Of a pertaining to observation; consisting of, or containing, observations.,
O as in Observative (a.) Observing; watchful.,
O as in Observator (n.) One who observes or takes notice.,
O as in Observator (n.) One who makes a remark.,
O as in Observatories (pl. ) of Observatory,
O as in Observatory (n.) A place or building for making observations on the heavenly bodies.,
O as in Observatory (n.) A building fitted with instruments for making systematic observations of any particular class or series of natural phenomena.,
O as in Observatory (n.) A place, as an elevated chamber, from which a view may be observed or commanded.,
O as in Observatory (n.) A lookout on a flank of a battery whence an officer can note the range and effect of the fire.,
O as in Observed (imp. & p. p.) of Observe,
O as in Observing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Observe,
O as in Observe (v. t.) To take notice of by appropriate conduct; to conform one's action or practice to; to keep; to heed; to obey; to comply with; as, to observe rules or commands; to observe civility.,
O as in Observe (v. t.) To be on the watch respecting; to pay attention to; to notice with care; to see; to perceive; to discover; as, to observe an eclipse; to observe the color or fashion of a dress; to observe the movements of an army.,
O as in Observe (v. t.) To express as what has been noticed; to utter as a remark; to say in a casual or incidental way; to remark.,
O as in Observe (v. i.) To take notice; to give attention to what one sees or hears; to attend.,
O as in Observe (v. i.) To make a remark; to comment; -- generally with on or upon.,
O as in Observer (n.) One who observes, or pays attention to, anything; especially, one engaged in, or trained to habits of, close and exact observation; as, an astronomical observer.,
O as in Observer (n.) One who keeps any law, custom, regulation, rite, etc.; one who conforms to anything in practice.,
O as in Observer (n.) One who fulfills or performs; as, an observer of his promises.,
O as in Observer (n.) A sycophantic follower.,
O as in Observership (n.) The office or work of an observer.,
O as in Observing (a.) Giving particular attention; habitually attentive to what passes; as, an observing person; an observing mind.,
O as in Obsess (v. t.) To besiege; to beset.,
O as in Obsession (n.) The act of besieging.,
O as in Obsession (n.) The state of being besieged; -- used specifically of a person beset by a spirit from without.,
O as in Obsidian (n.) A kind of glass produced by volcanoes. It is usually of a black color, and opaque, except in thin splinters.,
O as in Obsidional (a.) Of or pertaining to a siege.,
O as in Obsigillation (n.) A sealing up.,
O as in Obsign (v. t.) To seal; to confirm, as by a seal or stamp.,
O as in Obsignate (v. t.) To seal; to ratify.,
O as in Obsignation (n.) The act of sealing or ratifying; the state of being sealed or confirmed; confirmation, as by the Holy Spirit.,
O as in Obsignatory (a.) Ratifying; confirming by sealing.,
O as in Obsolesce (v. i.) To become obsolescent.,
O as in Obsolescence (n.) The state of becoming obsolete.,
O as in Obsolescent (a.) Going out of use; becoming obsolete; passing into desuetude.,
O as in Obsolete (a.) No longer in use; gone into disuse; disused; neglected; as, an obsolete word; an obsolete statute; -- applied chiefly to words, writings, or observances.,
O as in Obsolete (a.) Not very distinct; obscure; rudimental; imperfectly developed; abortive.,
O as in Obsolete (v. i.) To become obsolete; to go out of use.,
O as in Obsoletely (adv.) In an obsolete manner.,
O as in Obsoleteness (n.) The state of being obsolete, or no longer used; a state of desuetude.,
O as in Obsoleteness (n.) Indistinctness; want of development.,
O as in Obsoletism (n.) A disused word or phrase; an archaism.,
O as in Obstacle (v.) That which stands in the way, or opposes; anything that hinders progress; a hindrance; an obstruction, physical or moral.,
O as in Obstancy (n.) Opposition; impediment; obstruction.,
O as in Obstetric (a.) Alt. of Obstetrical,
O as in Obstetrical (a.) Of or pertaining to midwifery, or the delivery of women in childbed; as, the obstetric art.,
O as in Obstetricate (v. i.) To perform the office of midwife.,
O as in Obstetricate (v. t.) To assist as a midwife.,
O as in Obstetrication (n.) The act of assisting as a midwife; delivery.,
O as in Obstetrician (n.) One skilled in obstetrics; an accoucheur.,
O as in Obstetricious (a.) Serving to assist childbirth; obstetric; hence, facilitating any bringing forth or deliverance.,
O as in Obstetrics (n.) The science of midwifery; the art of assisting women in parturition, or in the trouble incident to childbirth.,
O as in Obstetricy (n.) Obstetrics.,
O as in Obstinacy (n.) A fixedness in will, opinion, or resolution that can not be shaken at all, or only with great difficulty; firm and usually unreasonable adherence to an opinion, purpose, or system; unyielding disposition; stubborness; pertinacity; persistency; contumacy.,
O as in Obstinacy (n.) The quality or state of being difficult to remedy, relieve, or subdue; as, the obstinacy of a disease or evil.,
O as in Obstinate (a.) Pertinaciously adhering to an opinion, purpose, or course; persistent; not yielding to reason, arguments, or other means; stubborn; pertinacious; -- usually implying unreasonableness.,
O as in Obstinate (a.) Not yielding; not easily subdued or removed; as, obstinate fever; obstinate obstructions.,
O as in Obstination (n.) Obstinacy; stubbornness.,
O as in Obstipation (n.) The act of stopping up, as a passage.,
O as in Obstipation (n.) Extreme constipation.,
O as in Obstreperous (a.) Attended by, or making, a loud and tumultuous noise; clamorous; noisy; vociferous.,
O as in Obstriction (n.) The state of being constrained, bound, or obliged; that which constrains or obliges; obligation; bond.,
O as in Obstringe (v. t.) To constrain; to put under obligation.,
O as in Obstructed (imp. & p. p.) of Obstruct,
O as in Obstructing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Obstruct,
O as in Obstruct (v. t.) To block up; to stop up or close, as a way or passage; to place an obstacle in, or fill with obstacles or impediments that prevent or hinder passing; as, to obstruct a street; to obstruct the channels of the body.,
O as in Obstruct (v. t.) To be, or come, in the way of; to hinder from passing; to stop; to impede; to retard; as, the bar in the harbor obstructs the passage of ships; clouds obstruct the light of the sun; unwise rules obstruct legislation.,
O as in Obstructer (n.) One who obstructs or hinders.,
O as in Obstruction (n.) The act of obstructing, or state of being obstructed.,
O as in Obstruction (n.) That which obstructs or impedes; an obstacle; an impediment; a hindrance.,
O as in Obstruction (n.) The condition of having the natural powers obstructed in their usual course; the arrest of the vital functions; death.,
O as in Obstructionism (n.) The act or the policy of obstructing progress.,
O as in Obstructionist (n.) One who hinders progress; one who obstructs business, as in a legislative body.,
O as in Obstructionist (a.) Of or pertaining to obstructionists.,
O as in Obstructive (a.) Tending to obstruct; presenting obstacles; hindering; causing impediment.,
O as in Obstructive (n.) An obstructive person or thing.,
O as in Obstruent (a.) Causing obstruction; blocking up; hindering; as, an obstruent medicine.,
O as in Obstruent (n.) Anything that obstructs or closes a passage; esp., that which obstructs natural passages in the body; as, a medicine which acts as an obstruent.,
O as in Obstupefaction (n.) See Stupefaction.,
O as in Obstupefactive (a.) Stupefactive.,
O as in Obstupefy (v. t.) See Stupefy.,
O as in Obtained (imp. & p. p.) of Obtain,
O as in Obtaining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Obtain,
O as in Obtain (v. t.) To hold; to keep; to possess.,
O as in Obtain (v. t.) To get hold of by effort; to gain possession of; to procure; to acquire, in any way.,
O as in Obtain (v. i.) To become held; to gain or have a firm footing; to be recognized or established; to subsist; to become prevalent or general; to prevail; as, the custom obtains of going to the seashore in summer.,
O as in Obtain (v. i.) To prevail; to succeed.,
O as in Obtainable (a.) Capable of being obtained.,
O as in Obtainer (n.) One who obtains.,
O as in Obtainment (n.) The act or process of obtaining; attainment.,
O as in Obtected (a.) Covered; protected.,
O as in Obtected (a.) Covered with a hard chitinous case, as the pupa of certain files.,
O as in Obtemper (v. t. & i.) To obey (a judgment or decree).,
O as in Obtemperate (v. t.) To obey.,
O as in Obtended (imp. & p. p.) of Obtend,
O as in Obtending (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Obtend,
O as in Obtend (v. t.) To oppose; to hold out in opposition.,
O as in Obtend (v. t.) To offer as the reason of anything; to pretend.,
O as in Obtenebration (n.) The act of darkening; the state of being darkened; darkness.,
O as in Obtension (n.) The act of obtending.,
O as in Obtested (imp. & p. p.) of Obtest,
O as in Obtesting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Obtest,
O as in Obtest (v. t.) To call to witness; to invoke as a witness.,
O as in Obtest (v. t.) To beseech; to supplicate; to beg for.,
O as in Obtest (v. i.) To protest.,
O as in Obtestation (n.) The act of obtesting; supplication; protestation.,
O as in Obtrectation (n.) Slander; detraction; calumny.,
O as in Obtruded (imp. & p. p.) of Obtrude,
O as in Obtruding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Obtrude,
O as in Obtrude (v. t.) To thrust impertinently; to present without warrant or solicitation; as, to obtrude one's self upon a company.,
O as in Obtrude (v. t.) To offer with unreasonable importunity; to urge unduly or against the will.,
O as in Obtrude (v. i.) To thrust one's self upon a company or upon attention; to intrude.,
O as in Obtruder (n.) One who obtrudes.,
O as in Obtruncate (v. t.) To deprive of a limb; to lop.,
O as in Obtruncation (n.) The act of lopping or cutting off.,
O as in Obtrusion (n.) The act of obtruding; a thrusting upon others by force or unsolicited; as, the obtrusion of crude opinions on the world.,
O as in Obtrusion (n.) That which is obtruded.,
O as in Obtrusionist (n.) One who practices or excuses obtrusion.,
O as in Obtrusive (a.) Disposed to obtrude; inclined to intrude or thrust one's self or one's opinions upon others, or to enter uninvited; forward; pushing; intrusive.,
O as in Obtunded (imp. & p. p.) of Obtund,
O as in Obtunding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Obtund,
O as in Obtund (v. t.) To reduce the edge, pungency, or violent action of; to dull; to blunt; to deaden; to quell; as, to obtund the acrimony of the gall.,
O as in Obtundent (n.) A substance which sheathes a part, or blunts irritation, usually some bland, oily, or mucilaginous matter; -- nearly the same as demulcent.,
O as in Obtunder (n.) That which obtunds or blunts; especially, that which blunts sensibility.,
O as in Obturation (n.) The act of stopping up, or closing, an opening.,
O as in Obturator (n.) That which closes or stops an opening.,
O as in Obturator (n.) An apparatus designed to close an unnatural opening, as a fissure of the palate.,
O as in Obturator (a.) Serving as an obturator; closing an opening; pertaining to, or in the region of, the obturator foramen; as, the obturator nerve.,
O as in Obtusangular (a.) See Obstuseangular.,
O as in Obtuse (superl.) Not pointed or acute; blunt; -- applied esp. to angles greater than a right angle, or containing more than ninety degrees.,
O as in Obtuse (superl.) Not having acute sensibility or perceptions; dull; stupid; as, obtuse senses.,
O as in Obtuse (superl.) Dull; deadened; as, obtuse sound.,
O as in Obtuse-angled (a.) Alt. of obtuse-angular,
O as in obtuse-angular (a.) Having an obtuse angle; as, an obtuse-angled triangle.,
O as in Obtusely (adv.) In an obtuse manner.,
O as in Obtuseness (n.) State or quality of being obtuse.,
O as in Obtusion (n.) The act or process of making obtuse or blunt.,
O as in Obtusion (n.) The state of being dulled or blunted; as, the obtusion of the senses.,
O as in Obtusity (n.) Obtuseness.,
O as in Obumbrant (a.) Overhanging; as, obumbrant feathers.,
O as in Obumbrate (v. t.) To shade; to darken; to cloud.,
O as in Obumbration (n.) Act of darkening or obscuring.,
O as in Obuncous (a.) Hooked or crooked in an extreme degree.,
O as in Obvention (n.) The act of happening incidentally; that which happens casually; an incidental advantage; an occasional offering.,
O as in Obversant (a.) Conversant; familiar.,
O as in Obverse (a.) Having the base, or end next the attachment, narrower than the top, as a leaf.,
O as in Obverse (a.) The face of a coin which has the principal image or inscription upon it; -- the other side being the reverse.,
O as in Obverse (a.) Anything necessarily involved in, or answering to, another; the more apparent or conspicuous of two possible sides, or of two corresponding things.,
O as in Obversely (adv.) In an obverse manner.,
O as in Obversion (n.) The act of turning toward or downward.,
O as in Obversion (n.) The act of immediate inference, by which we deny the opposite of anything which has been affirmed; as, all men are mortal; then, by obversion, no men are immortal. This is also described as "immediate inference by privative conception.",
O as in Obverted (imp. & p. p.) of Obvert,
O as in Obverting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Obvert,
O as in Obvert (v. t.) To turn toward.,
O as in Obviated (imp. & p. p.) of Obviate,
O as in Obviating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Obviate,
O as in Obviate (v. t.) To meet in the way.,
O as in Obviate (v. t.) To anticipate; to prevent by interception; to remove from the way or path; to make unnecessary; as, to obviate the necessity of going.,
O as in Obviation (n.) The act of obviating, or the state of being obviated.,
O as in Obvious (a.) Opposing; fronting.,
O as in Obvious (a.) Exposed; subject; open; liable.,
O as in Obvious (a.) Easily discovered, seen, or understood; readily perceived by the eye or the intellect; plain; evident; apparent; as, an obvious meaning; an obvious remark.,
O as in Obvolute (a.) Alt. of Obvoluted,
O as in Obvoluted (a.) Overlapping; contorted; convolute; -- applied primarily, in botany, to two opposite leaves, each of which has one edge overlapping the nearest edge of the other, and secondarily to a circle of several leaves or petals which thus overlap.,
O as in Oby (n.) See Obi.,
O as in Oca (n.) A Peruvian name for certain species of Oxalis (O. crenata, and O. tuberosa) which bear edible tubers.,
O as in Occamy (n.) An alloy imitating gold or silver.,
O as in Occasion (n.) A falling out, happening, or coming to pass; hence, that which falls out or happens; occurrence; incident.,
O as in Occasion (n.) A favorable opportunity; a convenient or timely chance; convenience.,
O as in Occasion (n.) An occurrence or condition of affairs which brings with it some unlooked-for event; that which incidentally brings to pass an event, without being its efficient cause or sufficient reason; accidental or incidental cause.,
O as in Occasion (n.) Need; exigency; requirement; necessity; as, I have no occasion for firearms.,
O as in Occasion (n.) A reason or excuse; a motive; a persuasion.,
O as in Occasioned (imp. & p. p.) of Occasion,
O as in Occasioning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Occasion,
O as in Occasion (v. t.) To give occasion to; to cause; to produce; to induce; as, to occasion anxiety.,
O as in Occasionable (a.) Capable of being occasioned or caused.,
O as in Occasional (a.) Of or pertaining to an occasion or to occasions; occuring at times, but not constant, regular, or systematic; made or happening as opportunity requires or admits; casual; incidental; as, occasional remarks, or efforts.,
O as in Occasional (a.) Produced by accident; as, the occasional origin of a thing.,
O as in Occasionalism (n.) The system of occasional causes; -- a name given to certain theories of the Cartesian school of philosophers, as to the intervention of the First Cause, by which they account for the apparent reciprocal action of the soul and the body.,
O as in Occasionality (n.) Quality or state of being occasional; occasional occurrence.,
O as in Occasionally (adv.) In an occasional manner; on occasion; at times, as convenience requires or opportunity offers; not regularly.,
O as in Occasionate (v. t.) To occasion.,
O as in Occasioner (n.) One who, or that which, occasions, causes, or produces.,
O as in Occasive (a.) Of or pertaining to the setting sun; falling; descending; western.,
O as in Occecation (n.) The act of making blind, or the state of being blind.,
O as in Occident (n.) The part of the horizon where the sun last appears in the evening; that part of the earth towards the sunset; the west; -- opposed to orient. Specifically, in former times, Europe as opposed to Asia; now, also, the Western hemisphere.,
O as in Occidental (a.) Of, pertaining to, or situated in, the occident, or west; western; -- opposed to oriental; as, occidental climates, or customs; an occidental planet.,
O as in Occidental (a.) Possessing inferior hardness, brilliancy, or beauty; -- used of inferior precious stones and gems, because those found in the Orient are generally superior.,
O as in Occidentals (n.pl.) Western Christians of the Latin rite. See Orientals.,
O as in Occiduous (a.) Western; occidental.,
O as in Occipital (a.) Of or pertaining to the occiput, or back part of the head, or to the occipital bone.,
O as in Occipital (n.) The occipital bone.,
O as in Occipito- () A combining form denoting relation to, or situation near, the occiput; as, occipito-axial; occipito-mastoid.,
O as in Occipitoaxial (a.) Of or pertaining to the occipital bone and second vertebra, or axis.,
O as in Occipita (pl. ) of Occiput,
O as in Occiputs (pl. ) of Occiput,
O as in Occiput (n.) The back, or posterior, part of the head or skull; the region of the occipital bone.,
O as in Occiput (n.) A plate which forms the back part of the head of insects.,
O as in Occision (n.) A killing; the act of killing.,
O as in Occlude (v. t.) To shut up; to close.,
O as in Occlude (v. t.) To take in and retain; to absorb; -- said especially with respect to gases; as iron, platinum, and palladium occlude large volumes of hydrogen.,
O as in Occludent (a.) Serving to close; shutting up.,
O as in Occludent (n.) That which closes or shuts up.,
O as in Occluse (a.) Shut; closed.,
O as in Occlusion (n.) The act of occluding, or the state of being occluded.,
O as in Occlusion (n.) The transient approximation of the edges of a natural opening; imperforation.,
O as in Occrustate (v. t.) To incrust; to harden.,
O as in Occult (a.) Hidden from the eye or the understanding; inviable; secret; concealed; unknown.,
O as in Occult (v. t.) To eclipse; to hide from sight.,
O as in Occultation (n.) The hiding of a heavenly body from sight by the intervention of some other of the heavenly bodies; -- applied especially to eclipses of stars and planets by the moon, and to the eclipses of satellites of planets by their primaries.,
O as in Occultation (n.) Fig.: The state of being occult.,
O as in Occulted (a.) Hidden; secret.,
O as in Occulted (a.) Concealed by the intervention of some other heavenly body, as a star by the moon.,
O as in Occulting (n.) Same as Occultation.,
O as in Occultism (n.) A certain Oriental system of theosophy.,
O as in Occultist (n.) An adherent of occultism.,
O as in Occultly (adv.) In an occult manner.,
O as in Occultness (n.) State or quality of being occult.,
O as in Occupancy (n.) The act of taking or holding possession; possession; occupation.,
O as in Occupant (n.) One who occupies, or takes possession; one who has the actual use or possession, or is in possession, of a thing.,
O as in Occupant (n.) A prostitute.,
O as in Occupate (v. t.) To occupy.,
O as in Occupation (n.) The act or process of occupying or taking possession; actual possession and control; the state of being occupied; a holding or keeping; tenure; use; as, the occupation of lands by a tenant.,
O as in Occupation (n.) That which occupies or engages the time and attention; the principal business of one's life; vocation; employment; calling; trade.,
O as in Occupier (n.) One who occupies, or has possession.,
O as in Occupier (n.) One who follows an employment; hence, a tradesman.,
O as in Occupied (imp. & p. p.) of Occupy,
O as in Occupying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Occupy,
O as in Occupy (v. t.) To take or hold possession of; to hold or keep for use; to possess.,
O as in Occupy (v. t.) To hold, or fill, the dimensions of; to take up the room or space of; to cover or fill; as, the camp occupies five acres of ground.,
O as in Occupy (v. t.) To possess or use the time or capacity of; to engage the service of; to employ; to busy.,
O as in Occupy (v. t.) To do business in; to busy one's self with.,
O as in Occupy (v. t.) To use; to expend; to make use of.,
O as in Occupy (v. t.) To have sexual intercourse with.,
O as in Occupy (v. i.) To hold possession; to be an occupant.,
O as in Occupy (v. i.) To follow business; to traffic.,
O as in Occurred (imp. & p. p.) of Occur,
O as in Occurring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Occur,
O as in Occur (v. i.) To meet; to clash.,
O as in Occur (v. i.) To go in order to meet; to make reply.,
O as in Occur (v. i.) To meet one's eye; to be found or met with; to present itself; to offer; to appear; to happen; to take place; as, I will write if opportunity occurs.,
O as in Occur (v. i.) To meet or come to the mind; to suggest itself; to be presented to the imagination or memory.,
O as in Occurrence (n.) A coming or happening; as, the occurence of a railway collision.,
O as in Occurrence (n.) Any incident or event; esp., one which happens without being designed or expected; as, an unusual occurrence, or the ordinary occurrences of life.,
O as in Occurrent (a.) Occurring or happening; hence, incidental; accidental.,
O as in Occurrent (n.) One who meets; hence, an adversary.,
O as in Occurrent (n.) Anything that happens; an occurrence.,
O as in Occurse (n.) Same as Occursion.,
O as in Occursion (n.) A meeting; a clash; a collision.,
O as in Ocean (n.) The whole body of salt water which covers more than three fifths of the surface of the globe; -- called also the sea, or great sea.,
O as in Ocean (n.) One of the large bodies of water into which the great ocean is regarded as divided, as the Atlantic, Pacific, Indian, Arctic and Antarctic oceans.,
O as in Ocean (n.) An immense expanse; any vast space or quantity without apparent limits; as, the boundless ocean of eternity; an ocean of affairs.,
O as in Ocean (a.) Of or pertaining to the main or great sea; as, the ocean waves; an ocean stream.,
O as in Oceanic (a.) Of or pertaining to the ocean; found or formed in or about, or produced by, the ocean; frequenting the ocean, especially mid-ocean.,
O as in Oceanic (a.) Of or pertaining to Oceania or its inhabitants.,
O as in Oceanography (n.) A description of the ocean.,
O as in Oceanology (n.) That branch of science which relates to the ocean.,
O as in Oceanus (n.) The god of the great outer sea, or the river which was believed to flow around the whole earth.,
O as in Ocellary (a.) Of or pertaining to ocelli.,
O as in Ocellate (a.) Same as Ocellated.,
O as in Ocellated (a.) Resembling an eye.,
O as in Ocellated (a.) Marked with eyelike spots of color; as, the ocellated blenny.,
O as in Ocelli (pl. ) of Ocellus,
O as in Ocellus (n.) A little eye; a minute simple eye found in many invertebrates.,
O as in Ocellus (n.) An eyelike spot of color, as those on the tail of the peacock.,
O as in Oceloid (a.) Resembling the ocelot.,
O as in Ocelot (n.) An American feline carnivore (Felis pardalis). It ranges from the Southwestern United States to Patagonia. It is covered with blackish ocellated spots and blotches, which are variously arranged. The ground color varies from reddish gray to tawny yellow.,
O as in Ocher (n.) Alt. of Ochre,
O as in Ochre (n.) A impure earthy ore of iron or a ferruginous clay, usually red (hematite) or yellow (limonite), -- used as a pigment in making paints, etc. The name is also applied to clays of other colors.,
O as in Ochre (n.) A metallic oxide occurring in earthy form; as, tungstic ocher or tungstite.,
O as in Ocherous (a.) Alt. of Ochreous,
O as in Ochreous (a.) Of or pertaining to ocher; containing or resembling ocher; as, ocherous matter; ocherous soil.,
O as in Ochery (a.) Ocherous.,
O as in Ochimy (n.) See Occamy.,
O as in Ochlesis (n.) A general morbid condition induced by the crowding together of many persons, esp. sick persons, under one roof.,
O as in Ochlocracy (n.) A form of government by the multitude; a mobocracy.,
O as in Ochlocratic (a.) Alt. of Ochlocratical,
O as in Ochlocratical (a.) Of or pertaining to ochlocracy; having the form or character of an ochlocracy; mobocratic.,
O as in Ochraceous (a.) Ocherous.,
O as in Ochre (n.) See Ocher.,
O as in Ochreaee (pl. ) of Ochrea,
O as in Ochrea (n.) A greave or legging.,
O as in Ochrea (n.) A kind of sheath formed by two stipules united round a stem.,
O as in Ochreate (a.) Alt. of Ochreated,
O as in Ochreated (a.) Wearing or furnished with an ochrea or legging; wearing boots; booted.,
O as in Ochreated (a.) Provided with ochrea, or sheathformed stipules, as the rhubarb, yellow dock, and knotgrass.,
O as in Ochreous (a.) See Ocherous.,
O as in Ochrey (a.) See Ochery.,
O as in Ochroleucous (a.) Yellowish white; having a faint tint of dingy yellow.,
O as in Ochry (a.) See Ochery.,
O as in Ochymy (n.) See Occamy.,
O as in -ock () A suffix used to form diminutives; as, bullock, hillock.,
O as in Ocra (n.) See Okra.,
O as in Ocrea (n.) See Ochrea.,
O as in Ocreate (a.) Alt. of Ocreated,
O as in Ocreated (a.) Same as Ochreate, Ochreated.,
O as in Octa- () A prefix meaning eight. See Octo-.,
O as in Octachord (n.) An instrument of eight strings; a system of eight tones.,
O as in Octad (n.) An atom or radical which has a valence of eight, or is octavalent.,
O as in Octaedral (a.) See Octahedral.,
O as in Octaemeron (n.) A fast of eight days before a great festival.,
O as in Octagon (n.) A plane figure of eight sides and eight angles.,
O as in Octagon (n.) Any structure (as a fortification) or place with eight sides or angles.,
O as in Octagonal (a.) Having eight sides and eight angles.,
O as in Octagynous (a.) Having eight pistils or styles; octogynous.,
O as in Octahedral (a.) Having eight faces or sides; of, pertaining to, or formed in, octahedrons; as, octahedral cleavage.,
O as in Octahedrite (n.) Titanium dioxide occurring in acute octahedral crystals.,
O as in Octahedron (n.) A solid bounded by eight faces. The regular octahedron is contained by eight equal equilateral triangles.,
O as in Octamerous (a.) Having the parts in eights; as, an octamerous flower; octamerous mesenteries in polyps.,
O as in Octameter (n.) A verse containing eight feet; as, --//Deep# in|to# the | dark#ness | peer#ing, | long# I | stood# there | wond'#ring, | fear#ing.,
O as in Octander (n.) One of the Octandria.,
O as in Octandria (n.pl.) A Linnaean class of plants, in which the flowers have eight stamens not united to one another or to the pistil.,
O as in Octandrian (a.) Alt. of Octandrous,
O as in Octandrous (a.) Of or pertaining to the Octandria; having eight distinct stamens.,
O as in Octane (n.) Any one of a group of metametric hydrocarcons (C8H18) of the methane series. The most important is a colorless, volatile, inflammable liquid, found in petroleum, and a constituent of benzene or ligroin.,
O as in Octangular (a.) Having eight angles; eight-angled.,
O as in Octant (n.) The eighth part of a circle; an arc of 45 degrees.,
O as in Octant (n.) The position or aspect of a heavenly body, as the moon or a planet, when half way between conjunction, or opposition, and quadrature, or distant from another body 45 degrees.,
O as in Octant (n.) An instrument for measuring angles (generally called a quadrant), having an arc which measures up to 9O�, but being itself the eighth part of a circle. Cf. Sextant.,
O as in Octant (n.) One of the eight parts into which a space is divided by three coordinate planes.,
O as in Octapla (sing.) A portion of the Old Testament prepared by Origen in the 3d century, containing the Hebrew text and seven Greek versions of it, arranged in eight parallel columns.,
O as in Octaroon (n.) See Octoroon.,
O as in Octastyle (a.) See Octostyle.,
O as in Octateuch (n.) A collection of eight books; especially, the first eight books of the Old Testament.,
O as in Octavalent (a.) Having a valence of eight; capable of being combined with, exchanged for, or compared with, eight atoms of hydrogen; -- said of certain atoms or radicals.,
O as in Octave (n.) The eighth day after a church festival, the festival day being included; also, the week following a church festival.,
O as in Octave (n.) The eighth tone in the scale; the interval between one and eight of the scale, or any interval of equal length; an interval of five tones and two semitones.,
O as in Octave (n.) The whole diatonic scale itself.,
O as in Octave (n.) The first two stanzas of a sonnet, consisting of four verses each; a stanza of eight lines.,
O as in Octave (n.) A small cask of wine, the eighth part of a pipe.,
O as in Octave (a.) Consisting of eight; eight.,
O as in Octavos (pl. ) of Octavo,
O as in Octavo (n.) A book composed of sheets each of which is folded into eight leaves; hence, indicating more or less definitely a size of book so made; -- usually written 8vo or 8�.,
O as in Octavo (a.) Having eight leaves to a sheet; as, an octavo form, book, leaf, size, etc.,
O as in Octene (n.) Same as Octylene.,
O as in Octennial (a.) Happening every eighth year; also, lasting a period of eight years.,
O as in Octet (n.) A composition for eight parts, usually for eight solo instruments or voices.,
O as in Octic (a.) Of the eighth degree or order.,
O as in Octic (n.) A quantic of the eighth degree.,
O as in Octile (n.) Same as Octant, 2.,
O as in Octillion (n.) According to the French method of numeration (which method is followed also in the United States) the number expressed by a unit with twenty-seven ciphers annexed. According to the English method, the number expressed by a unit with forty-eight ciphers annexed. See Numeration.,
O as in Octo- () Alt. of Octa-,
O as in Octa- () A combining form meaning eight; as in octodecimal, octodecimal, octolocular.,
O as in Octoate (n.) A salt of an octoic acid; a caprylate.,
O as in October (n.) The tenth month of the year, containing thirty-one days.,
O as in October (n.) Ale or cider made in that month.,
O as in Octocera (n.pl.) Octocerata.,
O as in Octocerata (n.pl.) A suborder of Cephalopoda including Octopus, Argonauta, and allied genera, having eight arms around the head; -- called also Octopoda.,
O as in Octochord (n.) See Octachord.,
O as in Octodecimo (a.) Having eighteen leaves to a sheet; as, an octodecimo form, book, leaf, size, etc.,
O as in Octodecimos (pl. ) of Octodecimo,
O as in Octodecimo (n.) A book composed of sheets each of which is folded into eighteen leaves; hence; indicating more or less definitely a size of book, whose sheets are so folded; -- usually written 18mo or 18�, and called eighteenmo.,
O as in Octodentate (a.) Having eight teeth.,
O as in Octodont (a.) Of or pertaining to the Octodontidae, a family of rodents which includes the coypu, and many other South American species.,
O as in Octoedrical (a.) See Octahedral.,
O as in Octofid (a.) Cleft or separated into eight segments, as a calyx.,
O as in Octogamy (n.) A marrying eight times.,
O as in Octogenarian (n.) A person eighty years, or more, of age.,
O as in Octogenary (a.) Of eighty years of age.,
O as in Octogild (n.) A pecuniary compensation for an injury, of eight times the value of the thing.,
O as in Octogonal (a.) See Octagonal.,
O as in Octogynia (n.pl.) A Linnaean order of plants having eight pistils.,
O as in Octogynian (a.) Alt. of Octogynous,
O as in Octogynous (a.) Having eight pistils; octagynous.,
O as in Octoic (a.) Pertaining to, derived from, or resembling, octane; -- used specifically, to designate any one of a group of acids, the most important of which is called caprylic acid.,
O as in Octolocular (a.) Having eight cells for seeds.,
O as in Octonaphthene (n.) A colorless liquid hydrocarbon of the octylene series, occurring in Caucasian petroleum.,
O as in Octonary (a.) Of or pertaining to the number eight.,
O as in Octonocular (a.) Having eight eyes.,
O as in Octopede (n.) An animal having eight feet, as a spider.,
O as in Octopetalous (a.) Having eight petals or flower leaves.,
O as in Octopod (n.) One of the Octocerata.,
O as in Octopoda (n.pl.) Same as Octocerata.,
O as in Octopoda (n.pl.) Same as Arachnida.,
O as in Octopodia (n.pl.) Same as Octocerata.,
O as in Octopus (n.) A genus of eight-armed cephalopods, including numerous species, some of them of large size. See Devilfish,,
O as in Octoradiated (a.) Having eight rays.,
O as in Octoroon (n.) The offspring of a quadroon and a white person; a mestee.,
O as in Octospermous (a.) Containing eight seeds.,
O as in Octostichous (a.) In eight vertical ranks, as leaves on a stem.,
O as in Octostyle (a.) Having eight columns in the front; -- said of a temple or portico. The Parthenon is octostyle, but most large Greek temples are hexastele. See Hexastyle.,
O as in Octostyle (n.) An octostyle portico or temple.,
O as in Octosyllabic (a.) Alt. of Octosyllabical,
O as in Octosyllabical (a.) Consisting of or containing eight syllables.,
O as in Octosyllable (a.) Octosyllabic.,
O as in Octosyllable (n.) A word of eight syllables.,
O as in Octoyl (n.) A hypothetical radical (C8H15O), regarded as the essential residue of octoic acid.,
O as in Octroi (n.) A privilege granted by the sovereign authority, as the exclusive right of trade granted to a guild or society; a concession.,
O as in Octroi (n.) A tax levied in money or kind at the gate of a French city on articles brought within the walls.,
O as in Octuor (n.) See Octet.,
O as in Octuple (a.) Eightfold.,
O as in Octyl (n.) A hypothetical hydrocarbon radical regarded as an essential residue of octane, and as entering into its derivatives; as, octyl alcohol.,
O as in Octylene (n.) Any one of a series of metameric hydrocarbons (C8H16) of the ethylene series. In general they are combustible, colorless liquids.,
O as in Octylic (a.) Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, octyl; as, octylic ether.,
O as in Ocular (a.) Depending on, or perceived by, the eye; received by actual sight; personally seeing or having seen; as, ocular proof.,
O as in Ocular (a.) Of or pertaining to the eye; optic.,
O as in Ocular (n.) The eyepiece of an optical instrument, as of a telescope or microscope.,
O as in Ocularly (adv.) By the eye, or by actual sight.,
O as in Oculary (a.) Of or pertaining to the eye; ocular; optic; as, oculary medicines.,
O as in Oculate (a.) Alt. of Oculated,
O as in Oculated (a.) Furnished with eyes.,
O as in Oculated (a.) Having spots or holes resembling eyes; ocellated.,
O as in Oculiform (a.) In the form of an eye; resembling an eye; as, an oculiform pebble.,
O as in Oculina (n.) A genus of tropical corals, usually branched, and having a very volid texture.,
O as in Oculinacea (n.pl.) A suborder of corals including many reef-building species, having round, starlike calicles.,
O as in Oculist (n.) One skilled in treating diseases of the eye.,
O as in Oculo- () A combining form from L. oculus the eye.,
O as in Oculomotor (a.) Of or pertaining to the movement of the eye; -- applied especially to the common motor nerves (or third pair of cranial nerves) which supply many of the muscles of the orbit.,
O as in Oculomotor (n.) The oculomotor nerve.,
O as in Oculonasal (a.) Of or pertaining to the region of the eye and the nose; as, the oculonasal, or nasal, nerve, one of the branches of the ophthalmic.,
O as in Oculi (pl. ) of Oculus,
O as in Oculus (n.) An eye; (Bot.) a leaf bud.,
O as in Oculus (n.) A round window, usually a small one.,
O as in Ocypodian (n.) One of a tribe of crabs which live in holes in the sand along the seashore, and run very rapidly, -- whence the name.,
O as in Od (n.) An alleged force or natural power, supposed, by Reichenbach and others, to produce the phenomena of mesmerism, and to be developed by various agencies, as by magnets, heat, light, chemical or vital action, etc.; -- called also odyle or the odylic force.,
O as in Odalisque (n.) A female slave or concubine in the harem of the Turkish sultan.,
O as in Odd (superl.) Not paired with another, or remaining over after a pairing; without a mate; unmatched; single; as, an odd shoe; an odd glove.,
O as in Odd (superl.) Not divisible by 2 without a remainder; not capable of being evenly paired, one unit with another; as, 1, 3, 7, 9, 11, etc., are odd numbers.,
O as in Odd (superl.) Left over after a definite round number has been taken or mentioned; indefinitely, but not greatly, exceeding a specified number; extra.,
O as in Odd (superl.) Remaining over; unconnected; detached; fragmentary; hence, occasional; inconsiderable; as, odd jobs; odd minutes; odd trifles.,
O as in Odd (superl.) Different from what is usual or common; unusual; singular; peculiar; unique; strange.,
O as in Odd Fellow () A member of a secret order, or fraternity, styled the Independent Order of Odd Fellows, established for mutual aid and social enjoyment.,
O as in Oddities (pl. ) of Oddity,
O as in Oddity (n.) The quality or state of being odd; singularity; queerness; peculiarity; as, oddity of dress, manners, and the like.,
O as in Oddity (n.) That which is odd; as, a collection of oddities.,
O as in Oddly (adv.) In an odd manner; unevently.,
O as in Oddly (adv.) In a peculiar manner; strangely; queerly; curiously.,
O as in Oddly (adv.) In a manner measured by an odd number.,
O as in Oddness (n.) The state of being odd, or not even.,
O as in Oddness (n.) Singularity; strangeness; eccentricity; irregularity; uncouthness; as, the oddness of dress or shape; the oddness of an event.,
O as in Odds (a.) Difference in favor of one and against another; excess of one of two things or numbers over the other; inequality; advantage; superiority; hence, excess of chances; probability.,
O as in Odds (a.) Quarrel; dispute; debate; strife; -- chiefly in the phrase at odds.,
O as in Ode (n.) A short poetical composition proper to be set to music or sung; a lyric poem; esp., now, a poem characterized by sustained noble sentiment and appropriate dignity of style.,
O as in Odelet (n.) A little or short ode.,
O as in Odeon (n.) A kind of theater in ancient Greece, smaller than the dramatic theater and roofed over, in which poets and musicians submitted their works to the approval of the public, and contended for prizes; -- hence, in modern usage, the name of a hall for musical or dramatic performances.,
O as in Odeum (n.) See Odeon.,
O as in Odible (a.) Fitted to excite hatred; hateful.,
O as in Odic (a.) Of or pertaining to od. See Od.,
O as in Odin (n.) The supreme deity of the Scandinavians; -- the same as Woden, of the German tribes.,
O as in Odinic (a.) Of or pertaining to Odin.,
O as in Odious (a.) Hateful; deserving or receiving hatred; as, an odious name, system, vice.,
O as in Odious (a.) Causing or provoking hatred, repugnance, or disgust; offensive; disagreeable; repulsive; as, an odious sight; an odious smell.,
O as in Odist (n.) A writer of an ode or odes.,
O as in Odium (n.) Hatred; dislike; as, his conduct brought him into odium, or, brought odium upon him.,
O as in Odium (n.) The quality that provokes hatred; offensiveness.,
O as in Odized (imp. & p. p.) of Odize,
O as in Odizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Odize,
O as in Odize (v. t.) To charge with od. See Od.,
O as in Odmyl (n.) A volatile liquid obtained by boiling sulphur with linseed oil. It has an unpleasant garlic odor.,
O as in Odometer (n.) An instrument attached to the wheel of a vehicle, to measure the distance traversed; also, a wheel used by surveyors, which registers the miles and rods traversed.,
O as in Odometrical (a.) Of or pertaining to the odometer, or to measurements made with it.,
O as in Odometrous (a.) Serving to measure distance on a road.,
O as in Odometry (n.) Measurement of distances by the odometer.,
O as in Odonata (n. pl.) The division of insects that includes the dragon flies.,
O as in Odontalgia (n.) Toothache.,
O as in Odontalgic (a.) Of or pertaining to odontalgia.,
O as in Odontalgic (n.) A remedy for the toothache.,
O as in Odontalgy (n.) Same as Odontalgia.,
O as in Odontiasis (n.) Cutting of the teeth; dentition.,
O as in Odonto- () A combining form from Gr. 'odoy`s, 'odo`ntos, a tooth.,
O as in Odontoblast (n.) One of the more or less columnar cells on the outer surface of the pulp of a tooth; an odontoplast. They are supposed to be connected with the formation of dentine.,
O as in Odontoblast (n.) One of the cells which secrete the chitinous teeth of Mollusca.,
O as in Odontocete (n.pl.) A subdivision of Cetacea, including the sperm whale, dolphins, etc.; the toothed whales.,
O as in Odontogeny (n.) Generetion, or mode of development, of the teeth.,
O as in Odontograph (n.) An instrument for marking or laying off the outlines of teeth of gear wheels.,
O as in Odontographic (a.) Of or pertaining to odontography.,
O as in Odontography (n.) A description of the teeth.,
O as in Odontoid (a.) Having the form of a tooth; toothlike.,
O as in Odontoid (a.) Of or pertaining to the odontoid bone or to the odontoid process.,
O as in Odontolcae (n. pl.) An extinct order of ostrichlike aquatic birds having teeth, which are set in a groove in the jaw. It includes Hesperornis, and allied genera. See Hesperornis.,
O as in Odontolite (n.) A fossil tooth colored a bright blue by phosphate of iron. It is used as an imitation of turquoise, and hence called bone turquoise.,
O as in Odontology (n.) The science which treats of the teeth, their structure and development.,
O as in Odontophora (n.pl.) Same as Cephalophora.,
O as in Odontophore (n.) A special structure found in the mouth of most mollusks, except bivalves. It consists of several muscles and a cartilage which supports a chitinous radula, or lingual ribbon, armed with teeth. Also applied to the radula alone. See Radula.,
O as in Odontophorous (a.) Having an odontophore.,
O as in Odontoplast (n.) An odontoblast.,
O as in Odontopteryx (n.) An extinct Eocene bird having the jaws strongly serrated, or dentated, but destitute of true teeth. It was found near London.,
O as in Odontornithes (n. pl.) A group of Mesozoic birds having the jaws armed with teeth, as in most other vertebrates. They have been divided into three orders: Odontolcae, Odontotormae, and Saururae.,
O as in Odontostomatous (a.) Having toothlike mandibles; -- applied to certain insects.,
O as in Odontotormae (n.pl.) An order of extinct toothed birds having the teeth in sockets, as in the genus Ichthyornis. See Ichthyornis.,
O as in Odor (n.) Any smell, whether fragrant or offensive; scent; perfume.,
O as in Odorament (n.) A perfume; a strong scent.,
O as in Odorant (a.) Yielding odors; fragrant.,
O as in Odorate (a.) Odorous.,
O as in Odorating (a.) Diffusing odor or scent; fragrant.,
O as in Odoriferous (a.) Bearing or yielding an odor; perfumed; usually, sweet of scent; fragrant; as, odoriferous spices, particles, fumes, breezes.,
O as in Odorline (n.) A pungent oily substance obtained by redistilling bone oil.,
O as in Odorless (a.) Free from odor.,
O as in Odorous (a.) Having or emitting an odor or scent, esp. a sweet odor; fragrant; sweet-smelling.,
O as in Ods (interj.) A corruption of God's; -- formerly used in oaths and ejaculatory phrases.,
O as in Odyl (n.) Alt. of Odyle,
O as in Odyle (n.) See Od. [Archaic].,
O as in Odylic (a.) Of or pertaining to odyle; odic; as, odylic force.,
O as in Odyssey (n.) An epic poem attributed to Homer, which describes the return of Ulysses to Ithaca after the siege of Troy.,
O as in Oe () a diphthong, employed in the Latin language, and thence in the English language, as the representative of the Greek diphthong oi. In many words in common use, e alone stands instead of /. Classicists prefer to write the diphthong oe separate in Latin words.,
O as in Oecoid (n.) The colorless porous framework, or stroma, of red blood corpuscles from which the zooid, or hemoglobin and other substances of the corpuscles, may be dissolved out.,
O as in Oecology (n.) The various relations of animals and plants to one another and to the outer world.,
O as in Oeconomical (a.) See Economical.,
O as in Oeconomics (n.) See Economics.,
O as in Oeconomy (n.) See Economy.,
O as in Oecumenical (a.) See Ecumenical.,
O as in Oedema (n.) A swelling from effusion of watery fluid in the cellular tissue beneath the skin or mucous membrance; dropsy of the subcutaneous cellular tissue.,
O as in Oedematous (a.) Pertaining to, or of the nature of, edema; affected with edema.,
O as in Oeiliad (n.) Alt. of Oeillade,
O as in Oeillade (n.) A glance of the eye; an amorous look.,
O as in Oelet (n.) An eye, bud, or shoot, as of a plant; an oilet.,
O as in Oenanthate (n.) A salt of the supposed /nanthic acid.,
O as in Oenanthic (a.) Having, or imparting, the odor characteristic of the bouquet of wine; specifically used, formerly, to designate an acid whose ethereal salts were supposed to occasion the peculiar bouquet, or aroma, of old wine. Cf. Oenanthylic.,
O as in Oenanthol (n.) An oily substance obtained by the distillation of castor oil, recognized as the aldehyde of oenanthylic acid, and hence called also oenanthaldehyde.,
O as in Oenanthone (n.) The ketone of oenanthic acid.,
O as in Oenanthyl (n.) A hydrocarbon radical formerly supposed to exist in oenanthic acid, now known to be identical with heptyl.,
O as in Oenanthylate (n.) A salt of /nanthylic acid; as, potassium oenanthylate.,
O as in Oenanthylic (a.) Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, oenanthyl; specifically, designating an acid formerly supposed to be identical with the acid in oenanthic ether, but now known to be identical with heptoic acid.,
O as in Oenanthylidene (n.) A colorless liquid hydrocarbon, having a garlic odor; heptine.,
O as in Oenanthylous (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid formerly supposed to be the acid of oenanthylic ether, but now known to be a mixture of higher acids, especially capric acid.,
O as in Oenocyan (n.) The coloring matter of red wines.,
O as in Oenology (n.) Knowledge of wine, scientific or practical.,
O as in Oenomania (n.) Delirium tremens.,
O as in Oenomania (n.) Dipsomania.,
O as in Oenomel (n.) Wine mixed with honey; mead,,
O as in Oenometer (n.) See Alcoholometer.,
O as in Oenophilist (n.) A lover of wine.,
O as in Oenothionic (a.) Pertaining to an acid now called sulphovinic, / ethyl sulphuric, acid.,
O as in O'er (prep. & adv.) A contr. of Over.,
O as in Oesophagus (a.) Alt. of Oesophageal,
O as in Oesophageal (a.) Same as Esophagus, Esophageal, etc.,
O as in Oestrian (a.) Of or pertaining to the gadflies.,
O as in Oestrian (n.) A gadfly.,
O as in Oestrual (a.) Of or pertaining to sexual desire; -- mostly applied to brute animals; as, the oestrual period; oestrual influence.,
O as in Oestruation (n.) The state of being under oestrual influence, or of having sexual desire.,
O as in Oestrus (n.) A genus of gadflies. The species which deposits its larvae in the nasal cavities of sheep is oestrus ovis.,
O as in Oestrus (n.) A vehement desire; esp. (Physiol.), the periodical sexual impulse of animals; heat; rut.,
O as in Of (prep.) In a general sense, from, or out from; proceeding from; belonging to; relating to; concerning; -- used in a variety of applications; as:,
O as in Of (prep.) Denoting that from which anything proceeds; indicating origin, source, descent, and the like; as, he is of a race of kings; he is of noble blood.,
O as in Of (prep.) Denoting possession or ownership, or the relation of subject to attribute; as, the apartment of the consul: the power of the king; a man of courage; the gate of heaven.,
O as in Of (prep.) Denoting the material of which anything is composed, or that which it contains; as, a throne of gold; a sword of steel; a wreath of mist; a cup of water.,
O as in Of (prep.) Denoting part of an aggregate or whole; belonging to a number or quantity mentioned; out of; from amongst; as, of this little he had some to spare; some of the mines were unproductive; most of the company.,
O as in Of (prep.) Denoting that by which a person or thing is actuated or impelled; also, the source of a purpose or action; as, they went of their own will; no body can move of itself; he did it of necessity.,
O as in Of (prep.) Denoting reference to a thing; about; concerning; relating to; as, to boast of one's achievements.,
O as in Of (prep.) Denoting nearness or distance, either in space or time; from; as, within a league of the town; within an hour of the appointed time.,
O as in Of (prep.) Denoting identity or equivalence; -- used with a name or appellation, and equivalent to the relation of apposition; as, the continent of America; the city of Rome; the Island of Cuba.,
O as in Of (prep.) Denoting the agent, or person by whom, or thing by which, anything is, or is done; by.,
O as in Of (prep.) Denoting relation to place or time; belonging to, or connected with; as, men of Athens; the people of the Middle Ages; in the days of Herod.,
O as in Of (prep.) Denoting passage from one state to another; from.,
O as in Of (prep.) During; in the course of.,
O as in Off (adv.) In a general sense, denoting from or away from; as:,
O as in Off (adv.) Denoting distance or separation; as, the house is a mile off.,
O as in Off (adv.) Denoting the action of removing or separating; separation; as, to take off the hat or cloak; to cut off, to pare off, to clip off, to peel off, to tear off, to march off, to fly off, and the like.,
O as in Off (adv.) Denoting a leaving, abandonment, departure, abatement, interruption, or remission; as, the fever goes off; the pain goes off; the game is off; all bets are off.,
O as in Off (adv.) Denoting a different direction; not on or towards: away; as, to look off.,
O as in Off (adv.) Denoting opposition or negation.,
O as in Off (interj.) Away; begone; -- a command to depart.,
O as in Off (prep.) Not on; away from; as, to be off one's legs or off the bed; two miles off the shore.,
O as in Off (a.) On the farther side; most distant; on the side of an animal or a team farthest from the driver when he is on foot; in the United States, the right side; as, the off horse or ox in a team, in distinction from the nigh or near horse or ox; the off leg.,
O as in Off (a.) Designating a time when one is not strictly attentive to business or affairs, or is absent from his post, and, hence, a time when affairs are not urgent; as, he took an off day for fishing: an off year in politics.,
O as in Off (n.) The side of the field that is on the right of the wicket keeper.,
O as in Offal (n.) The rejected or waste parts of a butchered animal.,
O as in Offal (n.) A dead body; carrion.,
O as in Offal (n.) That which is thrown away as worthless or unfit for use; refuse; rubbish.,
O as in Offcut (n.) That which is cut off.,
O as in Offcut (n.) A portion ofthe printed sheet, in certain sizes of books, that is cut off before folding.,
O as in Offence (n.) See Offense.,
O as in Offended (imp. & p. p.) of Offend,
O as in Offending (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Offend,
O as in Offend (v. t.) To strike against; to attack; to assail.,
O as in Offend (v. t.) To displease; to make angry; to affront.,
O as in Offend (v. t.) To be offensive to; to harm; to pain; to annoy; as, strong light offends the eye; to offend the conscience.,
O as in Offend (v. t.) To transgress; to violate; to sin against.,
O as in Offend (v. t.) To oppose or obstruct in duty; to cause to stumble; to cause to sin or to fall.,
O as in Odfend (v. i.) To transgress the moral or divine law; to commit a crime; to stumble; to sin.,
O as in Odfend (v. i.) To cause dislike, anger, or vexation; to displease.,
O as in Offendant (n.) An offender.,
O as in Offender (n.) One who offends; one who violates any law, divine or human; a wrongdoer.,
O as in Offendress (n.) A woman who offends.,
O as in Offense (n.) Alt. of Offence,
O as in Offence (n.) The act of offending in any sense; esp., a crime or a sin, an affront or an injury.,
O as in Offence (n.) The state of being offended or displeased; anger; displeasure.,
O as in Offence (n.) A cause or occasion of stumbling or of sin.,
O as in Offenseful (a.) Causing offense; displeasing; wrong; as, an offenseful act.,
O as in Offenseless (a.) Unoffending; inoffensive.,
O as in Offensible (a.) That may give offense.,
O as in Offension (n.) Assault; attack.,
O as in Offensive (a.) Giving offense; causing displeasure or resentment; displeasing; annoying; as, offensive words.,
O as in Offensive (a.) Giving pain or unpleasant sensations; disagreeable; revolting; noxious; as, an offensive smell; offensive sounds.,
O as in Offensive (a.) Making the first attack; assailant; aggressive; hence, used in attacking; -- opposed to defensive; as, an offensive war; offensive weapons.,
O as in Offensive (n.) The state or posture of one who offends or makes attack; aggressive attitude; the act of the attacking party; -- opposed to defensive.,
O as in Offered (imp. & p. p.) of Offer,
O as in Offering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Offer,
O as in Offer (v. t.) To present, as an act of worship; to immolate; to sacrifice; to present in prayer or devotion; -- often with up.,
O as in Offer (v. t.) To bring to or before; to hold out to; to present for acceptance or rejection; as, to offer a present, or a bribe; to offer one's self in marriage.,
O as in Offer (v. t.) To present in words; to proffer; to make a proposal of; to suggest; as, to offer an opinion. With the infinitive as an objective: To make an offer; to declare one's willingness; as, he offered to help me.,
O as in Offer (v. t.) To attempt; to undertake.,
O as in Offer (v. t.) To bid, as a price, reward, or wages; as, to offer a guinea for a ring; to offer a salary or reward.,
O as in Offer (v. t.) To put in opposition to; to manifest in an offensive way; to threaten; as, to offer violence, attack, etc.,
O as in Offer (v. i.) To present itself; to be at hand.,
O as in Offer (v. i.) To make an attempt; to make an essay or a trial; -- used with at.,
O as in Offer (v. t.) The act of offering, bringing forward, proposing, or bidding; a proffer; a first advance.,
O as in Offer (v. t.) That which is offered or brought forward; a proposal to be accepted or rejected; a sum offered; a bid.,
O as in Offer (v. t.) Attempt; endeavor; essay; as, he made an offer to catch the ball.,
O as in Offerable (a.) Capable of being offered; suitable or worthy to be offered.,
O as in Offerer (n.) One who offers; esp., one who offers something to God in worship.,
O as in Offering (n.) The act of an offerer; a proffering.,
O as in Offering (n.) That which is offered, esp. in divine service; that which is presented as an expiation or atonement for sin, or as a free gift; a sacrifice; an oblation; as, sin offering.,
O as in Offering (n.) A sum of money offered, as in church service; as, a missionary offering. Specif.: (Ch. of Eng.) Personal tithes payable according to custom, either at certain seasons as Christmas or Easter, or on certain occasions as marriages or christenings.,
O as in Offertories (pl. ) of Offertory,
O as in Offertory (n.) The act of offering, or the thing offered.,
O as in Offertory (n.) An anthem chanted, or a voluntary played on the organ, during the offering and first part of the Mass.,
O as in Offertory (n.) That part of the Mass which the priest reads before uncovering the chalice to offer up the elements for consecration.,
O as in Offertory (n.) The oblation of the elements.,
O as in Offertory (n.) The Scripture sentences said or sung during the collection of the offerings.,
O as in Offertory (n.) The offerings themselves.,
O as in Offerture (n.) Offer; proposal; overture.,
O as in Offhand (a.) Instant; ready; extemporaneous; as, an offhand speech; offhand excuses.,
O as in Offhand (adv.) In an offhand manner; as, he replied offhand.,
O as in Office (n.) That which a person does, either voluntarily or by appointment, for, or with reference to, others; customary duty, or a duty that arises from the relations of man to man; as, kind offices, pious offices.,
O as in Office (n.) A special duty, trust, charge, or position, conferred by authority and for a public purpose; a position of trust or authority; as, an executive or judical office; a municipal office.,
O as in Office (n.) A charge or trust, of a sacred nature, conferred by God himself; as, the office of a priest under the old dispensation, and that of the apostles in the new.,
O as in Office (n.) That which is performed, intended, or assigned to be done, by a particular thing, or that which anything is fitted to perform; a function; -- answering to duty in intelligent beings.,
O as in Office (n.) The place where a particular kind of business or service for others is transacted; a house or apartment in which public officers and others transact business; as, the register's office; a lawyer's office.,
O as in Office (n.) The company or corporation, or persons collectively, whose place of business is in an office; as, I have notified the office.,
O as in Office (n.) The apartments or outhouses in which the domestics discharge the duties attached to the service of a house, as kitchens, pantries, stables, etc.,
O as in Office (n.) Any service other than that of ordination and the Mass; any prescribed religious service.,
O as in Office (v. t.) To perform, as the duties of an office; to discharge.,
O as in Officeholder (n.) An officer, particularly one in the civil service; a placeman.,
O as in Officer (n.) One who holds an office; a person lawfully invested with an office, whether civil, military, or ecclesiastical; as, a church officer; a police officer; a staff officer.,
O as in Officer (n.) Specifically, a commissioned officer, in distinction from a warrant officer.,
O as in Officered (imp. & p. p.) of Officer,
O as in Officering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Officer,
O as in Officer (v. t.) To furnish with officers; to appoint officers over.,
O as in Officer (v. t.) To command as an officer; as, veterans from old regiments officered the recruits.,
O as in Official (n.) Of or pertaining to an office or public trust; as, official duties, or routine.,
O as in Official (n.) Derived from the proper office or officer, or from the proper authority; made or communicated by virtue of authority; as, an official statement or report.,
O as in Official (n.) Approved by authority; sanctioned by the pharmacopoeia; appointed to be used in medicine; as, an official drug or preparation. Cf. Officinal.,
O as in Official (n.) Discharging an office or function.,
O as in Official (a.) One who holds an office; esp., a subordinate executive officer or attendant.,
O as in Official (a.) An ecclesiastical judge appointed by a bishop, chapter, archdeacon, etc., with charge of the spiritual jurisdiction.,
O as in Officialism (n.) The state of being official; a system of official government; also, adherence to office routine; red-tapism.,
O as in Officialily (n.) See Officialty.,
O as in Officially (adv.) By the proper officer; by virtue of the proper authority; in pursuance of the special powers vested in an officer or office; as, accounts or reports officially vertified or rendered; letters officially communicated; persons officially notified.,
O as in Officialty (n.) The charge, office, court, or jurisdiction of an official.,
O as in Officiant (n.) The officer who officiates or performs an office, as the burial office.,
O as in Officiary (a.) Of or pertaining to an office or an officer; official.,
O as in Officiated (imp. & p. p.) of Officiate,
O as in Officiating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Officiate,
O as in Officiate (v. i.) To act as an officer in performing a duty; to transact the business of an office or public trust; to conduct a public service.,
O as in Officiate (v. t.) To discharge, perform, or supply, as an official duty or function.,
O as in Officiator (n.) One who officiates.,
O as in Officinal (a.) Used in a shop, or belonging to it.,
O as in Officinal (a.) Kept in stock by apothecaries; -- said of such drugs and medicines as may be obtained without special preparation or compounding; not magistral.,
O as in Officious (a.) Pertaining to, or being in accordance with, duty.,
O as in Officious (a.) Disposed to serve; kind; obliging.,
O as in Officious (a.) Importunately interposing services; intermeddling in affairs in which one has no concern; meddlesome.,
O as in Offing (n.) That part of the sea at a good distance from the shore, or where there is deep water and no need of a pilot; also, distance from the shore; as, the ship had ten miles offing; we saw a ship in the offing.,
O as in Offish (a.) Shy or distant in manner.,
O as in Offlet (n.) A pipe to let off water.,
O as in Offscouring (n.) That which is scoured off; hence, refuse; rejected matter; that which is vile or despised.,
O as in Offscum (n.) Removed scum; refuse; dross.,
O as in Offset (n.) In general, that which is set off, from, before, or against, something,
O as in Offset (n.) A short prostrate shoot, which takes root and produces a tuft of leaves, etc. See Illust. of Houseleek.,
O as in Offset (n.) A sum, account, or value set off against another sum or account, as an equivalent; hence, anything which is given in exchange or retaliation; a set-off.,
O as in Offset (n.) A spur from a range of hills or mountains.,
O as in Offset (n.) A horizontal ledge on the face of a wall, formed by a diminution of its thickness, or by the weathering or upper surface of a part built out from it; -- called also set-off.,
O as in Offset (n.) A short distance measured at right angles from a line actually run to some point in an irregular boundary, or to some object.,
O as in Offset (n.) An abrupt bend in an object, as a rod, by which one part is turned aside out of line, but nearly parallel, with the rest; the part thus bent aside.,
O as in Offset (n.) A more or less distinct transfer of a printed page or picture to the opposite page, when the pages are pressed together before the ink is dry or when it is poor.,
O as in Offset (imp. & p. p.) of Offset,
O as in Offsetting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Offset,
O as in Offset (v. t.) To set off; to place over against; to balance; as, to offset one account or charge against another.,
O as in Offset (v. t.) To form an offset in, as in a wall, rod, pipe, etc.,
O as in Offset (v. i.) To make an offset.,
O as in Offshoot (n.) That which shoots off or separates from a main stem, channel, family, race, etc.; as, the offshoots of a tree.,
O as in Offshore (a.) From the shore; as, an offshore wind; an offshore signal.,
O as in Offskip (n.) That part of a landscape which recedes from the spectator into distance.,
O as in Offspring (n.sing. & pl.) The act of production; generation.,
O as in Offspring (n.sing. & pl.) That which is produced; a child or children; a descendant or descendants, however remote from the stock.,
O as in Offspring (n.sing. & pl.) Origin; lineage; family.,
O as in Offuscate () Alt. of Offuscation,
O as in Offuscation () See Obfuscate, Obfuscation.,
O as in Oft (adv.) Often; frequently; not rarely; many times.,
O as in Oft (a.) Frequent; often; repeated.,
O as in Often (adv.) Frequently; many times; not seldom.,
O as in Often (a.) Frequent; common; repeated.,
O as in Oftenness (n.) Frequency.,
O as in Oftensith (adv.) Frequently; often.,
O as in Oftentide (adv.) Frequently; often.,
O as in Oftentimes (adv.) Frequently; often; many times.,
O as in Ofter (adv.) Compar. of Oft.,
O as in Ofttimes (adv.) Frequently; often.,
O as in Ogam (n.) Same as Ogham.,
O as in Ogdoad (n.) A thing made up of eight parts.,
O as in Ogdoastich (n.) A poem of eight lines.,
O as in Ogee (n.) A molding, the section of which is the form of the letter S, with the convex part above; cyma reversa. See Illust. under Cyma.,
O as in Ogee (n.) Hence, any similar figure used for any purpose.,
O as in Ogeechee lime () The acid, olive-shaped, drupaceous fruit of a species of tupelo (Nyssa capitata) which grows in swamps in Georgia and Florida.,
O as in Ogeechee lime () The tree which bears this fruit.,
O as in Ogganition (n.) Snarling; grumbling.,
O as in Ogham (n.) A particular kind of writing practiced by the ancient Irish, and found in inscriptions on stones, metals, etc.,
O as in Ogive (n.) The arch or rib which crosses a Gothic vault diagonally.,
O as in Ogled (imp. & p. p.) of Ogle,
O as in Ogling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ogle,
O as in Ogle (v. t.) To view or look at with side glances, as in fondness, or with a design to attract notice.,
O as in Ogle (n.) An amorous side glance or look.,
O as in Ogler (n.) One who ogles.,
O as in Oglio (n.) See Olio.,
O as in Ogre (n.) An imaginary monster, or hideous giant of fairy tales, who lived on human beings; hence, any frightful giant; a cruel monster.,
O as in Ogreish (a.) Resembling an ogre; having the character or appearance of an ogre; suitable for an ogre.,
O as in Ogress (n.) A female ogre.,
O as in Ogreism (n.) Alt. of Ogrism,
O as in Ogrism (n.) The character or manners of an ogre.,
O as in Ogygian (a.) Of or pertaining to Ogyges, a mythical king of ancient Attica, or to a great deluge in Attica in his days; hence, primeval; of obscure antiquity.,
O as in Oh (interj.) An exclamation expressing various emotions, according to the tone and manner, especially surprise, pain, sorrow, anxiety, or a wish. See the Note under O.,
O as in Ohm (n.) The standard unit in the measure of electrical resistance, being the resistance of a circuit in which a potential difference of one volt produces a current of one ampere. As defined by the International Electrical Congress in 1893, and by United States Statute, it is a resistance substantially equal to 109 units of resistance of the C.G.S. system of electro-magnetic units, and is represented by the resistance offered to an unvarying electric current by a column of mercury at the temperature of melting ice 14.4521 grams in mass, of a constant cross-sectional area, and of the length of 106.3 centimeters. As thus defined it is called the international ohm.,
O as in Oho (interj.) An exclamation of surprise, etc.,
O as in -oid () A suffix or combining form meaning like, resembling, in the form of; as in anthropoid, asteroid, spheroid.,
O as in Oidium (n.) A genus of minute fungi which form a floccose mass of filaments on decaying fruit, etc. Many forms once referred to this genus are now believed to be temporary conditions of fungi of other genera, among them the vine mildew (Oidium Tuckeri), which has caused much injury to grapes.,
O as in Oil (n.) Any one of a great variety of unctuous combustible substances, not miscible with water; as, olive oil, whale oil, rock oil, etc. They are of animal, vegetable, or mineral origin and of varied composition, and they are variously used for food, for solvents, for anointing, lubrication, illumination, etc. By extension, any substance of an oily consistency; as, oil of vitriol.,
O as in Oiled (imp. & p. p.) of Oil,
O as in Oiling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Oil,
O as in Oil (v. t.) To smear or rub over with oil; to lubricate with oil; to anoint with oil.,
O as in Oilbird (n.) See Guacharo.,
O as in Oilcloth (n.) Cloth treated with oil or paint, and used for marking garments, covering floors, etc.,
O as in Oiled (a.) Covered or treated with oil; dressed with, or soaked in, oil.,
O as in Oiler (n.) One who deals in oils.,
O as in Oiler (n.) One who, or that which, oils.,
O as in Oilery (n.) The business, the place of business, or the goods, of a maker of, or dealer in, oils.,
O as in Oiliness (n.) The quality of being oily.,
O as in Oillet (n.) A small opening or loophole, sometimes circular, used in mediaeval fortifications.,
O as in Oillet (n.) A small circular opening, and ring of moldings surrounding it, used in window tracery in Gothic architecture.,
O as in Oilmen (pl. ) of Oilman,
O as in Oilman (n.) One who deals in oils; formerly, one who dealt in oils and pickles.,
O as in Oilnut (n.) The buffalo nut. See Buffalo nut, under Buffalo.,
O as in Oilseed (n.) Seed from which oil is expressed, as the castor bean; also, the plant yielding such seed. See Castor bean.,
O as in Oilseed (n.) A cruciferous herb (Camelina sativa).,
O as in Oilseed (n.) The sesame.,
O as in Oilskin (n.) Cloth made waterproof by oil.,
O as in Oilstone (n.) A variety of hone slate, or whetstone, used for whetting tools when lubricated with oil.,
O as in Oily (superl.) Consisting of oil; containing oil; having the nature or qualities of oil; unctuous; oleaginous; as, oily matter or substance.,
O as in Oily (superl.) Covered with oil; greasy; hence, resembling oil; as, an oily appearance.,
O as in Oily (superl.) Smoothly subservient; supple; compliant; plausible; insinuating.,
O as in Oinement (n.) Ointment.,
O as in Oinomania (n.) See oenomania.,
O as in Ointed (imp. & p. p.) of Oint,
O as in Ointing (p. pr & vb. n.) of Oint,
O as in Oint (v. t.) To anoint.,
O as in Ointment (n.) That which serves to anoint; any soft unctuous substance used for smearing or anointing; an unguent.,
O as in Ojibways (n. pl.) Same as Chippeways.,
O as in Ojo (n.) A spring, surrounded by rushes or rank grass; an oasis.,
O as in Oke (n.) A Turkish and Egyptian weight, equal to about 2/ pounds.,
O as in Oke (n.) An Hungarian and Wallachian measure, equal to about 2/ pints.,
O as in Okenite (n.) A massive and fibrous mineral of a whitish color, chiefly hydrous silicate of lime.,
O as in Oker (n.) See Ocher.,
O as in Okra (n.) An annual plant (Abelmoschus, / Hibiscus, esculentus), whose green pods, abounding in nutritious mucilage, are much used for soups, stews, or pickles; gumbo.,
O as in -ol () A suffix denoting that the substance in the name of which it appears belongs to the series of alcohols or hydroxyl derivatives, as carbinol, glycerol, etc.,
O as in Olay (n. pl.) Palm leaves, prepared for being written upon with a style pointed with steel.,
O as in Old (n.) Open country.,
O as in Old (superl.) Not young; advanced far in years or life; having lived till toward the end of the ordinary term of living; as, an old man; an old age; an old horse; an old tree.,
O as in Old (superl.) Not new or fresh; not recently made or produced; having existed for a long time; as, old wine; an old friendship.,
O as in Old (superl.) Formerly existing; ancient; not modern; preceding; original; as, an old law; an old custom; an old promise.,
O as in Old (superl.) Continued in life; advanced in the course of existence; having (a certain) length of existence; -- designating the age of a person or thing; as, an infant a few hours old; a cathedral centuries old.,
O as in Old (superl.) Long practiced; hence, skilled; experienced; cunning; as, an old offender; old in vice.,
O as in Old (superl.) Long cultivated; as, an old farm; old land, as opposed to new land, that is, to land lately cleared.,
O as in Old (superl.) Worn out; weakened or exhausted by use; past usefulness; as, old shoes; old clothes.,
O as in Old (superl.) More than enough; abundant.,
O as in Old (superl.) Aged; antiquated; hence, wanting in the mental vigor or other qualities belonging to youth; -- used disparagingly as a term of reproach.,
O as in Old (superl.) Old-fashioned; wonted; customary; as of old; as, the good old times; hence, colloquially, gay; jolly.,
O as in Old (superl.) Used colloquially as a term of cordiality and familiarity.,
O as in Olden (a.) Old; ancient; as, the olden time.,
O as in Olden (v. i.) To grow old; to age.,
O as in Old-fashioned (a.) Formed according to old or obsolete fashion or pattern; adhering to old customs or ideas; as, an old-fashioned dress, girl.,
O as in Old-gentlemanly (a.) Pertaining to an old gentleman, or like one.,
O as in Oldish (a.) Somewhat old.,
O as in Old lang syne () See Auld lang syne.,
O as in Old-maidish (a.) Like an old maid; prim; precise; particular.,
O as in Old-maidism (n.) The condition or characteristics of an old maid.,
O as in Oldness (n.) The state or quality of being old; old age.,
O as in Oldster (n.) An old person.,
O as in Old-womanish (a.) Like an old woman; anile.,
O as in Olea (n.) A genus of trees including the olive.,
O as in Oleaceous (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a natural order of plants (Oleaceae), mostly trees and shrubs, of which the olive is the type. It includes also the ash, the lilac, the true jasmine, and fringe tree.,
O as in Oleaginous (a.) Having the nature or qualities of oil; oily; unctuous.,
O as in Oleaginousness (n.) Oiliness.,
O as in Oleamen (n.) A soft ointment prepared from oil.,
O as in Oleander (n.) A beautiful evergreen shrub of the Dogbane family, having clusters of fragrant red or white flowers. It is native of the East Indies, but the red variety has become common in the south of Europe. Called also rosebay, rose laurel, and South-sea rose.,
O as in Oleandrine (n.) One of several alkaloids found in the leaves of the oleander.,
O as in Oleaster (n.) The wild olive tree (Olea Europea, var. sylvestris).,
O as in Oleaster (n.) Any species of the genus Elaeagus. See Eleagnus. The small silvery berries of the common species (Elaeagnus hortensis) are called Trebizond dates, and are made into cakes by the Arabs.,
O as in Oleate (n.) A salt of oleic acid. Some oleates, as the oleate of mercury, are used in medicine by way of inunction.,
O as in Olecranal (a.) Of or pertaining to the olecranon.,
O as in Olecranon (n.) The large process at the proximal end of the ulna which projects behind the articulation with the humerus and forms the bony prominence of the elbow.,
O as in Olefiant (a.) Forming or producing an oil; specifically, designating a colorless gaseous hydrocarbon called ethylene.,
O as in Olefine (n.) Olefiant gas, or ethylene; hence, by extension, any one of the series of unsaturated hydrocarbons of which ethylene is a type. See Ethylene.,
O as in Oleic (a.) Pertaining to, derived from, or contained in, oil; as, oleic acid, an acid of the acrylic acid series found combined with glyceryl in the form of olein in certain animal and vegetable fats and oils, such as sperm oil, olive oil, etc. At low temperatures the acid is crystalline, but melts to an oily liquid above 14/ C.,
O as in Oleiferous (a.) Producing oil; as, oleiferous seeds.,
O as in Olein (n.) A fat, liquid at ordinary temperatures, but solidifying at temperatures below 0� C., found abundantly in both the animal and vegetable kingdoms (see Palmitin). It dissolves solid fats, especially at 30-40� C. Chemically, olein is a glyceride of oleic acid; and, as three molecules of the acid are united to one molecule of glyceryl to form the fat, it is technically known as triolein. It is also called elain.,
O as in Olent (a.) Scented.,
O as in Oleograph (n.) The form or figure assumed by a drop of oil when placed upon water or some other liquid with which it does not mix.,
O as in Oleograph (n.) A picture produced in oils by a process analogous to that of lithographic printing.,
O as in Oleomargarine (n.) A liquid oil made from animal fats (esp. beef fat) by separating the greater portion of the solid fat or stearin, by crystallization. It is mainly a mixture of olein and palmitin with some little stearin.,
O as in Oleomargarine (n.) An artificial butter made by churning this oil with more or less milk.,
O as in Oleometer (n.) An instrument for ascertaining the weight and purity of oil; an elaiometer.,
O as in Oleone (n.) An oily liquid, obtained by distillation of calcium oleate, and probably consisting of the ketone of oleic acid.,
O as in Oleoptene (n.) See Eleoptene.,
O as in Oleoresin (n.) A natural mixture of a terebinthinate oil and a resin.,
O as in Oleoresin (n.) A liquid or semiliquid preparation extracted (as from capsicum, cubebs, or ginger) by means of ether, and consisting of fixed or volatile oil holding resin in solution.,
O as in Oleose (a.) Alt. of Oleous,
O as in Oleous (a.) Oily.,
O as in Oleosity (n.) The state or quality of being oily or fat; fatness.,
O as in Oleraceous (a.) Pertaining to pot herbs; of the nature or having the qualities of herbs for cookery; esculent.,
O as in Olf (n.) The European bullfinch.,
O as in Olfaction (n.) The sense by which the impressions made on the olfactory organs by the odorous particles in the atmosphere are perceived.,
O as in Olfactive (a.) See Olfactory, a.,
O as in Olfactor (n.) A smelling organ; a nose.,
O as in Olfactory (a.) Of, pertaining to, or connected with, the sense of smell; as, the olfactory nerves; the olfactory cells.,
O as in Olfactories (pl. ) of Olfactory,
O as in Olfactory (n.) An olfactory organ; also, the sense of smell; -- usually in the plural.,
O as in Oliban (n.) See Olibanum.,
O as in Olibanum (n.) The fragrant gum resin of various species of Boswellia; Oriental frankincense.,
O as in Olibene (n.) A colorless mobile liquid of a pleasant aromatic odor obtained by the distillation of olibanum, or frankincense, and regarded as a terpene; -- called also conimene.,
O as in Olid (a.) Alt. of Olidous,
O as in Olidous (a.) Having a strong, disagreeable smell; fetid.,
O as in Olifant (n.) An elephant.,
O as in Olifant (n.) An ancient horn, made of ivory.,
O as in Oligandrous (a.) Having few stamens.,
O as in Oliganthous (a.) Having few flowers.,
O as in Oligarch (n.) A member of an oligarchy; one of the rulers in an oligarchical government.,
O as in Oligarchal (a.) Oligarchic.,
O as in Oligarchic (a.) Alt. of Oligarchical,
O as in Oligarchical (a.) Of or pertaining to oligarchy, or government by a few.,
O as in Oligarchist (n.) An advocate or supporter of oligarchy.,
O as in Oligarchies (pl. ) of Oligarchy,
O as in Oligarchy (n.) A form of government in which the supreme power is placed in the hands of a few persons; also, those who form the ruling few.,
O as in Oligist (a.) Hematite or specular iron ore; -- prob. so called in allusion to its feeble magnetism, as compared with magnetite.,
O as in Oligist (a.) Alt. of Oligistic,
O as in Oligistic (a.) Of or pertaining to hematite.,
O as in Oligo- () A combining form from Gr. /, few, little, small.,
O as in Oligocene (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, certain strata which occupy an intermediate position between the Eocene and Miocene periods.,
O as in Oligocene (n.) The Oligocene period. See the Chart of Geology.,
O as in Oligochaeta (n. pl.) An order of Annelida which includes the earthworms and related species.,
O as in Oligochete (a.) Of or pertaining to the Oligochaeta.,
O as in Oligoclase (n.) A triclinic soda-lime feldspar. See Feldspar.,
O as in Oligomerous (a.) Having few members in each set of organs; as, an oligomerous flower.,
O as in Oligomyold (a.) Having few or imperfect syringeal muscles; -- said of some passerine birds (Oligomyodi).,
O as in Oligopetalous (a.) Having few petals.,
O as in Oligosepalous (a.) Having few sepals.,
O as in Oligosiderite (n.) A meteorite characterized by the presence of but a small amount of metallic iron.,
O as in Oligospermous (a.) Having few seeds.,
O as in Oligotokous (a.) Producing few young.,
O as in Olio (n.) A dish of stewed meat of different kinds.,
O as in Olio (n.) A mixture; a medley.,
O as in Olio (n.) A collection of miscellaneous pieces.,
O as in Olitory (a.) Of or pertaining to, or produced in, a kitchen garden; used for kitchen purposes; as, olitory seeds.,
O as in Oliva (n.) A genus of polished marine gastropod shells, chiefly tropical, and often beautifully colored.,
O as in Olivaceous (a.) Resembling the olive; of the color of the olive; olive-green.,
O as in Olivary (a.) Like an olive.,
O as in Olivaster (a.) Of the color of the olive; tawny.,
O as in Olive (n.) A tree (Olea Europaea) with small oblong or elliptical leaves, axillary clusters of flowers, and oval, one-seeded drupes. The tree has been cultivated for its fruit for thousands of years, and its branches are the emblems of peace. The wood is yellowish brown and beautifully variegated.,
O as in Olive (n.) The fruit of the olive. It has been much improved by cultivation, and is used for making pickles. Olive oil is pressed from its flesh.,
O as in Olive (n.) Any shell of the genus Oliva and allied genera; -- so called from the form. See Oliva.,
O as in Olive (n.) The oyster catcher.,
O as in Olive (n.) The color of the olive, a peculiar dark brownish, yellowish, or tawny green.,
O as in Olive (n.) One of the tertiary colors, composed of violet and green mixed in equal strength and proportion.,
O as in Olive (n.) An olivary body. See under Olivary.,
O as in Olive (n.) A small slice of meat seasoned, rolled up, and cooked; as, olives of beef or veal.,
O as in Olive (a.) Approaching the color of the olive; of a peculiar dark brownish, yellowish, or tawny green.,
O as in Olived (a.) Decorated or furnished with olive trees.,
O as in Olivenite (n.) An olive-green mineral, a hydrous arseniate of copper; olive ore.,
O as in Oliver (n.) An olive grove.,
O as in Oliver (n.) An olive tree.,
O as in Oliver (n.) A small tilt hammer, worked by the foot.,
O as in Oliverian (n.) An adherent of Oliver Cromwell.,
O as in Olivewood (n.) The wood of the olive.,
O as in Olivewood (n.) An Australian name given to the hard white wood of certain trees of the genus Elaeodendron, and also to the trees themselves.,
O as in Olivil (n.) A white crystalline substance, obtained from an exudation from the olive, and having a bitter-sweet taste and acid proporties.,
O as in Olivin (n.) A complex bitter gum, found on the leaves of the olive tree; -- called also olivite.,
O as in Olivine (n.) A common name of the yellowish green mineral chrysolite, esp. the variety found in eruptive rocks.,
O as in Olivite (n.) See Olivin.,
O as in Olla (n.) A pot or jar having a wide mouth; a cinerary urn, especially one of baked clay.,
O as in Olla (n.) A dish of stewed meat; an olio; an olla-podrida.,
O as in Olla-podrida (n.) A favorite Spanish dish, consisting of a mixture of several kinds of meat chopped fine, and stewed with vegetables.,
O as in Olla-podrida (n.) Any incongruous mixture or miscellaneous collection; an olio.,
O as in Ology (n.) A colloquial or humorous name for any science or branch of knowledge.,
O as in Olpe (n.) Originally, a leather flask or vessel for oils or liquids; afterward, an earthenware vase or pitcher without a spout.,
O as in Olusatrum (n.) An umbelliferous plant, the common Alexanders of Western Europe (Smyrnium Olusatrum).,
O as in Olympiad (n.) A period of four years, by which the ancient Greeks reckoned time, being the interval from one celebration of the Olympic games to another, beginning with the victory of Cor/bus in the foot race, which took place in the year 776 b.c.; as, the era of the olympiads.,
O as in Olympian (a.) Alt. of Olympic,
O as in Olympic (a.) Of or pertaining to Olympus, a mountain of Thessaly, fabled as the seat of the gods, or to Olympia, a small plain in Elis.,
O as in Olympionic (n.) An ode in honor of a victor in the Olympic games.,
O as in -oma () A suffix used in medical terms to denote a morbid condition of some part, usually some kind of tumor; as in fibroma, glaucoma.,
O as in Omagra (n.) Gout in the shoulder.,
O as in Omahas (n. pl.) A tribe of Indians who inhabited the south side of the Missouri River. They are now partly civilized and occupy a reservation in Nebraska.,
O as in Omander wood () The wood of Diospyros ebenaster, a kind of ebony found in Ceylon.,
O as in Omasum (n.) The third division of the stomach of ruminants. See Manyplies, and Illust. under Ruminant.,
O as in Omber (n.) Alt. of Ombre,
O as in Ombre (n.) A game at cards, borrowed from the Spaniards, and usually played by three persons.,
O as in Ombre (n.) A large Mediterranean food fish (Umbrina cirrhosa): -- called also umbra, and umbrine.,
O as in Ombrometer (n.) An instrument for measuring the rain that falls; a rain gauge.,
O as in Omega (n.) The last letter of the Greek alphabet. See Alpha.,
O as in Omega (n.) The last; the end; hence, death.,
O as in Omegoid (a.) Having the form of the Greek capital letter Omega (/).,
O as in Omelet (n.) Eggs beaten up with a little flour, etc., and cooked in a frying pan; as, a plain omelet.,
O as in Omen (n.) An occurrence supposed to portend, or show the character of, some future event; any indication or action regarded as a foreshowing; a foreboding; a presage; an augury.,
O as in Omened (imp. & p. p.) of Omen,
O as in Omening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Omen,
O as in Omen (v. t.) To divine or to foreshow by signs or portents; to have omens or premonitions regarding; to predict; to augur; as, to omen ill of an enterprise.,
O as in Omened (a.) Attended by, or containing, an omen or omens; as, happy-omened day.,
O as in Omental (a.) Of or pertaining to an omentum or the omenta.,
O as in Omenta (pl. ) of Omentum,
O as in Omentum (n.) A free fold of the peritoneum, or one serving to connect viscera, support blood vessels, etc.; an epiploon.,
O as in Omer (n.) A Hebrew measure, the tenth of an ephah. See Ephah.,
O as in Omiletical (a.) Homiletical.,
O as in Ominate (v. t. & i.) To presage; to foreshow; to foretoken.,
O as in Omination (n.) The act of ominating; presaging.,
O as in Ominous (a.) Of or pertaining to an omen or to omens; being or exhibiting an omen; significant; portentous; -- formerly used both in a favorable and unfavorable sense; now chiefly in the latter; foreboding or foreshowing evil; inauspicious; as, an ominous dread.,
O as in Omissible (a.) Capable of being omitted; that may be omitted.,
O as in Omission (n.) The act of omitting; neglect or failure to do something required by propriety or duty.,
O as in Omission (n.) That which is omitted or is left undone.,
O as in Omissive (a.) Leaving out; omitting.,
O as in Omitted (imp. & p. p.) of Omit,
O as in Omitting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Omit,
O as in Omit (v. t.) To let go; to leave unmentioned; not to insert or name; to drop.,
O as in Omit (v. t.) To pass by; to forbear or fail to perform or to make use of; to leave undone; to neglect.,
O as in Omittance (n.) The act of omitting, or the state of being omitted; forbearance; neglect.,
O as in Omitter (n.) One who omits.,
O as in Ommateal (a.) Of or pertaining to an ommateum.,
O as in Ommatea (pl. ) of Ommateum,
O as in Ommateum (n.) A compound eye, as of insects and crustaceans.,
O as in Ommatidia (pl. ) of Ommatidium,
O as in Ommatidium (n.) One of the single eyes forming the compound eyes of crustaceans, insects, and other invertebrates.,
O as in Omni- () A combining form denoting all, every, everywhere; as in omnipotent, all-powerful; omnipresent.,
O as in Omnibus (n.) A long four-wheeled carriage, having seats for many people; especially, one with seats running lengthwise, used in conveying passengers short distances.,
O as in Omnibus (n.) A sheet-iron cover for articles in a leer or annealing arch, to protect them from drafts.,
O as in Omnicorporeal (a.) Comprehending or including all bodies; embracing all substance.,
O as in Omniety (n.) That which is all-pervading or all-comprehensive; hence, the Deity.,
O as in Omnifarious (a.) Of all varieties, forms, or kinds.,
O as in Omniferous (a.) All-bearing; producing all kinds.,
O as in Omnific (a.) All-creating.,
O as in Omniform (a.) Having every form or shape.,
O as in Omniformity (n.) The condition or quality of having every form.,
O as in Omnify (v. t.) To render universal; to enlarge.,
O as in Omnigenous (a.) Consisting of all kinds.,
O as in Omnigraph (n.) A pantograph.,
O as in Omniparient (a.) Producing or bringing forth all things; all-producing.,
O as in Omniparity (n.) Equality in every part; general equality.,
O as in Omniparous (a.) Producing all things; omniparient.,
O as in Omnipatient (a.) Capable of enduring all things.,
O as in Omnipercipience (n.) Alt. of Omnipercipiency,
O as in Omnipercipiency (n.) Perception of everything.,
O as in Omnipercipient (a.) Perceiving everything.,
O as in Omnipotence (n.) Alt. of Omnipotency,
O as in Omnipotency (n.) The state of being omnipotent; almighty power; hence, one who is omnipotent; the Deity.,
O as in Omnipotency (n.) Unlimited power of a particular kind; as, love's omnipotence.,
O as in Omnipotent (a.) Able in every respect and for every work; unlimited in ability; all-powerful; almighty; as, the Being that can create worlds must be omnipotent.,
O as in Omnipotent (a.) Having unlimited power of a particular kind; as, omnipotent love.,
O as in Omnipotently (adv.) In an omnipotent manner.,
O as in Omnipresence (n.) Presence in every place at the same time; unbounded or universal presence; ubiquity.,
O as in Omnipresency (n.) Omnipresence.,
O as in Omnipresent (a.) Present in all places at the same time; ubiquitous; as, the omnipresent Jehovah.,
O as in Omnipresential (a.) Implying universal presence.,
O as in Omniprevalent (a.) Prevalent everywhere or in all things.,
O as in Omniscience (n.) The quality or state of being omniscient; -- an attribute peculiar to God.,
O as in Omnisciency (n.) Omniscience.,
O as in Omniscient (a.) Having universal knowledge; knowing all things; infinitely knowing or wise; as, the omniscient God.,
O as in Omniscious (a.) All-knowing.,
O as in Omnispective (a.) Beholding everything; capable of seeing all things; all-seeing.,
O as in Omnium (n.) The aggregate value of the different stocks in which a loan to government is now usually funded.,
O as in Omnium-gatherum (n.) A miscellaneous collection of things or persons; a confused mixture; a medley.,
O as in Omnivagant (a.) Wandering anywhere and everywhere.,
O as in Omnivora (n. pl.) A group of ungulate mammals including the hog and the hippopotamus. The term is also sometimes applied to the bears, and to certain passerine birds.,
O as in Omnivorous (a.) All-devouring; eating everything indiscriminately; as, omnivorous vanity; esp. (Zool.), eating both animal and vegetable food.,
O as in Omo- () A combining form used in anatomy to indicate connection with, or relation to, the shoulder or the scapula.,
O as in Omohyoid (a.) Of or pertaining to the shoulder and the hyoid bone; as, the omohyoid muscle.,
O as in Omophagic (a.) Eating raw flesh; using uncooked meat as food; as, omophagic feasts, rites.,
O as in Omoplate (n.) The shoulder blade, or scapula.,
O as in Omostegite (n.) The part of the carapace of a crustacean situated behind the cervical groove.,
O as in Omosternal (a.) Of or pertaining to the omosternum.,
O as in Omosternum (n.) The anterior element of the sternum which projects forward from between the clavicles in many batrachians and is usually tipped with cartilage.,
O as in Omosternum (n.) In many mammals, an interarticular cartilage, or bone, between the sternum and the clavicle.,
O as in Omphacine (a.) Of, pertaining to, or expressed from, unripe fruit; as, omphacine oil.,
O as in Omphalic (a.) Of or pertaining to the umbilicus, or navel.,
O as in Omphalo- () A combining form indicating connection with, or relation to, the umbilicus, or navel.,
O as in Omphalocele (n.) A hernia at the navel.,
O as in Omphalode (n.) The central part of the hilum of a seed, through which the nutrient vessels pass into the rhaphe or the chalaza; -- called also omphalodium.,
O as in Omphalomancy (n.) Divination by means of a child's navel, to learn how many children the mother may have.,
O as in Omphalomesaraic (a.) Omphalomesenteric.,
O as in Omphalomesenteric (a.) Of or pertaining to the umbilicus and mesentery; omphalomesaraic; as, the omphalomesenteric arteries and veins of a fetus.,
O as in Omphalopsychite (n.) A name of the Hesychasts, from their habit of gazing upon the navel.,
O as in Omphalopter (n.) Alt. of Omphaloptic,
O as in Omphaloptic (n.) An optical glass that is convex on both sides.,
O as in Omphalos (n.) The navel.,
O as in Omphalotomy (n.) The operation of dividing the navel-string.,
O as in Omy (a.) Mellow, as land.,
O as in On (prep.) The general signification of on is situation, motion, or condition with respect to contact or support beneath,
O as in On (prep.) At, or in contact with, the surface or upper part of a thing, and supported by it; placed or lying in contact with the surface; as, the book lies on the table, which stands on the floor of a house on an island.,
O as in On (prep.) To or against the surface of; -- used to indicate the motion of a thing as coming or falling to the surface of another; as, rain falls on the earth.,
O as in On (prep.) Denoting performance or action by contact with the surface, upper part, or outside of anything; hence, by means of; with; as, to play on a violin or piano. Hence, figuratively, to work on one's feelings; to make an impression on the mind.,
O as in On (prep.) At or near; adjacent to; -- indicating situation, place, or position; as, on the one hand, on the other hand; the fleet is on the American coast.,
O as in On (prep.) In addition to; besides; -- indicating multiplication or succession in a series; as, heaps on heaps; mischief on mischief; loss on loss; thought on thought.,
O as in On (prep.) Indicating dependence or reliance; with confidence in; as, to depend on a person for assistance; to rely on; hence, indicating the ground or support of anything; as, he will promise on certain conditions; to bet on a horse.,
O as in On (prep.) At or in the time of; during; as, on Sunday we abstain from labor. See At (synonym).,
O as in On (prep.) At the time of, conveying some notion of cause or motive; as, on public occasions, the officers appear in full dress or uniform. Hence, in consequence of, or following; as, on the ratification of the treaty, the armies were disbanded.,
O as in On (prep.) Toward; for; -- indicating the object of some passion; as, have pity or compassion on him.,
O as in On (prep.) At the peril of, or for the safety of.,
O as in On (prep.) By virtue of; with the pledge of; -- denoting a pledge or engagement, and put before the thing pledged; as, he affirmed or promised on his word, or on his honor.,
O as in On (prep.) To the account of; -- denoting imprecation or invocation, or coming to, falling, or resting upon; as, on us be all the blame; a curse on him.,
O as in On (prep.) In reference or relation to; as, on our part expect punctuality; a satire on society.,
O as in On (prep.) Of.,
O as in On (prep.) Occupied with; in the performance of; as, only three officers are on duty; on a journey.,
O as in On (prep.) In the service of; connected with; of the number of; as, he is on a newspaper; on a committee.,
O as in On (prep.) Forward, in progression; onward; -- usually with a verb of motion; as, move on; go on.,
O as in On (prep.) Forward, in succession; as, from father to son, from the son to the grandson, and so on.,
O as in On (prep.) In continuance; without interruption or ceasing; as, sleep on, take your ease; say on; sing on.,
O as in On (prep.) Adhering; not off; as in the phrase, "He is neither on nor off," that is, he is not steady, he is irresolute.,
O as in On (prep.) Attached to the body, as clothing or ornament, or for use.,
O as in On (prep.) In progress; proceeding; as, a game is on.,
O as in Onagri (pl. ) of Onager,
O as in Onagers (pl. ) of Onager,
O as in Onager (n.) A military engine acting like a sling, which threw stones from a bag or wooden bucket, and was operated by machinery.,
O as in Onager (n.) A wild ass, especially the koulan.,
O as in Onagga (n.) The dauw.,
O as in Onagraceous (a.) Alt. of Onagrarieous,
O as in Onagrarieous (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, a natural order of plants (Onagraceae or Onagrarieae), which includes the fuchsia, the willow-herb (Epilobium), and the evening primrose (/nothera).,
O as in Onanism (n.) Self-pollution; masturbation.,
O as in Onappo (n.) A nocturnal South American monkey (Callithrix discolor), noted for its agility; -- called also ventriloquist monkey.,
O as in Ince (n.) The ounce.,
O as in Once (adv.) By limitation to the number one; for one time; not twice nor any number of times more than one.,
O as in Once (adv.) At some one period of time; -- used indefinitely.,
O as in Once (adv.) At any one time; -- often nearly equivalent to ever, if ever, or whenever; as, once kindled, it may not be quenched.,
O as in Oncidium (n.) A genus of tropical orchidaceous plants, the flower of one species of which (O. Papilio) resembles a butterfly.,
O as in Oncograph (n.) An instrument for registering the changes observable with an oncometer.,
O as in Oncometer (n.) An instrument for measuring the variations in size of the internal organs of the body, as the kidney, spleen, etc.,
O as in Oncotomy (n.) The opening of an abscess, or the removal of a tumor, with a cutting instrument.,
O as in Onde (n.) Hatred; fury; envy.,
O as in On dit () They say, or it is said.,
O as in On dit (n.) A flying report; rumor; as, it is a mere on dit.,
O as in -one () A suffix indicating that the substance, in the name of which it appears, is a ketone; as, acetone.,
O as in -one () A termination indicating that the hydrocarbon to the name of which it is affixed belongs to the fourth series of hydrocarbons, or the third series of unsaturated hydrocarbonsl as, nonone.,
O as in One (a.) Being a single unit, or entire being or thing, and no more; not multifold; single; individual.,
O as in One (a.) Denoting a person or thing conceived or spoken of indefinitely; a certain. "I am the sister of one Claudio" [Shak.], that is, of a certain man named Claudio.,
O as in One (a.) Pointing out a contrast, or denoting a particular thing or person different from some other specified; -- used as a correlative adjective, with or without the.,
O as in One (a.) Closely bound together; undivided; united; constituting a whole.,
O as in One (a.) Single in kind; the same; a common.,
O as in One (a.) Single; inmarried.,
O as in One (n.) A single unit; as, one is the base of all numbers.,
O as in One (n.) A symbol representing a unit, as 1, or i.,
O as in One (n.) A single person or thing.,
O as in One (indef. pron.) Any person, indefinitely; a person or body; as, what one would have well done, one should do one's self.,
O as in One (v. t.) To cause to become one; to gather into a single whole; to unite; to assimilite.,
O as in Oneberry (n.) The herb Paris. See Herb Paris, under Herb.,
O as in One-hand (a.) Employing one hand; as, the one-hand alphabet. See Dactylology.,
O as in One-horse (a.) Drawn by one horse; having but a single horse; as, a one-horse carriage.,
O as in One-horse (a.) Second-rate; inferior; small.,
O as in Oneidas (n. pl.) A tribe of Indians formerly inhabiting the region near Oneida Lake in the State of New York, and forming part of the Five Nations. Remnants of the tribe now live in New York, Canada, and Wisconsin.,
O as in Oneirocritic (a.) An interpreter of dreams.,
O as in Oneirocritic (a.) Alt. of Oneirocritical,
O as in Oneirocritical (a.) Of or pertaining to the interpretation of dreams.,
O as in Oneirocriticism (n.) Alt. of Oneirocritics,
O as in Oneirocritics (n.) The art of interpreting dreams.,
O as in Oneiromancy (n.) Divination by means of dreams.,
O as in Oneiroscopist (n.) One who interprets dreams.,
O as in Oneiroscopy (n.) The interpretation of dreams.,
O as in Oneliness (n.) The state of being one or single.,
O as in Onely (a.) See Only.,
O as in Onement (n.) The state of being at one or reconciled.,
O as in Oneness (n.) The state of being one; singleness in number; individuality; unity.,
O as in Onerary (a.) Fitted for, or carrying, a burden.,
O as in Onerated (imp. & p. p.) of Onerate,
O as in Onerating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Onerate,
O as in Onerate (v. t.) To load; to burden.,
O as in Oneration (n.) The act of loading.,
O as in Onerous (a.) Burdensome; oppressive.,
O as in Onerously (adv.) In an onerous manner.,
O as in Ones (adv.) Once.,
O as in Oneself (pron.) A reflexive form of the indefinite pronoun one. Commonly writen as two words, one's self.,
O as in One-sided (a.) Having one side only, or one side prominent; hence, limited to one side; partial; unjust; unfair; as, a one-sided view or statement.,
O as in One-sided (a.) Growing on one side of a stem; as, one-sided flowers.,
O as in Onethe (adv.) Scarcely. See Unnethe.,
O as in Ongoing (n.) The act of going forward; progress; (pl.) affairs; business; current events.,
O as in Onguent (n.) An unguent.,
O as in On-hanger (n.) A hanger-on.,
O as in Onion (n.) A liliaceous plant of the genus Allium (A. cepa), having a strong-flavored bulb and long hollow leaves; also, its bulbous root, much used as an article of food. The name is often extended to other species of the genus.,
O as in Onirocritic (a.) See Oneirocritic.,
O as in Onliness (n.) The state of being alone.,
O as in Onloft (adv.) Aloft; above ground.,
O as in On-looker (n.) A looker-on.,
O as in On-looking (a.) Looking on or forward.,
O as in Only (a.) One alone; single; as, the only man present; his only occupation.,
O as in Only (a.) Alone in its class; by itself; not associated with others of the same class or kind; as, an only child.,
O as in Only (a.) Hence, figuratively: Alone, by reason of superiority; preeminent; chief.,
O as in Only (a.) In one manner or degree; for one purpose alone; simply; merely; barely.,
O as in Only (a.) So and no otherwise; no other than; exclusively; solely; wholly.,
O as in Only (a.) Singly; without more; as, only-begotten.,
O as in Only (a.) Above all others; particularly.,
O as in Only (conj.) Save or except (that); -- an adversative used elliptically with or without that, and properly introducing a single fact or consideration.,
O as in Onocerin (n.) A white crystalline waxy substance extracted from the root of the leguminous plant Ononis spinosa.,
O as in Onology (n.) Foolish discourse.,
O as in Onomancy (n.) Divination by the letters of a name; nomancy.,
O as in Onomantic (a.) Alt. of Onomantical,
O as in Onomantical (a.) Of or pertaining to onomancy.,
O as in Onomastic (a.) Applied to a signature when the body of the instrument is in another's handwriting.,
O as in Onomasticon (n.) A collection of names and terms; a dictionary; specif., a collection of Greek names, with explanatory notes, made by Julius Pollux about A.D.180.,
O as in Onomatechny (n.) Prognostication by the letters of a name.,
O as in Onomatologist (n.) One versed in the history of names.,
O as in Onomatology (n.) The science of names or of their classification.,
O as in Onomatope (n.) An imitative word; an onomatopoetic word.,
O as in Onomatopoeia (n.) The formation of words in imitation of sounds; a figure of speech in which the sound of a word is imitative of the sound of the thing which the word represents; as, the buzz of bees; the hiss of a goose; the crackle of fire.,
O as in Onomatopoeic (a.) Onomatopoetic.,
O as in Onomatopoetic (a.) Of or pertaining to onomatopoeia; characterized by onomatopoeia; imitative; as, an onomatopoetic writer or word.,
O as in Onomatopy (n.) Onomatopoeia.,
O as in Onomomancy (n.) See Onomancy.,
O as in Onondagas (n. pl.) A tribe of Indians formerly inhabiting what is now a part of the State of New York. They were the central or head tribe of the Five Nations.,
O as in Onrush (n.) A rushing onward.,
O as in Onset (n.) A rushing or setting upon; an attack; an assault; a storming; especially, the assault of an army.,
O as in Onset (n.) A setting about; a beginning.,
O as in Onset (n.) Anything set on, or added, as an ornament or as a useful appendage.,
O as in Onset (v. t.) To assault; to set upon.,
O as in Onset (v. t.) To set about; to begin.,
O as in Onslaught (n.) An attack; an onset; esp., a furious or murderous attack or assault.,
O as in Onslaught (n.) A bloody fray or battle.,
O as in Onstead (n.) A single farmhouse; a steading.,
O as in Onto (prep.) On the top of; upon; on. See On to, under On, prep.,
O as in Ontogenesis (n.) Alt. of Ontogeny,
O as in Ontogeny (n.) The history of the individual development of an organism; the history of the evolution of the germ; the development of an individual organism, -- in distinction from phylogeny, or evolution of the tribe. Called also henogenesis, henogeny.,
O as in Ontogenetic (a.) Of or pertaining to ontogenesis; as, ontogenetic phenomena.,
O as in Ontogenic (a.) Ontogenetic.,
O as in Ontologic (a.) Ontological.,
O as in Ontological (a.) Of or pertaining to ontology.,
O as in Ontologically (adv.) In an ontological manner.,
O as in Ontologist (n.) One who is versed in or treats of ontology.,
O as in Ontology (n.) That department of the science of metaphysics which investigates and explains the nature and essential properties and relations of all beings, as such, or the principles and causes of being.,
O as in Onus (n.) A burden; an obligation.,
O as in Onward (a.) Moving in a forward direction; tending toward a contemplated or desirable end; forward; as, an onward course, progress, etc.,
O as in Onward (a.) Advanced in a forward direction or toward an end.,
O as in Onward (adv.) Toward a point before or in front; forward; progressively; as, to move onward.,
O as in Onwardness (n.) Progress; advancement.,
O as in Onwards (adv.) Onward.,
O as in Ony (a.) Any.,
O as in Onycha (n.) An ingredient of the Mosaic incense, probably the operculum of some kind of strombus.,
O as in Onycha (n.) The precious stone called onyx.,
O as in Onychia (n.) A whitlow.,
O as in Onychia (n.) An affection of a finger or toe, attended with ulceration at the base of the nail, and terminating in the destruction of the nail.,
O as in Onychomancy (n.) Divination by the nails.,
O as in Onychophora (n. pl.) Malacopoda.,
O as in Onyx (n.) Chalcedony in parallel layers of different shades of color. It is used for making cameos, the figure being cut in one layer with the next as a ground.,
O as in Oo (a.) One.,
O as in Oo (n.) A beautiful bird (Moho nobilis) of the Hawaiian Islands. It yields the brilliant yellow feathers formerly used in making the royal robes. Called also yellow-tufted honeysucker.,
O as in Ooecia (pl. ) of Ooecium,
O as in Ooecium (n.) One of the special zooids, or cells, of Bryozoa, destined to receive and develop ova; an ovicell. See Bryozoa.,
O as in Oogenesis (n.) The development, or mode of origin, of the ova.,
O as in Oogonia (pl. ) of Oogonium,
O as in Oogoniums (pl. ) of Oogonium,
O as in Oogonium (n.) A special cell in certain cryptogamous plants containing oospheres, as in the rockweeds (Fucus), and the orders Vaucherieae and Peronosporeae.,
O as in Ooidal (a.) Shaped like an egg.,
O as in Ook (n.) Oak.,
O as in Oolite (n.) A variety of limestone, consisting of small round grains, resembling the roe of a fish. It sometimes constitutes extensive beds, as in the European Jurassic. See the Chart of Geology.,
O as in Oolitic (a.) Of or pertaining to oolite; composed of, or resembling, oolite.,
O as in Oological (a.) Of or pertaining to oology.,
O as in Oologist (n.) One versed in oology.,
O as in Oology (n.) The science of eggs in relation to their coloring, size, shape, and number.,
O as in Oolong (n.) A fragrant variety of black tea having somewhat the flavor of green tea.,
O as in Oomiac (n.) Alt. of Oomiak,
O as in Oomiak (n.) A long, broad boat used by the Eskimos.,
O as in Oon (a.) One.,
O as in Oones (adv.) Once.,
O as in Oop (v. t.) To bind with a thread or cord; to join; to unite.,
O as in Oopack (n.) Alt. of Oopak,
O as in Oopak (n.) A kind of black tea.,
O as in Oophore (n.) An alternately produced form of certain cryptogamous plants, as ferns, mosses, and the like, which bears antheridia and archegonia, and so has sexual fructification, as contrasted with the sporophore, which is nonsexual, but produces spores in countless number. In ferns the oophore is a minute prothallus; in mosses it is the leafy plant.,
O as in Oophorectomy (n.) Ovariotomy.,
O as in Oophoric (a.) Having the nature of, or belonging to, an oophore.,
O as in Oophorida (pl. ) of Oophoridium,
O as in Oophoridiums (pl. ) of Oophoridium,
O as in Oophoridium (n.) The macrosporangium or case for the larger kind of spores in heterosporous flowerless plants.,
O as in Oophoritis (n.) Ovaritis.,
O as in Oophyte (n.) Any plant of a proposed class or grand division (collectively termed oophytes or Oophyta), which have their sexual reproduction accomplished by motile antherozoids acting on oospheres, either while included in their oogonia or after exclusion.,
O as in Oophytic (a.) Of or pertaining to an oophyte.,
O as in Oorial (n.) A wild, bearded sheep inhabiting the Ladakh mountains. It is reddish brown, with a dark beard from the chin to the chest.,
O as in Oosperm (n.) The ovum, after fusion with the spermatozoon in impregnation.,
O as in Oospere (n.) An unfertilized, rounded mass of protoplasm, produced in an oogonium.,
O as in Oospere (n.) An analogous mass of protoplasm in the ovule of a flowering plant; an embryonic vesicle.,
O as in Oosporangia (pl. ) of Oosporangium,
O as in Oosporangiums (pl. ) of Oosporangium,
O as in Oosporangium (n.) An oogonium; also, a case containing oval or rounded spores of some other kind than oospores.,
O as in Oospore (n.) A special kind of spore resulting from the fertilization of an oosphere by antherozoids.,
O as in Oospore (n.) A fertilized oosphere in the ovule of a flowering plant.,
O as in Oosporic (a.) Of or pertaining to an oospore.,
O as in Oostegite (n.) One of the plates which in some Crustacea inclose a cavity wherein the eggs are hatched.,
O as in Oothecae (pl. ) of Ootheca,
O as in Ootheca (n.) An egg case, especially those of many kinds of mollusks, and of some insects, as the cockroach. Cf. Ooecium.,
O as in Ootooid (n.) Alt. of Ootocoid,
O as in Ootocoid (n.) A half oviparous, or an oviparous, mammal; a marsupial or monotreme.,
O as in Ootype (n.) The part of the oviduct of certain trematode worms in which the ova are completed and furnished with a shell.,
O as in Ooze (n.) Soft mud or slime; earth so wet as to flow gently, or easily yield to pressure.,
O as in Ooze (n.) Soft flow; spring.,
O as in Ooze (n.) The liquor of a tan vat.,
O as in Oozed (imp. & p. p.) of Ooze,
O as in Oozing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ooze,
O as in Ooze (n.) To flow gently; to percolate, as a liquid through the pores of a substance or through small openings.,
O as in Ooze (n.) Fig.: To leak (out) or escape slowly; as, the secret oozed out; his courage oozed out.,
O as in Ooze (v. t.) To cause to ooze.,
O as in Oozoa (n. pl.) Same as Acrita.,
O as in Oozy (a.) Miry; containing soft mud; resembling ooze; as, the oozy bed of a river.,
O as in Opacate (v. t.) To darken; to cloud.,
O as in Opacity (n.) The state of being opaque; the quality of a body which renders it impervious to the rays of light; want of transparency; opaqueness.,
O as in Opacity (n.) Obscurity; want of clearness.,
O as in Opacous (a.) Opaque.,
O as in Opacular (a.) Opaque.,
O as in Opah (n.) A large oceanic fish (Lampris quttatus), inhabiting the Atlantic Ocean. It is remarkable for its brilliant colors, which are red, green, and blue, with tints of purple and gold, covered with round silvery spots. Called also king of the herrings.,
O as in Opake (a.) See Opaque.,
O as in Opal (n.) A mineral consisting, like quartz, of silica, but inferior to quartz in hardness and specific gravity.,
O as in Opalesced (imp. & p. p.) of Opalesce,
O as in Opalescing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Opalesce,
O as in Opalesce (v. i.) To give forth a play of colors, like the opal.,
O as in Opalescence (n.) A reflection of a milky or pearly light from the interior of a mineral, as in the moonstone; the state or quality of being opalescent.,
O as in Opalescent (a.) Reflecting a milky or pearly light from the interior; having an opaline play of colors.,
O as in Opaline (a.) Of, pertaining to, or like, opal in appearance; having changeable colors like those of the opal.,
O as in Opalized (imp. & p. p.) of Opalize,
O as in Opalizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Opalize,
O as in Opalize (v. t.) To convert into opal, or a substance like opal.,
O as in Opalotype (n.) A picture taken on "milky" glass.,
O as in Opaque (a.) Impervious to the rays of light; not transparent; as, an opaque substance.,
O as in Opaque (a.) Obscure; not clear; unintelligible.,
O as in Opaque (n.) That which is opaque; opacity.,
O as in Opaqueness (n.) The state or quality of being impervious to light; opacity.,
O as in Ope (a.) Open.,
O as in Ope (v. t. & i.) To open.,
O as in Opeidoscope (n.) An instrument, consisting of a tube having one end open and the other end covered with a thin flexible membrance to the center of which is attached a small mirror. It is used for exhibiting upon a screen, by means of rays reflected from the mirror, the vibratory motions caused by sounds produced at the open end of the tube, as by speaking or singing into it.,
O as in Opelet (n.) A bright-colored European actinian (Anemonia, / Anthea, sulcata); -- so called because it does not retract its tentacles.,
O as in Open (a.) Free of access; not shut up; not closed; affording unobstructed ingress or egress; not impeding or preventing passage; not locked up or covered over; -- applied to passageways; as, an open door, window, road, etc.; also, to inclosed structures or objects; as, open houses, boxes, baskets, bottles, etc.; also, to means of communication or approach by water or land; as, an open harbor or roadstead.,
O as in Open (a.) Free to be used, enjoyed, visited, or the like; not private; public; unrestricted in use; as, an open library, museum, court, or other assembly; liable to the approach, trespass, or attack of any one; unprotected; exposed.,
O as in Open (a.) Free or cleared of obstruction to progress or to view; accessible; as, an open tract; the open sea.,
O as in Open (a.) Not drawn together, closed, or contracted; extended; expanded; as, an open hand; open arms; an open flower; an open prospect.,
O as in Open (a.) Without reserve or false pretense; sincere; characterized by sincerity; unfeigned; frank; also, generous; liberal; bounteous; -- applied to personal appearance, or character, and to the expression of thought and feeling, etc.,
O as in Open (a.) Not concealed or secret; not hidden or disguised; exposed to view or to knowledge; revealed; apparent; as, open schemes or plans; open shame or guilt.,
O as in Open (a.) Not of a quality to prevent communication, as by closing water ways, blocking roads, etc.; hence, not frosty or inclement; mild; -- used of the weather or the climate; as, an open season; an open winter.,
O as in Open (a.) Not settled or adjusted; not decided or determined; not closed or withdrawn from consideration; as, an open account; an open question; to keep an offer or opportunity open.,
O as in Open (a.) Free; disengaged; unappropriated; as, to keep a day open for any purpose; to be open for an engagement.,
O as in Open (a.) Uttered with a relatively wide opening of the articulating organs; -- said of vowels; as, the an far is open as compared with the a in say.,
O as in Open (a.) Uttered, as a consonant, with the oral passage simply narrowed without closure, as in uttering s.,
O as in Open (a.) Not closed or stopped with the finger; -- said of the string of an instrument, as of a violin, when it is allowed to vibrate throughout its whole length.,
O as in Open (a.) Produced by an open string; as, an open tone.,
O as in Open (n.) Open or unobstructed space; clear land, without trees or obstructions; open ocean; open water.,
O as in Opened (imp. & p. p.) of Open,
O as in Opening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Open,
O as in Open (v. t.) To make or set open; to render free of access; to unclose; to unbar; to unlock; to remove any fastening or covering from; as, to open a door; to open a box; to open a room; to open a letter.,
O as in Open (v. t.) To spread; to expand; as, to open the hand.,
O as in Open (v. t.) To disclose; to reveal; to interpret; to explain.,
O as in Open (v. t.) To make known; to discover; also, to render available or accessible for settlements, trade, etc.,
O as in Open (v. t.) To enter upon; to begin; as, to open a discussion; to open fire upon an enemy; to open trade, or correspondence; to open a case in court, or a meeting.,
O as in Open (v. t.) To loosen or make less compact; as, to open matted cotton by separating the fibers.,
O as in Open (v. i.) To unclose; to form a hole, breach, or gap; to be unclosed; to be parted.,
O as in Open (v. i.) To expand; to spread out; to be disclosed; as, the harbor opened to our view.,
O as in Open (v. i.) To begin; to commence; as, the stock opened at par; the battery opened upon the enemy.,
O as in Open (v. i.) To bark on scent or view of the game.,
O as in Open-air (a.) Taking place in the open air; outdoor; as, an open-air game or meeting.,
O as in Openbill (n.) A bird of the genus Anastomus, allied to the stork; -- so called because the two parts of the bill touch only at the base and tip. One species inhabits India, another Africa. Called also open-beak. See Illust. (m), under Beak.,
O as in Opener (n.) One who, or that which, opens.,
O as in Open-eyed (a.) With eyes widely open; watchful; vigilant.,
O as in Open-handed (a.) Generous; liberal; munificent.,
O as in Open-headed (a.) Bareheaded.,
O as in Open-hearted (a.) Candid; frank; generous.,
O as in Opening (n.) The act or process of opening; a beginning; commencement; first appearance; as, the opening of a speech.,
O as in Opening (n.) A place which is open; a breach; an aperture; a gap; cleft, or hole.,
O as in Opening (n.) Hence: A vacant place; an opportunity; as, an opening for business.,
O as in Opening (n.) A thinly wooded space, without undergrowth, in the midst of a forest; as, oak openings.,
O as in Openly (adv.) In an open manner; publicly; not in private; without secrecy.,
O as in Openly (adv.) Without reserve or disguise; plainly; evidently.,
O as in Open-mouthed (a.) Having the mouth open; gaping; hence, greedy; clamorous.,
O as in Openness (n.) The quality or state of being open.,
O as in Openwork (n.) Anything so constructed or manufactured (in needlework, carpentry, metal work, etc.) as to show openings through its substance; work that is perforated or pierced.,
O as in Openwork (n.) A quarry; an open cut.,
O as in Opera (n.) A drama, either tragic or comic, of which music forms an essential part; a drama wholly or mostly sung, consisting of recitative, arials, choruses, duets, trios, etc., with orchestral accompaniment, preludes, and interludes, together with appropriate costumes, scenery, and action; a lyric drama.,
O as in Opera (n.) The score of a musical drama, either written or in print; a play set to music.,
O as in Opera (n.) The house where operas are exhibited.,
O as in Operable (a.) Practicable.,
O as in Operameter (n.) An instrument or machine for measuring work done, especially for ascertaining the number of rotations made by a machine or wheel in manufacturing cloth; a counter.,
O as in Operance (n.) Alt. of Operancy,
O as in Operancy (n.) The act of operating or working; operation.,
O as in Operand (n.) The symbol, quantity, or thing upon which a mathematical operation is performed; -- called also faciend.,
O as in Operant (a.) Operative.,
O as in Operant (n.) An operative person or thing.,
O as in Operated (imp. & p. p.) of Operate,
O as in Operating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Operate,
O as in Operate (v. i.) To perform a work or labor; to exert power or strengh, physical or mechanical; to act.,
O as in Operate (v. i.) To produce an appropriate physical effect; to issue in the result designed by nature; especially (Med.), to take appropriate effect on the human system.,
O as in Operate (v. i.) To act or produce effect on the mind; to exert moral power or influence.,
O as in Operate (v. i.) To perform some manual act upon a human body in a methodical manner, and usually with instruments, with a view to restore soundness or health, as in amputation, lithotomy, etc.,
O as in Operate (v. i.) To deal in stocks or any commodity with a view to speculative profits.,
O as in Operate (v. t.) To produce, as an effect; to cause.,
O as in Operate (v. t.) To put into, or to continue in, operation or activity; to work; as, to operate a machine.,
O as in Operatic (a.) Alt. of Operatical,
O as in Operatical (a.) Of or pertaining to the opera or to operas; characteristic of, or resembling, the opera.,
O as in Operation (n.) The act or process of operating; agency; the exertion of power, physical, mechanical, or moral.,
O as in Operation (n.) The method of working; mode of action.,
O as in Operation (n.) That which is operated or accomplished; an effect brought about in accordance with a definite plan; as, military or naval operations.,
O as in Operation (n.) Effect produced; influence.,
O as in Operation (n.) Something to be done; some transformation to be made upon quantities, the transformation being indicated either by rules or symbols.,
O as in Operation (n.) Any methodical action of the hand, or of the hand with instruments, on the human body, to produce a curative or remedial effect, as in amputation, etc.,
O as in Operative (a.) Having the power of acting; hence, exerting force, physical or moral; active in the production of effects; as, an operative motive.,
O as in Operative (a.) Producing the appropriate or designed effect; efficacious; as, an operative dose, rule, or penalty.,
O as in Operative (a.) Based upon, or consisting of, an operation or operations; as, operative surgery.,
O as in Operative (n.) A skilled worker; an artisan; esp., one who operates a machine in a mill or manufactory.,
O as in Operatively (adv.) In an operative manner.,
O as in Operator (n.) One who, or that which, operates or produces an effect.,
O as in Operator (n.) One who performs some act upon the human body by means of the hand, or with instruments.,
O as in Operator (n.) A dealer in stocks or any commodity for speculative purposes; a speculator.,
O as in Operator (n.) The symbol that expresses the operation to be performed; -- called also facient.,
O as in Operatory (n.) A laboratory.,
O as in Opercle (n.) Any one of the bony plates which support the gill covers of fishes; an opercular bone.,
O as in Opercle (n.) An operculum.,
O as in Opercula (n. pl.) See Operculum.,
O as in Oparcular (a.) Of, pertaining to, or like, an operculum.,
O as in Opercular (n.) The principal opercular bone or operculum of fishes.,
O as in Operculate (a.) Alt. of Operculated,
O as in Operculated (a.) Closed by a lid or cover, as the capsules of the mosses.,
O as in Operculated (a.) Having an operculum, or an apparatus for protecting the gills; -- said of shells and of fishes.,
O as in Operculiferous (a.) Bearing an operculum.,
O as in Operculiform (a.) Having the form of a lid or cover.,
O as in Operculigenous (a.) Producing an operculum; -- said of the foot, or part of the foot, of certain mollusks.,
O as in Opercula (pl. ) of Operculum,
O as in Operculums (pl. ) of Operculum,
O as in Operculum (n.) The lid of a pitcherform leaf.,
O as in Operculum (n.) The lid of the urnlike capsule of mosses.,
O as in Operculum (n.) Any lidlike or operculiform process or part; as, the opercula of a dental follicle.,
O as in Operculum (n.) The fold of integument, usually supported by bony plates, which protects the gills of most fishes and some amphibians; the gill cover; the gill lid.,
O as in Operculum (n.) The principal opercular bone in the upper and posterior part of the gill cover.,
O as in Operculum (n.) The lid closing the aperture of various species of shells, as the common whelk. See Illust. of Gastropoda.,
O as in Operculum (n.) Any lid-shaped structure closing the aperture of a tube or shell.,
O as in Operetta (n.) A short, light, musical drama.,
O as in Operose (a.) Wrought with labor; requiring labor; hence, tedious; wearisome.,
O as in Operosity (n.) Laboriousness.,
O as in Operous (a.) Operose.,
O as in Opertaneous (a.) Concealed; private.,
O as in Opetide (n.) Open time; -- applied to different things,
O as in Opetide (n.) The early spring, or the time when flowers begin opening.,
O as in Opetide (n.) The time between Epiphany and Ash Wednesday wherein marriages were formerly solemnized publicly in churches. [Eng.],
O as in Opetide (n.) The time after harvest when the common fields are open to all kinds of stock.,
O as in Ophelic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, a substance (called ophelic acid) extracted from a plant (Ophelia) of the Gentian family as a bitter yellowish sirup, used in India as a febrifuge and tonic.,
O as in Ophicleide (n.) A large brass wind instrument, formerly used in the orchestra and in military bands, having a loud tone, deep pitch, and a compass of three octaves; -- now generally supplanted by bass and contrabass tubas.,
O as in Ophidia (n. pl.) The order of reptiles which includes the serpents.,
O as in Ophidian (n.) One of the Ophidia; a snake or serpent.,
O as in Ophidian (a.) Of or pertaining to the Ophidia; belonging to serpents.,
O as in Ophidioid (a.) Of or pertaining to the Ophidiidae, a family of fishes which includes many slender species.,
O as in Ophidioid (n.) One of the Ophidiidae.,
O as in Ophidia (pl. ) of Ophidion,
O as in Ophidion (n.) The typical genus of ophidioid fishes. [Written also Ophidium.] See Illust. under Ophidioid.,
O as in Ophidious (a.) Ophidian.,
O as in Ophiolatry (n.) The worship of serpents.,
O as in Ophiologic (a.) Alt. of Ophiological,
O as in Ophiological (a.) Of or pertaining to ophiology.,
O as in Ophiologist (n.) One versed in the natural history of serpents.,
O as in Ophiology (n.) That part of natural history which treats of the ophidians, or serpents.,
O as in Ophiomancy (n.) Divination by serpents, as by their manner of eating, or by their coils.,
O as in Ophiomorpha (n. pl.) An order of tailless amphibians having a slender, wormlike body with regular annulations, and usually with minute scales imbedded in the skin. The limbs are rudimentary or wanting. It includes the caecilians. Called also Gymnophiona and Ophidobatrachia.,
O as in Ophiomorphite (n.) An ammonite.,
O as in Ophiomorphous (a.) Having the form of a serpent.,
O as in Ophiophagous (a.) Feeding on serpents; -- said of certain birds and reptiles.,
O as in Ophiophagus (n.) A genus of venomous East Indian snakes, which feed on other snakes. Ophiophagus elaps is said to be the largest and most deadly of poisonous snakes.,
O as in Ophite (a.) Of or pertaining to a serpent.,
O as in Ophite (n.) A greenish spotted porphyry, being a diabase whose pyroxene has been altered to uralite; -- first found in the Pyreness. So called from the colored spots which give it a mottled appearance.,
O as in Ophite (a.) A mamber of a Gnostic serpent-worshiping sect of the second century.,
O as in Ophiuchus (n.) A constellation in the Northern Hemisphere, delineated as a man holding a serpent in his hands; -- called also Serpentarius.,
O as in Ophiura (n.) A genus of ophiurioid starfishes.,
O as in Ophiuran (a.) Of or pertaining to the Ophiurioidea.,
O as in Ophiuran (n.) One of the Ophiurioidea.,
O as in Ophiurid (n.) Same as Ophiurioid.,
O as in Ophiurida (n. pl.) Same as Ophiurioidea.,
O as in Ophiurioid (a.) Of or pertaining to the Ophiurioidea.,
O as in Ophiurioid (n.) One of the Ophiurioidea.,
O as in Ophiurioidea (n. pl.) Alt. of Ophiuroidea,
O as in Ophiuroidea (n. pl.) A class of star-shaped echinoderms having a disklike body, with slender, articulated arms, which are not grooved beneath and are often very fragile; -- called also Ophiuroida and Ophiuridea. See Illust. under Brittle star.,
O as in Ophryon (n.) The supraorbital point.,
O as in Ophthalmia (n.) An inflammation of the membranes or coats of the eye or of the eyeball.,
O as in Ophthalmic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or in the region of, the eye; ocular; as the ophthalmic, or orbitonasal, nerve, a division of the trigeminal, which gives branches to the lachrymal gland, eyelids, nose, and forehead.,
O as in Ophthalmite (n.) An eyestalk; the organ which bears the compound eyes of decapod Crustacea.,
O as in Ophthalmological (a.) Of or pertaining to ophthalmology.,
O as in Ophthalmologist (n.) One skilled in ophthalmology; an oculist.,
O as in Ophthalmology (n.) The science which treats of the structure, functions, and diseases of the eye.,
O as in Ophthalmometer (n.) An instrument devised by Helmholtz for measuring the size of a reflected image on the convex surface of the cornea and lens of the eye, by which their curvature can be ascertained.,
O as in Ophthalmoscope (n.) An instrument for viewing the interior of the eye, particularly the retina. Light is thrown into the eye by a mirror (usually concave) and the interior is then examined with or without the aid of a lens.,
O as in Ophthalmoscopy (n.) A branch of physiognomy which deduces the knowledge of a person's temper and character from the appearance of the eyes.,
O as in Ophthalmoscopy (n.) Examination of the eye with the ophthalmoscope.,
O as in Ophthalmy (n.) Same as Ophthalmia.,
O as in Opianic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, an organic acid obtained by the oxidation of narcotine.,
O as in Opianine (n.) An alkaloid found in small quantity in opium. It is identical with narcotine.,
O as in Opianyl (n.) Same as Meconin.,
O as in Opiate (n.) Originally, a medicine of a thicker consistence than sirup, prepared with opium.,
O as in Opiate (n.) Any medicine that contains opium, and has the quality of inducing sleep or repose; a narcotic.,
O as in Opiate (n.) Anything which induces rest or inaction; that which quiets uneasiness.,
O as in Opiate (a.) Inducing sleep; somniferous; narcotic; hence, anodyne; causing rest, dullness, or inaction; as, the opiate rod of Hermes.,
O as in Opiate (v. t.) To subject to the influence of an opiate; to put to sleep.,
O as in Opiated (a.) Mixed with opiates.,
O as in Opiated (a.) Under the influence of opiates.,
O as in Opie (n.) Opium.,
O as in Opiferous (a.) Bringing help.,
O as in Opifice (n.) Workmanship.,
O as in Opificer (n.) An artificer; a workman.,
O as in Opinable (a.) Capable of being opined or thought.,
O as in Opination (n.) The act of thinking; a supposition.,
O as in Opinative (a.) Obstinate in holding opinions; opinionated.,
O as in Opinator (n.) One fond of his own opinious; one who holds an opinion.,
O as in Opined (imp. & p. p.) of Opine,
O as in Opining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Opine,
O as in Opine (v. t. & i.) To have an opinion; to judge; to think; to suppose.,
O as in Opiner (n.) One who opines.,
O as in Opiniaster (a.) Alt. of Opiniatre,
O as in Opiniatre (a.) Opinionated.,
O as in Opiniastrous (a.) See Opiniaster. [Obs.].,
O as in Opinlate (v. t.) To hold or maintain persistently.,
O as in Opiniated (a.) Opinionated.,
O as in Opiniative (a.) Opinionative.,
O as in Opiniator (n.) Alt. of Opiniatre,
O as in Opiniatre (n.) One who is opinionated.,
O as in Opiniatre (a.) See Opiniaster.,
O as in Opiniatrety (n.) Obstinacy in opinious.,
O as in Opinicus (n.) An imaginary animal borne as a charge, having wings, an eagle's head, and a short tail; -- sometimes represented without wings.,
O as in Opining (n.) Opinion.,
O as in Opinion (n.) That which is opined; a notion or conviction founded on probable evidence; belief stronger than impression, less strong than positive knowledge; settled judgment in regard to any point of knowledge or action.,
O as in Opinion (n.) The judgment or sentiment which the mind forms of persons or things; estimation.,
O as in Opinion (n.) Favorable estimation; hence, consideration; reputation; fame; public sentiment or esteem.,
O as in Opinion (n.) Obstinacy in holding to one's belief or impression; opiniativeness; conceitedness.,
O as in Opinion (n.) The formal decision, or expression of views, of a judge, an umpire, a counselor, or other party officially called upon to consider and decide upon a matter or point submitted.,
O as in Opinion (v. t.) To opine.,
O as in Opinionable (a.) Being, or capable of being, a matter of opinion; that can be thought; not positively settled; as, an opinionable doctrine.,
O as in Opinionate (a.) Opinionated.,
O as in Opinionated (a.) Stiff in opinion; firmly or unduly adhering to one's own opinion or to preconceived notions; obstinate in opinion.,
O as in Opinionately (adv.) Conceitedly.,
O as in Opinionatist (n.) An opinionist.,
O as in Opinionative (a.) Unduly attached to one's own opinions; opinionated.,
O as in Opinionative (a.) Of the nature of an opinion; conjectured.,
O as in Opinionator (n.) An opinionated person; one given to conjecture.,
O as in Opinioned (a.) Opinionated; conceited.,
O as in Opinionist (n.) One fond of his own notions, or unduly attached to his own opinions.,
O as in Opiparous (a.) Sumptuous.,
O as in Opisometer (n.) An instrument with a revolving wheel for measuring a curved line, as on a map.,
O as in Opisthion (n.) The middle of the posterior, or dorsal, margin of the great foramen of the skull.,
O as in Opisthobranchia (n. pl.) Alt. of Opisthobranchiata,
O as in Opisthobranchiata (n. pl.) A division of gastropod Mollusca, in which the breathing organs are usually situated behind the heart. It includes the tectibranchs and nudibranchs.,
O as in Opisthobranchiate (a.) Of or pertaining to the Opisthobranchiata.,
O as in Opisthobranchiate (n.) One of the Opisthobranchiata.,
O as in Opisthocoelian (a.) Alt. of Opisthocoelous,
O as in Opisthocoelous (a.) Concave behind; -- applied especially to vertebrae in which the anterior end of the centrum is convex and the posterior concave.,
O as in Opisthodome (n.) A back chamber; especially, that part of the naos, or cella, farthest from the main entrance, sometimes having an entrance of its own, and often used as a treasury.,
O as in Opisthoglypha (n. pl.) A division of serpents which have some of the posterior maxillary teeth grooved for fangs.,
O as in Opisthography (n.) A writing upon the back of anything, as upon the back of a leaf or sheet already written upon on one side.,
O as in Opisthomi (n. pl.) An order of eellike fishes having the scapular arch attached to the vertebrae, but not connected with the skull.,
O as in Opisthopulmonate (a.) Having the pulmonary sac situated posteriorly; -- said of certain air-breathing Mollusca.,
O as in Opisthotic (n.) The inferior and posterior of the three elements forming the periotic bone.,
O as in Opisthotonos (n.) A tetanic spasm in which the body is bent backwards and stiffened.,
O as in Opitulation (n.) The act of helping or aiding; help.,
O as in Opium (n.) The inspissated juice of the Papaver somniferum, or white poppy.,
O as in Ople tree () The witch-hazel.,
O as in Opobalsam (n.) Alt. of Opobalsamum,
O as in Opobalsamum (n.) The old name of the aromatic resinous juice of the Balsamodendron opobalsamum, now commonly called balm of Gilead. See under Balm.,
O as in Opodeldoc (n.) A kind of plaster, said to have been invented by Mindererus, -- used for external injuries.,
O as in Opodeldoc (n.) A saponaceous, camphorated liniment; a solution of soap in alcohol, with the addition of camphor and essential oils; soap liniment.,
O as in Opopanax (n.) The inspissated juice of an umbelliferous plant (the Opoponax Chironum), brought from Turkey and the East Indies in loose granules, or sometimes in larger masses, of a reddish yellow color, with specks of white. It has a strong smell and acrid taste, and was formerly used in medicine as an emmenagogue and antispasmodic.,
O as in Opossum (n.) Any American marsupial of the genera Didelphys and Chironectes. The common species of the United States is Didelphys Virginiana.,
O as in Oppidan (a.) Of or pertaining to a town.,
O as in Oppidan (n.) An inhabitant of a town.,
O as in Oppidan (n.) A student of Eton College, England, who is not a King's scholar, and who boards in a private family.,
O as in Oppignerate (v. i.) To pledge; to pawn.,
O as in Oppilated (imp. & p. p.) of Oppilate,
O as in Oppilating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Oppilate,
O as in Oppilate (v. t.) To crowd together; to fill with obstructions; to block up.,
O as in Oppilation (n.) The act of filling or crowding together; a stopping by redundant matter; obstruction, particularly in the lower intestines.,
O as in Oppilative (a.) Obstructive.,
O as in Opplete (a.) Alt. of Oppleted,
O as in Oppleted (a.) Filled; crowded.,
O as in Oppletion (n.) The act of filling up, or the state of being filled up; fullness.,
O as in Oppone (v. t.) To oppose.,
O as in Opponency (n.) The act of opening an academical disputation; the proposition of objections to a tenet, as an exercise for a degree.,
O as in Opponent (a.) Situated in front; opposite; hence, opposing; adverse; antagonistic.,
O as in Opponent (n.) One who opposes; an adversary; an antagonist; a foe.,
O as in Opponent (n.) One who opposes in a disputation, argument, or other verbal controversy; specifically, one who attacks some theirs or proposition, in distinction from the respondent, or defendant, who maintains it.,
O as in Opportune (a.) Convenient; ready; hence, seasonable; timely.,
O as in Opportune (v. t.) To suit.,
O as in Opportunism (n.) The art or practice of taking advantage of opportunities or circumstances, or of seeking immediate advantage with little regard for ultimate consequences.,
O as in Opportunist (n.) One who advocates or practices opportunism.,
O as in Opportunities (pl. ) of Opportunity,
O as in Opportunity (n.) Fit or convenient time; a time or place favorable for executing a purpose; a suitable combination of conditions; suitable occasion; chance.,
O as in Opportunity (n.) Convenience of situation; fitness.,
O as in Opportunity (n.) Importunity; earnestness.,
O as in Opposability (n.) The condition or quality of being opposable.,
O as in Opposable (a.) Capable of being opposed or resisted.,
O as in Opposable (a.) Capable of being placed opposite something else; as, the thumb is opposable to the forefinger.,
O as in Opposal (n.) Opposition.,
O as in Opposed (imp. & p. p.) of Oppose,
O as in Opposing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Oppose,
O as in Oppose (n.) To place in front of, or over against; to set opposite; to exhibit.,
O as in Oppose (n.) To put in opposition, with a view to counterbalance or countervail; to set against; to offer antagonistically.,
O as in Oppose (n.) To resist or antagonize by physical means, or by arguments, etc.; to contend against; to confront; to resist; to withstand; as, to oppose the king in battle; to oppose a bill in Congress.,
O as in Oppose (n.) To compete with; to strive against; as, to oppose a rival for a prize.,
O as in Oppose (v. i.) To be set opposite.,
O as in Oppose (v. i.) To act adversely or in opposition; -- with against or to; as, a servant opposed against the act.,
O as in Oppose (v. i.) To make objection or opposition in controversy.,
O as in Opposeless (a.) Not to be effectually opposed; irresistible.,
O as in Opposer (n.) One who opposes; an opponent; an antagonist; an adversary.,
O as in Opposite (a.) Placed over against; standing or situated over against or in front; facing; -- often with to; as, a house opposite to the Exchange.,
O as in Opposite (a.) Applied to the other of two things which are entirely different; other; as, the opposite sex; the opposite extreme.,
O as in Opposite (a.) Extremely different; inconsistent; contrary; repugnant; antagonistic.,
O as in Opposite (a.) Set over against each other, but separated by the whole diameter of the stem, as two leaves at the same node.,
O as in Opposite (a.) Placed directly in front of another part or organ, as a stamen which stands before a petal.,
O as in Opposite (n.) One who opposes; an opponent; an antagonist.,
O as in Opposite (n.) That which is opposed or contrary; as, sweetness and its opposite.,
O as in Oppositely (adv.) In a situation to face each other; in an opposite manner or direction; adversely.,
O as in Oppositeness (n.) The quality or state of being opposite.,
O as in Oppositifolious (a.) Placed at the same node with a leaf, but separated from it by the whole diameter of the stem; as, an oppositifolious peduncle.,
O as in Opposition (n.) The act of opposing; an attempt to check, restrain, or defeat; resistance.,
O as in Opposition (n.) The state of being placed over against; situation so as to front something else.,
O as in Opposition (n.) Repugnance; contrariety of sentiment, interest, or purpose; antipathy.,
O as in Opposition (n.) That which opposes; an obstacle; specifically, the aggregate of persons or things opposing; hence, in politics and parliamentary practice, the party opposed to the party in power.,
O as in Opposition (n.) The situation of a heavenly body with respect to another when in the part of the heavens directly opposite to it; especially, the position of a planet or satellite when its longitude differs from that of the sun 180�; -- signified by the symbol /; as, / / /, opposition of Jupiter to the sun.,
O as in Opposition (n.) The relation between two propositions when, having the same subject and predicate, they differ in quantity, or in quality, or in both; or between two propositions which have the same matter but a different form.,
O as in Oppositionist (n.) One who belongs to the opposition party.,
O as in Oppositipetalous (a.) Placed in front of a petal.,
O as in Oppositisepalous (a.) Placed in front of a sepal.,
O as in Oppositive (a.) Capable of being put in opposition.,
O as in Oppressed (imp. & p. p.) of Oppress,
O as in Oppressing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Oppress,
O as in Oppress (v. t.) To impose excessive burdens upon; to overload; hence, to treat with unjust rigor or with cruelty.,
O as in Oppress (v. t.) To ravish; to violate.,
O as in Oppress (v. t.) To put down; to crush out; to suppress.,
O as in Oppress (v. t.) To produce a sensation of weight in (some part of the body); as, my lungs are oppressed by the damp air; excess of food oppresses the stomach.,
O as in Oppression (n.) The act of oppressing, or state of being oppressed.,
O as in Oppression (n.) That which oppresses; a hardship or injustice; cruelty; severity; tyranny.,
O as in Oppression (n.) A sense of heaviness or obstruction in the body or mind; depression; dullness; lassitude; as, an oppression of spirits; an oppression of the lungs.,
O as in Oppression (n.) Ravishment; rape.,
O as in Oppressive (a.) Unreasonably burdensome; unjustly severe, rigorous, or harsh; as, oppressive taxes; oppressive exactions of service; an oppressive game law.,
O as in Oppressive (a.) Using oppression; tyrannical; as, oppressive authority or commands.,
O as in Oppressive (a.) Heavy; overpowering; hard to be borne; as, oppressive grief or woe.,
O as in Oppressor (n.) One who oppresses; one who imposes unjust burdens on others; one who harasses others with unjust laws or unreasonable severity.,
O as in Oppressure (n.) Oppression.,
O as in Opprobrious (a.) Expressive of opprobrium; attaching disgrace; reproachful; scurrilous; as, opprobrious language.,
O as in Opprobrious (a.) Infamous; despised; rendered hateful; as, an opprobrious name.,
O as in Opprobrium (n.) Disgrace; infamy; reproach mingled with contempt; abusive language.,
O as in Opprobry (n.) Opprobrium.,
O as in Oppugned (imp. & p. p.) of Oppugn,
O as in Oppugning (p pr. & vb. n.) of Oppugn,
O as in Oppugn (v. t.) To fight against; to attack; to be in conflict with; to oppose; to resist.,
O as in Oppugnancy (n.) The act of oppugning; opposition; resistance.,
O as in Oppugnant (a.) Tending to awaken hostility; hostile; opposing; warring.,
O as in Oppugnant (n.) An opponent.,
O as in Oppugnation (n.) Opposition.,
O as in Oppugner (n.) One who opposes or attacks; that which opposes.,
O as in Opsimathy (n.) Education late in life.,
O as in Opsiometer (n.) An instrument for measuring the limits of distincts vision in different individuals, and thus determiming the proper focal length of a lens for correcting imperfect sight.,
O as in Opsonation (n.) A catering; a buying of provisions.,
O as in Optable (a.) That may be chosen; desirable.,
O as in Optate (v. i.) To choose; to wish for; to desire.,
O as in Optation (n.) The act of optating; a wish.,
O as in Optative (a.) Expressing desire or wish.,
O as in Optative (n.) Something to be desired.,
O as in Optative (n.) The optative mood; also, a verb in the optative mood.,
O as in Optatively (adv.) In an optative manner; with the expression of desire.,
O as in Optic (a.) The organ of sight; an eye.,
O as in Optic (a.) An eyeglass.,
O as in Optic (a.) Alt. of Optical,
O as in Optical (a.) Of or pertaining to vision or sight.,
O as in Optical (a.) Of or pertaining to the eye; ocular; as, the optic nerves (the first pair of cranial nerves) which are distributed to the retina. See Illust. of Brain, and Eye.,
O as in Optical (a.) Relating to the science of optics; as, optical works.,
O as in Optically (adv.) By optics or sight; with reference to optics.,
O as in Optician (a.) One skilled in optics.,
O as in Optician (a.) One who deals in optical glasses and instruments.,
O as in Optics (n.) That branch of physical science which treats of the nature and properties of light, the laws of its modification by opaque and transparent bodies, and the phenomena of vision.,
O as in Optigraph (a.) A telescope with a diagonal eyepiece, suspended vertically in gimbals by the object end beneath a fixed diagonal plane mirror. It is used for delineating landscapes, by means of a pencil at the eye end which leaves the delineation on paper.,
O as in Optimacy (n.) Government by the nobility.,
O as in Optimacy (n.) Collectively, the nobility.,
O as in Optimate (a.) Of or pertaining to the nobility or aristocracy.,
O as in Optimate (n.) A nobleman or aristocrat; a chief man in a state or city.,
O as in Optimates (n. pl.) The nobility or aristocracy of ancient Rome, as opposed to the populares.,
O as in Optime (n.) One of those who stand in the second rank of honors, immediately after the wranglers, in the University of Cambridge, England. They are divided into senior and junior optimes.,
O as in Optimism (n.) The opinion or doctrine that everything in nature, being the work of God, is ordered for the best, or that the ordering of things in the universe is such as to produce the highest good.,
O as in Optimism (n.) A disposition to take the most hopeful view; -- opposed to pessimism.,
O as in Optimist (n.) One who holds the opinion that all events are ordered for the best.,
O as in Optimist (n.) One who looks on the bright side of things, or takes hopeful views; -- opposed to pessimist.,
O as in Optimistic (a.) Of or pertaining to optimism; tending, or conforming, to the opinion that all events are ordered for the best.,
O as in Optimistic (a.) Hopeful; sanguine; as, an optimistic view.,
O as in Optimity (n.) The state of being best.,
O as in Option (n.) The power of choosing; the right of choice or election; an alternative.,
O as in Option (n.) The exercise of the power of choice; choice.,
O as in Option (n.) A wishing; a wish.,
O as in Option (n.) A right formerly belonging to an archbishop to select any one dignity or benefice in the gift of a suffragan bishop consecrated or confirmed by him, for bestowal by himself when next vacant; -- annulled by Parliament in 1845.,
O as in Option (n.) A stipulated privilege, given to a party in a time contract, of demanding its fulfillment on any day within a specified limit.,
O as in Optional (a.) Involving an option; depending on the exercise of an option; left to one's discretion or choice; not compulsory; as, optional studies; it is optional with you to go or stay.,
O as in Optional (n.) See Elective, n.,
O as in Optionally (adv.) In an optional manner.,
O as in Optocoele (n.) Alt. of Optocoelia,
O as in Optocoelia (n.) The cavity of one of the optic lobes of the brain in many animals.,
O as in Optogram (n.) An image of external objects fixed on the retina by the photochemical action of light on the visual purple. See Optography.,
O as in Optography (n.) The production of an optogram on the retina by the photochemical action of light on the visual purple; the fixation of an image in the eye. The object so photographed shows white on a purple or red background. See Visual purple, under Visual.,
O as in Optometer (n.) An instrument for measuring the distance of distinct vision, mainly for the selection of eveglasses.,
O as in Opulence (n.) Wealth; riches; affluence.,
O as in Opulency (n.) See Opulence.,
O as in Opulent (a.) Having a large estate or property; wealthy; rich; affluent; as, an opulent city; an opulent citizen.,
O as in Opuntia (n.) A genus of cactaceous plants; the prickly pear, or Indian fig.,
O as in Opera (pl. ) of Opus,
O as in Opus (n.) A work; specif. (Mus.), a musical composition.,
O as in Opuscle (n.) Alt. of Opuscule,
O as in Opuscule (n.) A small or petty work.,
O as in Opuscula (pl. ) of Opusculum,
O as in Opusculum (n.) An opuscule.,
O as in Opye (n.) Opium.,
O as in Oquassa (n.) A small, handsome trout (Salvelinus oquassa), found in some of the lakes in Maine; -- called also blueback trout.,
O as in -or () A noun suffix denoting an act; a state or quality; as in error, fervor, pallor, candor, etc.,
O as in -or () A noun suffix denoting an agent or doer; as in auditor, one who hears; donor, one who gives; obligor, elevator. It is correlative to -ee. In general -or is appended to words of Latin, and -er to those of English, origin. See -er.,
O as in Or (conj.) A particle that marks an alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at your pleasure, but not both. It corresponds to either. You may ride either to London or to Windsor. It often connects a series of words or propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade.,
O as in Or (prep. & adv.) Ere; before; sooner than.,
O as in Or (n.) Yellow or gold color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by small dots.,
O as in Ora (n.) A money of account among the Anglo-Saxons, valued, in the Domesday Book, at twenty pence sterling.,
O as in Orabassu (n.) A South American monkey of the genus Callithrix, esp.,
O as in Orach (n.) Alt. of Orache,
O as in Orache (n.) A genus (Atriplex) of herbs or low shrubs of the Goosefoot family, most of them with a mealy surface.,
O as in Oracle (n.) The answer of a god, or some person reputed to be a god, to an inquiry respecting some affair or future event, as the success of an enterprise or battle.,
O as in Oracle (n.) Hence: The deity who was supposed to give the answer; also, the place where it was given.,
O as in Oracle (n.) The communications, revelations, or messages delivered by God to the prophets; also, the entire sacred Scriptures -- usually in the plural.,
O as in Oracle (n.) The sanctuary, or Most Holy place in the temple; also, the temple itself.,
O as in Oracle (n.) One who communicates a divine command; an angel; a prophet.,
O as in Oracle (n.) Any person reputed uncommonly wise; one whose decisions are regarded as of great authority; as, a literary oracle.,
O as in Oracle (n.) A wise sentence or decision of great authority.,
O as in Oracled (imp. & p. p.) of Oracle,
O as in Oracling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Oracle,
O as in Oracle (v. i.) To utter oracles.,
O as in Oracular (a.) Of or pertaining to an oracle; uttering oracles; forecasting the future; as, an oracular tongue.,
O as in Oracular (a.) Resembling an oracle in some way, as in solemnity, wisdom, authority, obscurity, ambiguity, dogmatism.,
O as in Oraculous (a.) Oracular; of the nature of an oracle.,
O as in Oragious (a.) Stormy.,
O as in Oraison (n.) See Orison.,
O as in Oral (a.) Uttered by the mouth, or in words; spoken, not written; verbal; as, oral traditions; oral testimony; oral law.,
O as in Oral (a.) Of or pertaining to the mouth; surrounding or lining the mouth; as, oral cilia or cirri.,
O as in Orally (adv.) In an oral manner.,
O as in Orally (adv.) By, with, or in, the mouth; as, to receive the sacrament orally.,
O as in Orang (n.) See Orang-outang.,
O as in Orange (n.) The fruit of a tree of the genus Citrus (C. Aurantium). It is usually round, and consists of pulpy carpels, commonly ten in number, inclosed in a leathery rind, which is easily separable, and is reddish yellow when ripe.,
O as in Orange (n.) The tree that bears oranges; the orange tree.,
O as in Orange (n.) The color of an orange; reddish yellow.,
O as in Orange (a.) Of or pertaining to an orange; of the color of an orange; reddish yellow; as, an orange ribbon.,
O as in Orangeade (n.) A drink made of orange juice and water, corresponding to lemonade; orange sherbet.,
O as in Orangeat (n.) Candied orange peel; also, orangeade.,
O as in Orangeism (n.) Attachment to the principles of the society of Orangemen; the tenets or practices of the Orangemen.,
O as in -men (pl. ) of Orangeman,
O as in Orangeman (n.) One of a secret society, organized in the north of Ireland in 1795, the professed objects of which are the defense of the regning sovereign of Great Britain, the support of the Protestant religion, the maintenance of the laws of the kingdom, etc.; -- so called in honor of William, Prince of Orange, who became William III. of England.,
O as in Orangeroot (n.) An American ranunculaceous plant (Hidrastis Canadensis), having a yellow tuberous root; -- also called yellowroot, golden seal, etc.,
O as in Orangery (n.) A place for raising oranges; a plantation of orange trees.,
O as in Orangetawny (a. & n.) Deep orange-yellow; dark yellow.,
O as in Orangite () An orange-yellow variety of the mineral thorite, found in Norway.,
O as in Orang-outang (n.) An arboreal anthropoid ape (Simia satyrus), which inhabits Borneo and Sumatra. Often called simply orang.,
O as in Orarian (a.) Of or pertaining to a coast.,
O as in Oration (n.) An elaborate discourse, delivered in public, treating an important subject in a formal and dignified manner; especially, a discourse having reference to some special occasion, as a funeral, an anniversary, a celebration, or the like; -- distinguished from an argument in court, a popular harangue, a sermon, a lecture, etc.; as, Webster's oration at Bunker Hill.,
O as in Oration (v. i.) To deliver an oration.,
O as in Orator (n.) A public speaker; one who delivers an oration; especially, one distinguished for his skill and power as a public speaker; one who is eloquent.,
O as in Orator (n.) In equity proceedings, one who prays for relief; a petitioner.,
O as in Orator (n.) A plaintiff, or complainant, in a bill in chancery.,
O as in Orator (n.) An officer who is the voice of the university upon all public occasions, who writes, reads, and records all letters of a public nature, presents, with an appropriate address, those persons on whom honorary degrees are to be conferred, and performs other like duties; -- called also public orator.,
O as in Oratorial (a.) Oratorical.,
O as in Oratorian (a.) Oratorical.,
O as in Oratorian (n.) See Fathers of the Oratory, under Oratory.,
O as in Oratorical (a.) Of or pertaining to an orator or to oratory; characterized by oratory; rhetorical; becoming to an orator; as, an oratorical triumph; an oratorical essay.,
O as in Oratorio (n.) A more or less dramatic text or poem, founded on some Scripture nerrative, or great divine event, elaborately set to music, in recitative, arias, grand choruses, etc., to be sung with an orchestral accompaniment, but without action, scenery, or costume, although the oratorio grew out of the Mysteries and the Miracle and Passion plays, which were acted.,
O as in Oratorio (n.) Performance or rendering of such a composition.,
O as in Oratorious (a.) Oratorical.,
O as in Oratorize (v. i.) To play the orator.,
O as in Oratories (pl. ) of Oratory,
O as in Oratory (n.) A place of orisons, or prayer; especially, a chapel or small room set apart for private devotions.,
O as in Oratory (n.) The art of an orator; the art of public speaking in an eloquent or effective manner; the exercise of rhetorical skill in oral discourse; eloquence.,
O as in Oratress (n.) A woman who makes public addresses.,
O as in Oratrix (n.) A woman plaintiff, or complainant, in equity pleading.,
O as in Orb (n.) A blank window or panel.,
O as in Orb (n.) A spherical body; a globe; especially, one of the celestial spheres; a sun, planet, or star.,
O as in Orb (n.) One of the azure transparent spheres conceived by the ancients to be inclosed one within another, and to carry the heavenly bodies in their revolutions.,
O as in Orb (n.) A circle; esp., a circle, or nearly circular orbit, described by the revolution of a heavenly body; an orbit.,
O as in Orb (n.) A period of time marked off by the revolution of a heavenly body.,
O as in Orb (n.) The eye, as luminous and spherical.,
O as in Orb (n.) A revolving circular body; a wheel.,
O as in Orb (n.) A sphere of action.,
O as in Orb (n.) Same as Mound, a ball or globe. See lst Mound.,
O as in Orb (n.) A body of soldiers drawn up in a circle, as for defense, esp. infantry to repel cavalry.,
O as in Orbed (imp. & p. p.) of Orb,
O as in Orbing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Orb,
O as in Orb (v. t.) To form into an orb or circle.,
O as in Orb (v. t.) To encircle; to surround; to inclose.,
O as in Orb (v. i.) To become round like an orb.,
O as in Orbate (a.) Bereaved; fatherless; childless.,
O as in Orbation (n.) The state of being orbate, or deprived of parents or children; privation, in general; bereavement.,
O as in Orbed (a.) Having the form of an orb; round.,
O as in Orbic (a.) Alt. of Orbical,
O as in Orbical (a.) Spherical; orbicular; orblike; circular.,
O as in Orbicle (n.) A small orb, or sphere.,
O as in Orbicula (n.) Same as Discina.,
O as in Orbicular (a.) Resembling or having the form of an orb; spherical; circular; orbiculate.,
O as in Orbiculate (n.) That which is orbiculate; especially, a solid the vertical section of which is oval, and the horizontal section circular.,
O as in Orbiculate (a.) Alt. of Orbiculated,
O as in Orbiculated (a.) Made, or being, in the form of an orb; having a circular, or nearly circular, or a spheroidal, outline.,
O as in Orbiculation (n.) The state or quality of being orbiculate; orbicularness.,
O as in Orbit (n.) The path described by a heavenly body in its periodical revolution around another body; as, the orbit of Jupiter, of the earth, of the moon.,
O as in Orbit (n.) An orb or ball.,
O as in Orbit (n.) The cavity or socket of the skull in which the eye and its appendages are situated.,
O as in Orbit (n.) The skin which surrounds the eye of a bird.,
O as in Orbital (a.) Of or pertaining to an orbit.,
O as in Orbitar (a.) Orbital.,
O as in Orbitary (a.) Situated around the orbit; as, the orbitary feathers of a bird.,
O as in Orbitelae (n. pl.) A division of spiders, including those that make geometrical webs, as the garden spider, or Epeira.,
O as in Orbitolites (n.) A genus of living Foraminifera, forming broad, thin, circular disks, containing numerous small chambers.,
O as in Orbitonasal (a.) Of or pertaining to the orbit and the nose; as, the orbitonasal, or ophthalmic, nerve.,
O as in Orbitosphenoid (a.) Of or pertaining to the sphenoid bone and the orbit, or to the orbitosphenoid bone.,
O as in Orbitosphenoid (n.) The orbitosphenoid bone, which is situated in the orbit on either side of the presphenoid. It generally forms a part of the sphenoid in the adult.,
O as in Orbitosphenoidal (a.) Of or pertaining to the orbitosphenoid bone; orbitosphenoid.,
O as in Orbituary (a.) Orbital.,
O as in Orbitude (n.) Alt. of Orbity,
O as in Orbity (n.) Orbation.,
O as in Orbulina (n.) A genus of minute living Foraminifera having a globular shell.,
O as in Orby (a.) Orblike; having the course of an orb; revolving.,
O as in Orc (n.) The grampus.,
O as in Orcadian (a.) Of or pertaining to the Orkney Islands.,
O as in Orcein (n.) A reddish brown amorphous dyestuff, /, obtained from orcin, and forming the essential coloring matter of cudbear and archil. It is closely related to litmus.,
O as in Orchal (n.) See Archil.,
O as in Orchanet (n.) Same as Alkanet, 2.,
O as in Orchard (n.) A garden.,
O as in Orchard (n.) An inclosure containing fruit trees; also, the fruit trees, collectively; -- used especially of apples, peaches, pears, cherries, plums, or the like, less frequently of nutbearing trees and of sugar maple trees.,
O as in Orcharding (n.) The cultivation of orchards.,
O as in Orcharding (n.) Orchards, in general.,
O as in Orchardist (n.) One who cultivates an orchard.,
O as in Orchel (n.) Archil.,
O as in Orchesography (n.) A treatise upon dancing.,
O as in Orchester (n.) See Orchestra.,
O as in Orchestian (n.) Any species of amphipod crustacean of the genus Orchestia, or family Orchestidae. See Beach flea, under Beach.,
O as in Orchestra (n.) The space in a theater between the stage and the audience; -- originally appropriated by the Greeks to the chorus and its evolutions, afterward by the Romans to persons of distinction, and by the moderns to a band of instrumental musicians.,
O as in Orchestra (n.) The place in any public hall appropriated to a band of instrumental musicians.,
O as in Orchestra (n.) Loosely: A band of instrumental musicians performing in a theater, concert hall, or other place of public amusement.,
O as in Orchestra (n.) Strictly: A band suitable for the performance of symphonies, overtures, etc., as well as for the accompaniment of operas, oratorios, cantatas, masses, and the like, or of vocal and instrumental solos.,
O as in Orchestra (n.) A band composed, for the largest part, of players of the various viol instruments, many of each kind, together with a proper complement of wind instruments of wood and brass; -- as distinguished from a military or street band of players on wind instruments, and from an assemblage of solo players for the rendering of concerted pieces, such as septets, octets, and the like.,
O as in Orchestra (n.) The instruments employed by a full band, collectively; as, an orchestra of forty stringed instruments, with proper complement of wind instruments.,
O as in Orchestral (a.) Of or pertaining to an orchestra; suitable for, or performed in or by, an orchestra.,
O as in Orchestration (n.) The arrangement of music for an orchestra; orchestral treatment of a composition; -- called also instrumentation.,
O as in Orchestre (n.) See Orchestra.,
O as in Orchestric (a.) Orchestral.,
O as in Orchestrion (n.) A large music box imitating a variety of orchestral instruments.,
O as in Orchid (n.) Any plant of the order Orchidaceae. See Orchidaceous.,
O as in Orchidaceous (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, a natural order (Orchidaceae) of endogenous plants of which the genus Orchis is the type. They are mostly perennial herbs having the stamens and pistils united in a single column, and normally three petals and three sepals, all adherent to the ovary. The flowers are curiously shaped, often resembling insects, the odd or lower petal (called the lip) being unlike the others, and sometimes of a strange and unexpected appearance. About one hundred species occur in the United States, but several thousand in the tropics.,
O as in Orchidean (a.) Orchidaceous.,
O as in Orchideous (a.) Same as Orchidaceous.,
O as in Orchidologist (n.) One versed in orchidology.,
O as in Orchidology (n.) The branch of botany which treats of orchids.,
O as in Orchil (n.) See Archil.,
O as in Orchilla weed () The lichen from which archil is obtained. See Archil.,
O as in Orchises (pl. ) of Orchis,
O as in Orchis (n.) A genus of endogenous plants growing in the North Temperate zone, and consisting of about eighty species. They are perennial herbs growing from a tuber (beside which is usually found the last year's tuber also), and are valued for their showy flowers. See Orchidaceous.,
O as in Orchis (n.) Any plant of the same family with the orchis; an orchid.,
O as in Orchitis (n.) Inflammation of the testicles.,
O as in Orchotomy (n.) The operation of cutting out or removing a testicle by the knife; castration.,
O as in Orcin (n.) A colorless crystalline substance, C6H3.CH3.(OH)2, which is obtained from certain lichens (Roccella, Lecanora, etc.), also from extract of aloes, and artificially from certain derivatives of toluene. It changes readily into orcein.,
O as in Ord (n.) An edge or point; also, a beginning.,
O as in Ordained (imp. & p. p.) of Ordain,
O as in Ordaining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ordain,
O as in Ordain (v. t.) To set in order; to arrange according to rule; to regulate; to set; to establish.,
O as in Ordain (v. t.) To regulate, or establish, by appointment, decree, or law; to constitute; to decree; to appoint; to institute.,
O as in Ordain (v. t.) To set apart for an office; to appoint.,
O as in Ordain (v. t.) To invest with ministerial or sacerdotal functions; to introduce into the office of the Christian ministry, by the laying on of hands, or other forms; to set apart by the ceremony of ordination.,
O as in Ordainable (a.) Capable of being ordained; worthy to be ordained or appointed.,
O as in Ordainer (n.) One who ordains.,
O as in Ordainment (n.) Ordination.,
O as in Ordal (n.) Ordeal.,
O as in Ordalian (a.) Of or pertaining to trial by ordeal.,
O as in Ordeal (n.) An ancient form of test to determine guilt or innocence, by appealing to a supernatural decision, -- once common in Europe, and still practiced in the East and by savage tribes.,
O as in Ordeal (n.) Any severe trial, or test; a painful experience.,
O as in Ordeal (a.) Of or pertaining to trial by ordeal.,
O as in Order (n.) Regular arrangement; any methodical or established succession or harmonious relation; method; system,
O as in Order (n.) Of material things, like the books in a library.,
O as in Order (n.) Of intellectual notions or ideas, like the topics of a discource.,
O as in Order (n.) Of periods of time or occurrences, and the like.,
O as in Order (n.) Right arrangement; a normal, correct, or fit condition; as, the house is in order; the machinery is out of order.,
O as in Order (n.) The customary mode of procedure; established system, as in the conduct of debates or the transaction of business; usage; custom; fashion.,
O as in Order (n.) Conformity with law or decorum; freedom from disturbance; general tranquillity; public quiet; as, to preserve order in a community or an assembly.,
O as in Order (n.) That which prescribes a method of procedure; a rule or regulation made by competent authority; as, the rules and orders of the senate.,
O as in Order (n.) A command; a mandate; a precept; a direction.,
O as in Order (n.) Hence: A commission to purchase, sell, or supply goods; a direction, in writing, to pay money, to furnish supplies, to admit to a building, a place of entertainment, or the like; as, orders for blankets are large.,
O as in Order (n.) A number of things or persons arranged in a fixed or suitable place, or relative position; a rank; a row; a grade; especially, a rank or class in society; a group or division of men in the same social or other position; also, a distinct character, kind, or sort; as, the higher or lower orders of society; talent of a high order.,
O as in Order (n.) A body of persons having some common honorary distinction or rule of obligation; esp., a body of religious persons or aggregate of convents living under a common rule; as, the Order of the Bath; the Franciscan order.,
O as in Order (n.) An ecclesiastical grade or rank, as of deacon, priest, or bishop; the office of the Christian ministry; -- often used in the plural; as, to take orders, or to take holy orders, that is, to enter some grade of the ministry.,
O as in Order (n.) The disposition of a column and its component parts, and of the entablature resting upon it, in classical architecture; hence (as the column and entablature are the characteristic features of classical architecture) a style or manner of architectural designing.,
O as in Order (n.) An assemblage of genera having certain important characters in common; as, the Carnivora and Insectivora are orders of Mammalia.,
O as in Order (n.) The placing of words and members in a sentence in such a manner as to contribute to force and beauty or clearness of expression.,
O as in Order (n.) Rank; degree; thus, the order of a curve or surface is the same as the degree of its equation.,
O as in Ordered (imp. & p. p.) of Order,
O as in Ordering (p pr. & vb. n.) of Order,
O as in Order (n.) To put in order; to reduce to a methodical arrangement; to arrange in a series, or with reference to an end. Hence, to regulate; to dispose; to direct; to rule.,
O as in Order (n.) To give an order to; to command; as, to order troops to advance.,
O as in Order (n.) To give an order for; to secure by an order; as, to order a carriage; to order groceries.,
O as in Order (n.) To admit to holy orders; to ordain; to receive into the ranks of the ministry.,
O as in Order (v. i.) To give orders; to issue commands.,
O as in Orderable (a.) Capable of being ordered; tractable.,
O as in Orderer (n.) One who puts in order, arranges, methodizes, or regulates.,
O as in Orderer (n.) One who gives orders.,
O as in Ordering (n.) Disposition; distribution; management.,
O as in Orderless (a.) Being without order or regularity; disorderly; out of rule.,
O as in Orderliness (n.) The state or quality of being orderly.,
O as in Orderly (a.) Conformed to order; in order; regular; as, an orderly course or plan.,
O as in Orderly (a.) Observant of order, authority, or rule; hence, obedient; quiet; peaceable; not unruly; as, orderly children; an orderly community.,
O as in Orderly (a.) Performed in good or established order; well-regulated.,
O as in Orderly (a.) Being on duty; keeping order; conveying orders.,
O as in Orderly (adv.) According to due order; regularly; methodically; duly.,
O as in Orderlies (pl. ) of Orderly,
O as in Orderly (n.) A noncommissioned officer or soldier who attends a superior officer to carry his orders, or to render other service.,
O as in Orderly (n.) A street sweeper.,
O as in Ordinability (n.) Capability of being ordained or appointed.,
O as in Ordinable (a.) Capable of being ordained or appointed.,
O as in Ordinal (a.) Indicating order or succession; as, the ordinal numbers, first, second, third, etc.,
O as in Ordinal (a.) Of or pertaining to an order.,
O as in Ordinal (n.) A word or number denoting order or succession.,
O as in Ordinal (n.) The book of forms for making, ordaining, and consecrating bishops, priests, and deacons.,
O as in Ordinal (n.) A book containing the rubrics of the Mass.,
O as in Ordinalism (n.) The state or quality of being ordinal.,
O as in Ordinance (n.) Orderly arrangement; preparation; provision.,
O as in Ordinance (n.) A rule established by authority; a permanent rule of action; a statute, law, regulation, rescript, or accepted usage; an edict or decree; esp., a local law enacted by a municipal government; as, a municipal ordinance.,
O as in Ordinance (n.) An established rite or ceremony.,
O as in Ordinance (n.) Rank; order; station.,
O as in Ordinance (n.) Ordnance; cannon.,
O as in Ordinand (n.) One about to be ordained.,
O as in Ordinant (a.) Ordaining; decreeing.,
O as in Ordinant (n.) One who ordains.,
O as in Ordinarily (adv.) According to established rules or settled method; as a rule; commonly; usually; in most cases; as, a winter more than ordinarily severe.,
O as in Ordinary (a.) According to established order; methodical; settled; regular.,
O as in Ordinary (a.) Common; customary; usual.,
O as in Ordinary (a.) Of common rank, quality, or ability; not distinguished by superior excellence or beauty; hence, not distinguished in any way; commonplace; inferior; of little merit; as, men of ordinary judgment; an ordinary book.,
O as in Ordinaries (pl. ) of Ordinary,
O as in Ordinary (n.) An officer who has original jurisdiction in his own right, and not by deputation.,
O as in Ordinary (n.) One who has immediate jurisdiction in matters ecclesiastical; an ecclesiastical judge; also, a deputy of the bishop, or a clergyman appointed to perform divine service for condemned criminals and assist in preparing them for death.,
O as in Ordinary (n.) A judicial officer, having generally the powers of a judge of probate or a surrogate.,
O as in Ordinary (n.) The mass; the common run.,
O as in Ordinary (n.) That which is so common, or continued, as to be considered a settled establishment or institution.,
O as in Ordinary (n.) Anything which is in ordinary or common use.,
O as in Ordinary (n.) A dining room or eating house where a meal is prepared for all comers, at a fixed price for the meal, in distinction from one where each dish is separately charged; a table d'hote; hence, also, the meal furnished at such a dining room.,
O as in Ordinary (n.) A charge or bearing of simple form, one of nine or ten which are in constant use. The bend, chevron, chief, cross, fesse, pale, and saltire are uniformly admitted as ordinaries. Some authorities include bar, bend sinister, pile, and others. See Subordinary.,
O as in Ordinaryship (n.) The state of being an ordinary.,
O as in Ordinate (a.) Well-ordered; orderly; regular; methodical.,
O as in Ordinate (n.) The distance of any point in a curve or a straight line, measured on a line called the axis of ordinates or on a line parallel to it, from another line called the axis of abscissas, on which the corresponding abscissa of the point is measured.,
O as in Ordinate (v. t.) To appoint, to regulate; to harmonize.,
O as in Ordinately (adv.) In an ordinate manner; orderly.,
O as in Ordination (n.) The act of ordaining, appointing, or setting apart; the state of being ordained, appointed, etc.,
O as in Ordination (n.) The act of setting apart to an office in the Christian ministry; the conferring of holy orders.,
O as in Ordination (n.) Disposition; arrangement; order.,
O as in Ordinative (a.) Tending to ordain; directing; giving order.,
O as in Ordinator (n.) One who ordains or establishes; a director.,
O as in Ordnance (n.) Heavy weapons of warfare; cannon, or great guns, mortars, and howitzers; artillery; sometimes, a general term for all weapons and appliances used in war.,
O as in Ordonnance (n.) The disposition of the parts of any composition with regard to one another and the whole.,
O as in Ordonnant (a.) Of or pertaining to ordonnance.,
O as in Ordovian (a. & n.) Ordovician.,
O as in Ordovician (a.) Of or pertaining to a division of the Silurian formation, corresponding in general to the Lower Silurian of most authors, exclusive of the Cambrian.,
O as in Ordovician (n.) The Ordovician formation.,
O as in Ordure (n.) Dung; excrement; faeces.,
O as in Ordure (n.) Defect; imperfection; fault.,
O as in Ordurous (a.) Of or pertaining to ordure; filthy.,
O as in Ore (n.) Honor; grace; favor; mercy; clemency; happy augry.,
O as in Ore (n.) The native form of a metal, whether free and uncombined, as gold, copper, etc., or combined, as iron, lead, etc. Usually the ores contain the metals combined with oxygen, sulphur, arsenic, etc. (called mineralizers).,
O as in Ore (n.) A native metal or its compound with the rock in which it occurs, after it has been picked over to throw out what is worthless.,
O as in Ore (n.) Metal; as, the liquid ore.,
O as in Oread (n.) One of the nymphs of mountains and grottoes.,
O as in Oreades (n. pl.) A group of butterflies which includes the satyrs. See Satyr, 2.,
O as in Orectic (a.) Of or pertaining to the desires; hence, impelling to gratification; appetitive.,
O as in Oregon grape () An evergreen species of barberry (Berberis Aquifolium), of Oregon and California; also, its roundish, blue-black berries.,
O as in Oreide (n.) See Oroide.,
O as in Oreodon (n.) A genus of extinct herbivorous mammals, abundant in the Tertiary formation of the Rocky Mountains. It is more or less related to the camel, hog, and deer.,
O as in Oreodont (a.) Resembling, or allied to, the genus Oreodon.,
O as in Oreographic (a.) Of or pertaining to oreography.,
O as in Oreography (n.) The science of mountains; orography.,
O as in Oreoselin (n.) A white crystalline substance which is obtained indirectly from the root of an umbelliferous plant (Imperatoria Oreoselinum), and yields resorcin on decomposition.,
O as in Oreosoma (n. pl.) A genus of small oceanic fishes, remarkable for the large conical tubercles which cover the under surface.,
O as in Oreweed (n.) Same as Oarweed.,
O as in Orewood (n.) Same as Oarweed.,
O as in Orf (n.) Alt. of Orfe,
O as in Orfe (n.) A bright-colored domesticated variety of the id. See Id.,
O as in Orfgild (n.) Restitution for cattle; a penalty for taking away cattle.,
O as in Orfray (n.) The osprey.,
O as in Orfrays (n.) See Orphrey. [Obs.] Rom. of R.,
O as in Orgal (n.) See Argol.,
O as in Organ (n.) An instrument or medium by which some important action is performed, or an important end accomplished; as, legislatures, courts, armies, taxgatherers, etc., are organs of government.,
O as in Organ (n.) A natural part or structure in an animal or a plant, capable of performing some special action (termed its function), which is essential to the life or well-being of the whole; as, the heart, lungs, etc., are organs of animals; the root, stem, foliage, etc., are organs of plants.,
O as in Organ (n.) A component part performing an essential office in the working of any complex machine; as, the cylinder, valves, crank, etc., are organs of the steam engine.,
O as in Organ (n.) A medium of communication between one person or body and another; as, the secretary of state is the organ of communication between the government and a foreign power; a newspaper is the organ of its editor, or of a party, sect, etc.,
O as in Organ (n.) A wind instrument containing numerous pipes of various dimensions and kinds, which are filled with wind from a bellows, and played upon by means of keys similar to those of a piano, and sometimes by foot keys or pedals; -- formerly used in the plural, each pipe being considired an organ.,
O as in Organ (v. t.) To supply with an organ or organs; to fit with organs; to organize.,
O as in Organdie (n.) Alt. of Organdy,
O as in Organdy (n.) A kind of transparent light muslin.,
O as in Organic (a.) Of or pertaining to an organ or its functions, or to objects composed of organs; consisting of organs, or containing them; as, the organic structure of animals and plants; exhibiting characters peculiar to living organisms; as, organic bodies, organic life, organic remains. Cf. Inorganic.,
O as in Organic (a.) Produced by the organs; as, organic pleasure.,
O as in Organic (a.) Instrumental; acting as instruments of nature or of art to a certain destined function or end.,
O as in Organic (a.) Forming a whole composed of organs. Hence: Of or pertaining to a system of organs; inherent in, or resulting from, a certain organization; as, an organic government; his love of truth was not inculcated, but organic.,
O as in Organic (a.) Pertaining to, or denoting, any one of the large series of substances which, in nature or origin, are connected with vital processes, and include many substances of artificial production which may or may not occur in animals or plants; -- contrasted with inorganic.,
O as in Organical (a.) Organic.,
O as in Organically (adv.) In an organic manner; by means of organs or with reference to organic functions; hence, fundamentally.,
O as in Organicalness (n.) The quality or state of being organic.,
O as in Organicism (n.) The doctrine of the localization of disease, or which refers it always to a material lesion of an organ.,
O as in Organific (a.) Making an organic or organized structure; producing an organism; acting through, or resulting from, organs.,
O as in Organism (n.) Organic structure; organization.,
O as in Organism (n.) An organized being; a living body, either vegetable or animal, compozed of different organs or parts with functions which are separate, but mutually dependent, and essential to the life of the individual.,
O as in Organist (n.) One who plays on the organ.,
O as in Organist (n.) One of the priests who organized or sung in parts.,
O as in Organista (n.) Any one of several South American wrens, noted for the sweetness of their song.,
O as in Organity (n.) Organism.,
O as in Organizability (n.) Quality of being organizable; capability of being organized.,
O as in Organizable (a.) Capable of being organized; esp. (Biol.), capable of being formed into living tissue; as, organizable matter.,
O as in Organization (n.) The act of organizing; the act of arranging in a systematic way for use or action; as, the organization of an army, or of a deliberative body.,
O as in Organization (n.) The state of being organized; also, the relations included in such a state or condition.,
O as in Organization (n.) That which is organized; an organized existence; an organism,
O as in Organization (n.) an arrangement of parts for the performance of the functions necessary to life.,
O as in Organized (imp. & p. p.) of Organize,
O as in Organizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Organize,
O as in Organize (v. t.) To furnish with organs; to give an organic structure to; to endow with capacity for the functions of life; as, an organized being; organized matter; -- in this sense used chiefly in the past participle.,
O as in Organize (v. t.) To arrange or constitute in parts, each having a special function, act, office, or relation; to systematize; to get into working order; -- applied to products of the human intellect, or to human institutions and undertakings, as a science, a government, an army, a war, etc.,
O as in Organize (v. t.) To sing in parts; as, to organize an anthem.,
O as in Organizer (n.) One who organizes.,
O as in Organling (n.) A large kind of sea fish; the orgeis.,
O as in Organo- () A combining form denoting relation to, or connection with, an organ or organs.,
O as in Organogen (n.) A name given to any one of the four elements, carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, and nitrogen, which are especially characteristic ingredients of organic compounds; also, by extension, to other elements sometimes found in the same connection; as sulphur, phosphorus, etc.,
O as in Organogenesis (n.) The origin and development of organs in animals and plants.,
O as in Organogenesis (n.) The germ history of the organs and systems of organs, -- a branch of morphogeny.,
O as in Organogenic (a.) Of or pertaining to organogenesis.,
O as in Organogeny (n.) Organogenesis.,
O as in Organographic (a.) Alt. of Organographical,
O as in Organographical (a.) Of or pertaining to organography.,
O as in Organographist (n.) One versed in organography.,
O as in Organography (n.) A description of the organs of animals or plants.,
O as in Organoleptic (a.) Making an impression upon an organ; plastic; -- said of the effect or impression produced by any substance on the organs of touch, taste, or smell, and also on the organism as a whole.,
O as in Organological (a.) Of or relating to organology.,
O as in Organology (n.) The science of organs or of anything considered as an organic structure.,
O as in Organology (n.) That branch of biology which treats, in particular, of the organs of animals and plants. See Morphology.,
O as in Organometallic (a.) Metalorganic.,
O as in Organon (n.) Alt. of Organum,
O as in Organum (n.) An organ or instrument; hence, a method by which philosophical or scientific investigation may be conducted; -- a term adopted from the Aristotelian writers by Lord Bacon, as the title ("Novum Organon") of part of his treatise on philosophical method.,
O as in Organonymy (n.) The designation or nomenclature of organs.,
O as in Organophyly (n.) The tribal history of organs, -- a branch of morphophyly.,
O as in Organoplastic (a.) Having the property of producing the tissues or organs of animals and plants; as, the organoplastic cells.,
O as in Organoscopy (n.) Phrenology.,
O as in Organotrophic (a.) Relating to the creation, organization, and nutrition of living organs or parts.,
O as in Organule (n.) One of the essential cells or elements of an organ. See Sense organule, under Sense.,
O as in Organy (n.) See Origan.,
O as in Organzine (n.) A kind of double thrown silk of very fine texture, that is, silk twisted like a rope with different strands, so as to increase its strength.,
O as in Orgasm (n.) Eager or immoderate excitement or action; the state of turgescence of any organ; erethism; esp., the height of venereal excitement in sexual intercourse.,
O as in Orgeat (n.) A sirup in which, formerly, a decoction of barley entered, but which is now prepared with an emulsion of almonds, -- used to flavor beverages or edibles.,
O as in Orgeis (n.) See Organling.,
O as in Orgiastic (a.) Pertaining to, or of the nature of, orgies.,
O as in Orgies (n. pl.) A sacrifice accompanied by certain ceremonies in honor of some pagan deity; especially, the ceremonies observed by the Greeks and Romans in the worship of Dionysus, or Bacchus, which were characterized by wild and dissolute revelry.,
O as in Orgies (n. pl.) Drunken revelry; a carouse.,
O as in Orgillous (a.) Proud; haughty.,
O as in Orgue (n.) Any one of a number of long, thick pieces of timber, pointed and shod with iron, and suspended, each by a separate rope, over a gateway, to be let down in case of attack.,
O as in Orgue (n.) A piece of ordnance, consisting of a number of musket barrels arranged so that a match or train may connect with all their touchholes, and a discharge be secured almost or quite simultaneously.,
O as in Orgulous (a.) See Orgillous.,
O as in Orgies (pl. ) of Orgy,
O as in Orgy (n.) A frantic revel; drunken revelry. See Orgies,
O as in Orgyia (n.) A genus of bombycid moths whose caterpillars (esp. those of Orgyia leucostigma) are often very injurious to fruit trees and shade trees. The female is wingless. Called also vaporer moth.,
O as in Oricalche (n.) See Orichalch.,
O as in Orichalceous (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, orichalch; having a color or luster like that of brass.,
O as in Orichalch (n.) A metallic substance, resembling gold in color, but inferior in value; a mixed metal of the ancients, resembling brass; -- called also aurichalcum, orichalcum, etc.,
O as in Oriel (n.) A gallery for minstrels.,
O as in Oriel (n.) A small apartment next a hall, where certain persons were accustomed to dine; a sort of recess.,
O as in Oriel (n.) A bay window. See Bay window.,
O as in Oriency (n.) Brightness or strength of color.,
O as in Orient (a.) Rising, as the sun.,
O as in Orient (a.) Eastern; oriental.,
O as in Orient (a.) Bright; lustrous; superior; pure; perfect; pellucid; -- used of gems and also figuratively, because the most perfect jewels are found in the East.,
O as in Orient (n.) The part of the horizon where the sun first appears in the morning; the east.,
O as in Orient (n.) The countries of Asia or the East.,
O as in Orient (n.) A pearl of great luster.,
O as in Orient (v. t.) To define the position of, in relation to the orient or east; hence, to ascertain the bearings of.,
O as in Orient (v. t.) Fig.: To correct or set right by recurring to first principles; to arrange in order; to orientate.,
O as in Oriental (a.) Of or pertaining to the orient or east; eastern; concerned with the East or Orientalism; -- opposed to occidental; as, Oriental countries.,
O as in Oriental (n.) A native or inhabitant of the Orient or some Eastern part of the world; an Asiatic.,
O as in Oriental (n.) Eastern Christians of the Greek rite.,
O as in Orientalism (n.) Any system, doctrine, custom, expression, etc., peculiar to Oriental people.,
O as in Orientalism (n.) Knowledge or use of Oriental languages, history, literature, etc.,
O as in Orientalist (n.) An inhabitant of the Eastern parts of the world; an Oriental.,
O as in Orientalist (n.) One versed in Eastern languages, literature, etc.; as, the Paris Congress of Orientalists.,
O as in Orientality (n.) The quality or state of being oriental or eastern.,
O as in Orientalized (imp. & p. p.) of Orientalize,
O as in Orientalizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Orientalize,
O as in Orientalize (v. t.) to render Oriental; to cause to conform to Oriental manners or conditions.,
O as in Orientated (imp. & p. p.) of Orientate,
O as in Orientating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Orientate,
O as in Orientate (v. t.) To place or turn toward the east; to cause to assume an easterly direction, or to veer eastward.,
O as in Orientate (v. t.) To arrange in order; to dispose or place (a body) so as to show its relation to other bodies, or the relation of its parts among themselves.,
O as in Orientate (v. i.) To move or turn toward the east; to veer from the north or south toward the east.,
O as in Orientation (n.) The act or process of orientating; determination of the points of the compass, or the east point, in taking bearings.,
O as in Orientation (n.) The tendency of a revolving body, when suspended in a certain way, to bring the axis of rotation into parallelism with the earth's axis.,
O as in Orientation (n.) An aspect or fronting to the east; especially (Arch.), the placing of a church so that the chancel, containing the altar toward which the congregation fronts in worship, will be on the east end.,
O as in Orientation (n.) Fig.: A return to first principles; an orderly arrangement.,
O as in Orientness (n.) The quality or state of being orient or bright; splendor.,
O as in Orifice (n.) A mouth or aperture, as of a tube, pipe, etc.; an opening; as, the orifice of an artery or vein; the orifice of a wound.,
O as in Oriflamb (n.) Alt. of Oriflamme,
O as in Oriflamme (n.) The ancient royal standard of France.,
O as in Oriflamme (n.) A standard or ensign, in battle.,
O as in Origan (n.) Alt. of Origanum,
O as in Origanum (n.) A genus of aromatic labiate plants, including the sweet marjoram (O. Marjorana) and the wild marjoram (O. vulgare).,
O as in Origenism (n.) The opinions of Origen of Alexandria, who lived in the 3d century, one of the most learned of the Greek Fathers. Prominent in his teaching was the doctrine that all created beings, including Satan, will ultimately be saved.,
O as in Origenist (n.) A follower of Origen of Alexandria.,
O as in Origin (n.) The first existence or beginning of anything; the birth.,
O as in Origin (n.) That from which anything primarily proceeds; the fountain; the spring; the cause; the occasion.,
O as in Origin (n.) The point of attachment or end of a muscle which is fixed during contraction; -- in contradistinction to insertion.,
O as in Originable (a.) Capable of being originated.,
O as in Original (a.) Pertaining to the origin or beginning; preceding all others; first in order; primitive; primary; pristine; as, the original state of man; the original laws of a country; the original inventor of a process.,
O as in Original (a.) Not copied, imitated, or translated; new; fresh; genuine; as, an original thought; an original process; the original text of Scripture.,
O as in Original (a.) Having the power to suggest new thoughts or combinations of thought; inventive; as, an original genius.,
O as in Original (a.) Before unused or unknown; new; as, a book full of original matter.,
O as in Original (n.) Origin; commencement; source.,
O as in Original (n.) That which precedes all others of its class; archetype; first copy; hence, an original work of art, manuscript, text, and the like, as distinguished from a copy, translation, etc.,
O as in Original (n.) An original thinker or writer; an originator.,
O as in Original (n.) A person of marked eccentricity.,
O as in Original (n.) The natural or wild species from which a domesticated or cultivated variety has been derived; as, the wolf is thought by some to be the original of the dog, the blackthorn the original of the plum.,
O as in Originalist (n.) One who is original.,
O as in Originality (n.) The quality or state of being original.,
O as in Originally (adv.) In the original time, or in an original manner; primarily; from the beginning or origin; not by derivation, or imitation.,
O as in Originally (adv.) At first; at the origin; at the time of formation or costruction; as, a book originally written by another hand.,
O as in Originalness (n.) The quality of being original; originality.,
O as in Originant (a.) Originating; original.,
O as in Originary (a.) Causing existence; productive.,
O as in Originary (a.) Primitive; primary; original.,
O as in Originated (imp. & p. p.) of Originate,
O as in Originating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Originate,
O as in Originate (v. t.) To give an origin or beginning to; to cause to be; to bring into existence; to produce as new.,
O as in Originate (v. i.) To take first existence; to have origin or beginning; to begin to exist or act; as, the scheme originated with the governor and council.,
O as in Origination (n.) The act or process of bringing or coming into existence; first production.,
O as in Origination (n.) Mode of production, or bringing into being.,
O as in Originative (a.) Having power, or tending, to originate, or bring into existence; originating.,
O as in Originator (n.) One who originates.,
O as in Orillon (n.) A semicircular projection made at the shoulder of a bastion for the purpose of covering the retired flank, -- found in old fortresses.,
O as in Oriol (n.) See Oriel.,
O as in Oriole (n.) Any one of various species of Old World singing birds of the family Oriolidae. They are usually conspicuously colored with yellow and black. The European or golden oriole (Oriolus galbula, or O. oriolus) has a very musical flutelike note.,
O as in Oriole (n.) In America, any one of several species of the genus Icterus, belonging to the family Icteridae. See Baltimore oriole, and Orchard oriole, under Orchard.,
O as in Orion (n.) A large and bright constellation on the equator, between the stars Aldebaran and Sirius. It contains a remarkable nebula visible to the naked eye.,
O as in Oriskany (a.) Designating, or pertaining to, certain beds, chiefly limestone, characteristic of the latest period of the Silurian age.,
O as in Orismological (a.) Of or pertaining to orismology.,
O as in Orismology (n.) That departament of natural history which treats of technical terms.,
O as in Orison (n.) A prayer; a supplication.,
O as in Orisont (n.) Horizon.,
O as in Ork (n.) See Orc.,
O as in Orkneyan (a.) Of or pertaining to the Orkney islands.,
O as in Orle (n.) A bearing, in the form of a fillet, round the shield, within, but at some distance from, the border.,
O as in Orle (n.) The wreath, or chaplet, surmounting or encircling the helmet of a knight and bearing the crest.,
O as in Orleans (n.) A cloth made of worsted and cotton, -- used for wearing apparel.,
O as in Orleans (n.) A variety of the plum. See under Plum.,
O as in Orlo (n.) A wind instrument of music in use among the Spaniards.,
O as in Orlop (n.) The lowest deck of a vessel, esp. of a ship of war, consisting of a platform laid over the beams in the hold, on which the cables are coiled.,
O as in Ormer (n.) An abalone.,
O as in Ormolu (n.) A variety of brass made to resemble gold by the use of less zinc and more copper in its composition than ordinary brass contains. Its golden color is often heightened by means of lacquer of some sort, or by use of acids. Called also mosaic gold.,
O as in Ormuzd (n.) The good principle, or being, of the ancient Persian religion. See Ahriman.,
O as in Orn (v. t.) To ornament; to adorn.,
O as in Ornament (n.) That which embellishes or adorns; that which adds grace or beauty; embellishment; decoration; adornment.,
O as in Ornamented (imp. & p. p.) of Ornament,
O as in Ornamenting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ornament,
O as in Ornament (v. t.) To adorn; to deck; to embellish; to beautify; as, to ornament a room, or a city.,
O as in Ornamental (a.) Serving to ornament; characterized by ornament; beautifying; embellishing.,
O as in Ornamentally (adv.) By way of ornament.,
O as in Ornamentation (n.) The act or art of ornamenting, or the state of being ornamented.,
O as in Ornamentation (n.) That which ornaments; ornament.,
O as in Ornamenter (n.) One who ornaments; a decorator.,
O as in Ornate (a.) Adorned; decorated; beautiful.,
O as in Ornate (a.) Finely finished, as a style of composition.,
O as in Ornate (v. t.) To adorn; to honor.,
O as in Ornately (adv.) In an ornate manner.,
O as in Ornateness (n.) The quality of being ornate.,
O as in Ornature (n.) Decoration; ornamentation.,
O as in Ornithic (a.) Of or pertaining to birds; as, ornithic fossils.,
O as in Ornithichnite (n.) The footmark of a bird occurring in strata of stone.,
O as in Ornithichnology (n.) The branch of science which treats of ornithichnites.,
O as in Ornitho- () A combining form fr. Gr. /, /, a bird.,
O as in Ornithodelphia (n. pl.) Same as Monotremata.,
O as in Ornithoidichnite (n.) A fossil track resembling that of a bird.,
O as in Ornitholite (n.) The fossil remains of a bird.,
O as in Ornitholite (n.) A stone of various colors bearing the figures of birds.,
O as in Ornithologic (a.) Alt. of Ornithological,
O as in Ornithological (a.) Of or pertaining to ornithology.,
O as in Ornithologist (n.) One skilled in ornithology; a student of ornithology; one who describes birds.,
O as in Ornithology (n.) That branch of zoology which treats of the natural history of birds and their classification.,
O as in Ornithology (n.) A treatise or book on this science.,
O as in Ornithomancy (n.) Divination by means of birds, their flight, etc.,
O as in Ornithon (n.) An aviary; a poultry house.,
O as in Ornithopappi (n. pl.) An extinct order of birds. It includes only the Archaeopteryx.,
O as in Ornithopoda (n. pl.) An order of herbivorous dinosaurs with birdlike characteristics in the skeleton, esp. in the pelvis and hind legs, which in some genera had only three functional toes, and supported the body in walking as in Iguanodon. See Illust. in Appendix.,
O as in Ornithorhynchus (n.) See Duck mole, under Duck.,
O as in Ornithosauria (n. pl.) An order of extinct flying reptiles; -- called also Pterosauria.,
O as in Ornithoscelida (n. pl.) A group of extinct Reptilia, intermediate in structure (especially with regard to the pelvis) between reptiles and birds.,
O as in Ornithoscopy (n.) Observation of birds and their habits.,
O as in Ornithotomical (a.) Of or pertaining to ornithotomy.,
O as in Ornithotomist (n.) One who is skilled in ornithotomy.,
O as in Ornithotomy (n.) The anatomy or dissection of birds.,
O as in Orographic (a.) Alt. of Orographical,
O as in Orographical (a.) Of or pertaining to orography.,
O as in Orography (n.) That branch of science which treats of mountains and mountain systems; orology; as, the orography of Western Europe.,
O as in Orohippus (n.) A genus of American Eocene mammals allied to the horse, but having four toes in front and three behind.,
O as in Oroide (n.) An alloy, chiefly of copper and zinc or tin, resembling gold in color and brilliancy.,
O as in Orological (a.) Of or pertaining to orology.,
O as in Orologist (n.) One versed in orology.,
O as in Orology (n.) The science or description of mountains.,
O as in Orotund (a.) Characterized by fullness, clearness, strength, and smoothness; ringing and musical; -- said of the voice or manner of utterance.,
O as in Orotund (n.) The orotund voice or utterance,
O as in Orotundity (n.) The orotund mode of intonation.,
O as in Orphaline (n.) See Orpheline.,
O as in Orphan (n.) A child bereaved of both father and mother; sometimes, also, a child who has but one parent living.,
O as in Orphan (a.) Bereaved of parents, or (sometimes) of one parent.,
O as in Orphaned (imp. & p. p.) of Orphan,
O as in Orphaning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Orphan,
O as in Orphan (v. t.) To cause to become an orphan; to deprive of parents.,
O as in Orphanage (n.) The state of being an orphan; orphanhood; orphans, collectively.,
O as in Orphanage (n.) An institution or asylum for the care of orphans.,
O as in Orphancy (n.) Orphanhood.,
O as in Orphanet (n.) A little orphan.,
O as in Orphanhood (n.) The state or condition of being an orphan; orphanage.,
O as in Orphanism (n.) Orphanhood.,
O as in Orphanotrophism (n.) The care and support of orphans.,
O as in Orphanotrophy (n.) A hospital for orphans.,
O as in Orphanotrophy (n.) The act of supporting orphans.,
O as in Orpharion (n.) An old instrument of the lute or cittern kind.,
O as in Orphean (a.) Of or pertaining to Orpheus, the mythic poet and musician; as, Orphean strains.,
O as in Orpheline (n.) An orphan.,
O as in Orpheus (n.) The famous mythic Thracian poet, son of the Muse Calliope, and husband of Eurydice. He is reputed to have had power to entrance beasts and inanimate objects by the music of his lyre.,
O as in Orphic (a.) Pertaining to Orpheus; Orphean; as, Orphic hymns.,
O as in Orphrey (n.) A band of rich embroidery, wholly or in part of gold, affixed to vestments, especially those of ecclesiastics.,
O as in Orpiment (n.) Arsenic sesquisulphide, produced artificially as an amorphous lemonyellow powder, and occurring naturally as a yellow crystalline mineral; -- formerly called auripigment. It is used in king's yellow, in white Indian fire, and in certain technical processes, as indigo printing.,
O as in Orpin (n.) A yellow pigment of various degrees of intensity, approaching also to red.,
O as in Orpin (n.) The orpine.,
O as in Orpine (n.) A low plant with fleshy leaves (Sedum telephium), having clusters of purple flowers. It is found on dry, sandy places, and on old walls, in England, and has become naturalized in America. Called also stonecrop, and live-forever.,
O as in Orrach (n.) See Orach.,
O as in Orreries (pl. ) of Orrery,
O as in Orrery (n.) An apparatus which illustrates, by the revolution of balls moved by wheelwork, the relative size, periodic motions, positions, orbits, etc., of bodies in the solar system.,
O as in Orris (n.) A plant of the genus Iris (I. Florentina); a kind of flower-de-luce. Its rootstock has an odor resembling that of violets.,
O as in Orris (n.) A sort of gold or silver lace.,
O as in Orris (n.) A peculiar pattern in which gold lace or silver lace is worked; especially, one in which the edges are ornamented with conical figures placed at equal distances, with spots between them.,
O as in Orsedew (n.) Alt. of Orsedue,
O as in Orsedue (n.) Leaf metal of bronze; Dutch metal. See under Dutch.,
O as in Orseille (n.) See Archil.,
O as in Orsellic (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, an acid found in certain lichens, and called also lecanoric acid.,
O as in Orsellinic (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, an organic acid obtained by a partial decomposition of orsellic acid as a white crystalline substance, and related to protocatechuic acid.,
O as in Orts (pl. ) of Ort,
O as in Ort (n.) A morsel left at a meal; a fragment; refuse; -- commonly used in the plural.,
O as in Ortalidian (n.) Any one of numerous small two-winged flies of the family Ortalidae. The larvae of many of these flies live in fruit; those of others produce galls on various plants.,
O as in Orthid (n.) A brachiopod shell of the genus Orthis, and allied genera, of the family Orthidae.,
O as in Orthis (n.) An extinct genus of Brachiopoda, abundant in the Paleozoic rocks.,
O as in Orthite (n.) A variety of allanite occurring in slender prismatic crystals.,
O as in Ortho- () A combining form signifying straight, right, upright, correct, regular; as, orthodromy, orthodiagonal, orthodox, orthographic.,
O as in Ortho- () A combining form (also used adjectively),
O as in Ortho- () The one of several acids of the same element (as the phosphoric acids), which actually occurs with the greatest number of hydroxyl groups; as, orthophosphoric acid. Cf. Normal.,
O as in Ortho- () Connection with, or affinity to, one variety of isomerism, characteristic of the benzene compounds; -- contrasted with meta- or para-; as, the ortho position; hence, designating any substance showing such isomerism; as, an ortho compound.,
O as in Orthocarbonic (a.) Designating a complex ether, C.(OC2H5)4, which is obtained as a liquid of a pleasant ethereal odor by means of chlorpicrin, and is believed to be a derivative of the hypothetical normal carbonic acid, C.(OH)4.,
O as in Orthocenter (n.) That point in which the three perpendiculars let fall from the angles of a triangle upon the opposite sides, or the sides produced, mutually intersect.,
O as in Orthoceras (n.) An extinct genus of Paleozoic Cephalopoda, having a long, straight, conical shell. The interior is divided into numerous chambers by transverse septa.,
O as in Orthoceratite (n.) An orthoceras; also, any fossil shell allied to Orthoceras.,
O as in Orthoclase (n.) Common or potash feldspar crystallizing in the monoclinic system and having two cleavages at right angles to each other. See Feldspar.,
O as in Orthoclastic (a.) Breaking in directions at right angles to each other; -- said of the monoclinic feldspars.,
O as in Orthodiagonal (n.) The diagonal or lateral axis in a monoclinic crystal which is at right angles with the vertical axis.,
O as in Orthodome (n.) See the Note under Dome, 4.,
O as in Orthodox (a.) Sound in opinion or doctrine, especially in religious doctrine; hence, holding the Christian faith; believing the doctrines taught in the Scriptures; -- opposed to heretical and heterodox; as, an orthodox Christian.,
O as in Orthodox (a.) According or congruous with the doctrines of Scripture, the creed of a church, the decree of a council, or the like; as, an orthodox opinion, book, etc.,
O as in Orthodox (a.) Approved; conventional.,
O as in Orthodoxal (a.) Pertaining to, or evincing, orthodoxy; orthodox.,
O as in Orthodoxality (n.) Orthodoxness.,
O as in Orthodoxally (adv.) Orthodoxly.,
O as in Orthodoxastical (a.) Orthodox.,
O as in Orthodoxical (a.) Pertaining to, or evincing, orthodoxy; orthodox.,
O as in Orthodoxly (adv.) In an orthodox manner; with soundness of faith.,
O as in Orthodoxness (n.) The quality or state of being orthodox; orthodoxy.,
O as in Orthodoxy (n.) Soundness of faith; a belief in the doctrines taught in the Scriptures, or in some established standard of faith; -- opposed to heterodoxy or to heresy.,
O as in Orthodoxy (n.) Consonance to genuine Scriptural doctrines; -- said of moral doctrines and beliefs; as, the orthodoxy of a creed.,
O as in Orthodoxy (n.) By extension, said of any correct doctrine or belief.,
O as in Orthodromic (a.) Of or pertaining to orthodromy.,
O as in Orthodromics (n.) The art of sailing in a direct course, or on the arc of a great circle, which is the shortest distance between any two points on the surface of the globe; great-circle sailing; orthodromy.,
O as in Orthodromy (n.) The act or art of sailing on a great circle.,
O as in Orthoepic (a.) Alt. of Orthoepical,
O as in Orthoepical (a.) Of or pertaining to orthoepy, or correct pronunciation.,
O as in Orthoepist (n.) One who is skilled in orthoepy.,
O as in Orthoepy (n.) The art of uttering words correctly; a correct pronunciation of words; also, mode of pronunciation.,
O as in Orthogamy (n.) Direct fertilization in plants, as when the pollen fertilizing the ovules comes from the stamens of the same blossom; -- opposed to heterogamy.,
O as in Orthognathic (a.) Orthognathous.,
O as in Orthognathism (n.) The quality or state of being orthognathous.,
O as in Orthognathous (a.) Having the front of the head, or the skull, nearly perpendicular, not retreating backwards above the jaws; -- opposed to prognathous. See Gnathic index, under Gnathic.,
O as in Orthogon (n.) A rectangular figure.,
O as in Orthogonal (a.) Right-angled; rectangular; as, an orthogonal intersection of one curve with another.,
O as in Orthogonally (adv.) Perpendicularly; at right angles; as, a curve cuts a set of curves orthogonally.,
O as in Orthographer (n.) One versed in orthography; one who spells words correctly.,
O as in Orthographic (a.) Alt. of Orthographical,
O as in Orthographical (a.) Of or pertaining to orthography, or right spelling; also, correct in spelling; as, orthographical rules; the letter was orthographic.,
O as in Orthographical (a.) Of or pertaining to right lines or angles.,
O as in Orthographically (adv.) In an orthographical manner,
O as in Orthographically (adv.) according to the rules of proper spelling,
O as in Orthographically (adv.) according to orthographic projection.,
O as in Orthographist (n.) One who spells words correctly; an orthographer.,
O as in Orthographize (v. t.) To spell correctly or according to usage; to correct in regard to spelling.,
O as in Orthography (n.) The art or practice of writing words with the proper letters, according to standard usage; conventionally correct spelling; also, mode of spelling; as, his orthography is vicious.,
O as in Orthography (n.) The part of grammar which treats of the letters, and of the art of spelling words correctly.,
O as in Orthography (n.) A drawing in correct projection, especially an elevation or a vertical section.,
O as in Orthology (n.) The right description of things.,
O as in Orthometric (a.) Having the axes at right angles to one another; -- said of crystals or crystalline forms.,
O as in Orthometry (n.) The art or practice of constructing verses correctly; the laws of correct versification.,
O as in Orthomorphic (a.) Having the right form.,
O as in Orthopedic (a.) Alt. of Orthopedical,
O as in Orthopedical (a.) Pertaining to, or employed in, orthopedy; relating to the prevention or cure of deformities of children, or, in general, of the human body at any age; as, orthopedic surgery; an orthopedic hospital.,
O as in Orthopedist (n.) One who prevents, cures, or remedies deformities, esp. in children.,
O as in Orthopedy (n.) The art or practice of curing the deformities of children, or, by extension, any deformities of the human body.,
O as in Orthophony (n.) The art of correct articulation; voice training.,
O as in Orthopinacoid (n.) A name given to the two planes in the monoclinic system which are parallel to the vertical and orthodiagonal axes.,
O as in Orthopn/a (n.) Alt. of Orthopny,
O as in Orthopny (n.) Specifically, a morbid condition in which respiration can be performed only in an erect posture; by extension, any difficulty of breathing.,
O as in Orthopoda (n. pl.) An extinct order of reptiles which stood erect on the hind legs, and resembled birds in the structure of the feet, pelvis, and other parts.,
O as in Orthopraxy (n.) The treatment of deformities in the human body by mechanical appliances.,
O as in Orthoptera (n. pl.) An order of mandibulate insects including grasshoppers, locusts, cockroaches, etc. See Illust. under Insect.,
O as in Orthopteran (n.) One of the Orthoptera.,
O as in Orthopterous (a.) Of or pertaining to the Orthoptera.,
O as in Orthorhombic (a.) Noting the system of crystallization which has three unequal axes at right angles to each other; trimetric. See Crystallization.,
O as in Orthoscope (n.) An instrument designed to show the condition of the superficial portions of the eye.,
O as in Orthoscopic (a.) Giving an image in correct or normal proportions; giving a flat field of view; as, an orthoscopic eyepiece.,
O as in Orthosilicic (a.) Designating the form of silicic acid having the normal or highest number of hydroxyl groups.,
O as in Orthospermous (a.) Having the seeds straight, as in the fruits of some umbelliferous plants; -- opposed to coelospermous.,
O as in Orthostade (n.) A chiton, or loose, ungirded tunic, falling in straight folds.,
O as in Orthostichies (pl. ) of Orthostichy,
O as in Orthostichy (n.) A longitudinal rank, or row, of leaves along a stem.,
O as in Orthotomic (a.) Cutting at right angles.,
O as in Orthotomous (a.) Having two cleavages at right angles with one another.,
O as in Orthotomy (n.) The property of cutting at right angles.,
O as in Orthotone (a.) Retaining the accent; not enclitic; -- said of certain indefinite pronouns and adverbs when used interrogatively, which, when not so used, are ordinarilly enclitic.,
O as in Orthotropal (a.) Alt. of Orthotropous,
O as in Orthotropous (a.) Having the axis of an ovule or seed straight from the hilum and chalaza to the orifice or the micropyle; atropous.,
O as in Orthotropic (a.) Having the longer axis vertical; -- said of erect stems.,
O as in Orthoxylene (n.) That variety of xylene in which the two methyl groups are in the ortho position; a colorless, liquid, combustible hydrocarbon resembling benzene.,
O as in Ortive (a.) Of or relating to the time or act of rising; eastern; as, the ortive amplitude of a planet.,
O as in Ortolan (n.) A European singing bird (Emberiza hortulana), about the size of the lark, with black wings. It is esteemed delicious food when fattened. Called also bunting.,
O as in Ortolan (n.) In England, the wheatear (Saxicola oenanthe).,
O as in Ortolan (n.) In America, the sora, or Carolina rail (Porzana Carolina). See Sora.,
O as in Ortygan (n.) One of several species of East Indian birds of the genera Ortygis and Hemipodius. They resemble quails, but lack the hind toe. See Turnix.,
O as in Orval (n.) A kind of sage (Salvia Horminum).,
O as in Orvet (n.) The blindworm.,
O as in Orvietan (n.) A kind of antidote for poisons; a counter poison formerly in vogue.,
O as in -ory () An adjective suffix meaning of or pertaining to, serving for; as in auditory, pertaining to or serving for hearing; prohibitory, amendatory, etc.,
O as in -ory () A noun suffix denoting that which pertains to, or serves for; as in ambulatory, that which serves for walking; consistory, factory, etc.,
O as in Oryal (n.) Alt. of Oryall,
O as in Oryall (n.) See Oriel.,
O as in Oryctere (n.) The aard-vark.,
O as in Orycterope (n.) Same as Oryctere.,
O as in Oryctognosy (n.) Mineralogy.,
O as in Oryctography (n.) Description of fossils.,
O as in Oryctological (a.) Of or pertaining to oryctology.,
O as in Oryctologist (n.) One versed in oryctology.,
O as in Oryctology (n.) An old name for paleontology.,
O as in Oryctology (n.) An old name for mineralogy and geology.,
O as in Oryx (n.) A genus of African antelopes which includes the gemsbok, the leucoryx, the bisa antelope (O. beisa), and the beatrix antelope (O. beatrix) of Arabia.,
O as in Oryza (n.) A genus of grasses including the rice plant; rice.,
O as in Ossa (pl. ) of Os,
O as in Os (n.) A bone.,
O as in Ora (pl. ) of Os,
O as in Os (n.) A mouth; an opening; an entrance.,
O as in Osar (pl. ) of Os,
O as in Os (n.) One of the ridges of sand or gravel found in Sweden, etc., supposed by some to be of marine origin, but probably formed by subglacial waters. The osar are similar to the kames of Scotland and the eschars of Ireland. See Eschar.,
O as in Osage orange () An ornamental tree of the genus Maclura (M. aurantiaca), closely allied to the mulberry (Morus); also, its fruit. The tree was first found in the country of the Osage Indians, and bears a hard and inedible fruit of an orangelike appearance. See Bois d'arc.,
O as in Osages (n. pl.) A tribe of southern Sioux Indians, now living in the Indian Territory.,
O as in Osanne (n.) Hosanna.,
O as in Osar (n. pl.) See 3d Os.,
O as in Oscan (a.) Of or pertaining to the Osci, a primitive people of Campania, a province of ancient Italy.,
O as in Oscan (n.) The language of the Osci.,
O as in Oscillancy (n.) The state of oscillating; a seesaw kind of motion.,
O as in Oscillaria (n.) A genus of dark green, or purplish black, filamentous, fresh-water algae, the threads of which have an automatic swaying or crawling motion. Called also Oscillatoria.,
O as in Oscillated (imp. & p. p.) of Oscillate,
O as in Oscillating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Oscillate,
O as in Oscillate (v. i.) To move backward and forward; to vibrate like a pendulum; to swing; to sway.,
O as in Oscillate (v. i.) To vary or fluctuate between fixed limits; to act or move in a fickle or fluctuating manner; to change repeatedly, back and forth.,
O as in Oscillating (a.) That oscillates; vibrating; swinging.,
O as in Oscillation (n.) The act of oscillating; a swinging or moving backward and forward, like a pendulum; vibration.,
O as in Oscillation (n.) Fluctuation; variation; change back and forth.,
O as in Oscillative (a.) Tending to oscillate; vibratory.,
O as in Oscillatoria (n. pl.) Same as Oscillaria.,
O as in Oscillatory (a.) Moving, or characterized by motion, backward and forward like a pendulum; swinging; oscillating; vibratory; as, oscillatory motion.,
O as in Oscine (a.) Relating to the Oscines.,
O as in Oscines (n. pl.) Singing birds; a group of the Passeres, having numerous syringeal muscles, conferring musical ability.,
O as in Oscinian (n.) One of the Oscines, or singing birds.,
O as in Oscinian (n.) Any one of numerous species of dipterous files of the family Oscinidae.,
O as in Oscinine (a.) Of or pertaining to the Oscines.,
O as in Oscitancy (n.) The act of gaping or yawning.,
O as in Oscitancy (n.) Drowsiness; dullness; sluggishness.,
O as in Oscitant (a.) Yawning; gaping.,
O as in Oscitant (a.) Sleepy; drowsy; dull; sluggish; careless.,
O as in Oscitantly (adv.) In an oscitant manner.,
O as in Oscitate (v. i.) To gape; to yawn.,
O as in Oscitation (n.) The act of yawning or gaping.,
O as in Osculant (a.) Kissing; hence, meeting; clinging.,
O as in Osculant (a.) Adhering closely; embracing; -- applied to certain creeping animals, as caterpillars.,
O as in Osculant (a.) Intermediate in character, or on the border, between two genera, groups, families, etc., of animals or plants, and partaking somewhat of the characters of each, thus forming a connecting link; interosculant; as, the genera by which two families approximate are called osculant genera.,
O as in Osculated (imp. & p. p.) of Osculate,
O as in Osculating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Osculate,
O as in Osculate (v. t.) To kiss.,
O as in Osculate (v. t.) To touch closely, so as to have a common curvature at the point of contact. See Osculation, 2.,
O as in Osculate (v. i.) To kiss one another; to kiss.,
O as in Osculate (v. i.) To touch closely. See Osculation, 2.,
O as in Osculate (v. i.) To have characters in common with two genera or families, so as to form a connecting link between them; to interosculate. See Osculant.,
O as in Osculation (n.) The act of kissing; a kiss.,
O as in Osculation (n.) The contact of one curve with another, when the number of consecutive points of the latter through which the former passes suffices for the complete determination of the former curve.,
O as in Osculatory (a.) Of or pertaining to kissing; kissing.,
O as in Osculatory (a.) Pertaining to, or having the properties of, an osculatrix; capable of osculation; as, a circle may be osculatory with a curve, at a given point.,
O as in Osculatory (n.) Same as Pax, 2.,
O as in Osculatrixes (pl. ) of Osculatrix,
O as in Osculatrix (n.) A curve whose contact with a given curve, at a given point, is of a higher order (or involves the equality of a greater number of successive differential coefficients of the ordinates of the curves taken at that point) than that of any other curve of the same kind.,
O as in Oscule (n.) One of the excurrent apertures of sponges.,
O as in Oscula (pl. ) of Osculum,
O as in Osculum (n.) Same as Oscule.,
O as in -ose () A suffix denoting full of, containing, having the qualities of, like; as in verbose, full of words; pilose, hairy; globose, like a globe.,
O as in -ose () A suffix indicating that the substance to the name of which it is affixed is a member of the carbohydrate group; as in cellulose, sucrose, dextrose, etc.,
O as in Osier (n.) A kind of willow (Salix viminalis) growing in wet places in Europe and Asia, and introduced into North America. It is considered the best of the willows for basket work. The name is sometimes given to any kind of willow.,
O as in Osier (n.) One of the long, pliable twigs of this plant, or of other similar plants.,
O as in Osier (a.) Made of osiers; composed of, or containing, osiers.,
O as in Osiered (a.) Covered or adorned with osiers; as, osiered banks.,
O as in Osiery (n.) An osier bed.,
O as in Osiris (n.) One of the principal divinities of Egypt, the brother and husband of Isis. He was figured as a mummy wearing the royal cap of Upper Egypt, and was symbolized by the sacred bull, called Apis. Cf. Serapis.,
O as in Osmanlis (pl. ) of Osmanli,
O as in Osmanli (n.) A Turkish official; one of the dominant tribe of Turks; loosely, any Turk.,
O as in Osmate (n.) A salt of osmic acid.,
O as in Osmateria (pl. ) of Osmaterium,
O as in Osmaterium (n.) One of a pair of scent organs which the larvae of certain butterflies emit from the first body segment, either above or below.,
O as in Osmazome (n.) A substance formerly supposed to give to soup and broth their characteristic odor, and probably consisting of one or several of the class of nitrogenous substances which are called extractives.,
O as in Osmiamate (n.) A salt of osmiamic acid.,
O as in Osmiamic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, a nitrogenous acid of osmium, H2N2Os2O5, forming a well-known series of yellow salts.,
O as in Osmic (a.) Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, osmium; specifically, designating those compounds in which it has a valence higher than in other lower compounds; as, osmic oxide.,
O as in Osmidrosis (n.) The secretion of fetid sweat.,
O as in Osmious (a.) Denoting those compounds of osmium in which the element has a valence relatively lower than in the osmic compounds; as, osmious chloride.,
O as in Osmite (n.) A salt of osmious acid.,
O as in Osmium (n.) A rare metallic element of the platinum group, found native as an alloy in platinum ore, and in iridosmine. It is a hard, infusible, bluish or grayish white metal, and the heaviest substance known. Its tetroxide is used in histological experiments to stain tissues. Symbol Os. Atomic weight 191.1. Specific gravity 22.477.,
O as in Osmometer (n.) An instrument for measuring the amount of osmotic action in different liquids.,
O as in Osmometry (n.) The study of osmose by means of the osmometer.,
O as in Osmose (n.) The tendency in fluids to mix, or become equably diffused, when in contact. It was first observed between fluids of differing densities, and as taking place through a membrane or an intervening porous structure. The more rapid flow from the thinner to the thicker fluid was then called endosmose, and the opposite, slower current, exosmose. Both are, however, results of the same force. Osmose may be regarded as a form of molecular attraction, allied to that of adhesion.,
O as in Osmose (n.) The action produced by this tendency.,
O as in Osmosis (n.) Osmose.,
O as in Osmotic (a.) Pertaining to, or having the property of, osmose; as, osmotic force.,
O as in Osmund (n.) A fern of the genus Osmunda, or flowering fern. The most remarkable species is the osmund royal, or royal fern (Osmunda regalis), which grows in wet or boggy places, and has large bipinnate fronds, often with a panicle of capsules at the top. The rootstock contains much starch, and has been used in stiffening linen.,
O as in Osnaburg (n.) A species of coarse linen, originally made in Osnaburg, Germany.,
O as in Oso-berry (n.) The small, blueblack, drupelike fruit of the Nuttallia cerasiformis, a shrub of Oregon and California, belonging to the Cherry tribe of Rosaceae.,
O as in Osphradia (pl. ) of Osphradium,
O as in Osphradium (n.) The olfactory organ of some Mollusca. It is connected with the organ of respiration.,
O as in Osprey (n.) Alt. of Ospray,
O as in Ospray (n.) The fishhawk.,
O as in Oss (n.) To prophesy; to presage.,
O as in Osse (n.) A prophetic or ominous utterance.,
O as in Ossean (n.) A fish having a bony skeleton; a teleost.,
O as in Ossein (n.) The organic basis of bone tissue; the residue after removal of the mineral matters from bone by dilute acid; in embryonic tissue, the substance in which the mineral salts are deposited to form bone; -- called also ostein. Chemically it is the same as collagen.,
O as in Osselet (n.) A little bone.,
O as in Osselet (n.) The internal bone, or shell, of a cuttlefish.,
O as in Osseous (a.) Composed of bone; resembling bone; capable of forming bone; bony; ossific.,
O as in Osseter (n.) A species of sturgeon.,
O as in Ossianic (a.) Of or pertaining to, or characteristic of, Ossian, a legendary Erse or Celtic bard.,
O as in Ossicle (n.) A little bone; as, the auditory ossicles in the tympanum of the ear.,
O as in Ossicle (n.) One of numerous small calcareous structures forming the skeleton of certain echinoderms, as the starfishes.,
O as in Ossiculated (a.) Having small bones.,
O as in Ossicula (pl. ) of Ossiculum,
O as in Ossiculum (n.) Same as Ossicle.,
O as in Ossiferous (a.) Containing or yielding bone.,
O as in Ossific (a.) Capable of producing bone; having the power to change cartilage or other tissue into bone.,
O as in Ossification (n.) The formation of bone; the process, in the growth of an animal, by which inorganic material (mainly lime salts) is deposited in cartilage or membrane, forming bony tissue; ostosis.,
O as in Ossification (n.) The state of being changed into a bony substance; also, a mass or point of ossified tissue.,
O as in Ossified (a.) Changed to bone or something resembling bone; hardened by deposits of mineral matter of any kind; -- said of tissues.,
O as in Ossifrage (n.) The lammergeir.,
O as in Ossifrage (n.) The young of the sea eagle or bald eagle.,
O as in Ossifragous (a.) Serving to break bones; bone-breaking.,
O as in Ossified (imp. & p. p.) of Ossify,
O as in Ossifying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ossify,
O as in Ossify (v. t.) To form into bone; to change from a soft animal substance into bone, as by the deposition of lime salts.,
O as in Ossify (v. t.) Fig.: To harden; as, to ossify the heart.,
O as in Ossify (v. i.) To become bone; to change from a soft tissue to a hard bony tissue.,
O as in Ossifying (a.) Changing into bone; becoming bone; as, the ossifying process.,
O as in Ossivorous (a.) Feeding on bones; eating bones; as, ossivorous quadrupeds.,
O as in Osspringer (n.) The osprey.,
O as in Ossuarium (n.) A charnel house; an ossuary.,
O as in -ries (pl. ) of Ossuary,
O as in Ossuary (n.) A place where the bones of the dead are deposited; a charnel house.,
O as in Ost (n.) See Oast.,
O as in Osteal (a.) Osseous.,
O as in Ostein (n.) Ossein.,
O as in Osteitis (n.) Inflammation of bone.,
O as in Osteler (n.) Same as Hosteler.,
O as in Ostend (v. t.) To exhibit; to manifest.,
O as in Ostensibility (n.) The quality or state of being ostensible.,
O as in Ostensible (a.) Capable of being shown; proper or intended to be shown.,
O as in Ostensible (a.) Shown; exhibited; declared; avowed; professed; apparent; -- often used as opposed to real or actual; as, an ostensible reason, motive, or aim.,
O as in Ostensibly (adv.) In an ostensible manner; avowedly; professedly; apparently.,
O as in Ostension (n.) The showing of the sacrament on the altar in order that it may receive the adoration of the communicants.,
O as in Ostensive (a.) Showing; exhibiting.,
O as in Ostensively (adv.) In an ostensive manner.,
O as in -soria (pl. ) of Ostensory,
O as in -sories (pl. ) of Ostensory,
O as in Ostensorium (n.) Alt. of Ostensory,
O as in Ostensory (n.) Same as Monstrance.,
O as in Ostent (n.) Appearance; air; mien.,
O as in Ostent (n.) Manifestation; token; portent.,
O as in Ostentate (v. t.) To make an ambitious display of; to show or exhibit boastingly.,
O as in Ostentation (n.) The act of ostentating or of making an ambitious display; unnecessary show; pretentious parade; -- usually in a detractive sense.,
O as in Ostentation (n.) A show or spectacle.,
O as in Ostentatious (a.) Fond of, or evincing, ostentation; unduly conspicuous; pretentious; boastful.,
O as in Ostentator (n.) One fond of display; a boaster.,
O as in Ostentive (a.) Ostentatious.,
O as in Ostentous (a.) Ostentatious.,
O as in Osteo- () A combining form of Gr. / a bone.,
O as in Osteoblast (n.) One of the protoplasmic cells which occur in the osteogenetic layer of the periosteum, and from or around which the matrix of the bone is developed; an osteoplast.,
O as in Osteoclasis (n.) The operation of breaking a bone in order to correct deformity.,
O as in Osteoclast (n.) A myeloplax.,
O as in Osteoclast (n.) An instrument for performing osteoclasis.,
O as in Osteocolla (n.) A kind of glue obtained from bones.,
O as in Osteocolla (n.) A cellular calc tufa, which in some places forms incrustations on the stems of plants, -- formerly supposed to have the quality of uniting fractured bones.,
O as in Osteocommata (pl. ) of Osteocomma,
O as in Osteocommas (pl. ) of Osteocomma,
O as in Osteocomma (n.) A metamere of the vertebrate skeleton; an osteomere; a vertebra.,
O as in Osteocope (n.) Pain in the bones; a violent fixed pain in any part of a bone.,
O as in Osteocranium (n.) The bony cranium, as distinguished from the cartilaginous cranium.,
O as in Osteodentine (n.) A hard substance, somewhat like bone, which is sometimes deposited within the pulp cavity of teeth.,
O as in Osteogen (n.) The soft tissue, or substance, which, in developing bone, ultimately undergoes ossification.,
O as in Osteogenesis (n.) Alt. of Osteogeny,
O as in Osteogeny (n.) The formation or growth of bone.,
O as in Osteogenetic (a.) Connected with osteogenesis, or the formation of bone; producing bone; as, osteogenetic tissue; the osteogenetic layer of the periosteum.,
O as in Osteogenic (a.) Osteogenetic.,
O as in Osteographer (n.) An osteologist.,
O as in Osteography (n.) The description of bones; osteology.,
O as in Osteoid (a.) Resembling bone; bonelike.,
O as in Osteolite (n.) A massive impure apatite, or calcium phosphate.,
O as in Osteologer (n.) One versed in osteology; an osteologist.,
O as in Osteologic (a.) Alt. of Osteological,
O as in Osteological (a.) Of or pertaining to osteology.,
O as in Osteologist (n.) One who is skilled in osteology; an osteologer.,
O as in Osteology (n.) The science which treats of the bones of the vertebrate skeleton.,
O as in Osteomata (pl. ) of Osteoma,
O as in Osteoma (n.) A tumor composed mainly of bone; a tumor of a bone.,
O as in Osteomalacia (n.) A disease of the bones, in which they lose their earthy material, and become soft, flexible, and distorted. Also called malacia.,
O as in Osteomanty (n.) Divination by means of bones.,
O as in Osteomere (n.) An osteocomma.,
O as in Osteophone (n.) An instrument for transmission of auditory vibrations through the bones of the head, so as to be appreciated as sounds by persons deaf from causes other than those affecting the nervous apparatus of hearing.,
O as in Osteoplast (n.) An osteoblast.,
O as in Osteoplastic (a.) Producing bone; as, osteoplastic cells.,
O as in Osteoplastic (a.) Of or pertaining to the replacement of bone; as, an osteoplastic operation.,
O as in Osteoplasty (n.) An operation or process by which the total or partial loss of a bone is remedied.,
O as in Osteopterygious (a.) Having bones in the fins, as certain fishes.,
O as in Osteosarcomata (pl. ) of Osteosarcoma,
O as in Osteosarcoma (n.) A tumor having the structure of a sacroma in which there is a deposit of bone; sarcoma connected with bone.,
O as in Osteotome (n.) Strong nippers or a chisel for dividing bone.,
O as in Osteotomist (n.) One skilled in osteotomy.,
O as in Osteotomy (n.) The dissection or anatomy of bones; osteology.,
O as in Osteotomy (n.) The operation of dividing a bone or of cutting a piece out of it, -- done to remedy deformity, etc.,
O as in Osteozoa (n. pl.) Same as Vertebrata.,
O as in -ries (pl. ) of Ostiary,
O as in Ostiary (n.) The mouth of a river; an estuary.,
O as in Ostiary (n.) One who keeps the door, especially the door of a church; a porter.,
O as in Ostic (a.) Pertaining to, or applied to, the language of the Tuscaroras, Iroquois, Wyandots, Winnebagoes, and a part of the Sioux Indians.,
O as in Ostiole (n.) The exterior opening of a stomate. See Stomate.,
O as in Ostiole (n.) Any small orifice.,
O as in Ostitis (n.) See Osteitis.,
O as in Ostia (pl. ) of Ostium,
O as in Ostium (n.) An opening; a passage.,
O as in Ostler (n.) See Hostler.,
O as in Ostleress (n.) A female ostler.,
O as in Ostlery (n.) See Hostelry.,
O as in Ostmen (n. pl.) East men; Danish settlers in Ireland, formerly so called.,
O as in Ostosis (n.) Bone formation; ossification. See Ectostosis, and Endostosis.,
O as in Ostracea (n. pl.) A division of bivalve mollusks including the oysters and allied shells.,
O as in Ostracean (n.) Any one of a family of bivalves, of which the oyster is the type.,
O as in Ostracion (n.) A genus of plectognath fishes having the body covered with solid, immovable, bony plates. It includes the trunkfishes.,
O as in Ostraciont (n.) A fish of the genus Ostracion and allied genera.,
O as in Ostracism (n.) Banishment by popular vote, -- a means adopted at Athens to rid the city of a person whose talent and influence gave umbrage.,
O as in Ostracism (n.) Banishment; exclusion; as, social ostracism.,
O as in Ostracite (n.) A fossil oyster.,
O as in Ostracized (imp. & p. p.) of Ostracize,
O as in Ostracizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ostracize,
O as in Ostracize (v. t.) To exile by ostracism; to banish by a popular vote, as at Athens.,
O as in Ostracize (v. t.) To banish from society; to put under the ban; to cast out from social, political, or private favor; as, he was ostracized by his former friends.,
O as in Ostracoda (n. pl.) Ostracoidea.,
O as in Ostracodermi (n. pl.) A suborder of fishes of which Ostracion is the type.,
O as in Ostracoid (a.) Of or pertaining to the Ostracoidea.,
O as in Ostracoid (n.) One of the Ostracoidea.,
O as in Ostracoidea (n. pl.) An order of Entomostraca possessing hard bivalve shells. They are of small size, and swim freely about.,
O as in Ostrea (n.) A genus of bivalve Mollusca which includes the true oysters.,
O as in Ostreaceous (a.) Of or pertaining to an oyster, or to a shell; shelly.,
O as in Ostreaculture (n.) The artificial cultivation of oysters.,
O as in Ostreophagist (n.) One who feeds on oysters.,
O as in Ostrich (n.) A large bird of the genus Struthio, of which Struthio camelus of Africa is the best known species. It has long and very strong legs, adapted for rapid running; only two toes; a long neck, nearly bare of feathers; and short wings incapable of flight. The adult male is about eight feet high.,
O as in Ostriferous (a.) Producing oysters; containing oysters.,
O as in Ostrogoth (n.) One of the Eastern Goths. See Goth.,
O as in Ostrogothic (a.) Of or pertaining to the Ostrogoths.,
O as in Oswego tea () An American aromatic herb (Monarda didyma), with showy, bright red, labiate flowers.,
O as in Otacoustic (a.) Assisting the sense of hearing; as, an otacoustic instrument.,
O as in Otacoustic (n.) Alt. of Otacousticon,
O as in Otacousticon (n.) An instrument to facilitate hearing, as an ear trumpet.,
O as in Otaheite apple () The fruit of a Polynesian anacardiaceous tree (Spondias dulcis), also called vi-apple. It is rather larger than an apple, and the rind has a flavor of turpentine, but the flesh is said to taste like pineapples.,
O as in Otaheite apple () A West Indian name for a myrtaceous tree (Jambosa Malaccensis) which bears crimson berries.,
O as in Otalgia (n.) Pain in the ear; earache.,
O as in Otalgic (a.) Of or pertaining to otalgia.,
O as in Otalgic (n.) A remedy for otalgia.,
O as in Otalgy (n.) Pain in the ear; otalgia.,
O as in Otaries (pl. ) of Otary,
O as in Otary (n.) Any eared seal.,
O as in Otheoscope (n.) An instrument for exhibiting the repulsive action produced by light or heat in an exhausted vessel; a modification of the radoimeter.,
O as in Other (conj.) Either; -- used with other or or for its correlative (as either . . . or are now used).,
O as in Other (pron. & a.) Different from that which, or the one who, has been specified; not the same; not identical; additional; second of two.,
O as in Other (pron. & a.) Not this, but the contrary; opposite; as, the other side of a river.,
O as in Other (pron. & a.) Alternate; second; -- used esp. in connection with every; as, every other day, that is, each alternate day, every second day.,
O as in Other (pron. & a.) Left, as opposed to right.,
O as in Other (adv.) Otherwise.,
O as in Othergates (adv.) In another manner.,
O as in Otherguise (a. & adv.) Alt. of Otherguess,
O as in Otherguess (a. & adv.) Of another kind or sort; in another way.,
O as in Otherness (n.) The quality or state of being other or different; alterity; oppositeness.,
O as in Otherways (adv.) See Otherwise.,
O as in Otherwhere (adv.) In or to some other place, or places; elsewhere.,
O as in Otherwhile (adv.) Alt. of Otherwhiles,
O as in Otherwhiles (adv.) At another time, or other times; sometimes; /ccasionally.,
O as in Otherwise (adv.) In a different manner; in another way, or in other ways; differently; contrarily.,
O as in Otherwise (adv.) In other respects.,
O as in Otherwise (adv.) In different circumstances; under other conditions; as, I am engaged, otherwise I would accept.,
O as in Othman (n. & a.) See Ottoman.,
O as in Otic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or in the region of, the ear; auricular; auditory.,
O as in Otiose (a.) Being at leisure or ease; unemployed; indolent; idle.,
O as in Otiosity (n.) Leisure; indolence; idleness; ease.,
O as in Otis (n.) A genus of birds including the bustards.,
O as in Otitis (n.) Inflammation of the ear.,
O as in Oto- () A combining form denoting relation to, or situation near or in, the ear.,
O as in Otoba fat () A colorless buttery substance obtained from the fruit of Myristica otoba, a species of nutmeg tree.,
O as in Otoconite (n.) A mass of otoliths.,
O as in Otoconite (n.) An otolith.,
O as in Otocrane (n.) The cavity in the skull in which the parts of the internal ear are lodged.,
O as in Otocranial (a.) Of or pertaining to the otocrane.,
O as in Otocyst (n.) An auditory cyst or vesicle; one of the simple auditory organs of many invertebrates, containing a fluid and otoliths; also, the embryonic vesicle from which the parts of the internal ear of vertebrates are developed.,
O as in Otography (n.) A description of the ear.,
O as in Otolith (n.) Alt. of Otolite,
O as in Otolite (n.) One of the small bones or particles of calcareous or other hard substance in the internal ear of vertebrates, and in the auditory organs of many invertebrates; an ear stone. Collectively, the otoliths are called ear sand and otoconite.,
O as in Otolithic (a.) Alt. of Otolitic,
O as in Otolitic (a.) Of or pertaining to otoliths.,
O as in Otological (a.) Of or pertaining tootology.,
O as in Otologist (n.) One skilled in otology; an aurist.,
O as in Otology (n.) The branch of science which treats of the ear and its diseases.,
O as in Otopathy (n.) A diseased condition of the ear.,
O as in Otorrh/a (n.) A flow or running from the ear, esp. a purulent discharge.,
O as in Otoscope (n.) An instrument for examining the condition of the ear.,
O as in Otoscopeic (a.) Of or pertaining to the otoscope or to otoscopy.,
O as in Otoscopy (n.) The examination of the ear; the art of using the otoscope.,
O as in Otosteal (n.) An auditory ossicle.,
O as in Otozoum (n.) An extinct genus of huge vertebrates, probably dinosaurs, known only from four-toed tracks in Triassic sandstones.,
O as in Ottar (n.) See Attar.,
O as in Ottawas (n. pl.) A tribe of Indians who, when first known, lived on the Ottawa River. Most of them subsequently migrated to the southwestern shore of Lake Superior.,
O as in Otter (n.) Any carnivorous animal of the genus Lutra, and related genera. Several species are described. They have large, flattish heads, short ears, and webbed toes. They are aquatic, and feed on fish. Their fur is soft and valuable. The common otter of Europe is Lutra vulgaris; the American otter is L. Canadensis; other species inhabit South America and Asia.,
O as in Otter (n.) The larva of the ghost moth. It is very injurious to hop vines.,
O as in Otter (n.) A corruption of Annotto.,
O as in Otto (n.) See Attar.,
O as in Ottoman (a.) Of or pertaining to the Turks; as, the Ottoman power or empire.,
O as in Ottomans (pl. ) of Ottoman,
O as in Ottoman (n.) A Turk.,
O as in Ottoman (n.) A stuffed seat without a back, originally used in Turkey.,
O as in Ottomite (n.) An Ottoman.,
O as in Ottrelite (n.) A micaceous mineral occurring in small scales. It is characteristic of certain crystalline schists.,
O as in Ouakari (n.) Any South American monkey of the genus Brachyurus, especially B. ouakari.,
O as in Ouanderoo (n.) The wanderoo.,
O as in Ouarine (n.) A Brazilian monkey of the genus Mycetes.,
O as in Oubliette (n.) A dungeon with an opening only at the top, found in some old castles and other strongholds, into which persons condemned to perpetual imprisonment, or to perish secretly, were thrust, or lured to fall.,
O as in Ouch (n.) A socket or bezel holding a precious stone; hence, a jewel or ornament worn on the person.,
O as in Oughne (a.) Own.,
O as in Ought (n. & adv.) See Aught.,
O as in Ought (imp., p. p., or auxiliary) Was or were under obligation to pay; owed.,
O as in Ought (imp., p. p., or auxiliary) Owned; possessed.,
O as in Ought (imp., p. p., or auxiliary) To be bound in duty or by moral obligation.,
O as in Ought (imp., p. p., or auxiliary) To be necessary, fit, becoming, or expedient; to behoove; -- in this sense formerly sometimes used impersonally or without a subject expressed.,
O as in Oughtness (n.) The state of being as a thing ought to be; rightness.,
O as in Oughwhere (adv.) Anywhere; somewhere. See Owher.,
O as in Ouistiti (n.) See Wistit.,
O as in Oul (n.) An awl.,
O as in Oul (n.) An owl.,
O as in Oulachan (n.) Same as Eulachon.,
O as in Ounce (n.) A weight, the sixteenth part of a pound avoirdupois, and containing 437/ grains.,
O as in Ounce (n.) The twelfth part of a troy pound.,
O as in Ounce (n.) Fig.: A small portion; a bit.,
O as in Ounce (n.) A feline quadruped (Felis irbis, / uncia) resembling the leopard in size, and somewhat in color, but it has longer and thicker fur, which forms a short mane on the back. The ounce is pale yellowish gray, with irregular dark spots on the neck and limbs, and dark rings on the body. It inhabits the lofty mountain ranges of Asia. Called also once.,
O as in Ounded (a.) Alt. of Oundy,
O as in Oundy (a.) Wavy; waving/ curly.,
O as in Ounding (vb. n.) Waving.,
O as in Ouphe (n.) A fairy; a goblin; an elf.,
O as in Ouphen (a.) Elfish.,
O as in Our (possessive pron.) Of or pertaining to us; belonging to us; as, our country; our rights; our troops; our endeavors. See I.,
O as in -our () See -or.,
O as in Ourang (n.) The orang-outang.,
O as in Ourang-outang (n.) See Orang-outang.,
O as in Ouranographist (n.) See Uranographist.,
O as in Ouranography (n.) See Uranography.,
O as in Ourebi (n.) A small, graceful, and swift African antelope, allied to the klipspringer.,
O as in Ouretic (a.) Uric.,
O as in Ourology (n.) See Urology.,
O as in Ouroscopy (n.) Ourology.,
O as in Ours (possessive pron.) See Note under Our.,
O as in Ourselves (pron.) ; sing. Ourself (/). An emphasized form of the pronoun of the first person plural; -- used as a subject, usually with we; also, alone in the predicate, in the nominative or the objective case.,
O as in -ous () An adjective suffix meaning full of, abounding in, having, possessing the qualities of, like; as in gracious, abounding in grace; arduous, full of ardor; bulbous, having bulbs, bulblike; riotous, poisonous, piteous, joyous, etc.,
O as in -ous () A suffix denoting that the element indicated by the name bearing it, has a valence lower than that denoted by the termination -ic; as, nitrous, sulphurous, etc., as contrasted with nitric, sulphuric, etc.,
O as in Ouse (n. & v.) See Ooze.,
O as in Ousel (n.) One of several species of European thrushes, especially the blackbird (Merula merula, or Turdus merula), and the mountain or ring ousel (Turdus torquatus).,
O as in Oust (n.) See Oast.,
O as in Ousted (imp. & p. p.) of Oust,
O as in Ousting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Oust,
O as in Oust (v. t.) To take away; to remove.,
O as in Oust (v. t.) To eject; to turn out.,
O as in Ouster (n.) A putting out of possession; dispossession; ejection; disseizin.,
O as in Out (a.) In its original and strict sense, out means from the interior of something; beyond the limits or boundary of somethings; in a position or relation which is exterior to something; -- opposed to in or into. The something may be expressed after of, from, etc. (see Out of, below); or, if not expressed, it is implied; as, he is out; or, he is out of the house, office, business, etc.; he came out; or, he came out from the ship, meeting, sect, party, etc.,
O as in Out (a.) Away; abroad; off; from home, or from a certain, or a usual, place; not in; not in a particular, or a usual, place; as, the proprietor is out, his team was taken out.,
O as in Out (a.) Beyond the limits of concealment, confinement, privacy, constraint, etc., actual of figurative; hence, not in concealment, constraint, etc., in, or into, a state of freedom, openness, disclosure, publicity, etc.; as, the sun shines out; he laughed out, to be out at the elbows; the secret has leaked out, or is out; the disease broke out on his face; the book is out.,
O as in Out (a.) Beyond the limit of existence, continuance, or supply; to the end; completely; hence, in, or into, a condition of extinction, exhaustion, completion; as, the fuel, or the fire, has burned out.,
O as in Out (a.) Beyond possession, control, or occupation; hence, in, or into, a state of want, loss, or deprivation; -- used of office, business, property, knowledge, etc.; as, the Democrats went out and the Whigs came in; he put his money out at interest.,
O as in Out (a.) Beyond the bounds of what is true, reasonable, correct, proper, common, etc.; in error or mistake; in a wrong or incorrect position or opinion; in a state of disagreement, opposition, etc.; in an inharmonious relation.,
O as in Out (a.) Not in the position to score in playing a game; not in the state or turn of the play for counting or gaining scores.,
O as in Out (n.) One who, or that which, is out; especially, one who is out of office; -- generally in the plural.,
O as in Out (n.) A place or space outside of something; a nook or corner; an angle projecting outward; an open space; -- chiefly used in the phrase ins and outs; as, the ins and outs of a question. See under In.,
O as in Out (n.) A word or words omitted by the compositor in setting up copy; an omission.,
O as in Out (v. t.) To cause to be out; to eject; to expel.,
O as in Out (v. t.) To come out with; to make known.,
O as in Out (v. t.) To give out; to dispose of; to sell.,
O as in Out (v. i.) To come or go out; to get out or away; to become public.,
O as in Out (interj.) Expressing impatience, anger, a desire to be rid of; -- with the force of command; go out; begone; away; off.,
O as in Outact (v. t.) To do or beyond; to exceed in acting.,
O as in Outagamies (n. pl.) See lst Fox, 7.,
O as in Outargue (v. t.) To surpass or conquer in argument.,
O as in Outbabble (v. t.) To utter foolishly or excessively; to surpass in babbling.,
O as in Outbalance (v. t.) To outweight; to exceed in weight or effect.,
O as in Outbar (v. t.) To bar out.,
O as in Outbeg (v. t.) To surpass in begging.,
O as in Outbid (imp.) of Outbid,
O as in Outbade () of Outbid,
O as in Outbid (p. p.) of Outbid,
O as in Outbidden () of Outbid,
O as in Outbidding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Outbid,
O as in Outbid (v. t.) To exceed or surpass in bidding.,
O as in Outbidder (n.) One who outbids.,
O as in Outbleat (v. t.) To surpass in bleating.,
O as in Outblown (a.) Inflated with wind.,
O as in Outblush (v. t.) To exceed in blushing; to surpass in rosy color.,
O as in Outboard (a. & adv.) Beyond or outside of the lines of a vessel's bulwarks or hull; in a direction from the hull or from the keel; -- opposed to inboard; as, outboard rigging; swing the davits outboard.,
O as in Outborn (a.) Foreign; not native.,
O as in Outbound (a.) Outward bound.,
O as in Outbounds (n. pl.) The farthest or exterior bounds; extreme limits; boundaries.,
O as in Outbow (v. t.) To excel in bowing.,
O as in Outbowed (a.) Convex; curved outward.,
O as in Outbrag (v. t.) To surpass in bragging; hence, to make appear inferior.,
O as in Outbrave (v. t.) To excel in bravery o/ in insolence; to defy with superior courage or audacity,
O as in Outbrave (v. t.) To excel in magnificence or comeliness.,
O as in Outbray (v. t.) To exceed in braying.,
O as in Outbray (v. t.) To emit with great noise.,
O as in Outbrazen (v. t.) To bear down with a brazen face; to surpass in impudence.,
O as in Outbreak (n.) A bursting forth; eruption; insurrection.,
O as in Outbreaking (n.) The act of breaking out.,
O as in Outbreaking (n.) That which bursts forth.,
O as in Outbreast (v. t.) To surpass in singing. See Breast, n., 6.,
O as in Outbreathe (v. t.) To breathe forth.,
O as in Outbreathe (v. t.) To cause to be out of breath; to exhaust.,
O as in Outbreathe (v. i.) To issue, as breath; to be breathed out; to exhale.,
O as in Outbribe (v. t.) To surpass in bribing.,
O as in Outbring (v. t.) To bring or bear out.,
O as in Outbud (v. i.) To sprout.,
O as in Outbuilt (imp. & p. p.) of Outbuild,
O as in Outbuilded () of Outbuild,
O as in Outbuilding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Outbuild,
O as in Outbuild (v. t.) To exceed in building, or in durability of building.,
O as in Outbuilding (n.) A building separate from, and subordinate to, the main house; an outhouse.,
O as in Outburn (v. t. & i.) To exceed in burning.,
O as in Outburn (v. t. & i.) To burn entirely; to be consumed.,
O as in Outburst (n.) A bursting forth.,
O as in Outcant (v. t.) To surpass in canting.,
O as in Outcast (a.) Cast out; degraded.,
O as in Outcast (n.) One who is cast out or expelled; an exile; one driven from home, society, or country; hence, often, a degraded person; a vagabond.,
O as in Outcast (n.) A quarrel; a contention.,
O as in Outcasting (n.) That which is cast out.,
O as in Outcept (prep.) Except.,
O as in Outcheat (v. t.) To exceed in cheating.,
O as in Outclimb (v. t.) To climb bevond; to surpass in climbing.,
O as in Outcome (n.) That which comes out of, or follows from, something else; issue; result; consequence; upshot.,
O as in Outcompass (v. t.) To exceed the compass or limits of.,
O as in Outcourt (n.) An outer or exterior court.,
O as in Outcrafty (v. t.) To exceed in cunning.,
O as in Outcrier (n.) One who cries out or proclaims; a herald or crier.,
O as in Outcrop (n.) The coming out of a stratum to the surface of the ground.,
O as in Outcrop (n.) That part of inclined strata which appears at the surface; basset.,
O as in Outcrop (v. i.) To come out to the surface of the ground; -- said of strata.,
O as in Outcry (n.) A vehement or loud cry; a cry of distress, alarm, opposition, or detestation; clamor.,
O as in Outcry (n.) Sale at public auction.,
O as in Outdare (v. t.) To surpass in daring; to overcome by courage; to brave.,
O as in Outdated (a.) Being out of date; antiquated.,
O as in Outdazzle (v. t.) To surpass in dazzing.,
O as in Outdid (imp.) of Outdo,
O as in Outdone (p. p.) of Outdo,
O as in Outdoing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Outdo,
O as in Outdo (v. t.) To go beyond in performance; to excel; to surpass.,
O as in Outdoor (a.) Being, or done, in the open air; being or done outside of certain buildings, as poorhouses, hospitals, etc.; as, outdoor exercise; outdoor relief; outdoor patients.,
O as in Outdoors (adv.) Abread; out of the house; out of doors.,
O as in Outdraw (v. t.) To draw out; to extract.,
O as in Outdream (v. t.) To pass, or escape, while dreaming.,
O as in Outdrink (v. t.) To exceed in drinking.,
O as in Outdure (v. t.) To outlast.,
O as in Outdwell (v. t.) To dwell or stay beyond.,
O as in Outdweller (n.) One who holds land in a parish, but lives elsewhere.,
O as in Outer (a.) Being on the outside; external; farthest or farther from the interior, from a given station, or from any space or position regarded as a center or starting place; -- opposed to inner; as, the outer wall; the outer court or gate; the outer stump in cricket; the outer world.,
O as in Outer (n.) The part of a target which is beyond the circles surrounding the bull's-eye.,
O as in Outer (n.) A shot which strikes the outer of a target.,
O as in Outer (v.) One who puts out, ousts, or expels; also, an ouster; dispossession.,
O as in Outerly (adv.) Utterly; entirely.,
O as in Outerly (adv.) Toward the outside.,
O as in Outermost (a.) Being on the extreme external part; farthest outward; as, the outermost row.,
O as in Outfaced (imp. & p. p.) of Outface,
O as in Outfacing (p pr. & vb. n.) of Outface,
O as in Outface (v. t.) To face or look (one) out of countenance; to resist or bear down by bold looks or effrontery; to brave.,
O as in Outfall (n.) The mouth of a river; the lower end of a water course; the open end of a drain, culvert, etc., where the discharge occurs.,
O as in Outfall (n.) A quarrel; a falling out.,
O as in Outfangthef (v. t.) A thief from without or abroad, taken within a lord's fee or liberty.,
O as in Outfangthef (v. t.) The privilege of trying such a thief.,
O as in Outfawn (v. t.) To exceed in fawning.,
O as in Outfeast (v. t.) To exceed in feasting.,
O as in Outfeat (v. t.) To surpass in feats.,
O as in Outfield (n.) Arable land which has been or is being exhausted. See Infield, 1.,
O as in Outfield (n.) A field beyond, or separated from, the inclosed land about the homestead; an uninclosed or unexplored tract. Also used figuratively.,
O as in Outfield (n.) The part of the field beyond the diamond, or infield. It is occupied by the fielders.,
O as in Outfield (n.) The part of the field farthest from the batsman.,
O as in Outfit (n.) A fitting out, or equipment, as of a ship for a voyage, or of a person for an expedition in an unoccupied region or residence in a foreign land; things required for equipment; the expense of, or allowance made for, equipment, as by the government of the United States to a diplomatic agent going abroad.,
O as in Outfitter (n.) One who furnishes outfits for a voyage, a journey, or a business.,
O as in Outflank (v. t.) To go beyond, or be superior to, on the flank; to pass around or turn the flank or flanks of.,
O as in Outflatter (v. t.) To exceed in flattering.,
O as in Outfling (n.) A gibe; a contemptuous remark.,
O as in Outflow (n.) A flowing out; efflux.,
O as in Outflow (v. i.) To flow out.,
O as in Outflew (imp.) of Outfly,
O as in Outflown (p. p.) of Outfly,
O as in Outflying () of Outfly,
O as in Outfly (v. t.) To surpass in flying; to fly beyond or faster than.,
O as in Outfool (v. t.) To exceed in folly.,
O as in Outform (n.) External appearance.,
O as in Outfrown (v. t.) To frown down; to overbear by frowning.,
O as in Outgate (n.) An outlet.,
O as in Outgaze (v. t.) To gaze beyond; to exceed in sharpness or persistence of seeing or of looking; hence, to stare out of countenance.,
O as in Outgeneraled (imp. & p. p.) of Outgeneral,
O as in Outgeneralled () of Outgeneral,
O as in Outgeneraling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Outgeneral,
O as in Outgeneralling () of Outgeneral,
O as in Outgeneral (v. t.) To exceed in generalship; to gain advantage over by superior military skill or executive ability; to outmaneuver.,
O as in Outgive (v. t.) To surpass in giving.,
O as in Outwent (imp.) of Outgo,
O as in Outgone (p. p.) of Outgo,
O as in Outgoing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Outgo,
O as in Outgo (v. t.) To go beyond; to exceed in swiftness; to surpass; to outdo.,
O as in Outgo (v. t.) To circumvent; to overreach.,
O as in Outgoes (pl. ) of Outgo,
O as in Outgo (n.) That which goes out, or is paid out; outlay; expenditure; -- the opposite of income.,
O as in Outgoer (n.) One who goes out or departs.,
O as in Outgoing (n.) The act or the state of going out.,
O as in Outgoing (n.) That which goes out; outgo; outlay.,
O as in Outgoing (n.) The extreme limit; the place of ending.,
O as in Outgoing (a.) Going out; departing; as, the outgoing administration; an outgoing steamer.,
O as in Outground (n.) Ground situated at a distance from the house; outlying land.,
O as in Outgrew (imp.) of Outgrow,
O as in Outgrown (p. p.) of Outgrow,
O as in Outgrowing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Outgrow,
O as in Outgrow (v. t.) To surpass in growing; to grow more than.,
O as in Outgrow (v. t.) To grow out of or away from; to grow too large, or too aged, for; as, to outgrow clothing; to outgrow usefulness; to outgrow an infirmity.,
O as in Outgrowth (n.) That which grows out of, or proceeds from, anything; an excrescence; an offshoot; hence, a result or consequence.,
O as in Outguard (n.) A guard or small body of troops at a distance from the main body of an army, to watch for the approach of an enemy; hence, anything for defense placed at a distance from the thing to be defended.,
O as in Outgush (n.) A pouring out; an outburst.,
O as in Outgush (v. i.) To gush out; to flow forth.,
O as in Outhaul (n.) A rope used for hauling out a sail upon a spar; -- opposite of inhaul.,
O as in Outhess (n.) Outcry; alarm.,
O as in Outher (conj.) Other.,
O as in Out-Herod (v. t.) To surpass (Herod) in violence or wickedness; to exceed in any vicious or offensive particular.,
O as in Outhire (v. t.) To hire out.,
O as in Outhouse (n.) A small house or building at a little distance from the main house; an outbuilding.,
O as in Outing (n.) The act of going out; an airing; an excursion; as, a summer outing.,
O as in Outing (n.) A feast given by an apprentice when he is out of his time.,
O as in Outjest (v. t.) To surpass in jesting; to drive out, or away, by jesting.,
O as in Outjet (n.) That which jets out or projects from anything.,
O as in Outjuggle (v. t.) To surpass in juggling.,
O as in Outkeeper (n.) An attachment to a surveyor's compass for keeping tally in chaining.,
O as in Outknave (v. t.) To surpass in knavery.,
O as in Outlabor (v. t.) To surpass in laboring.,
O as in Outland (a.) Foreign; outlandish.,
O as in Outlander (n.) A foreigner.,
O as in Outlandish (a.) Foreign; not native.,
O as in Outlandish (a.) Hence: Not according with usage; strange; rude; barbarous; uncouth; clownish; as, an outlandish dress, behavior, or speech.,
O as in Outlast (v. t.) To exceed in duration; to survive; to endure longer than.,
O as in Outlaugh (v. t.) To surpass or outdo in laughing.,
O as in Outlaugh (v. t.) To laugh (one) out of a purpose, principle, etc.; to discourage or discomfit by laughing; to laugh down.,
O as in Outlaw (n.) A person excluded from the benefit of the law, or deprived of its protection.,
O as in Outlawed (imp. & p. p.) of Outlaw,
O as in Outlawing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Outlaw,
O as in Outlaw (v. t.) To deprive of the benefit and protection of law; to declare to be an outlaw; to proscribe.,
O as in Outlaw (v. t.) To remove from legal jurisdiction or enforcement; as, to outlaw a debt or claim; to deprive of legal force.,
O as in Outlawries (pl. ) of Outlawry,
O as in Outlawry (n.) The act of outlawing; the putting a man out of the protection of law, or the process by which a man (as an absconding criminal) is deprived of that protection.,
O as in Outlawry (n.) The state of being an outlaw.,
O as in Outlay (v. t.) To lay out; to spread out; to display.,
O as in Outlay (n.) A laying out or expending.,
O as in Outlay (n.) That which is expended; expenditure.,
O as in Outlay (n.) An outlying haunt.,
O as in Outleap (v. t.) To surpass in leaping.,
O as in Outleap (n.) A sally.,
O as in Outlearn (v. t.) To excel or surpass in learing.,
O as in Outlearn (v. t.) To learn out [i. e., completely, utterly]; to exhaust knowledge of.,
O as in Outlet (n.) The place or opening by which anything is let out; a passage out; an exit; a vent.,
O as in Outlet (v. t.) To let out; to emit.,
O as in Outlie (v. t.) To exceed in lying.,
O as in Outlier (n.) One who does not live where his office, or business, or estate, is.,
O as in Outlier (n.) That which lies, or is, away from the main body.,
O as in Outlier (n.) A part of a rock or stratum lying without, or beyond, the main body, from which it has been separated by denudation.,
O as in Outlimb (n.) An extreme member or part of a thing; a limb.,
O as in Outline (n.) The line which marks the outer limits of an object or figure; the exterior line or edge; contour.,
O as in Outline (n.) In art: A line drawn by pencil, pen, graver, or the like, by which the boundary of a figure is indicated.,
O as in Outline (n.) A sketch composed of such lines; the delineation of a figure without shading.,
O as in Outline (n.) Fig.: A sketch of any scheme; a preliminary or general indication of a plan, system, course of thought, etc.; as, the outline of a speech.,
O as in Outlined (imp. & p. p.) of Outline,
O as in Outlining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Outline,
O as in Outline (v. t.) To draw the outline of.,
O as in Outline (v. t.) Fig.: To sketch out or indicate as by an outline; as, to outline an argument or a campaign.,
O as in Outlinear (a.) Of or pertaining to an outline; being in, or forming, an outline.,
O as in Outlived (imp. & p. p.) of Outlive,
O as in Outliving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Outlive,
O as in Outlive (v. t.) To live beyond, or longer than; to survive.,
O as in Outliver (n.) One who outlives.,
O as in Outlook (v. t.) To face down; to outstare.,
O as in Outlook (v. t.) To inspect throughly; to select.,
O as in Outlook (n.) The act of looking out; watch.,
O as in Outlook (n.) One who looks out; also, the place from which one looks out; a watchower.,
O as in Outlook (n.) The view obtained by one looking out; scope of vision; prospect; sight; appearance.,
O as in Outloose (n.) A loosing from; an escape; an outlet; an evasion.,
O as in Outlope (n.) An excursion.,
O as in Outluster (v. t.) Alt. of Outlustre,
O as in Outlustre (v. t.) To excel in brightness or luster.,
O as in Outlying (a.) Lying or being at a distance from the central part, or the main body; being on, or beyond, the frontier; exterior; remote; detached.,
O as in Outmaneuver (v. t.) Alt. of Outmanoeuvre,
O as in Outmanoeuvre (v. t.) To surpass, or get an advantage of, in maneuvering; to outgeneral.,
O as in Outmantle (v. t.) To excel in mantling; hence, to excel in splendor, as of dress.,
O as in Outmarch (v. t.) To surpass in marching; to march faster than, or so as to leave behind.,
O as in Outmeasure (v. t.) To exceed in measure or extent; to measure more than.,
O as in Outmost (a.) Farthest from the middle or interior; farthest outward; outermost.,
O as in Outmount (v. t.) To mount above.,
O as in Outname (v. t.) To exceed in naming or describing.,
O as in Outname (v. t.) To exceed in name, fame, or degree.,
O as in Outness (n.) The state of being out or beyond; separateness.,
O as in Outness (n.) The state or quality of being distanguishable from the perceiving mind, by being in space, and possessing marerial quality; externality; objectivity.,
O as in Outnoise (v. t.) To exceed in noise; to surpass in noisiness.,
O as in Outnumber (v. t.) To exceed in number.,
O as in Out-of-door (a.) Being out of the house; being, or done, in the open air; outdoor; as, out-of-door exercise. See Out of door, under Out, adv.,
O as in Out-of-the-way (a.) See under Out, adv.,
O as in Outpace (v. t.) To outgo; to move faster than; to leave behind.,
O as in Outparamour (v. t.) To exceed in the number of mistresses.,
O as in Outparish (n.) A parish lying without the walls of, or in a remote part of, a town.,
O as in Outpart (n.) An outlying part.,
O as in Outpass (v. t.) To pass beyond; to exceed in progress.,
O as in Outpassion (v. t.) To exceed in passion.,
O as in Out-patient (n.) A patient who is outside a hospital, but receives medical aid from it.,
O as in Outpeer (v. t.) To excel.,
O as in Outplay (v. t.) To excel or defeat in a game; to play better than; as, to be outplayed in tennis or ball.,
O as in Outpoise (v. t.) To outweigh.,
O as in Outport (n.) A harbor or port at some distance from the chief town or seat of trade.,
O as in Outpost (n.) A post or station without the limits of a camp, or at a distance from the main body of an army, for observation of the enemy.,
O as in Outpost (n.) The troops placed at such a station.,
O as in Outpour (v. t.) To pour out.,
O as in Outpour (n.) A flowing out; a free discharge.,
O as in Outpower (v. t.) To excel in power; to overpover.,
O as in Outpray (v. t.) To exceed or excel in prayer.,
O as in Outpreach (v. t.) To surpass in preaching.,
O as in Outprize (v. t.) To prize beyong value, or in excess; to exceed in value.,
O as in Output (n.) The amount of coal or ore put out from one or more mines, or the quantity of material produced by, or turned out from, one or more furnaces or mills, in a given time.,
O as in Output (n.) That which is thrown out as products of the metabolic activity of the body; the egesta other than the faeces. See Income.,
O as in Outquench (v. t.) To quench entirely; to extinguish.,
O as in Outrage (v. t.) To rage in excess of.,
O as in Outrage (n.) Injurious violence or wanton wrong done to persons or things; a gross violation of right or decency; excessive abuse; wanton mischief; gross injury.,
O as in Outrage (n.) Excess; luxury.,
O as in Outragen (imp. & p. p.) of Outrage,
O as in Outraging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Outrage,
O as in Outrage (n.) To commit outrage upon; to subject to outrage; to treat with violence or excessive abuse.,
O as in Outrage (n.) Specifically, to violate; to commit an indecent assault upon (a female).,
O as in Outrage (v. t.) To be guilty of an outrage; to act outrageously.,
O as in Outrageous (n.) Of the nature of an outrage; exceeding the limits of right, reason, or decency; involving or doing an outrage; furious; violent; atrocious.,
O as in Outrance (n.) The utmost or last extremity.,
O as in Outrank (v. t.) To exceed in rank; hence, to take precedence of.,
O as in Outray (v. t.) To outshine.,
O as in Outray (v. i.) To spread out in array.,
O as in Outraye (v. i.) See Outrage, v. i.,
O as in Outraze (v. t.) To obliterate.,
O as in Outre (a.) Being out of the common course or limits; extravagant; bizarre.,
O as in Outreach (v. t.) To reach beyond.,
O as in Outreason (v. t.) To excel or surpass in reasoning; to reason better than.,
O as in Outreckon (v. t.) To exceed in reckoning or computation.,
O as in Outrecuidance (n.) Excessive presumption.,
O as in Outrede (v. t.) To surpass in giving rede, or counsel.,
O as in Outreign (v. t.) To go beyond in reigning; to reign through the whole of, or longer than.,
O as in Outride (v. t.) To surpass in speed of riding; to ride beyond or faster than.,
O as in Outride (n.) A riding out; an excursion.,
O as in Outride (n.) A place for riding out.,
O as in Outrider (n.) A summoner whose office is to cite men before the sheriff.,
O as in Outrider (n.) One who rides out on horseback.,
O as in Outrider (n.) A servant on horseback attending a carriage.,
O as in Outrigger (n.) Any spar or projecting timber run out for temporary use, as from a ship's mast, to hold a rope or a sail extended, or from a building, to support hoisting teckle.,
O as in Outrigger (n.) A projecting support for a rowlock, extended from the side of a boat.,
O as in Outrigger (n.) A boat thus equipped.,
O as in Outrigger (n.) A projecting contrivance at the side of a boat to prevent upsetting, as projecting spars with a log at the end.,
O as in Outright (adv.) Immediately; without delay; at once; as, he was killed outright.,
O as in Outright (adv.) Completely; utterly.,
O as in Outring (v. t.) To excel in volume of ringing sound; to ring louder than.,
O as in Outrival (v. t.) To surpass in a rivalry.,
O as in Outrive (v. t.) To river; to sever.,
O as in Outroad (n.) Alt. of Outrode,
O as in Outrode (n.) An excursion.,
O as in Outroar (v. t.) To exceed in roaring.,
O as in Outromance (v. t.) To exceed in romantic character.,
O as in Outroom (n.) An outer room.,
O as in Outroot (v. t.) To eradicate; to extirpate.,
O as in Outran (imp.) of Outrun,
O as in Outrun (p. p.) of Outrun,
O as in Outrunning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Outrun,
O as in Outrun (v. t.) To exceed, or leave behind, in running; to run faster than; to outstrip; to go beyond.,
O as in Outrunner (n.) An offshoot; a branch.,
O as in Outrush (v. i.) To rush out; to issue, or ru/ out, forcibly.,
O as in Outsail (v. t.) To excel, or to leave behind, in sailing; to sail faster than.,
O as in Outscent (v. t.) To exceed in odor.,
O as in Outscold (v. t.) To exceed in scolding.,
O as in Outscorn (v. t.) To confront, or subdue, with greater scorn.,
O as in Outscouring (n.) That which is scoured out o/ washed out.,
O as in Outscout (v. t.) To overpower by disdain; to outface.,
O as in Outsee (v. t.) To see beyond; to excel in cer/ainty of seeing; to surpass in foresight.,
O as in Outsell (v. t.) To exceed in amount of sales; to sell more than.,
O as in Outsell (v. t.) To exceed in the price of selling; to fetch more than; to exceed in value.,
O as in Outsentry (n.) A sentry who guards the entrance or approach to a place; an outguard.,
O as in Outset (n.) A setting out, starting, or beginning.,
O as in Outsettler (n.) One who settles at a distance, or away, from others.,
O as in Outshine (v. i.) To shine forth.,
O as in Outshine (v. t.) To excel in splendor.,
O as in Outshoot (v. t.) To exceed or excel in shooting; to shoot beyond.,
O as in Outshut (v. t.) To shut out.,
O as in Outside (n.) The external part of a thing; the part, end, or side which forms the surface; that which appears, or is manifest; that which is superficial; the exterior.,
O as in Outside (n.) The part or space which lies without an inclosure; the outer side, as of a door, walk, or boundary.,
O as in Outside (n.) The furthest limit, as to number, quantity, extent, etc.; the utmost; as, it may last a week at the outside.,
O as in Outside (n.) One who, or that which, is without; hence, an outside passenger, as distinguished from one who is inside. See Inside, n. 3.,
O as in Outside (a.) Of or pertaining to the outside; external; exterior; superficial.,
O as in Outside (a.) Reaching the extreme or farthest limit, as to extent, quantity, etc.; as, an outside estimate.,
O as in Outside (adv.) or prep. On or to the outside (of); without; on the exterior; as, to ride outside the coach; he stayed outside.,
O as in Outsider (n.) One not belonging to the concern, institution, party, etc., spoken of; one disconnected in interest or feeling.,
O as in Outsider (n.) A locksmith's pinchers for grasping the point of a key in the keyhole, to open a door from the outside when the key is inside.,
O as in Outsider (n.) A horse which is not a favorite in the betting.,
O as in Outsing (v. t.) To surpass in singing.,
O as in Outsit (v. t.) To remain sitting, or in session, longer than, or beyond the time of; to outstay.,
O as in Outskirt (n.) A part remote from the center; outer edge; border; -- usually in the plural; as, the outskirts of a town.,
O as in Outsleep (v. t.) To exceed in sleeping.,
O as in Outslide (v. i.) To slide outward, onward, or forward; to advance by sliding.,
O as in Outsoar (v. t.) To soar beyond or above.,
O as in Outsole (n.) The outside sole of a boot or shoe.,
O as in Outsound (v. t.) To surpass in sounding.,
O as in Outspan (v. t. & i.) To unyoke or disengage, as oxen from a wagon.,
O as in Outsparkle (v. t.) To exceed in sparkling.,
O as in Outspeak (v. t.) To exceed in speaking.,
O as in Outspeak (v. t.) To speak openly or boldly.,
O as in Outspeak (v. t.) To express more than.,
O as in Outspeed (v. t.) To excel in speed.,
O as in Outspend (n.) Outlay; expenditure.,
O as in Outspin (v. t.) To spin out; to finish.,
O as in Outspoken (a.) Speaking, or spoken, freely, openly, or boldly; as, an outspoken man; an outspoken rebuke.,
O as in Outsport (v. t.) To exceed in sporting.,
O as in Outspread (v. t.) To spread out; to expand; -- usually as a past part. / adj.,
O as in Outspring (v. i.) To spring out; to issue.,
O as in Outstand (v. i.) To stand out, or project, from a surface or mass; hence, to remain standing out.,
O as in Outstand (v. t.) To resist effectually; to withstand; to sustain without yielding.,
O as in Outstand (v. t.) To stay beyond.,
O as in Outstanding (a.) That stands out; undischarged; uncollected; not paid; as, outstanding obligations.,
O as in Outstare (v. t.) To excel or overcome in staring; to face down.,
O as in Outstart (v. i.) To start out or up.,
O as in Outstay (v. t.) To stay beyond or longer than.,
O as in Outstep (v. t.) To exceed in stepping.,
O as in Outstorm (v. t.) To exceed in storming.,
O as in Outstreet (n.) A street remote from the center of a town.,
O as in Outstretch (v. t.) To stretch out.,
O as in Outstride (v. t.) To surpass in striding.,
O as in Outstrike (v. t.) To strike out; to strike faster than.,
O as in Outstripped (imp. & p. p.) of Outstrip,
O as in Outstripping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Outstrip,
O as in Outstrip (v. t.) To go faster than; to outrun; to advance beyond; to leave behing.,
O as in Outsuffer (v. t.) To exceed in suffering.,
O as in Outswear (v. t.) To exceed in swearing.,
O as in Outsweeten (v. t.) To surpass in sweetness.,
O as in Outswell (v. t.) To exceed in swelling.,
O as in Outswell (v. t.) To swell beyond; to overflow.,
O as in Outtake (prep.) Except.,
O as in Outtaken (p. p.) or prep. Excepted; save.,
O as in Outtalk (v. t.) To overpower by talking; to exceed in talking; to talk down.,
O as in Outtell (v. t.) To surpass in telling, counting, or reckoning.,
O as in Outterm (n.) An external or superficial thing; outward manner; superficial remark, etc.,
O as in Outthrow (v. t.) To throw out.,
O as in Outthrow (v. t.) To excel in throwing, as in ball playing.,
O as in Outtoil (v. t.) To exceed in toiling.,
O as in Outtongue (v. t.) To silence by talk, clamor, or noise.,
O as in Outtop (v. t.) To overtop.,
O as in Outtravel (v. t.) To exceed in speed o/ distance traveled.,
O as in Outtwine (v. t.) To disentangle.,
O as in Outvalue (v. t.) To exceed in value.,
O as in Outvenom (v. t.) To exceed in venom.,
O as in Outvie (v. t.) To exceed in vying.,
O as in Outvillain (v. t.) To exceed in villainy.,
O as in Outvoice (v. t.) To exceed in noise.,
O as in Outvote (v. t.) To exceed in the number of votes given; to defeat by votes.,
O as in Outwalk (v. t.) To excel in walking; to leave behind in walking.,
O as in Outwall (n.) The exterior wall; the outside surface, or appearance.,
O as in Outward (adv.) Alt. of Outwards,
O as in Outwards (adv.) From the interior part; in a direction from the interior toward the exterior; out; to the outside; beyond; off; away; as, a ship bound outward.,
O as in Outward (a.) Forming the superficial part; external; exterior; -- opposed to inward; as, an outward garment or layer.,
O as in Outward (a.) Of or pertaining to the outer surface or to what is external; manifest; public.,
O as in Outward (a.) Foreign; not civil or intestine; as, an outward war.,
O as in Outward (a.) Tending to the exterior or outside.,
O as in Outward (n.) External form; exterior.,
O as in Outwards (adv.) See Outward, adv.,
O as in Outwatch (v. t.) To exceed in watching.,
O as in Outway (n.) A way out; exit.,
O as in Outwear (v. t.) To wear out; to consume or destroy by wearing.,
O as in Outwear (v. t.) To last longer than; to outlast; as, this cloth will outwear the other.,
O as in Outweary (v. t.) To weary out.,
O as in Outweed (v. t.) To weed out.,
O as in Outweep (v. t.) To exceed in weeping.,
O as in Outweigh (v. t.) To exceed in weight or value.,
O as in Outwell (v. t.) To pour out.,
O as in Outwell (v. i.) To issue forth.,
O as in Outwent () imp. of Outgo.,
O as in Outwhore (v. t.) To exceed in lewdness.,
O as in Outwin (v. t.) To win a way out of.,
O as in Outwind (v. t.) To extricate by winding; to unloose.,
O as in Outwing (v. t.) To surpass, exceed, or outstrip in flying.,
O as in Outwit (v. t.) To surpass in wisdom, esp. in cunning; to defeat or overreach by superior craft.,
O as in Outwit (n.) The faculty of acquiring wisdom by observation and experience, or the wisdom so acquired; -- opposed to inwit.,
O as in Outwoe (v. t.) To exceed in woe.,
O as in Outwork (v. t.) To exceed in working; to work more or faster than.,
O as in Outwork (n.) A minor defense constructed beyond the main body of a work, as a ravelin, lunette, hornwork, etc.,
O as in Outworth (v. t.) To exceed in worth.,
O as in Outwrest (v. t.) To extort; to draw from or forth by violence.,
O as in Outwrite (v. t.) To exceed or excel in writing.,
O as in Outzany (v. t.) To exceed in buffoonery.,
O as in Ouvarovite (n.) Chrome garnet.,
O as in Ouze (n. & v.) See Ooze.,
O as in Ouzel (n.) Same as Ousel.,
O as in Ova (n. pl.) See Ovum.,
O as in Oval (a.) Of or pertaining to eggs; done in the egg, or inception; as, oval conceptions.,
O as in Oval (a.) Having the figure of an egg; oblong and curvilinear, with one end broader than the other, or with both ends of about the same breadth; in popular usage, elliptical.,
O as in Oval (a.) Broadly elliptical.,
O as in Oval (n.) A body or figure in the shape of an egg, or popularly, of an ellipse.,
O as in Ovalbumin (n.) Alt. of Ovalbumen,
O as in Ovalbumen (n.) The albumin from white of eggs; egg albumin; -- in distinction from serum albumin. See Albumin.,
O as in Ovaliform (a.) Having the form of an egg; having a figure such that any section in the direction of the shorter diameter will be circular, and any in the direction of the longer diameter will be oval.,
O as in Ovally (adv.) In an oval form.,
O as in Ovant (a.) Exultant.,
O as in Ovarian (a.) Alt. of Ovarial,
O as in Ovarial (a.) Of or pertaining to an ovary.,
O as in Ovariole (n.) One of the tubes of which the ovaries of most insects are composed.,
O as in Ovariotomist (n.) One who performs, or is skilled in, ovariotomy.,
O as in Ovariotomy (n.) The operation of removing one or both of the ovaries; oophorectomy.,
O as in Ovarious (a.) Consisting of eggs; as, ovarious food.,
O as in Ovaritis (n.) Inflammation of the ovaries.,
O as in Ovaria (pl. ) of Ovarium,
O as in Ovariums (pl. ) of Ovarium,
O as in Ovarium (n.) An ovary. See Ovary.,
O as in Ovaries (pl. ) of Ovary,
O as in Ovary (n.) That part of the pistil which contains the seed, and in most flowering plants develops into the fruit. See Illust. of Flower.,
O as in Ovary (n.) The essential female reproductive organ in which the ova are produced. See Illust. of Discophora.,
O as in Ovate (a.) Shaped like an egg, with the lower extremity broadest.,
O as in Ovate (a.) Having the shape of an egg, or of the longitudinal sectior of an egg, with the broader end basal.,
O as in Ovate-acuminate (a.) Having an ovate form, but narrowed at the end into a slender point.,
O as in Ovate-cylindraceous (a.) Having a form intermediate between ovate and cylindraceous.,
O as in Ovated (a.) Ovate.,
O as in Ovate-lanceolate (a.) Having a form intermediate between ovate and lanceolate.,
O as in Ovate-oblong (a.) Oblong. with one end narrower than the other; ovato-oblong.,
O as in Ovate-rotundate (a.) Having a form intermediate between that of an egg and a sphere; roundly ovate.,
O as in Ovate-subulate (a.) Having an ovate form, but with a subulate tip or extremity.,
O as in Ovation (n.) A lesser kind of triumph allowed to a commander for an easy, bloodless victory, or a victory over slaves.,
O as in Ovation (n.) Hence: An expression of popular homage; the tribute of the multitude to a public favorite.,
O as in Ovato-acuminate (a.) Same as Ovate-acuminate.,
O as in Ovato-cylindraceous (a.) Same as Ovate-cylindraceous.,
O as in Ovato-oblong (a.) Same as Ovate-oblong.,
O as in Ovato-rotundate (a.) Same as Ovate-rotundate.,
O as in Oven (n.) A place arched over with brick or stonework, and used for baking, heating, or drying; hence, any structure, whether fixed or portable, which may be heated for baking, drying, etc.; esp., now, a chamber in a stove, used for baking or roasting.,
O as in Ovenbird (n.) Any species of the genus Furnarius, allied to the creepers. They inhabit South America and the West Indies, and construct curious oven-shaped nests.,
O as in Ovenbird (n.) In the United States, Seiurus aurocapillus; -- called also golden-crowned thrush.,
O as in Ovenbird (n.) In England, sometimes applied to the willow warbler, and to the long-tailed titmouse.,
O as in Over (prep.) Above, or higher than, in place or position, with the idea of covering; -- opposed to under; as, clouds are over our heads; the smoke rises over the city.,
O as in Over (prep.) Across; from side to side of; -- implying a passing or moving, either above the substance or thing, or on the surface of it; as, a dog leaps over a stream or a table.,
O as in Over (prep.) Upon the surface of, or the whole surface of; hither and thither upon; throughout the whole extent of; as, to wander over the earth; to walk over a field, or over a city.,
O as in Over (prep.) Above; -- implying superiority in excellence, dignity, condition, or value; as, the advantages which the Christian world has over the heathen.,
O as in Over (prep.) Above in authority or station; -- implying government, direction, care, attention, guard, responsibility, etc.; -- opposed to under.,
O as in Over (prep.) Across or during the time of; from beginning to end of; as, to keep anything over night; to keep corn over winter.,
O as in Over (prep.) Above the perpendicular height or length of, with an idea of measurement; as, the water, or the depth of water, was over his head, over his shoes.,
O as in Over (prep.) Beyond; in excess of; in addition to; more than; as, it cost over five dollars.,
O as in Over (prep.) Above, implying superiority after a contest; in spite of; notwithstanding; as, he triumphed over difficulties; the bill was passed over the veto.,
O as in Over (adv.) From one side to another; from side to side; across; crosswise; as, a board, or a tree, a foot over, i. e., a foot in diameter.,
O as in Over (adv.) From one person or place to another regarded as on the opposite side of a space or barrier; -- used with verbs of motion; as, to sail over to England; to hand over the money; to go over to the enemy.,
O as in Over (adv.) Also, with verbs of being: At, or on, the opposite side; as, the boat is over.,
O as in Over (adv.) From beginning to end; throughout the course, extent, or expanse of anything; as, to look over accounts, or a stock of goods; a dress covered over with jewels.,
O as in Over (adv.) From inside to outside, above or across the brim.,
O as in Over (adv.) Beyond a limit; hence, in excessive degree or quantity; superfluously; with repetition; as, to do the whole work over.,
O as in Over (adv.) In a manner to bring the under side to or towards the top; as, to turn (one's self) over; to roll a stone over; to turn over the leaves; to tip over a cart.,
O as in Over (adv.) At an end; beyond the limit of continuance; completed; finished.,
O as in Over (a.) Upper; covering; higher; superior; also, excessive; too much or too great; -- chiefly used in composition; as, overshoes, overcoat, over-garment, overlord, overwork, overhaste.,
O as in Over (n.) A certain number of balls (usually four) delivered successively from behind one wicket, after which the ball is bowled from behind the other wicket as many times, the fielders changing places.,
O as in Overabound (v. i.) To be exceedingly plenty or superabundant.,
O as in Overact (v. t.) To act or perform to excess; to exaggerate in acting; as, he overacted his part.,
O as in Overact (v. t.) To act upon, or influence, unduly.,
O as in Overact (v. i.) To act more than is necessary; to go to excess in action.,
O as in Overaction (n.) Per/ormance to excess; exaggerated or excessive action.,
O as in Overaffect (v. t.) To affect or care for unduly.,
O as in Overagitate (v. t.) To agitate or discuss beyond what is expedient.,
O as in Overall (adv.) Everywhere.,
O as in Overalls (n. pl.) A kind of loose trousers worn over others to protect them from soiling.,
O as in Overalls (n. pl.) Waterproof leggings.,
O as in Overanxiety (n.) The state of being overanxious; excessive anxiety.,
O as in Overanxious (a.) Anxious in an excessive or needless degree.,
O as in Overarch (v. t. & i.) To make or place an arch over; to hang over like an arch.,
O as in Over-arm (a.) Done (as bowling or pitching) with the arm raised above the shoulder. See Overhard.,
O as in Overawed (imp. & p. p.) of Overawe,
O as in Overawing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Overawe,
O as in Overawe (v. t.) To awe exceedingly; to subjugate or restrain by awe or great fear.,
O as in Overawful (a.) Awful, or reverential, in an excessive degree.,
O as in Overbalance (v. t.) To exceed equality with; to outweigh.,
O as in Overbalance (v. t.) To cause to lose balance or equilibrium.,
O as in Overbalance (n.) Excess of weight or value; something more than an equivalent; as, an overbalance of exports.,
O as in Overbarren (a.) Excessively barren.,
O as in Overbattle (a.) Excessively fertile; bearing rank or noxious growths.,
O as in Overbear (v. t.) To bear down or carry down, as by excess of weight, power, force, etc.; to overcome; to suppress.,
O as in Overbear (v. t.) To domineer over; to overcome by insolence.,
O as in Overbear (v. i.) To bear fruit or offspring to excess; to be too prolific.,
O as in Overbearing (a.) Overpowering; subduing; repressing.,
O as in Overbearing (a.) Aggressively haughty; arrogant; domineering; tyrannical; dictatorial; insolent.,
O as in Overbend (v. t.) To bend to excess.,
O as in Overbend (v. i.) To bend over.,
O as in Overbid (v. t.) To bid or offer beyond, or in excess of.,
O as in Overbide (v. t.) To outlive.,
O as in Overblow (v. i.) To blow over, or be subdued.,
O as in Overblow (v. i.) To force so much wind into a pipe that it produces an overtone, or a note higher than the natural note; thus, the upper octaves of a flute are produced by overblowing.,
O as in Overblow (v. t.) To blow away; to dissipate by wind, or as by wind.,
O as in Overboard (adv.) Over the side of a ship; hence, from on board of a ship, into the water; as, to fall overboard.,
O as in Overboil (v. i.) To boil over or unduly.,
O as in Overbold (a.) Excessively or presumptuously bold; impudent.,
O as in Overbookish (a.) Excessively bookish.,
O as in Overbounteous (a.) Bounteous to excess.,
O as in Overbow (v. t.) To bend or bow over; to bend in a contrary direction.,
O as in Overbreed (v. t.) To breed to excess.,
O as in Overbrim (v. i.) To flow over the brim; to be so full as to overflow.,
O as in Overbrow (v. t.) To hang over like a brow; to impend over.,
O as in Overbuild (v. t.) To build over.,
O as in Overbuild (v. t.) To build too much; to build beyond the demand.,
O as in Overbuilt (a.) Having too many buildings; as, an overbuilt part of a town.,
O as in Overbulk (v. t.) To oppress by bulk; to overtower.,
O as in Overburden (v. t.) To load with too great weight or too much care, etc.,
O as in Overburden (n.) The waste which overlies good stone in a quarry.,
O as in Overburdensome (a.) Too burdensome.,
O as in Overburn (v. t. & i.) To burn too much; to be overzealous.,
O as in Over-busy (a.) Too busy; officious.,
O as in Overbuy (v. t.) To buy too much.,
O as in Overbuy (v. t.) To buy at too dear a rate.,
O as in Overcanopy (v. t.) To cover as with a canopy.,
O as in Overcapable (a.) Too capable.,
O as in Overcare (n.) Excessive care.,
O as in Overcareful (a.) Too careful.,
O as in Overcarking (a.) Too anxious; too full of care.,
O as in Overcarry (v. t. & i.) To carry too far; to carry beyond the proper point.,
O as in Overcast (v. t.) To cast or cover over; hence, to cloud; to darken.,
O as in Overcast (v. t.) To compute or rate too high.,
O as in Overcast (v. t.) To take long, loose stitches over (the raw edges of a seam) to prevent raveling.,
O as in Overcatch (v. t.) To overtake.,
O as in Overcautious (a.) Too cautious; cautious or prudent to excess.,
O as in Overchange (n.) Too much or too frequent change; fickleness.,
O as in Overcharge (v. t.) To charge or load too heavily; to burden; to oppress; to cloy.,
O as in Overcharge (v. t.) To fill too full; to crowd.,
O as in Overcharge (v. t.) To charge excessively; to charge beyond a fair rate or price.,
O as in Overcharge (v. t.) To exaggerate; as, to overcharge a description.,
O as in Overcharge (v. i.) To make excessive charges.,
O as in Overcharge (n.) An excessive load or burden.,
O as in Overcharge (n.) An excessive charge in an account.,
O as in Overclimb (v. t.) To climb over.,
O as in Overcloud (v. t.) To cover or overspread with clouds; to becloud; to overcast.,
O as in Overcloy (v. t.) To fill beyond satiety.,
O as in Overcoat (n.) A coat worn over the other clothing; a greatcoat; a topcoat.,
O as in Overcold (a.) Cold to excess.,
O as in Overcolor (v. t.) To color too highly.,
O as in Overcame (imp.) of Overcome,
O as in Overcome (p. p.) of Overcome,
O as in Overcoming (p. pr & vb. n.) of Overcome,
O as in Overcome (v. t.) To get the better of; to surmount; to conquer; to subdue; as, to overcome enemies in battle.,
O as in Overcome (v. t.) To overflow; to surcharge.,
O as in Overcome (v. t.) To come or pass over; to spreads over.,
O as in Overcome (v. i.) To gain the superiority; to be victorious.,
O as in Overcomer (n.) One who overcomes.,
O as in Overcoming (a.) Conquering; subduing.,
O as in Overconfidence (n.) Excessive confidence; too great reliance or trust.,
O as in Overconfident (a.) Confident to excess.,
O as in Overcostly (a.) Too costly.,
O as in Overcount (v. t.) To rate too high; to outnumber.,
O as in Overcover (v. t.) To cover up.,
O as in Overcredulous (a.) Too credulous.,
O as in Overcrow (v. t.) To crow, exult, or boast, over; to overpower.,
O as in Overcrowd (v. t.) To crowd too much.,
O as in Overcunning (a.) Exceedingly or excessively cunning.,
O as in Overcurious (a.) Too curious.,
O as in Overdare (v. t. & i.) To dare too much or rashly; to be too daring.,
O as in Overdate (v. t.) To date later than the true or proper period.,
O as in Overdeal (n.) The excess.,
O as in Overdelicate (a.) Too delicate.,
O as in Overdelighted (a.) Delighted beyond measure.,
O as in Overdight (a.) Covered over.,
O as in Overdid (imp.) of Overdo,
O as in Overdone (p. p.) of Overdo,
O as in Overdoing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Overdo,
O as in Overdo (v. t.) To do too much; to exceed what is proper or true in doing; to exaggerate; to carry too far.,
O as in Overdo (v. t.) To overtask. or overtax; to fatigue; to exhaust; as, to overdo one's strength.,
O as in Overdo (v. t.) To surpass; to excel.,
O as in Overdo (v. t.) To cook too much; as, to overdo the meat.,
O as in Overdo (v. i.) To labor too hard; to do too much.,
O as in Overdoer (n.) One who overdoes.,
O as in Overdose (v. t.) To dose to excess; to give an overdose, or too many doses, to.,
O as in Overdose (n.) Too great a dose; an excessive dose.,
O as in Overdrew (imp.) of Overdraw,
O as in Overdrawn (p. p.) of Overdraw,
O as in Overdrawing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Overdraw,
O as in Overdraw (v. t.) To exaggerate; to overdo.,
O as in Overdraw (v. t.) To make drafts upon or against, in excess of the proper amount or limit.,
O as in Overdress (v. t.) To dress or adorn to excess; to dress too much.,
O as in Overdrink (v. t. & i.) To drink to excess.,
O as in Overdtive (v. t. & i.) To drive too hard, or far, or beyond strength.,
O as in Overdrown (v. t.) To wet or drench to excess.,
O as in Overdry (v. t.) To dry too much.,
O as in Overdue (a.) Due and more than due; delayed beyond the proper time of arrival or payment, etc.; as, an overdue vessel; an overdue note.,
O as in Overdye (v. t.) To dye with excess of color; to put one color over (another).,
O as in Overeager (a.) Too eager; too impatient.,
O as in Overearnest (a.) Too earnest.,
O as in Overeat (v. t. & i.) To gnaw all over, or on all sides.,
O as in Overeat (v. t. & i.) To eat to excess; -- often with a reflexive.,
O as in Overelegant (a.) Too elegant.,
O as in Overempty (v. t.) To make too empty; to exhaust.,
O as in Overest (Superl.) Uppermost; outermost.,
O as in Overestimate (v. t.) To estimate too highly; to overvalue.,
O as in Overestimate (n.) An estimate that is too high; as, an overestimate of the vote.,
O as in Overexcite (v. t.) To excite too much.,
O as in Overexcitement (n.) Excess of excitement; the state of being overexcited.,
O as in Overexert (v. t.) To exert too much.,
O as in Overexertion (n.) Excessive exertion.,
O as in Overexquisite (a.) Too exquisite; too exact or nice; too careful.,
O as in Overeye (v. t.) To superintend; to oversee; to inspect.,
O as in Overeye (v. t.) To see; to observe.,
O as in Overfall (n.) A cataract; a waterfall.,
O as in Overfall (n.) A turbulent surface of water, caused by strong currents setting over submerged ridges; also, a dangerous submerged ridge or shoal.,
O as in Overfatigue (n.) Excessive fatigue.,
O as in Overfatigue (v. t.) To fatigue to excess; to tire out.,
O as in Overfed (imp. & p. p.) of Overfeed,
O as in Overfeeding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Overfeed,
O as in Overfeed (v. t. & i.) To feed to excess; to surfeit.,
O as in Overfierce (a.) Excessively fierce.,
O as in overfill (v. t.) To fill to excess; to surcharge.,
O as in Overfish (v. t.) To fish to excess.,
O as in Overfloat (v. t.) To overflow.,
O as in Overflourish (v. t.) To make excessive display or flourish of.,
O as in Overflourish (v. t.) To embellish with outward ornaments or flourishes; to varnish over.,
O as in Overflowed (imp. & p. p.) of Overflow,
O as in Overflowing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Overflow,
O as in Overflow (v. t.) To flow over; to cover woth, or as with, water or other fluid; to spread over; to inundate; to overwhelm.,
O as in Overflow (v. t.) To flow over the brim of; to fill more than full.,
O as in Overflow (v. i.) To run over the bounds.,
O as in Overflow (v. i.) To be superabundant; to abound.,
O as in Overflow (n.) A flowing over, as of water or other fluid; an inundation.,
O as in Overflow (n.) That which flows over; a superfluous portion; a superabundance.,
O as in Overflow (n.) An outlet for the escape of surplus liquid.,
O as in Overflowing (n.) An overflow; that which overflows; exuberance; copiousness.,
O as in Overflowingly (adv.) In great abundance; exuberantly.,
O as in Overflush (v. t.) To flush to excess.,
O as in Overflutter (v. t.) To flutter over.,
O as in Overflux (n.) Overflow; exuberance.,
O as in Overflew (imp.) of Overfly,
O as in Overflown (p. p.) of Overfly,
O as in Overflying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Overfly,
O as in Overfly (v. t.) To cross or pass over by flight.,
O as in Overfond (a.) Fond to excess.,
O as in Overforce (n.) Excessive force; violence.,
O as in Overforward (a.) Forward to excess; too forward.,
O as in Overfree (a.) Free to excess; too liberal; too familiar.,
O as in Overfreighted (imp. & p. p.) of Overfreight,
O as in Overfraught () of Overfreight,
O as in Overfreighting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Overfreight,
O as in Overfreight (v. t.) To put too much freight in or upon; to load too full, or too heavily; to overload.,
O as in Overfrequent (a.) Too frequent.,
O as in Overfrieze (v. t.) To cover with a frieze, or as with a frieze.,
O as in Overfront (v. t.) To confront; to oppose; to withstand.,
O as in Overfruitful (a.) Too fruitful.,
O as in Overfull (a.) Too full; filled to overflowing; excessively full; surfeited.,
O as in Overfullness (n.) The state of being excessively or abnormally full, so as to cause overflow, distention, or congestion; excess of fullness; surfeit.,
O as in Over-garment (n.) An outer garment.,
O as in Overgarrison (v. t.) To garrison to excess.,
O as in Overgaze (v. t.) To gaze; to overlook.,
O as in Overget (v. t.) To reach; to overtake; to pass.,
O as in Overget (v. t.) To get beyond; to get over or recover from.,
O as in Overgild (v. t.) To gild over; to varnish.,
O as in Overgird (v. t.) To gird too closely.,
O as in Overgive (v. t.) To give over; to surrender; to yield.,
O as in Overglad (a.) Excessively or unduly glad.,
O as in Overglance (v. t.) To glance over.,
O as in Overglide (v. t.) To glide over.,
O as in Overgloom (v. t.) To spread gloom over; to make gloomy; to overshadow.,
O as in Overwent (imp.) of Overgo,
O as in Overgone (p. p.) of Overgo,
O as in Overgoing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Overgo,
O as in Overgo (v. t.) To travel over.,
O as in Overgo (v. t.) To exceed; to surpass.,
O as in Overgo (v. t.) To cover.,
O as in Overgo (v. t.) To oppress; to weigh down.,
O as in Overgorge (v. t.) To gorge to excess.,
O as in Overgrace (v. t.) To grace or honor exceedingly or beyond desert.,
O as in Overgrassed (a.) Overstocked, or overgrown, or covered, with grass.,
O as in Overgreat (a.) Too great.,
O as in Overgreatness (n.) Excessive greatness.,
O as in Overgreedy (a.) Excessively greedy.,
O as in Overgross (a.) Too gross.,
O as in Overground (a.) Situated over or above ground; as, the overground portion of a plant.,
O as in Overgrew (imp.) of Overgrow,
O as in Overgrown (p. p.) of Overgrow,
O as in Overgrowing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Overgrow,
O as in Overgrow (v. t.) To grow over; to cover with growth or herbage, esp. that which is rank.,
O as in Overgrow (v. t.) To grow beyond; to rise above; hence, to overcome; to oppress.,
O as in Overgrow (v. i.) To grow beyond the fit or natural size; as, a huge, overgrown ox.,
O as in Overgrowth (n.) Excessive growth.,
O as in Overhall (v. t.) See Overhaul.,
O as in Overhale (v. t.) See Overhaul.,
O as in Overhand (n.) The upper hand; advantage; superiority; mastery.,
O as in Overhand (a.) Over and over; -- applied to a style of sewing, or to a seam, in which two edges, usually selvedges, are sewed together by passing each stitch over both.,
O as in Overhand (a.) Done (as pitching or bowling) with the hand higher than the elbow, or the arm above, or higher than, the shoulder.,
O as in Overhand (adv.) In an overhand manner or style.,
O as in Overhandle (v. t.) To handle, or use, too much; to mention too often.,
O as in Overhung (imp. & p. p.) of Overhang,
O as in Overhanging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Overhang,
O as in Overhang (v. t.) To impend or hang over.,
O as in Overhang (v. t.) To hang over; to jut or project over.,
O as in Overhang (v. i.) To jut over.,
O as in Overhang (n.) In a general sense, that which just out or projects; a projection; also, the measure of the projection; as, the overhang is five feet.,
O as in Overhang (n.) Specifically: The projection of an upper part (as a roof, an upper story, or other part) of a building beyond the lower part; as, the overhang of a roof, of the eaves, etc.,
O as in Overhang (n.) The portion of the bow or stem of a vessel that projects over the water beyond the water line.,
O as in Overhang (n.) The projection of a part beyond another part that is directly below it, or beyond a part by which it is supported; as, the overhang of a shaft; i. e., its projection beyond its bearing.,
O as in Overhappy (a.) Exceedingly happy.,
O as in Overharden (v. t.) To harden too much; to make too hard.,
O as in Overhardy (a.) Too hardy; overbold.,
O as in Overhaste (n.) Too great haste.,
O as in Overhasty (a.) Too hasty; precipitate; rash.,
O as in Overhauled (imp. & p. p.) of Overhaul,
O as in Overhauling () of Overhaul,
O as in Overhaul (v. t.) To haul or drag over; hence, to turn over for examination; to inspect; to examine thoroughly with a view to corrections or repairs.,
O as in Overhaul (v. t.) To gain upon in a chase; to overtake.,
O as in Overhaul (n.) Alt. of Overhauling,
O as in Overhauling (n.) A strict examination with a view to correction or repairs.,
O as in Overhead (adv.) Aloft; above; in or attached to the ceiling or roof; in the story or upon the floor above; in the zenith.,
O as in Overheard (imp. & p. p.) of Overhear,
O as in Overhearing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Overhear,
O as in Overhear (v. t.) To hear more of (anything) than was intended to be heard; to hear by accident or artifice.,
O as in Overhear (v. t.) To hear again.,
O as in Overheat (v. t.) To heat to excess; to superheat.,
O as in Overheavy (a.) Excessively heavy.,
O as in Overhele (v. t.) To hele or cover over.,
O as in Overhent (v. t.) To overtake.,
O as in Overhigh (a.) Too high.,
O as in Overhighly (adv.) Too highly; too greatly.,
O as in Overhipped (imp. & p. p.) of Overhip,
O as in Overhipping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Overhip,
O as in Overhip (v. t.) To pass over by, or as by a hop; to skip over; hence, to overpass.,
O as in Overhold (v. t.) To hold or value too highly; to estimate at too dear a rate.,
O as in Overhung (a.) Covered over; ornamented with hangings.,
O as in Overhung (a.) Suspended from above or from the top.,
O as in Overinfluence (v. t.) To influence in an excessive degree; to have undue influence over.,
O as in Overinform (v. t.) To inform, fill, or animate, excessively.,
O as in Overissue (n.) An excessive issue; an issue, as of notes or bonds, exceeding the limit of capital, credit, or authority.,
O as in Overissue (v. t.) To issue in excess.,
O as in Overjealous (a.) Excessively jealous; too jealous.,
O as in Overjoy (v. t.) To make excessively joyful; to gratify extremely.,
O as in Overjoy (n.) Excessive joy; transport.,
O as in Overjump (v. t.) To jump over; hence, to omit; to ignore.,
O as in Overking (n.) A king who has sovereignty over inferior kings or ruling princes.,
O as in Overknowing (a.) Too knowing or too cunning.,
O as in Overlabored (imp. & p. p.) of Overlabor,
O as in Overlaboring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Overlabor,
O as in Overlabor (v. t.) To cause to labor excessively; to overwork.,
O as in Overlabor (v. t.) To labor upon excessively; to refine unduly.,
O as in Overladed (imp.) of Overlade,
O as in Overladen (p. p.) of Overlade,
O as in Overlading (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Overlade,
O as in Overlade (v. t.) To load with too great a cargo; to overburden; to overload.,
O as in Overland (a.) Being, or accomplished, over the land, instead of by sea; as, an overland journey.,
O as in Overland (adv.) By, upon, or across, land.,
O as in Overlander (n.) One who travels over lands or countries; one who travels overland.,
O as in Overlanguaged (a.) Employing too many words; diffuse.,
O as in Overlap (v. t. & i.) To lap over; to lap.,
O as in Overlap (n.) The lapping of one thing over another; as, an overlap of six inches; an overlap of a slate on a roof.,
O as in Overlap (n.) An extension of geological beds above and beyond others, as in a conformable series of beds, when the upper beds extend over a wider space than the lower, either in one or in all directions.,
O as in Overlarge (a.) Too large; too great.,
O as in Overlargeness (n.) Excess of size or bulk.,
O as in Overlash (v. i.) To drive on rashly; to go to excess; hence, to exaggerate; to boast.,
O as in Overlashing (n.) Excess; exaggeration.,
O as in Overlate (a.) Too late; exceedingly late.,
O as in Overlave (v. t.) To lave or bathe over.,
O as in Overlavish (a.) Lavish to excess.,
O as in Overlaid (imp. & p. p.) of Overlay,
O as in Overlaying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Overlay,
O as in Overlay (v. t.) To lay, or spread, something over or across; hence, to cover; to overwhelm; to press excessively upon.,
O as in Overlay (v. t.) To smother with a close covering, or by lying upon.,
O as in Overlay (v. t.) To put an overlay on.,
O as in Overlay (n.) A covering.,
O as in Overlay (n.) A piece of paper pasted upon the tympan sheet to improve the impression by making it stronger at a particular place.,
O as in Overlayer (n.) One who overlays; that with which anything is overlaid.,
O as in Overlaying (n.) A superficial covering; a coating.,
O as in Overlead (v. t.) To domineer over; to affront; to treat with indignity.,
O as in Overleap (v. t.) To leap over or across; hence, to omit; to ignore.,
O as in Overlearned (a.) Too learned.,
O as in Overleather (n.) Upper leather.,
O as in Overleaven (v. t.) To leaven too much; hence, to change excessively; to spoil.,
O as in Overliberal (a.) Too liberal.,
O as in Overliberally (adv.) In an overliberal manner.,
O as in Overlick (v. t.) To lick over.,
O as in Overlay (imp.) of Overlie,
O as in Overlain (p. p.) of Overlie,
O as in Overlying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Overlie,
O as in Overlie (v. t.) To lie over or upon; specifically, to suffocate by lying upon; as, to overlie an infant.,
O as in Overlight (n.) Too strong a light.,
O as in Overlight (a.) Too light or frivolous; giddy.,
O as in Overliness (n.) The quality or state of being overly; carelessness.,
O as in Overlinger (v. t.) To cause to linger; to detain too long.,
O as in Overlip (n.) The upper lip.,
O as in Overlive (v. t.) To outlive.,
O as in Overlive (v. i.) To live too long, too luxuriously, or too actively.,
O as in Overliver (n.) A survivor.,
O as in Overloaded (imp. & p. p.) of Overload,
O as in Overloading (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Overload,
O as in Overload (v. t.) To load or fill to excess; to load too heavily.,
O as in Overload (n.) An excessive load; the excess beyond a proper load.,
O as in Overlogical (a.) Excessively logical; adhering too closely to the forms or rules of logic.,
O as in Overlong (a. & adv.) Too long.,
O as in Overlooked (imp. & p. p.) of Overlook,
O as in Overlooking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Overlook,
O as in Overlook (v. t.) To look down upon from a place that is over or above; to look over or view from a higher position; to rise above, so as to command a view of; as, to overlook a valley from a hill.,
O as in Overlook (v. t.) Hence: To supervise; to watch over; sometimes, to observe secretly; as, to overlook a gang of laborers; to overlook one who is writing a letter.,
O as in Overlook (v. t.) To inspect; to examine; to look over carefully or repeatedly.,
O as in Overlook (v. t.) To look upon with an evil eye; to bewitch by looking upon; to fascinate.,
O as in Overlook (v. t.) To look over and beyond (anything) without seeing it; to miss or omit in looking; hence, to refrain from bestowing notice or attention upon; to neglect; to pass over without censure or punishment; to excuse.,
O as in Overlooker (n.) One who overlooks.,
O as in Overloop (n.) See Orlop.,
O as in Overlord (n.) One who is lord over another or others; a superior lord; a master.,
O as in Overlordship (n.) Lordship or supremacy of a person or a people over others.,
O as in Overloud (a.) Too loud; noisy.,
O as in Overlove (v. t.) To love to excess.,
O as in Overluscious (a.) Excessively luscious.,
O as in Overlusty (a.) Too lusty, or lively.,
O as in Overly (a.) Careless; negligent; inattentive; superfical; not thorough.,
O as in Overly (a.) Excessive; too much.,
O as in Overly (adv.) In an overly manner.,
O as in Overlying (a.) Lying over or upon something; as, overlying rocks.,
O as in Overmagnify (v. t.) To magnify too much.,
O as in Overmalapert (a.) Excessively malapert or impudent.,
O as in Overmanner (adv.) In an excessive manner; excessively.,
O as in Overmarch (v. t. & i.) To march too far, or too much; to exhaust by marching.,
O as in Overmast (v. t.) To furnish (a vessel) with too long or too heavy a mast or masts.,
O as in Overmaster (v. t.) To overpower; to subdue; to vanquish; to govern.,
O as in Overmatch (v. t.) To be more than equal to or a match for; hence, to vanquish.,
O as in Overmatch (v. t.) To marry (one) to a superior.,
O as in Overmatch (n.) One superior in power; also, an unequal match; a contest in which one of the opponents is overmatched.,
O as in Overmeasure (v. t.) To measure or estimate too largely.,
O as in Overmeasure (n.) Excessive measure; the excess beyond true or proper measure; surplus.,
O as in Overmeddle (v. t.) To meddle unduly.,
O as in Overmeddling (n.) Excessive interference.,
O as in Overmellow (a.) Too mellow; overripe.,
O as in Overmerit (n.) Excessive merit.,
O as in Overmickle (a. & adv.) Overmuch.,
O as in Overmix (v. t.) To mix with too much.,
O as in Overmodest (a.) Modest to excess; bashful.,
O as in Overmoist (a.) Excessively moist.,
O as in Overmoisture (n.) Excess of moisture.,
O as in Overmore (adv.) Beyond; moreover.,
O as in Overmorrow (n.) The day after or following to-morrow.,
O as in Overmost (a.) Over the rest in authority; above all others; highest.,
O as in Overmount (v. t.) To mount over; to go higher than; to rise above.,
O as in Overmuch (a.) Too much.,
O as in Overmuch (adv.) In too great a degree; too much.,
O as in Overmuch (n.) An excess; a surplus.,
O as in Overmuchness (n.) The quality or state of being in excess; superabundance.,
O as in Overmultiply (v. t. & i.) To multiply or increase too much; to repeat too often.,
O as in Overmultitude (v. t.) To outnumber.,
O as in Overname (v. t.) To name over or in a series; to recount.,
O as in Overneat (a.) Excessively neat.,
O as in Overnice (a.) Excessively nice; fastidious.,
O as in Overnight (n.) The fore part of the night last past; the previous evening.,
O as in Overnight (adv.) In the fore part of the night last past; in the evening before; also, during the night; as, the candle will not last overnight.,
O as in Overnoise (v. t.) To overpower by noise.,
O as in Overnumerous (a.) Excessively numerous; too many.,
O as in Overoffice (v. t.) To domineer over by virtue of office.,
O as in Overofficious (a.) Too busy; too ready to intermeddle; too officious.,
O as in Overpaint (v. t.) To color or describe too strongly.,
O as in Overpamper (v. t.) To pamper excessively; to feed or dress too much.,
O as in Overpart (v. t.) To give too important or difficult a part to.,
O as in Overpassed (imp. & p. p.) of Overpass,
O as in Overpassing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Overpass,
O as in Overpass (v. t.) To go over or beyond; to cross; as, to overpass a river; to overpass limits.,
O as in Overpass (v. t.) To pass over; to omit; to overlook; to disregard.,
O as in Overpass (v. t.) To surpass; to excel.,
O as in Overpass (v. i.) To pass over, away, or off.,
O as in Overpassionate (a.) Passionate to excess.,
O as in Overpatient (a.) Patient to excess.,
O as in Overpaid (imp. & p. p.) of Overpay,
O as in Overpaying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Overpay,
O as in Overpay (v. t.) To pay too much to; to reward too highly.,
O as in Overpeer (v. t.) To peer over; to rise above.,
O as in Overpeople (v. t.) To people too densely.,
O as in Overperch (v. t.) To perch upon; to fly over.,
O as in Overpersuade (v. t.) To persuade or influence against one's inclination or judgment.,
O as in Overpester (v. t.) To pester exceedingly or excessively.,
O as in Overpicture (v. t.) To surpass nature in the picture or representation of.,
O as in Overplease (v. t.) To please excessively.,
O as in Overplus (n.) That which remains after a supply, or beyond a quantity proposed; surplus.,
O as in Overply (v. t.) To ply to excess; to exert with too much vigor; to overwork.,
O as in Overpoise (v. t.) To outweigh; to overbalance.,
O as in Overpoise (n.) Preponderant weight; a counterbalance.,
O as in Overpolish (v. t.) To polish too much.,
O as in Overponderous (a.) Too heavy.,
O as in Overpost (v. t.) To post over; to pass over swiftly, as by post.,
O as in Overpotent (a.) Too potent or powerful.,
O as in Overpowered (imp. & p. p.) of Overpower,
O as in Overpowering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Overpower,
O as in Overpower (v. t.) To excel or exceed in power; to cause to yield; to vanquish; to subdue; as, the light overpowers the eyes.,
O as in Overpower (n.) A dominating power.,
O as in Overpowering (a.) Excelling in power; too powerful; irresistible.,
O as in Overpraise (v. t.) To praise excessively or unduly.,
O as in Overpraising (n.) The act of praising unduly; excessive praise.,
O as in Overpress (v. t.) To bear upon with irresistible force; to crush; to overwhelm.,
O as in Overpress (v. t.) To overcome by importunity.,
O as in Overpressure (n.) Excessive pressure or urging.,
O as in Overprize (v. t.) Toprize excessively; to overvalue.,
O as in Overproduction (n.) Excessive production; supply beyond the demand.,
O as in Overprompt (a.) Too prompt; too ready or eager; precipitate.,
O as in Overproof (a.) Containing more alcohol than proof spirit; stronger than proof spirit; that is, containing more than 49.3 per cent by weight of alcohol.,
O as in Overproportion (v. t.) To make of too great proportion.,
O as in Overproud (a.) Exceedingly or unduly proud.,
O as in Overprovident (a.) Too provident.,
O as in Overprovoke (v. t.) To provoke excessively.,
O as in Overquell (v. t.) To quell or subdue completely.,
O as in Overquietness (n.) Too much quietness.,
O as in Overraked (imp. & p. p.) of Overrake,
O as in Overraking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Overrake,
O as in Overrake (v. t.) To rake over, or sweep across, from end to end, as waves that break over a vessel anchored with head to the sea.,
O as in Overrank (a.) Too rank or luxuriant.,
O as in Overrated (imp. & p. p.) of Overrate,
O as in Overrating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Overrate,
O as in Overrate (v. t.) To rate or value too highly.,
O as in Overrate (n.) An excessive rate.,
O as in Overreached (imp. & p. p.) of Overreach,
O as in Overraught () of Overreach,
O as in Overreaching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Overreach,
O as in Overreach (v. t.) To reach above or beyond in any direction.,
O as in Overreach (v. t.) To deceive, or get the better of, by artifice or cunning; to outwit; to cheat.,
O as in Overreach (v. i.) To reach too far,
O as in Overreach (v. i.) To strike the toe of the hind foot against the heel or shoe of the forefoot; -- said of horses.,
O as in Overreach (v. i.) To sail on one tack farther than is necessary.,
O as in Overreach (v. i.) To cheat by cunning or deception.,
O as in Overreach (n.) The act of striking the heel of the fore foot with the toe of the hind foot; -- said of horses.,
O as in Overreacher (n.) One who overreaches; one who cheats; a cheat.,
O as in Overread (v. t.) To read over, or peruse.,
O as in Overready (a.) Too ready.,
O as in Overreckon (v. t.) To reckon too highly.,
O as in Overred (v. t.) To smear with red.,
O as in Overrefine (v. t.) To refine too much.,
O as in Overrefinement (n.) Excessive refinement.,
O as in Overrent (v. t.) To rent for too much.,
O as in Overrich (a.) Exccessively rich.,
O as in Overrode (imp.) of Override,
O as in Overridden (p. p.) of Override,
O as in Overrode () of Override,
O as in Overrid () of Override,
O as in Overriding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Override,
O as in Override (v. t.) To ride over or across; to ride upon; to trample down.,
O as in Override (v. t.) To suppress; to destroy; to supersede; to annul; as, one low overrides another; to override a veto.,
O as in Override (v. t.) To ride beyond; to pass; to outride.,
O as in Override (v. t.) To ride too much; to ride, as a horse, beyond its strength.,
O as in Overrigged (a.) Having too much rigging.,
O as in Overrighteous (a.) Excessively righteous; -- usually implying hypocrisy.,
O as in Overrigid (a.) Too rigid; too severe.,
O as in Overrigorous (a.) Too rigorous; harsh.,
O as in Overripe (a.) Matured to excess.,
O as in Overripen (v. t.) To make too ripe.,
O as in Overroast (v. t.) To roast too much.,
O as in Overruled (imp. & p. p.) of Overrule,
O as in Overruling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Overrule,
O as in Overrule (v. t.) To rule over; to govern or determine by superior authority.,
O as in Overrule (v. t.) To rule or determine in a contrary way; to decide against; to abrogate or alter; as, God overrules the purposes of men; the chairman overruled the point of order.,
O as in Overrule (v. t.) To supersede, reject, annul, or rule against; as, the plea, or the decision, was overruled by the court.,
O as in Overrule (v. i.) To be superior or supreme in rulling or controlling; as, God rules and overrules.,
O as in Overruler (n.) One who, or that which, controls, governs, or determines.,
O as in Overruling (a.) Exerting controlling power; as, an overruling Providence.,
O as in Overran (imp.) of Overrun,
O as in Overrun (p. p.) of Overrun,
O as in Overrunning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Overrun,
O as in Overrun (v. t.) To run over; to grow or spread over in excess; to invade and occupy; to take possession of; as, the vine overran its trellis; the farm is overrun with witch grass.,
O as in Overrun (v. t.) To exceed in distance or speed of running; to go beyond or pass in running.,
O as in Overrun (v. t.) To go beyond; to extend in part beyond; as, one line overruns another in length.,
O as in Overrun (v. t.) To abuse or oppress, as if by treading upon.,
O as in Overrun (v. t.) To carry over, or back, as type, from one line or page into the next after, or next before.,
O as in Overrun (v. t.) To extend the contents of (a line, column, or page) into the next line, column, or page.,
O as in Overrun (v. i.) To run, pass, spread, or flow over or by something; to be beyond, or in excess.,
O as in Overrun (v. i.) To extend beyond its due or desired length; as, a line, or advertisement, overruns.,
O as in Overrunner (n.) One that overruns.,
O as in Oversaturate (v. t.) To saturate to excess.,
O as in Oversay (v. t.) To say over; to repeat.,
O as in Overscented (a.) Scented excessively.,
O as in Overscented (a.) Covered or concealed by a different odor.,
O as in Overscrupulosity (n.) Overscrupulousness.,
O as in Overscrupulous (a.) Scrupulous to excess.,
O as in Overscrupulousness (n.) The quality or state of being overscrupulous; excess of scrupulousness.,
O as in Oversea (a.) Beyond the sea; foreign.,
O as in Oversea (adv.) Alt. of Overseas,
O as in Overseas (adv.) Over the sea; abroad.,
O as in Oversearch (v. t.) To search all over.,
O as in Overseason (v. t.) To season too highly.,
O as in Oversaw (imp.) of Oversee,
O as in Overseen (p. p.) of Oversee,
O as in Overseeing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Oversee,
O as in Oversee (v. t.) To superintend; to watch over; to direct; to look or see after; to overlook.,
O as in Oversee (v. t.) To omit or neglect seeing.,
O as in Oversee (v. i.) To see too or too much; hence, to be deceived.,
O as in Overseer (n.) One who oversees; a superintendent; a supervisor; as, an overseer of a mill; specifically, one or certain public officers; as, an overseer of the poor; an overseer of highways.,
O as in Overseership (n.) The office of an overseer.,
O as in Oversold (imp. & p. p.) of Oversell,
O as in Overselling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Oversell,
O as in Oversell (v. t.) To sell for a higher price than; to exceed in selling price.,
O as in Oversell (v. t.) To sell beyond means of delivery.,
O as in Overset (imp. & p. p.) of Overset,
O as in Oversetting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Overset,
O as in Overset (v. t.) To turn or tip (anything) over from an upright, or a proper, position so that it lies upon its side or bottom upwards; to upset; as, to overset a chair, a coach, a ship, or a building.,
O as in Overset (v. t.) To cause to fall, or to tail; to subvert; to overthrow; as, to overset a government or a plot.,
O as in Overset (v. t.) To fill too full.,
O as in Overset (v. i.) To turn, or to be turned, over; to be upset.,
O as in Overset (n.) An upsetting; overturn; overthrow; as, the overset of a carriage.,
O as in Overset (n.) An excess; superfluity.,
O as in Overshade (v. t.) To cover with shade; to render dark or gloomy; to overshadow.,
O as in Overshadowed (imp. & p. p.) of Overshadow,
O as in Overshadowing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Overshadow,
O as in Overshadow (v. t.) To throw a shadow, or shade, over; to darken; to obscure.,
O as in Overshadow (v. t.) Fig.: To cover with a superior influence.,
O as in Overshadower (n.) One that throws a shade, or shadow, over anything.,
O as in Overshadowy (a.) Overshadowing.,
O as in Overshake (v. t.) To shake over or away; to drive away; to disperse.,
O as in Overshine (v. t.) To shine over or upon; to illumine.,
O as in Overshine (v. t.) To excel in shining; to outshine.,
O as in Overshoe (n.) A shoe that is worn over another for protection from wet or for extra warmth; esp., an India-rubber shoe; a galoche.,
O as in Overshot (imp. & p. p.) of Overshoot,
O as in Overshooting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Overshoot,
O as in Overshoot (v. t.) To shoot over or beyond.,
O as in Overshoot (v. t.) To pass swiftly over; to fly beyond.,
O as in Overshoot (v. t.) To exceed; as, to overshoot the truth.,
O as in Overshoot (v. i.) To fly beyond the mark.,
O as in Overshot (a.) From Overshoot, v. t.,
O as in Oversight (n.) Watchful care; superintendence; general supervision.,
O as in Oversight (n.) An overlooking; an omission; an error.,
O as in Oversight (n.) Escape from an overlooked peril.,
O as in Oversize (v. t.) To surpass in size.,
O as in Oversize (v. t.) To cover with viscid matter.,
O as in Overskip (v. t.) To skip or leap over; to treat with indifference.,
O as in Overskirt (n.) An upper skirt, shorter than the dress, and usually draped.,
O as in Overslaugh (n.) A bar in a river; as, the overslaugh in the Hudson River.,
O as in Overslaugh (v. t.) To hinder or stop, as by an overslaugh or an impediment; as, to overslaugh a bill in a legislative body; to overslaugh a military officer, that is, to hinder his promotion or employment.,
O as in Oversleep (v. t.) To sleep beyond; as, to oversleep one's self or one's usual hour of rising.,
O as in Oversleep (v. i.) To sleep too long.,
O as in Overslide (v. t.) To slide over or by.,
O as in Overslip (v. t.) To slip or slide over; to pass easily or carelessly beyond; to omit; to neglect; as, to overslip time or opportunity.,
O as in Overslop (n.) An outer garment, or slop.,
O as in Overslow (v. t.) To render slow; to check; to curb.,
O as in Overslow (a.) Too slow.,
O as in Oversmen (pl. ) of Oversman,
O as in Oversman (n.) An overseer; a superintendent.,
O as in Oversman (n.) An umpire; a third arbiter, appointed when two arbiters, previously selected, disagree.,
O as in Oversnow (v. t.) To cover with snow, or as with snow.,
O as in Oversoon (adv.) Too soon.,
O as in Oversorrow (v. t.) To grieve or afflict to excess.,
O as in Oversoul (n.) The all-containing soul.,
O as in Oversow (v. t.) To sow where something has already been sown.,
O as in Overspan (v. t.) To reach or extend over.,
O as in Overspeak (v. t. & i.) To exceed in speaking; to speak too much; to use too many words.,
O as in Overspin (v. t.) To spin out to too great length; to protract unduly.,
O as in Overspread (imp. & p. p.) of Overspread,
O as in Overspreading (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Overspread,
O as in Overspread (v. t.) To spread over; to cover; as, the deluge overspread the earth.,
O as in Overspread (v. i.) To be spread or scattered over.,
O as in Overspring (v. t.) To spring or leap over.,
O as in Overstand (v. t.) To stand on the price or conditions of, so as to lose a sale; to lose by an extravagant price or hard conditions.,
O as in Overstare (v. t.) To outstare.,
O as in Overstare (v. i.) To stare wildly.,
O as in Overstated (imp. & p. p.) of Overstate,
O as in Overstating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Overstate,
O as in Overstate (v. t.) To state in too strong terms; to exaggerate.,
O as in Overstatement (n.) An exaggerated statement or account.,
O as in Overstayed (imp. & p. p.) of Overstay,
O as in Overstaid () of Overstay,
O as in Overstaying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Overstay,
O as in Overstay (v. t.) To stay beyond the time or the limits of; as, to overstay the appointed time.,
O as in Overstepped (imp. & p. p.) of Overstep,
O as in Overstepping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Overstep,
O as in Overstep (v. t.) To step over or beyond; to transgress.,
O as in Overstock (n.) Stock in excess.,
O as in Overstocked (imp. & p. p.) of Overstock,
O as in Overstocking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Overstock,
O as in Overstock (v. t.) To fill too full; to supply in excess; as, to overstock a market with goods, or a farm with cattle.,
O as in Overstore (v. t.) To overstock.,
O as in Over-story (n.) The clearstory, or upper story, of a building.,
O as in Overstrained (imp. & p. p.) of Overstrain,
O as in Overstraining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Overstrain,
O as in Overstrain (v. i.) To strain one's self to excess.,
O as in Overstrain (v. t.) To stretch or strain too much; as to overstrain one's nerves.,
O as in Overstraitly (adv.) Too straitly or strictly.,
O as in Overstraw (v. t.) To overstrew.,
O as in Overstrew (v. t.) To strew or scatter over.,
O as in Overstrict (a.) Excessively strict.,
O as in Overstride (v. t.) To stride over or beyond.,
O as in Overstrike (v. t.) To strike beyond.,
O as in Overstrow (v. t.) See Overstrew.,
O as in Overstudious (a.) Too studious.,
O as in Oversubtile (a.) Excessively subtile.,
O as in Oversum (n.) A sum or quantity over; surplus.,
O as in Oversupply (v. t.) To supply in excess.,
O as in Oversupply (n.) An excessive supply.,
O as in Oversure (a.) Excessively sure.,
O as in Oversway (v. t.) To bear sway over.,
O as in Overswell (v. t. & i.) To swell or rise above; to overflow.,
O as in Overt (a.) Open to view; public; apparent; manifest.,
O as in Overt (a.) Not covert; open; public; manifest; as, an overt act of treason.,
O as in Overtook (imp.) of Overtake,
O as in Overtaken (p. p.) of Overtake,
O as in Overtaking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Overtake,
O as in Overtake (v. t.) To come up with in a course, pursuit, progress, or motion; to catch up with.,
O as in Overtake (v. t.) To come upon from behind; to discover; to surprise; to capture; to overcome.,
O as in Overtake (v. t.) Hence, figuratively, in the past participle (overtaken), drunken.,
O as in Overtalk (v. i.) To talk to excess.,
O as in Overtask (v. t.) To task too heavily.,
O as in Overtax (v. t.) To tax or to task too heavily.,
O as in Overtedious (a.) Too tedious.,
O as in Overtempt (v. t.) To tempt exceedingly, or beyond the power of resistance.,
O as in Overthrew (imp.) of Overthrow,
O as in Overthrown (p. p.) of Overthrow,
O as in Overthrowing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Overthrow,
O as in Overthrow (v. t.) To throw over; to overturn; to upset; to turn upside down.,
O as in Overthrow (v. t.) To cause to fall or to fail; to subvert; to defeat; to make a ruin of; to destroy.,
O as in Overthrow (n.) The act of overthrowing; the state of being overthrow; ruin.,
O as in Overthrow (n.) The act of throwing a ball too high, as over a player's head.,
O as in Overthrow (n.) A faulty return of the ball by a fielder, so that the striker makes an additional run.,
O as in Overthwart (a.) Having a transverse position; placed or situated across; hence, opposite.,
O as in Overthwart (a.) Crossing in kind or disposition; perverse; adverse; opposing.,
O as in Overthwart (adv.) Across; crosswise; transversely.,
O as in Overthwart (prep.) Across; from alde to side of.,
O as in Overthwart (n.) That which is overthwart; an adverse circumstance; opposition.,
O as in Overthwart (v. t.) To cross; to oppose.,
O as in Overthwartly (adv.) In an overthwart manner; across; also, perversely.,
O as in Overthwartness (n.) The state of being overthwart; perverseness.,
O as in Overtilt (v. t.) To tilt over; to overturn.,
O as in Overtime (n.) Time beyond, or in excess of, a limit; esp., extra working time.,
O as in Overtire (v. t.) To tire to excess; to exhaust.,
O as in Overtire (v. t.) To become too tired.,
O as in Overtitle (v. t.) To give too high a title to.,
O as in Overtly (adv.) Publicly; openly.,
O as in Overtoil (v. t.) To overwork.,
O as in Overtoil (v. t.) To weary excessively; to exhaust.,
O as in Overtone (n.) One of the harmonics faintly heard with and above a tone as it dies away, produced by some aliquot portion of the vibrating sting or column of air which yields the fundamental tone; one of the natural harmonic scale of tones, as the octave, twelfth, fifteenth, etc.; an aliquot or "partial" tone; a harmonic. See Harmonic, and Tone.,
O as in Overtopped (imp. & p. p.) of Overtop,
O as in Overtopping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Overtop,
O as in Overtop (v. t.) To rise above the top of; to exceed in height; to tower above.,
O as in Overtop (v. t.) To go beyond; to transcend; to transgress.,
O as in Overtop (v. t.) To make of less importance, or throw into the background, by superior excellence; to dwarf; to obscure.,
O as in Overtower (v. t.) To tower over or above.,
O as in Overtower (v. i.) To soar too high.,
O as in Overtrade (v. i.) To trade beyond one's capital; to buy goods beyond the means of paying for or seleng them; to overstock the market.,
O as in Overtrading (n.) The act or practice of buying goods beyond the means of payment; a glutting of the market.,
O as in Overtread (v. t.) To tread over or upon.,
O as in Overtrip (v. t.) To trip over nimbly.,
O as in Overtroubled (a.) Excessively troubled.,
O as in Overtrow (v. i.) To be too trustful or confident; to trust too much.,
O as in Overtrust (n.) Excessive confidence.,
O as in Overtrust (v. t. & i.) To trust too much.,
O as in Overture () An opening or aperture; a recess; a recess; a chamber.,
O as in Overture () Disclosure; discovery; revelation.,
O as in Overture () A proposal; an offer; a proposition formally submitted for consideration, acceptance, or rejection.,
O as in Overture () A composition, for a full orchestra, designed as an introduction to an oratorio, opera, or ballet, or as an independent piece; -- called in the latter case a concert overture.,
O as in Overture (v. t.) To make an overture to; as, to overture a religious body on some subject.,
O as in Overturned (imp. & p. p.) of Overturn,
O as in Overturning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Overturn,
O as in Overturn (v. t.) To turn or throw from a basis, foundation, or position; to overset; as, to overturn a carriage or a building.,
O as in Overturn (v. t.) To subvert; to destroy; to overthrow.,
O as in Overturn (v. t.) To overpower; to conquer.,
O as in Overturn (n.) The act off overturning, or the state of being overturned or subverted; overthrow; as, an overturn of parties.,
O as in Overturnable (a.) Capable of being, or liable to be, overturned or subverted.,
O as in Overturner (n.) One who overturns.,
O as in Overvail (v. t.) See Overveil.,
O as in Overvaluation (n.) Excessive valuation; overestimate.,
O as in Overvalued (imp. & p. p.) of Overvalue,
O as in Overvaluing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Overvalue,
O as in Overvalue (v. t.) To value excessively; to rate at too high a price.,
O as in Overvalue (v. t.) To exceed in value.,
O as in Overveil (v. t.) To veil or cover.,
O as in Overview (n.) An inspection or overlooking.,
O as in Overvote (v. t.) To outvote; to outnumber in votes given.,
O as in Overwalk (v. t.) To walk over or upon.,
O as in Overwar (v. t.) To defeat.,
O as in Overwary (a.) Too wary; too cautious.,
O as in Overwash (v. t.) To overflow.,
O as in Overwasted (a.) Wasted or worn out; /onsumed; spent,
O as in Overwatch (v. t.) To watch too much.,
O as in Overwatch (v. t.) To weary or exhaust by watching.,
O as in Overwax (v. i.) To wax or grow too rapindly or too much.,
O as in Overweak (a.) Too weak; too feeble.,
O as in Overwear (v. t.) To wear too much; to wear out.,
O as in Overweary (v. t.) To weary too much; to tire out.,
O as in Overweather (v. t.) To expose too long to the influence of the weather.,
O as in Overween (v. t.) To think too highly or arrogantly; to regard one's own thinking or conclusions too highly; hence, to egotistic, arrogant, or rash, in opinion; to think conceitedly; to presume.,
O as in Overweener (n.) One who overweens.,
O as in Overweening (a.) Unduly confident; arrogant; presumptuous; conceited.,
O as in Overweening (n.) Conceit; arrogance.,
O as in Overweigh (v. t.) To exceed in weight; to overbalance; to weigh down.,
O as in Overweight (n.) Weight over and above what is required by law or custom.,
O as in Overweight (n.) Superabundance of weight; preponderance.,
O as in Overweight (a.) Overweighing; excessive.,
O as in Overwell (v. t.) To overflow.,
O as in Overwet (n.) Excessive wetness.,
O as in Overwhelmed (imp. & p. p.) of Overwhelm,
O as in Overwhelming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Overwhelm,
O as in Overwhelm (v. t.) To cover over completely, as by a great wave; to overflow and bury beneath; to ingulf; hence, figuratively, to immerse and bear down; to overpower; to crush; to bury; to oppress, etc., overpoweringly.,
O as in Overwhelm (v. t.) To project or impend over threateningly.,
O as in Overwhelm (v. t.) To cause to surround, to cover.,
O as in Overwhelm (n.) The act of overwhelming.,
O as in Overwhelming (a.) Overpowering; irresistible.,
O as in Overwind (v. t.) To wind too tightly, as a spring, or too far, as a hoisting rope on a drum.,
O as in Overwing (v. t.) To outflank.,
O as in Overwise (a.) Too wise; affectedly wise.,
O as in Overwit (v. t.) To outwit.,
O as in Overword (v. t.) To say in too many words; to express verbosely.,
O as in Overworked (imp. & p. p.) of Overwork,
O as in Overwrought () of Overwork,
O as in Overworking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Overwork,
O as in Overwork (v. t.) To work beyond the strength; to cause to labor too much or too long; to tire excessively; as, to overwork a horse.,
O as in Overwork (v. t.) To fill too full of work; to crowd with labor.,
O as in Overwork (v. t.) To decorate all over.,
O as in Overwork (v. t.) To work too much, or beyond one's strength.,
O as in Overwork (n.) Work in excess of the usual or stipulated time or quantity; extra work; also, excessive labor.,
O as in Overworn (v. t.) Worn out or subdued by toil; worn out so as to be trite.,
O as in Overwrest (v. t.) To wrest or force from the natural or proper position.,
O as in Overwrestle (v. t.) To subdue by wrestling.,
O as in Overwrought (p. p. & a.) Wrought upon excessively; overworked; overexcited.,
O as in Overzeal (n.) Excess of zeal.,
O as in Overzealous (a.) Too zealous.,
O as in Ovicapsule (n.) The outer layer of a Graafian follicle.,
O as in Ovicapsule (n.) Same as Ootheca.,
O as in Ovicell (n.) One of the dilatations of the body wall of Bryozoa in which the ova sometimes undegro the first stages of their development. See Illust. of Chilostoma.,
O as in Ovioular (a.) Of or pertaining to an egg.,
O as in Ovicyst (n.) The pouch in which incubation takes place in some Tunicata.,
O as in Ovidian (a.) Of or pertaining to the Latin poet Ovid; resembling the style of Ovid.,
O as in Oviducal (a.) Of or pertaining to oviducts; as, oviducal glands.,
O as in Oviduct (n.) A tube, or duct, for the passage of ova from the ovary to the exterior of the animal or to the part where further development takes place. In mammals the oviducts are also called Fallopian tubes.,
O as in Oviferous (a.) Egg-bearing; -- applied particularly to certain receptacles, as in Crustacea, that retain the eggs after they have been excluded from the formative organs, until they are hatched.,
O as in Oviform (a.) Having the form or figure of an egg; egg-shaped; as, an oviform leaf.,
O as in Ovigerons (a.) Bearing eggs; oviferous.,
O as in Ovile (a.) See Ovine.,
O as in Ovine (a.) Of or pertaining to sheep; consisting of sheep.,
O as in Ovipara (n. pl.) An artifical division of vertebrates, including those that lay eggs; -- opposed to Vivipara.,
O as in Oviparity (n.) Generation by means of ova. See Generation.,
O as in Oviparous (a.) Producing young from rggs; as, an oviparous animal, in which the egg is generally separated from the animal, and hatched after exclusion; -- opposed to viviparous.,
O as in Oviposited (imp. & p. p.) of Oviposit,
O as in Ovipositing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Oviposit,
O as in Oviposit (v. i.) To lay or deposit eggs; -- said esp. of insects.,
O as in Oviposit (v. t.) To deposit or lay (an egg).,
O as in Ovipositing (n.) Alt. of Oviposition,
O as in Oviposition (n.) The depositing of eggs, esp. by insects.,
O as in Ovipositor (n.) The organ with which many insects and some other animals deposit their eggs. Some ichneumon files have a long ovipositor fitted to pierce the eggs or larvae of other insects, in order to lay their own eggs within the same.,
O as in Ovisac (n.) A Graafian follicle; any sac containing an ovum or ova.,
O as in Ovisac (n.) The inner layer of the fibrous wall of a Graafian follicle.,
O as in Ovist (n.) Same as Ovulist.,
O as in Ovococci (pl. ) of Ovococcus,
O as in Ovococcus (n.) A germinal vesicle.,
O as in Ovoid (a.) Alt. of Ovoidal,
O as in Ovoidal (a.) Resembling an egg in shape; egg-shaped; ovate; as, an ovoidal apple.,
O as in Ovoid (n.) A solid resembling an egg in shape.,
O as in Ovolo (n.) A round, convex molding. See Illust. of Column.,
O as in Ovology (n.) That branch of natural history which treats of the origin and functions of eggs.,
O as in Ovoplasma (n.) Yolk; egg yolk.,
O as in Ovotesttis (n.) An organ which produces both ova and spermatozoids; an hermaphrodite gland.,
O as in Ovoviviparous (a.) Oviparous, but hatching the egg while it is within the body, as some fishes and reptiles.,
O as in Ovular (a.) Relating or belonging to an ovule; as, an ovular growth.,
O as in Ovulary (a.) Pertaining to ovules.,
O as in Ovulate (a.) Containing an ovule or ovules.,
O as in Ovulation (n.) The formation of ova or eggs in the ovary, and the discharge of the same. In the mammalian female the discharge occurs during menstruation.,
O as in Ovule (n.) The rudiment of a seed. It grows from a placenta, and consists of a soft nucleus within two delicate coatings. The attached base of the ovule is the hilum, the coatings are united with the nucleus at the chalaza, and their minute orifice is the foramen.,
O as in Ovule (n.) An ovum.,
O as in Ovuliferous (a.) Producing ovules.,
O as in Ovulist (n.) A believer in the theory (called encasement theory), current during the last century, that the egg was the real animal germ, and that at the time of fecundation the spermatozoa simply gave the impetus which caused the unfolding of the egg, in which all generations were inclosed one within the other. Also called ovist.,
O as in Ovulite (n.) A fossil egg.,
O as in Ovula (pl. ) of Ovulum,
O as in Ovulum (n.) An ovule.,
O as in Ova (pl. ) of Ovum,
O as in Ovums (pl. ) of Ovum,
O as in Ovum (n.) A more or less spherical and transparent mass of granular protoplasm, which by a process of multiplication and growth develops into a mass of cells, constituting a new individual like the parent; an egg, spore, germ, or germ cell. See Illust. of Mycropyle.,
O as in Ovum (n.) One of the series of egg-shaped ornaments into which the ovolo is often carved.,
O as in Owch (n.) See Ouch.,
O as in Owed (imp. & p. p.) of Owe,
O as in Ought () of Owe,
O as in Owing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Owe,
O as in Owe (v.) To possess; to have, as the rightful owner; to own.,
O as in Owe (v.) To have or possess, as something derived or bestowed; to be obliged to ascribe (something to some source); to be indebted or obliged for; as, he owed his wealth to his father; he owed his victory to his lieutenants.,
O as in Owe (v.) Hence: To have or be under an obigation to restore, pay, or render (something) in return or compensation for something received; to be indebted in the sum of; as, the subject owes allegiance; the fortunate owe assistance to the unfortunate.,
O as in Owe (v.) To have an obligation to (some one) on account of something done or received; to be indebted to; as, to iwe the grocer for supplies, or a laborer for services.,
O as in Owel (a.) Equal.,
O as in Owelty (n.) Equality; -- sometimes written ovelty and ovealty.,
O as in Owen (a.) Own.,
O as in Owenite (n.) A follower of Robert Owen, who tried to reorganize society on a socialistic basis, and established an industrial community on the Clyde, Scotland, and, later, a similar one in Indiana.,
O as in Owher (adv.) Anywhere.,
O as in Owing (P. p. & a.) Had or held under obligation of paying; due.,
O as in Owing (P. p. & a.) Had or experienced as a consequence, result, issue, etc.; ascribable; -- with to; as, misfortunes are often owing to vices; his failure was owing to speculations.,
O as in Owl (n.) Any species of raptorial birds of the family Strigidae. They have large eyes and ears, and a conspicuous circle of feathers around each eye. They are mostly nocturnal in their habits.,
O as in Owl (n.) A variety of the domestic pigeon.,
O as in Owled (imp. & p. p.) of Owl,
O as in Owling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Owl,
O as in Owl (v. i.) To pry about; to prowl.,
O as in Owl (v. i.) To carry wool or sheep out of England.,
O as in Owl (v. i.) Hence, to carry on any contraband trade.,
O as in Owler (v. i.) One who owls; esp., one who conveys contraband goods. See Owling, n.,
O as in Owleries (pl. ) of Owlery,
O as in Owlery (n.) An abode or a haunt of owls.,
O as in Owlet (n.) A small owl; especially, the European species (Athene noctua), and the California flammulated owlet (Megascops flammeolus).,
O as in Owl-eyed (a.) Having eyes like an owl's.,
O as in Owling (v. i.) The offense of transporting wool or sheep out of England contrary to the statute formerly existing.,
O as in Owlish (a.) Resembling, or characteristic of, an owl.,
O as in Owlism (n.) Affected wisdom; pompous dullness.,
O as in Owllight (n.) Glimmering or imperfect light.,
O as in Own (v. t.) To grant; to acknowledge; to admit to be true; to confess; to recognize in a particular character; as, we own that we have forfeited your love.,
O as in Own (a.) Belonging to; belonging exclusively or especially to; peculiar; -- most frequently following a possessive pronoun, as my, our, thy, your, his, her, its, their, in order to emphasize or intensify the idea of property, peculiar interest, or exclusive ownership; as, my own father; my own composition; my own idea; at my own price.,
O as in Owned (imp. & p. p.) of Own,
O as in Owning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Own,
O as in Own (a.) To hold as property; to have a legal or rightful title to; to be the proprietor or possessor of; to possess; as, to own a house.,
O as in Owner (n.) One who owns; a rightful proprietor; one who has the legal or rightful title, whether he is the possessor or not.,
O as in Ownerless (a.) Without an owner.,
O as in Ownership (n.) The state of being an owner; the right to own; exclusive right of possession; legal or just claim or title; proprietorship.,
O as in Owre (n.) The aurochs.,
O as in Owse (n.) Alt. of Owser,
O as in Owser (n.) Tanner's ooze. See Ooze, 3.,
O as in Oxen (pl. ) of Ox,
O as in Ox (n.) The male of bovine quadrupeds, especially the domestic animal when castrated and grown to its full size, or nearly so. The word is also applied, as a general name, to any species of bovine animals, male and female.,
O as in Oxacid (n.) See Oxyacid.,
O as in Oxalan (n.) A complex nitrogenous substance C3N3H5O3 obtained from alloxan (or when urea is fused with ethyl oxamate), as a stable white crystalline powder; -- called also oxaluramide.,
O as in Oxalantin (n.) A white crystalline nitrogenous substance (C6H4N4O5) obtained by the reduction of parabanic acid; -- called also leucoturic acid.,
O as in Oxalate (n.) A salt of oxalic acid.,
O as in Oxaldehyde (n.) Same as Glyoxal.,
O as in Oxalethyline (n.) A poisonous nitrogenous base (C6H10N2) obtained indirectly from oxamide as a thick transparent oil which has a strong narcotic odor, and a physiological action resembling that of atropine. It is probably related to pyridine.,
O as in Oxalic (a.) Pertaining to, derived from, or contained in, sorrel, or oxalis; specifically, designating an acid found in, and characteristic of, oxalis, and also certain plant of the Buckwheat family.,
O as in Oxaline (n.) See Glyoxaline.,
O as in Oxalis (n.) A genus of plants, mostly herbs, with acid-tasting trifoliolate or multifoliolate leaves; -- called also wood sorrel.,
O as in Oxalite (n.) A yellow mineral consisting of oxalate of iron.,
O as in Oxaluramide (n.) Same as Oxalan.,
O as in Oxalurate (n.) A salt of oxaluric acid.,
O as in Oxaluric (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, a complex nitrogenous acid related to the ureids, and obtained from parabanic acid as a white silky crystalline substance.,
O as in Oxalyl (n.) A hydrocarbon radical (C2O2) regarded as a residue of oxalic acid and occurring in derivatives of it.,
O as in Oxalyl (n.) An old name for carbonyl.,
O as in Oxalyl (n.) An old name for carboxyl.,
O as in Oxamate (n.) A salt of oxamic acid.,
O as in Oxamethane (n.) Ethyl oxamate, obtained as a white scaly crystalline powder.,
O as in Oxamethylane (n.) Methyl oxamate, obtained as a pearly white crystalline substance.,
O as in Oxamic (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, an acid NH2.C2O2.HO obtained as a fine crystalline powder, intermediate between oxalic acid and oxamide. Its ammonium salt is obtained by boiling oxamide with ammonia.,
O as in Oxamide (n) A white crystalline neutral substance (C2O2(NH2)2) obtained by treating ethyl oxalate with ammonia. It is the acid amide of oxalic acid. Formerly called also oxalamide.,
O as in Oxamidine (n.) One of a series of bases containing the amido and the isonitroso groups united to the same carbon atom.,
O as in Oxanillamide (n.) A white crystalline nitrogenous substance, obtained indirectly by the action of cyanogen on aniline, and regarded as an anilide of oxamic acid; -- called also phenyl oxamide.,
O as in Oxanilate (n.) A salt of oxanilic acid.,
O as in Oxanilic (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, oxalic acid and aniline; -- used to designate an acid obtained in white crystalline scales by heating these substances together.,
O as in Oxanilide (n.) a white crystalline substance, resembling oxanilamide, obtained by heating aniline oxalate, and regarded as a double anilide of oxalic acid; -- called also diphenyl oxamide.,
O as in Oxbane (n.) A poisonous bulbous plant (Buphane toxicaria) of the Cape of Good Hope.,
O as in Oxbird (n.) The dunlin.,
O as in Oxbird (n.) The sanderling.,
O as in Oxbird (n.) An African weaver bird (Textor alector).,
O as in Oxbiter (n.) The cow blackbird.,
O as in Oxbow (n.) A frame of wood, bent into the shape of the letter U, and embracing an ox's neck as a kind of collar, the upper ends passing through the bar of the yoke; also, anything so shaped, as a bend in a river.,
O as in Oxeye (n.) The oxeye daisy. See under Daisy.,
O as in Oxeye (n.) The corn camomile (Anthemis arvensis).,
O as in Oxeye (n.) A genus of composite plants (Buphthalmum) with large yellow flowers.,
O as in Oxeye (n.) A titmouse, especially the great titmouse (Parus major) and the blue titmouse (P. coeruleus).,
O as in Oxeye (n.) The dunlin.,
O as in Oxeye (n.) A fish; the bogue, or box.,
O as in Oxeyed (a.) Having large, full eyes, like those of an ox.,
O as in Oxfly (n.) The gadfly of cattle.,
O as in Oxford (a.) Of or pertaining to the city or university of Oxford, England.,
O as in Oxgang (n.) See Bovate.,
O as in Oxgoad (n.) A goad for driving oxen.,
O as in Oxhead (n.) Literally, the head of an ox (emblem of cuckoldom); hence, a dolt; a blockhead.,
O as in Oxheal (n.) Same as Bear's-foot.,
O as in Oxheart (n.) A large heart-shaped cherry, either black, red, or white.,
O as in Oxhide (n.) The skin of an ox, or leather made from it.,
O as in Oxhide (n.) A measure of land. See 3d Hide.,
O as in Oxid (n.) See Oxide.,
O as in Oxidability (n.) Capability of being converted into an oxide.,
O as in Oxidable (a.) Capable of being converted into an oxide.,
O as in Oxidated (imp. & p. p.) of Oxidate,
O as in Oxidating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Oxidate,
O as in Oxidate (v. t.) To oxidize.,
O as in Oxidation (n.) The act or process of oxidizing, or the state or result of being oxidized.,
O as in Oxidator (n.) An oxidizer.,
O as in Oxidator (n.) A contrivance for causing a current of air to impinge on the flame of the Argand lamp; -- called also oxygenator.,
O as in Oxide (n.) A binary compound of oxygen with an atom or radical, or a compound which is regarded as binary; as, iron oxide, ethyl oxide, nitrogen oxide, etc.,
O as in Oxidizable (a.) Capable of being oxidized.,
O as in Oxidized (imp. & p. p.) of Oxidize,
O as in Oxidizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Oxidize,
O as in Oxidize (v. t.) To combine with oxygen, or subject to the action of oxygen, or of an oxidizing agent.,
O as in Oxidize (v. t.) To combine with oxygen or with more oxygen; to add oxygen to; as, to oxidize nitrous acid so as to form nitric acid.,
O as in Oxidize (v. t.) To remove hydrogen from (anything), as by the action of oxygen; as, to oxidize alcohol so as to form aldehyde.,
O as in Oxidize (v. t.) To subject to the action of oxygen or of an oxidizing agent, so as to bring to a higher grade, as an -ous compound to an -ic compound; as, to oxidize mercurous chloride to mercuric chloride.,
O as in Oxidizement (n.) Oxidation.,
O as in Oxidizer (n.) An agent employed in oxidation, or which facilitates or brings about combination with oxygen; as, nitric acid, chlorine, bromine, etc., are strong oxidizers.,
O as in Oxidulated (a.) Existing in the state of a protoxide; -- said of an oxide.,
O as in Oxime (n.) One of a series of isonitroso derivatives obtained by the action of hydroxylamine on aldehydes or ketones.,
O as in Oxindol (n.) A white crystalline nitrogenous substance (C8H7NO) of the indol group, obtained by the reduction of dioxindol. It is a so-called lactam compound.,
O as in Oxiodic (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, certain compounds of iodine and oxygen.,
O as in Oxlike (a.) Characteristic of, or like, an ox.,
O as in Oxlip (n.) The great cowslip (Primula veris, var. elatior).,
O as in Oxonate (n.) A salt of oxonic acid.,
O as in Oxonian (a.) Of or relating to the city or the university of Oxford, England.,
O as in Oxonian (n.) A student or graduate of Oxford University, in England.,
O as in Oxonic (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, a complex nitrogenous acid (C4H5N3O4) not known in the free state, but obtained, in combination with its salts, by a slow oxidation of uric acid, to which it is related.,
O as in Oxpecker (n.) An African bird of the genus Buphaga; the beefeater.,
O as in Oxshoe (n.) A shoe for oxen, consisting of a flat piece of iron nailed to the hoof.,
O as in Oxter (n.) The armpit; also, the arm.,
O as in Oxtongue (n.) A name given to several plants, from the shape and roughness of their leaves; as, Anchusa officinalis, a kind of bugloss, and Helminthia echioides, both European herbs.,
O as in Oxy- () A prefix, also used adjectively,
O as in Oxy- () A compound containing oxygen.,
O as in Oxy- () A compound containing the hydroxyl group, more properly designated by hydroxy-. See Hydroxy-.,
O as in Oxyacetic (a.) Hydroxyacetic; designating an acid called also glycolic acid.,
O as in Oxyacid (n.) An acid containing oxygen, as chloric acid or sulphuric acid; -- contrasted with the hydracids, which contain no oxygen, as hydrochloric acid. See Acid, and Hydroxy-.,
O as in Oxyammonia (n.) Same as Hydroxylamine.,
O as in Oxybenzene (n.) Hydroxy benzene. Same as Phenol.,
O as in Oxybenzoic (a.) Hydroxybenzoic; pertaining to, or designating, any one of several hydroxyl derivatives of benzonic acid, of which the commonest is salicylic acid.,
O as in Oxybromic (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, certain compounds of oxygen and bromine.,
O as in Oxybutyric (a.) Hydroxybutyric; designating any one of a group of metameric acids (C3H6.OH.CO2H).,
O as in Oxycalcium (a.) Of or pertaining to oxygen and calcium; as, the oxycalcium light. See Drummond light.,
O as in Oxycaproic (a.) See Leucic.,
O as in Oxychloric (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating in general, certain compounds containing oxygen and chlorine.,
O as in Oxychloric (a.) Formerly designating an acid now called perchloric acid. See Perchloric.,
O as in Oxychloride (n.) A ternary compound of oxygen and chlorine; as, plumbic oxychloride.,
O as in Oxycrate (n.) A Mixture of water and vinegar.,
O as in Oxycymene (n.) Hydroxy cymene. Same as Carvacrol.,
O as in Oxygen (n.) A colorless, tasteless, odorless, gaseous element occurring in the free state in the atmosphere, of which it forms about 23 per cent by weight and about 21 per cent by volume, being slightly heavier than nitrogen. Symbol O. Atomic weight 15.96.,
O as in Oxygen (n.) Chlorine used in bleaching.,
O as in Oxygenated (imp. & p. p.) of Oxygenate,
O as in Oxygenating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Oxygenate,
O as in Oxygenate (v. t.) To unite, or cause to combine, with oxygen; to treat with oxygen; to oxidize; as, oxygenated water (hydrogen dioxide).,
O as in Oxygenation (n.) The act or process of combining or of treating with oxygen; oxidation.,
O as in Oxygenator (n.) An oxidizer.,
O as in Oxygenic (a.) Pertaining to, containing, or resembling, oxygen; producing oxygen.,
O as in Oxygenium (n.) The technical name of oxygen.,
O as in Oxygenizable (a.) Oxidizable.,
O as in Oxygenized (imp. & p. p.) of Oxygenize,
O as in Oxygenizing (p pr. & vb. n.) of Oxygenize,
O as in Oxygenize (v. t.) To oxidize.,
O as in Oxygenizement (n.) Oxidation.,
O as in Oxygenous (a.) Oxygenic.,
O as in Oxygon (n.) A triangle having three acute angles.,
O as in Oxygonal (a.) Alt. of Oxygonial,
O as in Oxygonial (a.) Having acute angles.,
O as in OxYhaemacyanin (n.) Alt. of Oxyhaemocyanin,
O as in Oxyhaemocyanin (n.) See Haemacyanin.,
O as in Oxyhaemoglobin (n.) Alt. of Oxyhemoglobin,
O as in Oxyhemoglobin (n.) See Hemoglobin.,
O as in Oxyhydrogen (a.) Of or pertaining to a mixture of oxygen and hydrogen; as, oxyhydrogen gas.,
O as in Oxymel (n.) A mixture of honey, water, vinegar, and spice, boiled to a sirup.,
O as in Oxymethylene (n.) Formic aldehyde, regarded as a methylene derivative.,
O as in Oxymoron (n.) A figure in which an epithet of a contrary signification is added to a word; e. g., cruel kindness; laborious idleness.,
O as in Oxymuriate (n.) A salt of the supposed oxymuriatic acid; a chloride.,
O as in Oxymuriatic (a.) Pertaining to, or consisting of, oxygen and muriatic acid, that is, hydrochloric acid.,
O as in Oxyneurine (n.) See Betaine.,
O as in Oxyntic (a.) Acid; producing acid; -applied especially to certain glands and cells in the stomach.,
O as in Oxyopia (n.) Alt. of Oxyopy,
O as in Oxyopy (n.) Excessive acuteness of sight.,
O as in Oxyphenic (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, the phenol formerly called oxyphenic acid, and now oxyphenol and pyrocatechin. See Pyrocatechin.,
O as in Oxyphenol (n.) A phenol, /////, produced by the distillation of catechin; called also oxyphenic acid, and now pyrocatechin.,
O as in Oxyphony (n.) Acuteness or shrillness of voice.,
O as in Oxyquinoline (n.) Hydroxy quinoline; a phenol derivative of quinoline, -- called also carbostyril.,
O as in Oxyrhyncha (n. pl.) The maioid crabs.,
O as in Oxyrrhodine (n.) A mixture of two parts of the oil of roses with one of the vinegar of roses.,
O as in Oxysalt (n.) A salt of an oxyacid, as a sulphate.,
O as in Oxysulphide (n.) A ternary compound of oxygen and sulphur.,
O as in Oxysulphuret (n.) An oxysulphide.,
O as in Oxytocic (a.) Promoting uterine contractions, or parturition.,
O as in Oxytocic (n.) An oxytocic medicine or agent.,
O as in Oxytoluene (n.) One of three hydroxy derivatives of toluene, called the cresols. See Cresol.,
O as in Oxytone (a.) Having an acute sound; (Gr. Gram.), having an acute accent on the last syllable.,
O as in Oxytone (n.) An acute sound.,
O as in Oxytone (n.) A word having the acute accent on the last syllable.,
O as in Oxytonical (a.) Oxytone.,
O as in Oyer (n.) A hearing or an inspection, as of a deed, bond, etc., as when a defendant in court prays oyer of a writing.,
O as in Oyez (interj.) Hear; attend; -- a term used by criers of courts to secure silence before making a proclamation. It is repeated three times.,
O as in Oylet (n.) See Eyelet.,
O as in Oylet (n.) Same as Oillet.,
O as in Oynoun (n.) Onion.,
O as in Oyster (n.) Any marine bivalve mollusk of the genus Ostrea. They are usually found adhering to rocks or other fixed objects in shallow water along the seacoasts, or in brackish water in the mouth of rivers. The common European oyster (Ostrea edulis), and the American oyster (Ostrea Virginiana), are the most important species.,
O as in Oyster (n.) A name popularly given to the delicate morsel contained in a small cavity of the bone on each side of the lower part of the back of a fowl.,
O as in Oyster-green (n.) A green membranous seaweed (Ulva) often found growing on oysters but common on stones, piles, etc.,
O as in Oystering (n.) Gathering, or dredging for, oysters.,
O as in Oysterling (n.) A young oyster.,
O as in Ozena (n.) A discharge of fetid matter from the nostril, particularly if associated with ulceration of the soft parts and disease of the bones of the nose.,
O as in Ozocerite (n.) A waxlike mineral resin; -- sometimes called native paraffin, and mineral wax.,
O as in Ozonation (n.) The act of treating with ozone; also, the act of converting into, or producing, ozone; ozonization.,
O as in Ozone (n.) A colorless gaseous substance (O/) obtained (as by the silent discharge of electricity in oxygen) as an allotropic form of oxygen, containing three atoms in the molecule. It is a streng oxidizer, and probably exists in the air, though by he ordinary tests it is liable to be confused with certain other substances, as hydrogen dioxide, or certain oxides of nitrogen. It derives its name from its peculiar odor, which resembles that of weak chlorine.,
O as in Ozonic (a.) Pertaining to, resembling, or containing, ozone.,
O as in Ozonification (n.) The act or process of producing, or of subjecting to the action of, ozone.,
O as in Ozonization (n.) Ozonation.,
O as in Ozonized (imp. & p. p.) of Ozonize,
O as in Ozonizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ozonize,
O as in Ozonize (v. t.) To convert into ozone, as oxygen.,
O as in Ozonize (v. t.) To treat with ozone.,
O as in Ozonizer (n.) An apparatus or agent for the production or application of ozone.,
O as in Ozonometer (n.) An instrument for ascertaining the amount of ozone in the atmosphere, or in any gaseous mixture.,
O as in Ozonometric (a.) Pertaining to, or used for, the determination of the amount of ozone; of or relating to ozonometry.,
O as in Ozonometry (n.) The measurement or determination of the quantity of ozone.,
O as in Ozonoscope (n.) An apparatus employed to indicate the presence, or the amount, of ozone.,
O as in Ozonoscopic (a.) Serving to indicate the presence or the amount of ozone.,
O as in Ozonous (a.) Pertaining to or containing, ozone.,
