R as in R () R, the eighteenth letter of the English alphabet, is a vocal consonant. It is sometimes called a semivowel, and a liquid. See Guide to Pronunciation, // 178, 179, and 250-254.,
R as in Ra (n.) A roe; a deer.,
R as in Ra- () A prefix, from the Latin re and ad combined, coming to us through the French and Italian. See Re-, and Ad-.,
R as in Raash (n.) The electric catfish.,
R as in Rab (n.) A rod or stick used by masons in mixing hair with mortar.,
R as in Rabat (n.) A polishing material made of potter's clay that has failed in baking.,
R as in Rabate (v.) To recover to the fist, as a hawk.,
R as in Rabatine (n.) A collar or cape.,
R as in Rabato (n.) A kind of ruff for the neck; a turned-down collar; a rebato.,
R as in Rabbate (v. t.) To abate or diminish.,
R as in Rabbate (n.) Abatement.,
R as in Rabbeted (imp. & p. p.) of Rabbet,
R as in Rabbeting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rabbet,
R as in Rabbet (v. t.) To cut a rabbet in; to furnish with a rabbet.,
R as in Rabbet (v. t.) To unite the edges of, as boards, etc., in a rabbet joint.,
R as in Rabbet (n.) A longitudinal channel, groove, or recess cut out of the edge or face of any body; especially, one intended to receive another member, so as to break or cover the joint, or more easily to hold the members in place; thus, the groove cut for a panel, for a pane of glass, or for a door, is a rabbet, or rebate.,
R as in Rabbet (n.) Same as Rabbet joint, below.,
R as in Rabbis (pl. ) of Rabbi,
R as in Rabbies (pl. ) of Rabbi,
R as in Rabbi (n.) Master; lord; teacher; -- a Jewish title of respect or honor for a teacher or doctor of the law.,
R as in Rabbin (n.) Same as Rabbi.,
R as in Rabbinic (a.) Alt. of Rabbinical,
R as in Rabbinical (a.) Of or pertaining to the rabbins or rabbis, or pertaining to the opinions, learning, or language of the rabbins.,
R as in Rabbinic (n.) The language or dialect of the rabbins; the later Hebrew.,
R as in Rabbinically (adv.) In a rabbinical manner; after the manner of the rabbins.,
R as in Rabbinism (n.) A rabbinic expression or phraseology; a peculiarity of the language of the rabbins.,
R as in Rabbinism (n.) The teachings and traditions of the rabbins.,
R as in Rabbinist (n.) One among the Jews who adhered to the Talmud and the traditions of the rabbins, in opposition to the Karaites, who rejected the traditions.,
R as in Rabbinite (n.) Same as Rabbinist.,
R as in Rabbit (n.) Any of the smaller species of the genus Lepus, especially the common European species (Lepus cuniculus), which is often kept as a pet, and has been introduced into many countries. It is remarkably prolific, and has become a pest in some parts of Australia and New Zealand.,
R as in Rabbiting (n.) The hunting of rabbits.,
R as in Rabbitry (n.) A place where rabbits are kept; especially, a collection of hutches for tame rabbits.,
R as in Rabble (n.) An iron bar, with the end bent, used in stirring or skimming molten iron in the process of puddling.,
R as in Rabble (v. t.) To stir or skim with a rabble, as molten iron.,
R as in Rabble (v. i.) To speak in a confused manner.,
R as in Rabble (v. i.) A tumultuous crowd of vulgar, noisy people; a mob; a confused, disorderly throng.,
R as in Rabble (v. i.) A confused, incoherent discourse; a medley of voices; a chatter.,
R as in Rabble (a.) Of or pertaining to a rabble; like, or suited to, a rabble; disorderly; vulgar.,
R as in Rabbled (imp. & p. p.) of Rabble,
R as in Rabbling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rabble,
R as in Rabble (v. t.) To insult, or assault, by a mob; to mob; as, to rabble a curate.,
R as in Rabble (v. t.) To utter glibly and incoherently; to mouth without intelligence.,
R as in Rabble (v. t.) To rumple; to crumple.,
R as in Rabblement (n.) A tumultuous crowd of low people; a rabble.,
R as in Rabbler (n.) A scraping tool for smoothing metal.,
R as in Rabble-rout (n.) A tumultuous crowd; a rabble; a noisy throng.,
R as in Rabdoidal (a.) See Sagittal.,
R as in Rabdology (n.) The method or art of performing arithmetical operations by means of Napier's bones. See Napier's bones.,
R as in Rabdomancy (n.) Divination by means of rods or wands.,
R as in Rabid (n.) Furious; raging; extremely violent.,
R as in Rabid (n.) Extreme, unreasonable, or fanatical in opinion; excessively zealous; as, a rabid socialist.,
R as in Rabid (n.) Affected with the distemper called rabies; mad; as, a rabid dog or fox.,
R as in Rabid (n.) Of or pertaining to rabies, or hydrophobia; as, rabid virus.,
R as in Rabidity (n.) Rabidness; furiousness.,
R as in Rabidly (adv.) In a rabid manner; with extreme violence.,
R as in Rabidness (n.) The quality or state of being rabid.,
R as in Rabies (n.) Same as Hydrophobia (b); canine madness.,
R as in Rabinet (n.) A kind of small ordnance formerly in use.,
R as in Rabious (a.) Fierce.,
R as in Rabot (n.) A rubber of hard wood used in smoothing marble to be polished.,
R as in Raca (a.) A term of reproach used by the Jews of our Savior's time, meaning "worthless.",
R as in Racahout (n.) A preparation from acorns used by the Arabs as a substitute for chocolate, and also as a beverage for invalids.,
R as in Raccoon (n.) A North American nocturnal carnivore (Procyon lotor) allied to the bears, but much smaller, and having a long, full tail, banded with black and gray. Its body is gray, varied with black and white. Called also coon, and mapach.,
R as in Race (v. t.) To raze.,
R as in Race (n.) A root.,
R as in Race (n.) The descendants of a common ancestor; a family, tribe, people, or nation, believed or presumed to belong to the same stock; a lineage; a breed.,
R as in Race (n.) Company; herd; breed.,
R as in Race (n.) A variety of such fixed character that it may be propagated by seed.,
R as in Race (n.) Peculiar flavor, taste, or strength, as of wine; that quality, or assemblage of qualities, which indicates origin or kind, as in wine; hence, characteristic flavor; smack.,
R as in Race (n.) Hence, characteristic quality or disposition.,
R as in Race (n.) A progress; a course; a movement or progression.,
R as in Race (n.) Esp., swift progress; rapid course; a running.,
R as in Race (n.) Hence: The act or process of running in competition; a contest of speed in any way, as in running, riding, driving, skating, rowing, sailing; in the plural, usually, a meeting for contests in the running of horses; as, he attended the races.,
R as in Race (n.) Competitive action of any kind, especially when prolonged; hence, career; course of life.,
R as in Race (n.) A strong or rapid current of water, or the channel or passage for such a current; a powerful current or heavy sea, sometimes produced by the meeting of two tides; as, the Portland Race; the Race of Alderney.,
R as in Race (n.) The current of water that turns a water wheel, or the channel in which it flows; a mill race.,
R as in Race (n.) A channel or guide along which a shuttle is driven back and forth, as in a loom, sewing machine, etc.,
R as in Raced (imp. & p. p.) of Race,
R as in Racing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Race,
R as in Race (v. i.) To run swiftly; to contend in a race; as, the animals raced over the ground; the ships raced from port to port.,
R as in Race (v. i.) To run too fast at times, as a marine engine or screw, when the screw is lifted out of water by the action of a heavy sea.,
R as in Race (v. t.) To cause to contend in a race; to drive at high speed; as, to race horses.,
R as in Race (v. t.) To run a race with.,
R as in Racemate (n.) A salt of racemic acid.,
R as in Racemation (n.) A cluster or bunch, as of grapes.,
R as in Racemation (n.) Cultivation or gathering of clusters of grapes.,
R as in Raceme (n.) A flower cluster with an elongated axis and many one-flowered lateral pedicels, as in the currant and chokecherry.,
R as in Racemed (a.) Arranged in a raceme, or in racemes.,
R as in Racemic (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, an acid found in many kinds of grapes. It is also obtained from tartaric acid, with which it is isomeric, and from sugar, gum, etc., by oxidation. It is a sour white crystalline substance, consisting of a combination of dextrorotatory and levorotatory tartaric acids.,
R as in Racemiferous (a.) Bearing racemes, as the currant.,
R as in Racemiform (a.) Having the form of a raceme.,
R as in Racemose (a.) Resembling a raceme; growing in the form of a raceme; as, (Bot.) racemose berries or flowers; (Anat.) the racemose glands, in which the ducts are branched and clustered like a raceme.,
R as in Racemous (a.) See Racemose.,
R as in Racemule (n.) A little raceme.,
R as in Racemulose (a.) Growing in very small racemes.,
R as in Racer (n.) One who, or that which, races, or contends in a race; esp., a race horse.,
R as in Racer (n.) The common American black snake.,
R as in Racer (n.) One of the circular iron or steel rails on which the chassis of a heavy gun is turned.,
R as in Rach (n.) Alt. of Rache,
R as in Rache (n.) A dog that pursued his prey by scent, as distinguished from the greyhound.,
R as in Rachialgia (n.) A painful affection of the spine; especially, Pott's disease; also, formerly, lead colic.,
R as in Rachidian (a.) Of or pertaining to the rachis; spinal; vertebral. Same as Rhachidian.,
R as in Rachilla (n.) Same as Rhachilla.,
R as in Rachiodont (a.) Same as Rhachiodont.,
R as in Rachises (pl. ) of Rachis,
R as in Rachides (pl. ) of Rachis,
R as in Rachis (n.) The spine; the vertebral column.,
R as in Rachis (n.) Same as Rhachis.,
R as in Rachitic (a.) Of or pertaining to rachitis; affected by rachitis; rickety.,
R as in Rachitis (n.) Literally, inflammation of the spine, but commonly applied to the rickets. See Rickets.,
R as in Rachitis (n.) A disease which produces abortion in the fruit or seeds.,
R as in Rachitome (n.) A dissecting instrument for opening the spinal canal.,
R as in Racial (a.) Of or pertaining to a race or family of men; as, the racial complexion.,
R as in Racily (adv.) In a racy manner.,
R as in Raciness (n.) The quality of being racy; peculiar and piquant flavor.,
R as in Racing () a. & n. from Race, v. t. & i.,
R as in Rack (n.) Same as Arrack.,
R as in Rack (n.) The neck and spine of a fore quarter of veal or mutton.,
R as in Rack (n.) A wreck; destruction.,
R as in Rack (n.) Thin, flying, broken clouds, or any portion of floating vapor in the sky.,
R as in Rack (v. i.) To fly, as vapor or broken clouds.,
R as in Racked (imp. & p. p.) of Rack,
R as in Racking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rack,
R as in Rack (v.) To amble fast, causing a rocking or swaying motion of the body; to pace; -- said of a horse.,
R as in Rack (n.) A fast amble.,
R as in Rack (v. t.) To draw off from the lees or sediment, as wine.,
R as in Rack (a.) An instrument or frame used for stretching, extending, retaining, or displaying, something.,
R as in Rack (a.) An engine of torture, consisting of a large frame, upon which the body was gradually stretched until, sometimes, the joints were dislocated; -- formerly used judicially for extorting confessions from criminals or suspected persons.,
R as in Rack (a.) An instrument for bending a bow.,
R as in Rack (a.) A grate on which bacon is laid.,
R as in Rack (a.) A frame or device of various construction for holding, and preventing the waste of, hay, grain, etc., supplied to beasts.,
R as in Rack (a.) A frame on which articles are deposited for keeping or arranged for display; as, a clothes rack; a bottle rack, etc.,
R as in Rack (a.) A piece or frame of wood, having several sheaves, through which the running rigging passes; -- called also rack block. Also, a frame to hold shot.,
R as in Rack (a.) A frame or table on which ores are separated or washed.,
R as in Rack (a.) A frame fitted to a wagon for carrying hay, straw, or grain on the stalk, or other bulky loads.,
R as in Rack (a.) A distaff.,
R as in Rack (a.) A bar with teeth on its face, or edge, to work with those of a wheel, pinion, or worm, which is to drive it or be driven by it.,
R as in Rack (a.) That which is extorted; exaction.,
R as in Rack (v. t.) To extend by the application of force; to stretch or strain; specifically, to stretch on the rack or wheel; to torture by an engine which strains the limbs and pulls the joints.,
R as in Rack (v. t.) To torment; to torture; to affect with extreme pain or anguish.,
R as in Rack (v. t.) To stretch or strain, in a figurative sense; hence, to harass, or oppress by extortion.,
R as in Rack (v. t.) To wash on a rack, as metals or ore.,
R as in Rack (v. t.) To bind together, as two ropes, with cross turns of yarn, marline, etc.,
R as in Rackabones (n.) A very lean animal, esp. a horse.,
R as in Racker (n.) One who racks.,
R as in Racker (n.) A horse that has a racking gait.,
R as in Racket (n.) A thin strip of wood, having the ends brought together, forming a somewhat elliptical hoop, across which a network of catgut or cord is stretched. It is furnished with a handle, and is used for catching or striking a ball in tennis and similar games.,
R as in Racket (n.) A variety of the game of tennis played with peculiar long-handled rackets; -- chiefly in the plural.,
R as in Racket (n.) A snowshoe formed of cords stretched across a long and narrow frame of light wood.,
R as in Racket (n.) A broad wooden shoe or patten for a man or horse, to enable him to step on marshy or soft ground.,
R as in Racket (v. t.) To strike with, or as with, a racket.,
R as in Racket (n.) Confused, clattering noise; din; noisy talk or sport.,
R as in Racket (n.) A carouse; any reckless dissipation.,
R as in Racketed (imp. & p. p.) of Racket,
R as in Racketing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Racket,
R as in Racket (v. i.) To make a confused noise or racket.,
R as in Racket (v. i.) To engage in noisy sport; to frolic.,
R as in Racket (v. i.) To carouse or engage in dissipation.,
R as in Racketer (n.) One who makes, or engages in, a racket.,
R as in Rackett (n.) An old wind instrument of the double bassoon kind, having ventages but not keys.,
R as in Racket-tail (n.) Any one of several species of humming birds of the genus Steganura, having two of the tail feathers very long and racket-shaped.,
R as in Racket-tailed (a.) Having long and spatulate, or racket-shaped, tail feathers.,
R as in Rackety (a.) Making a tumultuous noise.,
R as in Racking (n.) Spun yarn used in racking ropes.,
R as in Rack-rent (n.) A rent of the full annual value of the tenement, or near it; an excessive or unreasonably high rent.,
R as in Rack-rent (v. t.) To subject to rack-rent, as a farm or tenant.,
R as in Rack-renter (n.) One who is subjected to paying rack-rent.,
R as in Rack-renter (n.) One who exacts rack-rent.,
R as in Racktail (n.) An arm attached to a swinging notched arc or rack, to let off the striking mechanism of a repeating clock.,
R as in Rackwork (n.) Any mechanism having a rack, as a rack and pinion.,
R as in Racle (a.) See Rakel.,
R as in Racleness (n.) See Rakelness.,
R as in Raconteur (n.) A relater; a storyteller.,
R as in Racoonda (n.) The coypu.,
R as in Racovian (n.) One of a sect of Socinians or Unitarians in Poland.,
R as in Racquet (n.) See Racket.,
R as in Racy (superl.) Having a strong flavor indicating origin; of distinct characteristic taste; tasting of the soil; hence, fresh; rich.,
R as in Racy (superl.) Hence: Exciting to the mental taste by a strong or distinctive character of thought or language; peculiar and piquant; fresh and lively.,
R as in Rad () imp. & p. p. of Read, Rede.,
R as in Radde () imp. of Read, Rede.,
R as in Raddle (n.) A long, flexible stick, rod, or branch, which is interwoven with others, between upright posts or stakes, in making a kind of hedge or fence.,
R as in Raddle (n.) A hedge or fence made with raddles; -- called also raddle hedge.,
R as in Raddle (n.) An instrument consisting of a wooden bar, with a row of upright pegs set in it, used by domestic weavers to keep the warp of a proper width, and prevent tangling when it is wound upon the beam of the loom.,
R as in Raddle (v. t.) To interweave or twist together.,
R as in Raddle (n.) A red pigment used in marking sheep, and in some mechanical processes; ruddle.,
R as in Raddle (v. t.) To mark or paint with, or as with, raddle.,
R as in Raddock (n.) The ruddock.,
R as in Rade (n.) A raid.,
R as in Radeau (n.) A float; a raft.,
R as in Radial (a.) Of or pertaining to a radius or ray; consisting of, or like, radii or rays; radiated; as, (Bot.) radial projections; (Zool.) radial vessels or canals; (Anat.) the radial artery.,
R as in Radialia (pl. ) of Radiale,
R as in Radiale (n.) The bone or cartilage of the carpus which articulates with the radius and corresponds to the scaphoid bone in man.,
R as in Radiale (n.) Radial plates in the calyx of a crinoid.,
R as in Radially (adv.) In a radial manner.,
R as in Radian (n.) An arc of a circle which is equal to the radius, or the angle measured by such an arc.,
R as in Radiance (n.) Alt. of Radiancy,
R as in Radiancy (n.) The quality of being radiant; brilliancy; effulgence; vivid brightness; as, the radiance of the sun.,
R as in Radiant (a.) Emitting or proceeding as from a center; resembling rays; radiating; radiate.,
R as in Radiant (a.) Especially, emitting or darting rays of light or heat; issuing in beams or rays; beaming with brightness; emitting a vivid light or splendor; as, the radiant sun.,
R as in Radiant (a.) Beaming with vivacity and happiness; as, a radiant face.,
R as in Radiant (a.) Giving off rays; -- said of a bearing; as, the sun radiant; a crown radiant.,
R as in Radiant (a.) Having a raylike appearance, as the large marginal flowers of certain umbelliferous plants; -- said also of the cluster which has such marginal flowers.,
R as in Radiant (n.) The luminous point or object from which light emanates; also, a body radiating light brightly.,
R as in Radiant (n.) A straight line proceeding from a given point, or fixed pole, about which it is conceived to revolve.,
R as in Radiant (n.) The point in the heavens at which the apparent paths of shooting stars meet, when traced backward, or whence they appear to radiate.,
R as in Radiantly (adv.) In a radiant manner; with glittering splendor.,
R as in Radiary (n.) A radiate.,
R as in Radiata (n. pl.) An extensive artificial group of invertebrates, having all the parts arranged radially around the vertical axis of the body, and the various organs repeated symmetrically in each ray or spheromere.,
R as in Radiated (imp. & p. p.) of Radiate,
R as in Radiating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Radiate,
R as in Radiate (v. i.) To emit rays; to be radiant; to shine.,
R as in Radiate (v. i.) To proceed in direct lines from a point or surface; to issue in rays, as light or heat.,
R as in Radiate (v. t.) To emit or send out in direct lines from a point or points; as, to radiate heat.,
R as in Radiate (v. t.) To enlighten; to illuminate; to shed light or brightness on; to irradiate.,
R as in Radiate (a.) Having rays or parts diverging from a center; radiated; as, a radiate crystal.,
R as in Radiate (a.) Having in a capitulum large ray florets which are unlike the disk florets, as in the aster, daisy, etc.,
R as in Radiate (a.) Belonging to the Radiata.,
R as in Radiate (n.) One of the Radiata.,
R as in Radiated (a.) Emitted, or sent forth, in rays or direct lines; as, radiated heat.,
R as in Radiated (a.) Formed of, or arranged like, rays or radii; having parts or markings diverging, like radii, from a common center or axis; as, a radiated structure; a radiated group of crystals.,
R as in Radiated (a.) Belonging to the Radiata.,
R as in Radiately (adv.) In a radiate manner; with radiation or divergence from a center.,
R as in Radiate-veined (a.) Having the principal veins radiating, or diverging, from the apex of the petiole; -- said of such leaves as those of the grapevine, most maples, and the castor-oil plant.,
R as in Radiatiform (a.) Having the marginal florets enlarged and radiating but not ligulate, as in the capitula or heads of the cornflower.,
R as in Radiation (n.) The act of radiating, or the state of being radiated; emission and diffusion of rays of light; beamy brightness.,
R as in Radiation (n.) The shooting forth of anything from a point or surface, like the diverging rays of light; as, the radiation of heat.,
R as in Radiative (a.) Capable of radiating; acting by radiation.,
R as in Radiator (n.) That which radiates or emits rays, whether of light or heat; especially, that part of a heating apparatus from which the heat is radiated or diffused; as, a steam radiator.,
R as in Radical (a.) Of or pertaining to the root; proceeding directly from the root.,
R as in Radical (a.) Hence: Of or pertaining to the root or origin; reaching to the center, to the foundation, to the ultimate sources, to the principles, or the like; original; fundamental; thorough-going; unsparing; extreme; as, radical evils; radical reform; a radical party.,
R as in Radical (a.) Belonging to, or proceeding from, the root of a plant; as, radical tubers or hairs.,
R as in Radical (a.) Proceeding from a rootlike stem, or one which does not rise above the ground; as, the radical leaves of the dandelion and the sidesaddle flower.,
R as in Radical (a.) Relating, or belonging, to the root, or ultimate source of derivation; as, a radical verbal form.,
R as in Radical (a.) Of or pertaining to a radix or root; as, a radical quantity; a radical sign. See below.,
R as in Radical (n.) A primitive word; a radix, root, or simple, underived, uncompounded word; an etymon.,
R as in Radical (n.) A primitive letter; a letter that belongs to the radix.,
R as in Radical (n.) One who advocates radical changes in government or social institutions, especially such changes as are intended to level class inequalities; -- opposed to conservative.,
R as in Radical (n.) A characteristic, essential, and fundamental constituent of any compound; hence, sometimes, an atom.,
R as in Radical (n.) Specifically, a group of two or more atoms, not completely saturated, which are so linked that their union implies certain properties, and are conveniently regarded as playing the part of a single atom; a residue; -- called also a compound radical. Cf. Residue.,
R as in Radical (n.) A radical quantity. See under Radical, a.,
R as in Radical (a.) A radical vessel. See under Radical, a.,
R as in Radicalism (n.) The quality or state of being radical; specifically, the doctrines or principles of radicals in politics or social reform.,
R as in Radicality (n.) Germinal principle; source; origination.,
R as in Radicality (n.) Radicalness; relation to a root in essential nature or principle.,
R as in Radically (adv.) In a radical manner; at, or from, the origin or root; fundamentally; as, a scheme or system radically wrong or defective.,
R as in Radically (adv.) Without derivation; primitively; essentially.,
R as in Radicalness (n.) Quality or state of being radical.,
R as in Radicant (a.) Taking root on, or above, the ground; rooting from the stem, as the trumpet creeper and the ivy.,
R as in Radicate (a.) Radicated.,
R as in Radicate (v. i.) To take root; to become rooted.,
R as in Radicated (imp. & p. p.) of Radicate,
R as in Radicating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Radicate,
R as in Radicate (v. t.) To cause to take root; to plant deeply and firmly; to root.,
R as in Radicated (a.) Rooted,
R as in Radicated (a.) Having roots, or possessing a well-developed root.,
R as in Radicated (a.) Having rootlike organs for attachment.,
R as in Radication (n.) The process of taking root, or state of being rooted; as, the radication of habits.,
R as in Radication (n.) The disposition of the roots of a plant.,
R as in Radicel (n.) A small branch of a root; a rootlet.,
R as in Radiciflorous (a.) Rhizanthous.,
R as in Radiciform (a.) Having the nature or appearance of a radix or root.,
R as in Radicle (n.) The rudimentary stem of a plant which supports the cotyledons in the seed, and from which the root is developed downward; the stem of the embryo; the caulicle.,
R as in Radicle (n.) A rootlet; a radicel.,
R as in Radicular (a.) Of or pertaining to roots, or the root of a plant.,
R as in Radicule (n.) A radicle.,
R as in Radiculose (a.) Producing numerous radicles, or rootlets.,
R as in Radii (n.) pl. of Radius.,
R as in Radio- () A combining form indicating connection with, or relation to, a radius or ray; specifically (Anat.), with the radius of the forearm; as, radio-ulnar, radio-muscular, radio-carpal.,
R as in Radio-flagellata (n. pl.) A group of Protozoa having both flagella and pseudopodia.,
R as in Radiograph (n.) A picture produced by the Rontgen rays upon a sensitive surface, photographic or fluorescent, especially a picture of opaque objects traversed by the rays.,
R as in Radiolaria (n. pl.) Order of rhizopods, usually having a siliceous skeleton, or shell, and sometimes radiating spicules. The pseudopodia project from the body like rays. It includes the polycystines. See Polycystina.,
R as in Radiolarian (a.) Of or pertaining to the Radiolaria.,
R as in Radiolarian (n.) One of the Radiolaria.,
R as in Radioli (n. pl.) The barbs of the radii of a feather; barbules.,
R as in Radiolite (n.) A hippurite.,
R as in Radiometer (n.) A forestaff.,
R as in Radiometer (n.) An instrument designed for measuring the mechanical effect of radiant energy.,
R as in Radiomicrometer (n.) A very sensitive modification or application of the thermopile, used for indicating minute changes of radiant heat, or temperature.,
R as in Radiophone (n.) An apparatus for the production of sound by the action of luminous or thermal rays. It is essentially the same as the photophone.,
R as in Radiophony (n.) The art or practice of using the radiophone.,
R as in Radious (a.) Consisting of rays, as light.,
R as in Radious (a.) Radiating; radiant.,
R as in Radish (n.) The pungent fleshy root of a well-known cruciferous plant (Raphanus sativus); also, the whole plant.,
R as in Radii (pl. ) of Radius,
R as in Radiuses (pl. ) of Radius,
R as in Radius (n.) A right line drawn or extending from the center of a circle to the periphery; the semidiameter of a circle or sphere.,
R as in Radius (n.) The preaxial bone of the forearm, or brachium, corresponding to the tibia of the hind limb. See Illust. of Artiodactyla.,
R as in Radius (n.) A ray, or outer floret, of the capitulum of such plants as the sunflower and the daisy. See Ray, 2.,
R as in Radius (n.) The barbs of a perfect feather.,
R as in Radius (n.) Radiating organs, or color-markings, of the radiates.,
R as in Radius (n.) The movable limb of a sextant or other angular instrument.,
R as in Radius vector () A straight line (or the length of such line) connecting any point, as of a curve, with a fixed point, or pole, round which the straight line turns, and to which it serves to refer the successive points of a curve, in a system of polar coordinates. See Coordinate, n.,
R as in Radius vector (n.) An ideal straight line joining the center of an attracting body with that of a body describing an orbit around it, as a line joining the sun and a planet or comet, or a planet and its satellite.,
R as in Radices (pl. ) of Radix,
R as in Radixes (pl. ) of Radix,
R as in Radix (n.) A primitive word, from which spring other words; a radical; a root; an etymon.,
R as in Radix (n.) A number or quantity which is arbitrarily made the fundamental number of any system; a base. Thus, 10 is the radix, or base, of the common system of logarithms, and also of the decimal system of numeration.,
R as in Radix (n.) A finite expression, from which a series is derived.,
R as in Radix (n.) The root of a plant.,
R as in Radulae (pl. ) of Radula,
R as in Radula (n.) The chitinous ribbon bearing the teeth of mollusks; -- called also lingual ribbon, and tongue. See Odontophore.,
R as in Raduliform (a.) Rasplike; as, raduliform teeth.,
R as in Raffed (imp. & p. p.) of Raff,
R as in Raffing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Raff,
R as in Raff (v. t.) To sweep, snatch, draw, or huddle together; to take by a promiscuous sweep.,
R as in Raff (n.) A promiscuous heap; a jumble; a large quantity; lumber; refuse.,
R as in Raff (n.) The sweepings of society; the rabble; the mob; -- chiefly used in the compound or duplicate, riffraff.,
R as in Raff (n.) A low fellow; a churl.,
R as in Raffaelesque (a.) Raphaelesque.,
R as in Raffia (n.) A fibrous material used for tying plants, said to come from the leaves of a palm tree of the genus Raphia.,
R as in Raffinose (n.) A colorless crystalline slightly sweet substance obtained from the molasses of the sugar beet.,
R as in Raffish (a.) Resembling, or having the character of, raff, or a raff; worthless; low.,
R as in Raffle (v.) A kind of lottery, in which several persons pay, in shares, the value of something put up as a stake, and then determine by chance (as by casting dice) which one of them shall become the sole possessor.,
R as in Raffle (v.) A game of dice in which he who threw three alike won all the stakes.,
R as in Raffled (imp. & p. p.) of Raffle,
R as in Raffling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Raffle,
R as in Raffle (v. i.) To engage in a raffle; as, to raffle for a watch.,
R as in Raffle (v. t.) To dispose of by means of a raffle; -- often followed by off; as, to raffle off a horse.,
R as in Raffler (n.) One who raffles.,
R as in Rafflesia (n.) A genus of stemless, leafless plants, living parasitically upon the roots and stems of grapevines in Malaysia. The flowers have a carrionlike odor, and are very large, in one species (Rafflesia Arnoldi) having a diameter of two or three feet.,
R as in Raft () imp. & p. p. of Reave.,
R as in Raft (n.) A collection of logs, boards, pieces of timber, or the like, fastened together, either for their own collective conveyance on the water, or to serve as a support in conveying other things; a float.,
R as in Raft (n.) A collection of logs, fallen trees, etc. (such as is formed in some Western rivers of the United States), which obstructs navigation.,
R as in Raft (n.) A large collection of people or things taken indiscriminately.,
R as in Rafted (imp. & p. p.) of Raft,
R as in Rafting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Raft,
R as in Raft (v. t.) To transport on a raft, or in the form of a raft; to make into a raft; as, to raft timber.,
R as in Rafte () imp. of Reave.,
R as in Rafter (n.) A raftsman.,
R as in Rafter (n.) Originally, any rough and somewhat heavy piece of timber. Now, commonly, one of the timbers of a roof which are put on sloping, according to the inclination of the roof. See Illust. of Queen-post.,
R as in Rafter (v. t.) To make into rafters, as timber.,
R as in Rafter (v. t.) To furnish with rafters, as a house.,
R as in Rafter (v. t.) To plow so as to turn the grass side of each furrow upon an unplowed ridge; to ridge.,
R as in Rafting (n.) The business of making or managing rafts.,
R as in Raftsmen (pl. ) of Raftsman,
R as in Raftsman (n.) A man engaged in rafting.,
R as in Rafty (a.) Damp; musty.,
R as in Rag (v. t.) To scold or rail at; to rate; to tease; to torment; to banter.,
R as in Rag (n.) A piece of cloth torn off; a tattered piece of cloth; a shred; a tatter; a fragment.,
R as in Rag (n.) Hence, mean or tattered attire; worn-out dress.,
R as in Rag (n.) A shabby, beggarly fellow; a ragamuffin.,
R as in Rag (n.) A coarse kind of rock, somewhat cellular in texture.,
R as in Rag (n.) A ragged edge.,
R as in Rag (n.) A sail, or any piece of canvas.,
R as in Ragged (imp. & p. p.) of Rag,
R as in Ragging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rag,
R as in Rag (v. i.) To become tattered.,
R as in Rag (v. t.) To break (ore) into lumps for sorting.,
R as in Rag (v. t.) To cut or dress roughly, as a grindstone.,
R as in Ragabash (n.) Alt. of Ragabrash,
R as in Ragabrash (n.) An idle, ragged person.,
R as in Ragamuffin (n.) A paltry or disreputable fellow; a mean wretch.,
R as in Ragamuffin (n.) A person who wears ragged clothing.,
R as in Ragamuffin (n.) The long-tailed titmouse.,
R as in Rage (n.) Violent excitement; eager passion; extreme vehemence of desire, emotion, or suffering, mastering the will.,
R as in Rage (n.) Especially, anger accompanied with raving; overmastering wrath; violent anger; fury.,
R as in Rage (n.) A violent or raging wind.,
R as in Rage (n.) The subject of eager desire; that which is sought after, or prosecuted, with unreasonable or excessive passion; as, to be all the rage.,
R as in Raged (imp. & p. p.) of Rage,
R as in Raging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rage,
R as in Rage (n.) To be furious with anger; to be exasperated to fury; to be violently agitated with passion.,
R as in Rage (n.) To be violent and tumultuous; to be violently driven or agitated; to act or move furiously; as, the raging sea or winds.,
R as in Rage (n.) To ravage; to prevail without restraint, or with destruction or fatal effect; as, the plague raged in Cairo.,
R as in Rage (n.) To toy or act wantonly; to sport.,
R as in Rage (v. t.) To enrage.,
R as in Rageful (a.) Full of rage; expressing rage.,
R as in Ragery (n.) Wantonness.,
R as in Ragged (n.) Rent or worn into tatters, or till the texture is broken; as, a ragged coat; a ragged sail.,
R as in Ragged (n.) Broken with rough edges; having jags; uneven; rough; jagged; as, ragged rocks.,
R as in Ragged (n.) Hence, harsh and disagreeable to the ear; dissonant.,
R as in Ragged (n.) Wearing tattered clothes; as, a ragged fellow.,
R as in Ragged (n.) Rough; shaggy; rugged.,
R as in Raggie (a.) Alt. of Raggy,
R as in Raggy (a.) Ragged; rough.,
R as in Raghuvansa (n.) A celebrated Sanskrit poem having for its subject the Raghu dynasty.,
R as in Raging () a. & n. from Rage, v. i.,
R as in Ragious (a.) Raging; furious; rageful.,
R as in Raglan (n.) A loose overcoat with large sleeves; -- named from Lord Raglan, an English general.,
R as in Ragmen (pl. ) of Ragman,
R as in Ragman (n.) A man who collects, or deals in, rags.,
R as in Ragman (n.) A document having many names or numerous seals, as a papal bull.,
R as in Ragman's roll () The rolls of deeds on parchment in which the Scottish nobility and gentry subscribed allegiance to Edward I. of England, A. D. 1296.,
R as in Ragout (n.) A dish made of pieces of meat, stewed, and highly seasoned; as, a ragout of mutton.,
R as in Ragpicker (n.) One who gets a living by picking up rags and refuse things in the streets.,
R as in Raguled (a.) Alt. of Ragguled,
R as in Ragguled (a.) Notched in regular diagonal breaks; -- said of a line, or a bearing having such an edge.,
R as in Ragweed (n.) A common American composite weed (Ambrosia artemisiaefolia) with finely divided leaves; hogweed.,
R as in Ragwork (n.) A kind of rubblework. In the United States, any rubblework of thin and small stones.,
R as in Ragwort (n.) A name given to several species of the composite genus Senecio.,
R as in Raia (n.) A genus of rays which includes the skates. See Skate.,
R as in Raiae (n. pl.) The order of elasmobranch fishes which includes the sawfishes, skates, and rays; -- called also Rajae, and Rajii.,
R as in Raid (n.) A hostile or predatory incursion; an inroad or incursion of mounted men; a sudden and rapid invasion by a cavalry force; a foray.,
R as in Raid (n.) An attack or invasion for the purpose of making arrests, seizing property, or plundering; as, a raid of the police upon a gambling house; a raid of contractors on the public treasury.,
R as in Raided (imp. & p. p.) of Raid,
R as in Raiding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Raid,
R as in Raid (v. t.) To make a raid upon or into; as, two regiments raided the border counties.,
R as in Raider (n.) One who engages in a raid.,
R as in Rail (n.) An outer cloak or covering; a neckerchief for women.,
R as in Rail (v. i.) To flow forth; to roll out; to course.,
R as in Rail (n.) A bar of timber or metal, usually horizontal or nearly so, extending from one post or support to another, as in fences, balustrades, staircases, etc.,
R as in Rail (n.) A horizontal piece in a frame or paneling. See Illust. of Style.,
R as in Rail (n.) A bar of steel or iron, forming part of the track on which the wheels roll. It is usually shaped with reference to vertical strength, and is held in place by chairs, splices, etc.,
R as in Rail (n.) The stout, narrow plank that forms the top of the bulwarks.,
R as in Rail (n.) The light, fencelike structures of wood or metal at the break of the deck, and elsewhere where such protection is needed.,
R as in Railed (imp. & p. p.) of Rail,
R as in Railing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rail,
R as in Rail (v. t.) To inclose with rails or a railing.,
R as in Rail (v. t.) To range in a line.,
R as in Rail (v.) Any one of numerous species of limicoline birds of the family Rallidae, especially those of the genus Rallus, and of closely allied genera. They are prized as game birds.,
R as in Rail (v. i.) To use insolent and reproachful language; to utter reproaches; to scoff; -- followed by at or against, formerly by on.,
R as in Rail (v. t.) To rail at.,
R as in Rail (v. t.) To move or influence by railing.,
R as in Railer (n.) One who rails; one who scoffs, insults, censures, or reproaches with opprobrious language.,
R as in Railing (a.) Expressing reproach; insulting.,
R as in Railing (n.) A barrier made of a rail or of rails.,
R as in Railing (n.) Rails in general; also, material for making rails.,
R as in Railingly (adv.) With scoffing or insulting language.,
R as in Raillery (n.) Pleasantry or slight satire; banter; jesting language; satirical merriment.,
R as in Railleur (n.) A banterer; a jester; a mocker.,
R as in Railroad (n.) Alt. of Railway,
R as in Railway (n.) A road or way consisting of one or more parallel series of iron or steel rails, patterned and adjusted to be tracks for the wheels of vehicles, and suitably supported on a bed or substructure.,
R as in Railway (n.) The road, track, etc., with all the lands, buildings, rolling stock, franchises, etc., pertaining to them and constituting one property; as, a certain railroad has been put into the hands of a receiver.,
R as in Railroading (n.) The construction of a railroad; the business of managing or operating a railroad.,
R as in Raiment (n.) Clothing in general; vesture; garments; -- usually singular in form, with a collective sense.,
R as in Raiment (n.) An article of dress.,
R as in Rain (n. & v.) Reign.,
R as in Rain (n.) Water falling in drops from the clouds; the descent of water from the clouds in drops.,
R as in Rained (imp. & p. p.) of Rain,
R as in Raining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rain,
R as in Rain (n.) To fall in drops from the clouds, as water; -- used mostly with it for a nominative; as, it rains.,
R as in Rain (n.) To fall or drop like water from the clouds; as, tears rained from their eyes.,
R as in Rain (v. t.) To pour or shower down from above, like rain from the clouds.,
R as in Rain (v. t.) To bestow in a profuse or abundant manner; as, to rain favors upon a person.,
R as in Rainbow (n.) A bow or arch exhibiting, in concentric bands, the several colors of the spectrum, and formed in the part of the hemisphere opposite to the sun by the refraction and reflection of the sun's rays in drops of falling rain.,
R as in Rainbowed (a.) Formed with or like a rainbow.,
R as in Raindeer (n.) See Reindeer.,
R as in Raindrop (n.) A drop of rain.,
R as in Rainfall (n.) A fall or descent of rain; the water, or amount of water, that falls in rain; as, the average annual rainfall of a region.,
R as in Raininess (n.) The state of being rainy.,
R as in Rainless (a.) Destitute of rain; as, a rainless region.,
R as in Rain-tight (a.) So tight as to exclude rain; as, a rain-tight roof.,
R as in Rainy (a.) Abounding with rain; wet; showery; as, rainy weather; a rainy day or season.,
R as in Raip (n.) A rope; also, a measure equal to a rod.,
R as in Rais (n.) Same as 2d Reis.,
R as in Raisable (a.) Capable of being raised.,
R as in Raised (imp. & p. p.) of Raise,
R as in Raising (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Raise,
R as in Raise (v. t.) To cause to rise; to bring from a lower to a higher place; to lift upward; to elevate; to heave; as, to raise a stone or weight.,
R as in Raise (v. t.) To bring to a higher condition or situation; to elevate in rank, dignity, and the like; to increase the value or estimation of; to promote; to exalt; to advance; to enhance; as, to raise from a low estate; to raise to office; to raise the price, and the like.,
R as in Raise (v. t.) To increase the strength, vigor, or vehemence of; to excite; to intensify; to invigorate; to heighten; as, to raise the pulse; to raise the voice; to raise the spirits or the courage; to raise the heat of a furnace.,
R as in Raise (v. t.) To elevate in degree according to some scale; as, to raise the pitch of the voice; to raise the temperature of a room.,
R as in Raise (v. t.) To cause to rise up, or assume an erect position or posture; to set up; to make upright; as, to raise a mast or flagstaff.,
R as in Raise (v. t.) To cause to spring up from a recumbent position, from a state of quiet, or the like; to awaken; to arouse.,
R as in Raise (v. t.) To rouse to action; to stir up; to incite to tumult, struggle, or war; to excite.,
R as in Raise (v. t.) To bring up from the lower world; to call up, as a spirit from the world of spirits; to recall from death; to give life to.,
R as in Raise (v. t.) To cause to arise, grow up, or come into being or to appear; to give rise to; to originate, produce, cause, effect, or the like.,
R as in Raise (v. t.) To form by the accumulation of materials or constituent parts; to build up; to erect; as, to raise a lofty structure, a wall, a heap of stones.,
R as in Raise (v. t.) To bring together; to collect; to levy; to get together or obtain for use or service; as, to raise money, troops, and the like.,
R as in Raise (v. t.) To cause to grow; to procure to be produced, bred, or propagated; to grow; as, to raise corn, barley, hops, etc.; toraise cattle.,
R as in Raise (v. t.) To bring into being; to produce; to cause to arise, come forth, or appear; -- often with up.,
R as in Raise (v. t.) To give rise to; to set agoing; to occasion; to start; to originate; as, to raise a smile or a blush.,
R as in Raise (v. t.) To give vent or utterance to; to utter; to strike up.,
R as in Raise (v. t.) To bring to notice; to submit for consideration; as, to raise a point of order; to raise an objection.,
R as in Raise (v. t.) To cause to rise, as by the effect of leaven; to make light and spongy, as bread.,
R as in Raise (v. t.) To cause (the land or any other object) to seem higher by drawing nearer to it; as, to raise Sandy Hook light.,
R as in Raise (v. t.) To let go; as in the command, Raise tacks and sheets, i. e., Let go tacks and sheets.,
R as in Raise (v. t.) To create or constitute; as, to raise a use, that is, to create it.,
R as in Raised (a.) Lifted up; showing above the surroundings; as, raised or embossed metal work.,
R as in Raised (a.) Leavened; made with leaven, or yeast; -- used of bread, cake, etc., as distinguished from that made with cream of tartar, soda, etc. See Raise, v. t., 4.,
R as in Raiser (n.) One who, or that which, raises (in various senses of the verb).,
R as in Raisin (n.) A grape, or a bunch of grapes.,
R as in Raisin (n.) A grape dried in the sun or by artificial heat.,
R as in Raising (n.) The act of lifting, setting up, elevating, exalting, producing, or restoring to life.,
R as in Raising (n.) Specifically, the operation or work of setting up the frame of a building; as, to help at a raising.,
R as in Raising (n.) The operation of embossing sheet metal, or of forming it into cup-shaped or hollow articles, by hammering, stamping, or spinning.,
R as in Raisonne (a.) Arranged systematically, or according to classes or subjects; as, a catalogue raisonne. See under Catalogue.,
R as in Raivel (n.) A separator.,
R as in Raj (n.) Reign; rule.,
R as in Raja (n.) Same as Rajah.,
R as in Rajah (a.) A native prince or king; also, a landholder or person of importance in the agricultural districts.,
R as in Rajahship (n.) The office or dignity of a rajah.,
R as in Rajpoot (n.) Alt. of Rajput,
R as in Rajput (n.) A Hindoo of the second, or royal and military, caste; a Kshatriya; especially, an inhabitant of the country of Rajpootana, in northern central India.,
R as in Rake (n.) An implement consisting of a headpiece having teeth, and a long handle at right angles to it, -- used for collecting hay, or other light things which are spread over a large surface, or for breaking and smoothing the earth.,
R as in Rake (n.) A toothed machine drawn by a horse, -- used for collecting hay or grain; a horserake.,
R as in Rake (n.) A fissure or mineral vein traversing the strata vertically, or nearly so; -- called also rake-vein.,
R as in Raked (imp. & p. p.) of Rake,
R as in Raking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rake,
R as in Rake (v. t.) To collect with a rake; as, to rake hay; -- often with up; as, he raked up the fallen leaves.,
R as in Rake (v. t.) To collect or draw together with laborious industry; to gather from a wide space; to scrape together; as, to rake together wealth; to rake together slanderous tales; to rake together the rabble of a town.,
R as in Rake (v. t.) To pass a rake over; to scrape or scratch with a rake for the purpose of collecting and clearing off something, or for stirring up the soil; as, to rake a lawn; to rake a flower bed.,
R as in Rake (v. t.) To search through; to scour; to ransack.,
R as in Rake (v. t.) To scrape or scratch across; to pass over quickly and lightly, as a rake does.,
R as in Rake (v. t.) To enfilade; to fire in a direction with the length of; in naval engagements, to cannonade, as a ship, on the stern or head so that the balls range the whole length of the deck.,
R as in Rake (v. i.) To use a rake, as for searching or for collecting; to scrape; to search minutely.,
R as in Rake (v. i.) To pass with violence or rapidity; to scrape along.,
R as in Rake (n.) The inclination of anything from a perpendicular direction; as, the rake of a roof, a staircase, etc.,
R as in Rake (n.) the inclination of a mast or funnel, or, in general, of any part of a vessel not perpendicular to the keel.,
R as in Rake (v. i.) To incline from a perpendicular direction; as, a mast rakes aft.,
R as in Rake (n.) A loose, disorderly, vicious man; a person addicted to lewdness and other scandalous vices; a debauchee; a roue.,
R as in Rake (v. i.) To walk about; to gad or ramble idly.,
R as in Rake (v. i.) To act the rake; to lead a dissolute, debauched life.,
R as in Rakehell (n.) A lewd, dissolute fellow; a debauchee; a rake.,
R as in Rakehell (a.) Alt. of Rakehelly,
R as in Rakehelly (a.) Dissolute; wild; lewd; rakish.,
R as in Rakel (a.) Hasty; reckless; rash.,
R as in Raker (n.) One who, or that which, rakes,
R as in Raker (n.) A person who uses a rake.,
R as in Raker (n.) A machine for raking grain or hay by horse or other power.,
R as in Raker (n.) A gun so placed as to rake an enemy's ship.,
R as in Raker (n.) See Gill rakers, under 1st Gill.,
R as in Rakery (n.) Debauchery; lewdness.,
R as in Rakeshame (n.) A vile, dissolute wretch.,
R as in Rakestale (n.) The handle of a rake.,
R as in Rake-vein (n.) See Rake, a mineral vein.,
R as in Raking (n.) The act or process of using a rake; the going over a space with a rake.,
R as in Raking (n.) A space gone over with a rake; also, the work done, or the quantity of hay, grain, etc., collected, by going once over a space with a rake.,
R as in Rakish (a.) Dissolute; lewd; debauched.,
R as in Rakish (a.) Having a saucy appearance indicative of speed and dash.,
R as in Rakishly (adv.) In a rakish manner.,
R as in Rakishness (n.) The quality or state of being rakish.,
R as in Raku ware () A kind of earthenware made in Japan, resembling Satsuma ware, but having a paler color.,
R as in Rale (n.) An adventitious sound, usually of morbid origin, accompanying the normal respiratory sounds. See Rhonchus.,
R as in Rallentando (a.) Slackening; -- a direction to perform a passage with a gradual decrease in time and force; ritardando.,
R as in Ralliance (n.) The act of rallying.,
R as in Rallier (n.) One who rallies.,
R as in Ralline (a.) Pertaining to the rails.,
R as in Rallied (imp. & p. p.) of Rally,
R as in Rallying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rally,
R as in Rally (v. t.) To collect, and reduce to order, as troops dispersed or thrown into confusion; to gather again; to reunite.,
R as in Rally (v. i.) To come into orderly arrangement; to renew order, or united effort, as troops scattered or put to flight; to assemble; to unite.,
R as in Rally (v. i.) To collect one's vital powers or forces; to regain health or consciousness; to recuperate.,
R as in Rally (v. i.) To recover strength after a decline in prices; -- said of the market, stocks, etc.,
R as in Rallies (pl. ) of Rally,
R as in Rally (n.) The act or process of rallying (in any of the senses of that word).,
R as in Rally (n.) A political mass meeting.,
R as in Rally (v. t.) To attack with raillery, either in good humor and pleasantry, or with slight contempt or satire.,
R as in Rally (v. i.) To use pleasantry, or satirical merriment.,
R as in Rally (n.) Good-humored raillery.,
R as in Ralph (n.) A name sometimes given to the raven.,
R as in Ralstonite (n.) A fluoride of alumina and soda occurring with the Greenland cryolite in octahedral crystals.,
R as in Ram (n.) The male of the sheep and allied animals. In some parts of England a ram is called a tup.,
R as in Ram (n.) Aries, the sign of the zodiac which the sun enters about the 21st of March.,
R as in Ram (n.) The constellation Aries, which does not now, as formerly, occupy the sign of the same name.,
R as in Ram (n.) An engine of war used for butting or battering.,
R as in Ram (n.) In ancient warfare, a long beam suspended by slings in a framework, and used for battering the walls of cities; a battering-ram.,
R as in Ram (n.) A heavy steel or iron beak attached to the prow of a steam war vessel for piercing or cutting down the vessel of an enemy; also, a vessel carrying such a beak.,
R as in Ram (n.) A hydraulic ram. See under Hydraulic.,
R as in Ram (n.) The weight which strikes the blow, in a pile driver, steam hammer, stamp mill, or the like.,
R as in Ram (n.) The plunger of a hydraulic press.,
R as in Rammed (imp. & p. p.) of Ram,
R as in Ramming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ram,
R as in Ram (v. t.) To butt or strike against; to drive a ram against or through; to thrust or drive with violence; to force in; to drive together; to cram; as, to ram an enemy's vessel; to ram piles, cartridges, etc.,
R as in Ram (v. t.) To fill or compact by pounding or driving.,
R as in Ramadan (n.) The ninth Mohammedan month.,
R as in Ramadan (n.) The great annual fast of the Mohammedans, kept during daylight through the ninth month.,
R as in Ramage (n.) Boughs or branches.,
R as in Ramage (n.) Warbling of birds in trees.,
R as in Ramage (a.) Wild; untamed.,
R as in Ramagious (a.) Wild; not tame.,
R as in Ramal (a.) Of or pertaining to a ramus, or branch; rameal.,
R as in Ramayana (n.) The more ancient of the two great epic poems in Sanskrit. The hero and heroine are Rama and his wife Sita.,
R as in Ramberge (n.) Formerly, a kind of large war galley.,
R as in Rambled (imp. & p. p.) of Ramble,
R as in Rambling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ramble,
R as in Ramble (v. i.) To walk, ride, or sail, from place to place, without any determinate object in view; to roam carelessly or irregularly; to rove; to wander; as, to ramble about the city; to ramble over the world.,
R as in Ramble (v. i.) To talk or write in a discursive, aimless way.,
R as in Ramble (v. i.) To extend or grow at random.,
R as in Ramble (n.) A going or moving from place to place without any determinate business or object; an excursion or stroll merely for recreation.,
R as in Ramble (n.) A bed of shale over the seam.,
R as in Rambler (n.) One who rambles; a rover; a wanderer.,
R as in Rambling (a.) Roving; wandering; discursive; as, a rambling fellow, talk, or building.,
R as in Ramblingly (adv.) In a rambling manner.,
R as in Rambooze (n.) A beverage made of wine, ale (or milk), sugar, etc.,
R as in Rambutan (n.) A Malayan fruit produced by the tree Nephelium lappaceum, and closely related to the litchi nut. It is bright red, oval in shape, covered with coarse hairs (whence the name), and contains a pleasant acid pulp. Called also ramboostan.,
R as in Rameal (a.) Same as Ramal.,
R as in Ramean (n.) A Ramist.,
R as in Ramed (a.) Having the frames, stem, and sternpost adjusted; -- said of a ship on the stocks.,
R as in Ramee (n.) See Ramie.,
R as in Ramekin (n.) See Ramequin.,
R as in Rament (n.) A scraping; a shaving.,
R as in Rament (n.) Ramenta.,
R as in Ramenta (n. pl.) Thin brownish chaffy scales upon the leaves or young shoots of some plants, especially upon the petioles and leaves of ferns.,
R as in Ramentaceous (a.) Covered with ramenta.,
R as in Rameous (a.) Ramal.,
R as in Ramequin (n.) A mixture of cheese, eggs, etc., formed in a mold, or served on bread.,
R as in Ramie (n.) The grass-cloth plant (B/hmeria nivea); also, its fiber, which is very fine and exceedingly strong; -- called also China grass, and rhea. See Grass-cloth plant, under Grass.,
R as in Ramification (n.) The process of branching, or the development of branches or offshoots from a stem; also, the mode of their arrangement.,
R as in Ramification (n.) A small branch or offshoot proceeding from a main stock or channel; as, the ramifications of an artery, vein, or nerve.,
R as in Ramification (n.) A division into principal and subordinate classes, heads, or departments; also, one of the subordinate parts; as, the ramifications of a subject or scheme.,
R as in Ramification (n.) The production of branchlike figures.,
R as in Ramiflorous (a.) Flowering on the branches.,
R as in Ramiform (a.) Having the form of a branch.,
R as in Ramified (imp. & p. p.) of Ramify,
R as in Ramifying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ramify,
R as in Ramify (v. t.) To divide into branches or subdivisions; as, to ramify an art, subject, scheme.,
R as in Ramify (v. i.) To shoot, or divide, into branches or subdivisions, as the stem of a plant.,
R as in Ramify (v. i.) To be divided or subdivided, as a main subject.,
R as in Ramigerous (a.) Bearing branches; branched.,
R as in Ramiparous (a.) Producing branches; ramigerous.,
R as in Ramist (n.) A follower of Pierre Rame, better known as Ramus, a celebrated French scholar, who was professor of rhetoric and philosophy at Paris in the reign of Henry II., and opposed the Aristotelians.,
R as in Ramline (n.) A line used to get a straight middle line, as on a spar, or from stem to stern in building a vessel.,
R as in Rammel (n.) Refuse matter.,
R as in Rammer (n.) One who, or that which, rams or drives.,
R as in Rammer (n.) An instrument for driving anything with force; as, a rammer for driving stones or piles, or for beating the earth to more solidity,
R as in Rammer (n.) A rod for forcing down the charge of a gun; a ramrod,
R as in Rammer (n.) An implement for pounding the sand of a mold to render it compact.,
R as in Rammish (a.) Like a ram; hence, rank; lascivious.,
R as in Rammishness (n.) The quality of being rammish.,
R as in Rammy (a.) Like a ram; rammish.,
R as in Ramollescence (n.) A softening or mollifying.,
R as in Ramoon (n.) A small West Indian tree (Trophis Americana) of the Mulberry family, whose leaves and twigs are used as fodder for cattle.,
R as in Ramose (a.) Branched, as the stem or root of a plant; having lateral divisions; consisting of, or having, branches; full of branches; ramifying; branching; branchy.,
R as in Ramous (a.) Ramose.,
R as in Ramped (imp. & p. p.) of Ramp,
R as in Ramping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ramp,
R as in Ramp (v. i.) To spring; to leap; to bound; to rear; to prance; to become rampant; hence, to frolic; to romp.,
R as in Ramp (v. i.) To move by leaps, or as by leaps; hence, to move swiftly or with violence.,
R as in Ramp (v. i.) To climb, as a plant; to creep up.,
R as in Ramp (n.) A leap; a spring; a hostile advance.,
R as in Ramp (n.) A highwayman; a robber.,
R as in Ramp (n.) A romping woman; a prostitute.,
R as in Ramp (n.) Any sloping member, other than a purely constructional one, such as a continuous parapet to a staircase.,
R as in Ramp (n.) A short bend, slope, or curve, where a hand rail or cap changes its direction.,
R as in Ramp (n.) An inclined plane serving as a communication between different interior levels.,
R as in Rampacious (a.) High-spirited; rampageous.,
R as in Rampage (v.) Violent or riotous behavior; a state of excitement, passion, or debauchery; as, to be on the rampage.,
R as in Rampage (v. i.) To leap or prance about, as an animal; to be violent; to rage.,
R as in Rampageous (a.) Characterized by violence and passion; unruly; rampant.,
R as in Rampallian (n.) A mean wretch.,
R as in Rampancy (n.) The quality or state of being rampant; excessive action or development; exuberance; extravagance.,
R as in Rampant (v.) Ramping; leaping; springing; rearing upon the hind legs; hence, raging; furious.,
R as in Rampant (v.) Ascending; climbing; rank in growth; exuberant.,
R as in Rampant (v.) Rising with fore paws in the air as if attacking; -- said of a beast of prey, especially a lion. The right fore leg and right hind leg should be raised higher than the left.,
R as in Rampantly (adv.) In a rampant manner.,
R as in Rampart (n.) That which fortifies and defends from assault; that which secures safety; a defense or bulwark.,
R as in Rampart (n.) A broad embankment of earth round a place, upon which the parapet is raised. It forms the substratum of every permanent fortification.,
R as in Ramparted (imp. & p. p.) of Rampart,
R as in Ramparting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rampart,
R as in Rampart (v. t.) To surround or protect with, or as with, a rampart or ramparts.,
R as in Rampe (n.) The cuckoopint.,
R as in Rampier (n.) See Rampart.,
R as in Rampion (n.) A plant (Campanula Rapunculus) of the Bellflower family, with a tuberous esculent root; -- also called ramps.,
R as in Rampire (n.) A rampart.,
R as in Rampire (v. t.) To fortify with a rampire; to form into a rampire.,
R as in Rampler (n.) A rambler.,
R as in Rampler (a.) Roving; rambling.,
R as in Ramrod (n.) The rod used in ramming home the charge in a muzzle-loading firearm.,
R as in Ramshackle (a.) Loose; disjointed; falling to pieces; out of repair.,
R as in Ramshackle (v. t.) To search or ransack; to rummage.,
R as in Ramson (n.) A broad-leaved species of garlic (Allium ursinum), common in European gardens; -- called also buckram.,
R as in Ramsted (n.) A yellow-flowered weed; -- so named from a Mr. Ramsted who introduced it into Pennsylvania. See Toad flax. Called also Ramsted weed.,
R as in Ramulose (a.) Having many small branches, or ramuli.,
R as in Ramulous (a.) Ramulose.,
R as in Ramuli (pl. ) of Ramulus,
R as in Ramulus (n.) A small branch, or branchlet, of corals, hydroids, and similar organisms.,
R as in Rami (pl. ) of Ramus,
R as in Ramus (n.) A branch; a projecting part or prominent process; a ramification.,
R as in Ramuscule (n.) A small ramus, or branch.,
R as in Ran () imp. of Run.,
R as in Ran (n.) Open robbery.,
R as in Ran (n.) Yarns coiled on a spun-yarn winch.,
R as in Rana (n.) A genus of anurous batrachians, including the common frogs.,
R as in Ranal (a.) Having a general affinity to ranunculaceous plants.,
R as in Rance (n.) A prop or shore.,
R as in Rance (n.) A round between the legs of a chair.,
R as in Rancescent (a.) Becoming rancid or sour.,
R as in Ranch (v. t.) To wrench; to tear; to sprain; to injure by violent straining or contortion.,
R as in Ranch (n.) A tract of land used for grazing and the rearing of horses, cattle, or sheep. See Rancho, 2.,
R as in Rancheros (pl. ) of Ranchero,
R as in Ranchero (n.) A herdsman; a peasant employed on a ranch or rancho.,
R as in Ranchero (n.) The owner and occupant of a ranch or rancho.,
R as in Ranchmen (pl. ) of Ranchman,
R as in Ranchman (n.) An owner or occupant of, or laborer on, a ranch; a herdsman.,
R as in Ranchos (pl. ) of Rancho,
R as in Rancho (n.) A rude hut, as of posts, covered with branches or thatch, where herdsmen or farm laborers may live or lodge at night.,
R as in Rancho (n.) A large grazing farm where horses and cattle are raised; -- distinguished from hacienda, a cultivated farm or plantation.,
R as in Rancid (a.) Having a rank smell or taste, from chemical change or decomposition; musty; as, rancid oil or butter.,
R as in Rancidity (n.) The quality or state of being rancid; a rancid scent or flavor, as of old oil.,
R as in Rancidly (adv.) In a rancid manner.,
R as in Rancidness (n.) The quality of being rancid.,
R as in Rancor (n.) The deepest malignity or spite; deep-seated enmity or malice; inveterate hatred.,
R as in Rancorous (a.) Full of rancor; evincing, or caused by, rancor; deeply malignant; implacably spiteful or malicious; intensely virulent.,
R as in Rancorously (adv.) In a rancorous manner.,
R as in Rand (n.) A border; edge; margin.,
R as in Rand (n.) A long, fleshy piece, as of beef, cut from the flank or leg; a sort of steak.,
R as in Rand (n.) A thin inner sole for a shoe; also, a leveling slip of leather applied to the sole before attaching the heel.,
R as in Rand (v. i.) To rant; to storm.,
R as in Randall grass () The meadow fescue (Festuca elatior). See under Grass.,
R as in Randan (n.) The product of a second sifting of meal; the finest part of the bran.,
R as in Randan (n.) A boat propelled by three rowers with four oars, the middle rower pulling two.,
R as in Randing (n.) The act or process of making and applying rands for shoes.,
R as in Randing (n.) A kind of basket work used in gabions.,
R as in Random (n.) Force; violence.,
R as in Random (n.) A roving motion; course without definite direction; want of direction, rule, or method; hazard; chance; -- commonly used in the phrase at random, that is, without a settled point of direction; at hazard.,
R as in Random (n.) Distance to which a missile is cast; range; reach; as, the random of a rifle ball.,
R as in Random (n.) The direction of a rake-vein.,
R as in Random (a.) Going at random or by chance; done or made at hazard, or without settled direction, aim, or purpose; hazarded without previous calculation; left to chance; haphazard; as, a random guess.,
R as in Randomly (adv.) In a random manner.,
R as in Randon (n.) Random.,
R as in Randon (v. i.) To go or stray at random.,
R as in Ranedeer (n.) See Reindeer.,
R as in Ranee (n.) Same as Rani.,
R as in Ranforce (n.) See Re/nforce.,
R as in Rang () imp. of Ring, v. t. & i.,
R as in Ranged (imp. & p. p.) of Range,
R as in Ranging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Range,
R as in Range (n.) To set in a row, or in rows; to place in a regular line or lines, or in ranks; to dispose in the proper order; to rank; as, to range soldiers in line.,
R as in Range (n.) To place (as a single individual) among others in a line, row, or order, as in the ranks of an army; -- usually, reflexively and figuratively, (in the sense) to espouse a cause, to join a party, etc.,
R as in Range (n.) To separate into parts; to sift.,
R as in Range (n.) To dispose in a classified or in systematic order; to arrange regularly; as, to range plants and animals in genera and species.,
R as in Range (n.) To rove over or through; as, to range the fields.,
R as in Range (n.) To sail or pass in a direction parallel to or near; as, to range the coast.,
R as in Range (n.) To be native to, or to live in; to frequent.,
R as in Range (v. i.) To rove at large; to wander without restraint or direction; to roam.,
R as in Range (v. i.) To have range; to change or differ within limits; to be capable of projecting, or to admit of being projected, especially as to horizontal distance; as, the temperature ranged through seventy degrees Fahrenheit; the gun ranges three miles; the shot ranged four miles.,
R as in Range (v. i.) To be placed in order; to be ranked; to admit of arrangement or classification; to rank.,
R as in Range (v. i.) To have a certain direction; to correspond in direction; to be or keep in a corresponding line; to trend or run; -- often followed by with; as, the front of a house ranges with the street; to range along the coast.,
R as in Range (v. i.) To be native to, or live in, a certain district or region; as, the peba ranges from Texas to Paraguay.,
R as in Range (v.) A series of things in a line; a row; a rank; as, a range of buildings; a range of mountains.,
R as in Range (v.) An aggregate of individuals in one rank or degree; an order; a class.,
R as in Range (v.) The step of a ladder; a rung.,
R as in Range (v.) A kitchen grate.,
R as in Range (v.) An extended cooking apparatus of cast iron, set in brickwork, and affording conveniences for various ways of cooking; also, a kind of cooking stove.,
R as in Range (v.) A bolting sieve to sift meal.,
R as in Range (v.) A wandering or roving; a going to and fro; an excursion; a ramble; an expedition.,
R as in Range (v.) That which may be ranged over; place or room for excursion; especially, a region of country in which cattle or sheep may wander and pasture.,
R as in Range (v.) Extent or space taken in by anything excursive; compass or extent of excursion; reach; scope; discursive power; as, the range of one's voice, or authority.,
R as in Range (v.) The region within which a plant or animal naturally lives.,
R as in Range (v.) The horizontal distance to which a shot or other projectile is carried.,
R as in Range (v.) Sometimes, less properly, the trajectory of a shot or projectile.,
R as in Range (v.) A place where shooting, as with cannons or rifles, is practiced.,
R as in Range (v.) In the public land system of the United States, a row or line of townships lying between two successive meridian lines six miles apart.,
R as in Range (v.) See Range of cable, below.,
R as in Rangement (n.) Arrangement.,
R as in Ranger (n.) One who ranges; a rover; sometimes, one who ranges for plunder; a roving robber.,
R as in Ranger (n.) That which separates or arranges; specifically, a sieve.,
R as in Ranger (n.) A dog that beats the ground in search of game.,
R as in Ranger (n.) One of a body of mounted troops, formerly armed with short muskets, who range over the country, and often fight on foot.,
R as in Ranger (n.) The keeper of a public park or forest; formerly, a sworn officer of a forest, appointed by the king's letters patent, whose business was to walk through the forest, recover beasts that had strayed beyond its limits, watch the deer, present trespasses to the next court held for the forest, etc.,
R as in Rangership (n.) The office of the keeper of a forest or park.,
R as in Rangle (v. i.) To range about in an irregular manner.,
R as in Rani (n.) A queen or princess; the wife of a rajah.,
R as in Ranine (a.) Of or pertaining to the frogs and toads.,
R as in Ranine (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, a swelling under the tongue; also, pertaining to the region where the swelling occurs; -- applied especially to branches of the lingual artery and lingual vein.,
R as in Rank (superl.) Luxuriant in growth; of vigorous growth; exuberant; grown to immoderate height; as, rank grass; rank weeds.,
R as in Rank (superl.) Raised to a high degree; violent; extreme; gross; utter; as, rank heresy.,
R as in Rank (superl.) Causing vigorous growth; producing luxuriantly; very rich and fertile; as, rank land.,
R as in Rank (superl.) Strong-scented; rancid; musty; as, oil of a rank smell; rank-smelling rue.,
R as in Rank (superl.) Strong to the taste.,
R as in Rank (superl.) Inflamed with venereal appetite.,
R as in Rank (adv.) Rankly; stoutly; violently.,
R as in Rank (n. & v.) A row or line; a range; an order; a tier; as, a rank of osiers.,
R as in Rank (n. & v.) A line of soldiers ranged side by side; -- opposed to file. See 1st File, 1 (a).,
R as in Rank (n. & v.) Grade of official standing, as in the army, navy, or nobility; as, the rank of general; the rank of admiral.,
R as in Rank (n. & v.) An aggregate of individuals classed together; a permanent social class; an order; a division; as, ranks and orders of men; the highest and the lowest ranks of men, or of other intelligent beings.,
R as in Rank (n. & v.) Degree of dignity, eminence, or excellence; position in civil or social life; station; degree; grade; as, a writer of the first rank; a lawyer of high rank.,
R as in Rank (n. & v.) Elevated grade or standing; high degree; high social position; distinction; eminence; as, a man of rank.,
R as in Ranked (imp. & p. p.) of Rank,
R as in Ranking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rank,
R as in Rank (v. t.) To place abreast, or in a line.,
R as in Rank (v. t.) To range in a particular class, order, or division; to class; also, to dispose methodically; to place in suitable classes or order; to classify.,
R as in Rank (v. t.) To take rank of; to outrank.,
R as in Rank (v. i.) To be ranged; to be set or disposed, as in a particular degree, class, order, or division.,
R as in Rank (v. i.) To have a certain grade or degree of elevation in the orders of civil or military life; to have a certain degree of esteem or consideration; as, he ranks with the first class of poets; he ranks high in public estimation.,
R as in Ranker (n.) One who ranks, or disposes in ranks; one who arranges.,
R as in Rankled (imp. & p. p.) of Rankle,
R as in Rankling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rankle,
R as in Rankle (a.) To become, or be, rank; to grow rank or strong; to be inflamed; to fester; -- used literally and figuratively.,
R as in Rankle (a.) To produce a festering or inflamed effect; to cause a sore; -- used literally and figuratively; as, a splinter rankles in the flesh; the words rankled in his bosom.,
R as in Rankle (v. t.) To cause to fester; to make sore; to inflame.,
R as in Rankly (adv.) With rank or vigorous growth; luxuriantly; hence, coarsely; grossly; as, weeds grow rankly.,
R as in Rankness (n.) The condition or quality of being rank.,
R as in Rannel (n.) A prostitute.,
R as in Ranny (n.) The erd shrew.,
R as in Ransacked (imp. & p. p.) of Ransack,
R as in Ransacking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ransack,
R as in Ransack (v. t.) To search thoroughly; to search every place or part of; as, to ransack a house.,
R as in Ransack (v. t.) To plunder; to pillage completely.,
R as in Ransack (v. t.) To violate; to ravish; to defiour.,
R as in Ransack (v. i.) To make a thorough search.,
R as in Ransack (n.) The act of ransacking, or state of being ransacked; pillage.,
R as in Ransom (n.) The release of a captive, or of captured property, by payment of a consideration; redemption; as, prisoners hopeless of ransom.,
R as in Ransom (n.) The money or price paid for the redemption of a prisoner, or for goods captured by an enemy; payment for freedom from restraint, penalty, or forfeit.,
R as in Ransom (n.) A sum paid for the pardon of some great offense and the discharge of the offender; also, a fine paid in lieu of corporal punishment.,
R as in Ransomed (imp. & p. p.) of Ransom,
R as in Ransoming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ransom,
R as in Ransom (n.) To redeem from captivity, servitude, punishment, or forfeit, by paying a price; to buy out of servitude or penalty; to rescue; to deliver; as, to ransom prisoners from an enemy.,
R as in Ransom (n.) To exact a ransom for, or a payment on.,
R as in Ransomable (a.) Such as can be ransomed.,
R as in Ransomer (n.) One who ransoms or redeems.,
R as in Ransomless (a.) Incapable of being ransomed; without ransom.,
R as in Ranted (imp. & p. p.) of Rant,
R as in Ranting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rant,
R as in Rant (v. i.) To rave in violent, high-sounding, or extravagant language, without dignity of thought; to be noisy, boisterous, and bombastic in talk or declamation; as, a ranting preacher.,
R as in Rant (n.) High-sounding language, without importance or dignity of thought; boisterous, empty declamation; bombast; as, the rant of fanatics.,
R as in Ranter (n.) A noisy talker; a raving declaimer.,
R as in Ranter (n.) One of a religious sect which sprung up in 1645; -- called also Seekers. See Seeker.,
R as in Ranter (n.) One of the Primitive Methodists, who seceded from the Wesleyan Methodists on the ground of their deficiency in fervor and zeal; -- so called in contempt.,
R as in Ranterism (n.) The practice or tenets of the Ranters.,
R as in Rantingly (adv.) In a ranting manner.,
R as in Rantipole (n.) A wild, romping young person.,
R as in Rantipole (a.) Wild; roving; rakish.,
R as in Rantipole (v. i.) To act like a rantipole.,
R as in Rantism (n.) Ranterism.,
R as in Ranty (a.) Wild; noisy; boisterous.,
R as in Ranula (n.) A cyst formed under the tongue by obstruction of the duct of the submaxillary gland.,
R as in Ranunculaceous (a.) Of or pertaining to a natural order of plants (Ranunculaceae), of which the buttercup is the type, and which includes also the virgin's bower, the monkshood, larkspur, anemone, meadow rue, and peony.,
R as in Ranunculuses (pl. ) of Ranunculus,
R as in Ranunculi (pl. ) of Ranunculus,
R as in Ranunculus (n.) A genus of herbs, mostly with yellow flowers, including crowfoot, buttercups, and the cultivated ranunculi (R. Asiaticus, R. aconitifolius, etc.) in which the flowers are double and of various colors.,
R as in Ranz des vaches () The name for numerous simple, but very irregular, melodies of the Swiss mountaineers, blown on a long tube called the Alpine horn, and sometimes sung.,
R as in Rap (n.) A lay or skein containing 120 yards of yarn.,
R as in Rapped (imp. & p. p.) of Rap,
R as in Rapping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rap,
R as in Rap (v. i.) To strike with a quick, sharp blow; to knock; as, to rap on the door.,
R as in Rap (v. t.) To strike with a quick blow; to knock on.,
R as in Rap (v. t.) To free (a pattern) in a mold by light blows on the pattern, so as to facilitate its removal.,
R as in Rap (n.) A quick, smart blow; a knock.,
R as in Rapped (imp. & p. p.) of Rap,
R as in Rapt () of Rap,
R as in Rapping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rap,
R as in Rap (v.) To snatch away; to seize and hurry off.,
R as in Rap (v.) To hasten.,
R as in Rap (v.) To seize and bear away, as the mind or thoughts; to transport out of one's self; to affect with ecstasy or rapture; as, rapt into admiration.,
R as in Rap (v.) To exchange; to truck.,
R as in Rap (n.) A popular name for any of the tokens that passed current for a half-penny in Ireland in the early part of the eighteenth century; any coin of trifling value.,
R as in Rapaces (n. pl.) Same as Accipitres.,
R as in Rapacious (a.) Given to plunder; disposed or accustomed to seize by violence; seizing by force.,
R as in Rapacious (a.) Accustomed to seize food; subsisting on prey, or animals seized by violence; as, a tiger is a rapacious animal; a rapacious bird.,
R as in Rapacious (a.) Avaricious; grasping; extortionate; also, greedy; ravenous; voracious; as, rapacious usurers; a rapacious appetite.,
R as in Rapacity (n.) The quality of being rapacious; rapaciousness; ravenousness; as, the rapacity of pirates; the rapacity of wolves.,
R as in Rapacity (n.) The act or practice of extorting or exacting by oppressive injustice; exorbitant greediness of gain.,
R as in Raparee (n.) See Rapparee.,
R as in Rape (n.) Fruit, as grapes, plucked from the cluster.,
R as in Rape (n.) The refuse stems and skins of grapes or raisins from which the must has been expressed in wine making.,
R as in Rape (n.) A filter containing the above refuse, used in clarifying and perfecting malt, vinegar, etc.,
R as in Rape (n.) The act of seizing and carrying away by force; violent seizure; robbery.,
R as in Rape (n.) Sexual connection with a woman without her consent. See Age of consent, under Consent, n.,
R as in Rape (n.) That which is snatched away.,
R as in Rape (n.) Movement, as in snatching; haste; hurry.,
R as in Rape (v. t.) To commit rape upon; to ravish.,
R as in Rape (v. i.) To rob; to pillage.,
R as in Rape (n.) One of six divisions of the county of Sussex, England, intermediate between a hundred and a shire.,
R as in Rape (n.) A name given to a variety or to varieties of a plant of the turnip kind, grown for seeds and herbage. The seeds are used for the production of rape oil, and to a limited extent for the food of cage birds.,
R as in Rapeful (a.) Violent.,
R as in Rapeful (a.) Given to the commission of rape.,
R as in Rapfully (adv.) Violently.,
R as in Raphaelesque (a.) Like Raphael's works; in Raphael's manner of painting.,
R as in Raphaelism (n.) The principles of painting introduced by Raphael, the Italian painter.,
R as in Raphaelite (n.) One who advocates or adopts the principles of Raphaelism.,
R as in Raphany (n.) A convulsive disease, attended with ravenous hunger, not uncommon in Sweden and Germany. It was so called because supposed to be caused by eating corn with which seeds of jointed charlock (Raphanus raphanistrum) had been mixed, but the condition is now known to be a form of ergotism.,
R as in Raphe (n.) A line, ridge, furrow, or band of fibers, especially in the median line; as, the raphe of the tongue.,
R as in Raphe (n.) Same as Rhaphe.,
R as in Raphides (n. pl.) See Rhaphides.,
R as in Rapid (a.) Very swift or quick; moving with celerity; fast; as, a rapid stream; a rapid flight; a rapid motion.,
R as in Rapid (a.) Advancing with haste or speed; speedy in progression; in quick sequence; as, rapid growth; rapid improvement; rapid recurrence; rapid succession.,
R as in Rapid (a.) Quick in execution; as, a rapid penman.,
R as in Rapid (a.) The part of a river where the current moves with great swiftness, but without actual waterfall or cascade; -- usually in the plural; as, the Lachine rapids in the St. Lawrence.,
R as in Rapidity (n.) The quality or state of being rapid; swiftness; celerity; velocity; as, the rapidity of a current; rapidity of speech; rapidity of growth or improvement.,
R as in Rapidly (adv.) In a rapid manner.,
R as in Rapidness (n.) Quality of being rapid; rapidity.,
R as in Rapier (n.) A straight sword, with a narrow and finely pointed blade, used only for thrusting.,
R as in Rapiered (a.) Wearing a rapier.,
R as in Rapilli (n. pl.) Lapilli.,
R as in Rapine (n.) The act of plundering; the seizing and carrying away of things by force; spoliation; pillage; plunder.,
R as in Rapine (n.) Ravishment; rape.,
R as in Rapine (v. t.) To plunder.,
R as in Rapinous (a.) Given to rapine.,
R as in Rappage (n.) The enlargement of a mold caused by rapping the pattern.,
R as in Rapparee (n.) A wild Irish plunderer, esp. one of the 17th century; -- so called from his carrying a half-pike, called a rapary.,
R as in Rapped () imp. & p. p. of Rap, to strike.,
R as in Rapped () imp. & p. p. of Rap, to snatch away.,
R as in Rappee (v.) A pungent kind of snuff made from the darker and ranker kinds of tobacco leaves.,
R as in Rappel (n.) The beat of the drum to call soldiers to arms.,
R as in Rapper (n.) One who, or that which, raps or knocks; specifically, the knocker of a door.,
R as in Rapper (n.) A forcible oath or lie.,
R as in Rapport (n.) Relation; proportion; conformity; correspondence; accord.,
R as in Rapscallion (n.) A rascal; a good-for-nothing fellow.,
R as in Rapt () imp. & p. p. of Rap, to snatch away.,
R as in Rapt (a.) Snatched away; hurried away or along.,
R as in Rapt (a.) Transported with love, admiration, delight, etc.; enraptured.,
R as in Rapt (a.) Wholly absorbed or engrossed, as in work or meditation.,
R as in Rapt (a.) An ecstasy; a trance.,
R as in Rapt (a.) Rapidity.,
R as in Rapt (v. t.) To transport or ravish.,
R as in Rapt (v. t.) To carry away by force.,
R as in Rapter (n.) A raptor.,
R as in Raptor (n.) A ravisher; a plunderer.,
R as in Raptores (n. pl.) Same as Accipitres. Called also Raptatores.,
R as in Raptorial (a.) Rapacious; living upon prey; -- said especially of certain birds.,
R as in Raptorial (a.) Adapted for seizing prey; -- said of the legs, claws, etc., of insects, birds, and other animals.,
R as in Raptorial (a.) Of or pertaining to the Raptores. See Illust. (f) of Aves.,
R as in Raptorious (a.) Raptorial.,
R as in Rapture (n.) A seizing by violence; a hurrying along; rapidity with violence.,
R as in Rapture (n.) The state or condition of being rapt, or carried away from one's self by agreeable excitement; violence of a pleasing passion; extreme joy or pleasure; ecstasy.,
R as in Rapture (n.) A spasm; a fit; a syncope; delirium.,
R as in Raptured (imp. & p. p.) of Rapture,
R as in Rapturing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rapture,
R as in Rapture (v. t.) To transport with excitement; to enrapture.,
R as in Rapturist (n.) An enthusiast.,
R as in Rapturize (v. t. & i.) To put, or be put, in a state of rapture.,
R as in Rapturous (a.) Ecstatic; transporting; ravishing; feeling, expressing, or manifesting rapture; as, rapturous joy, pleasure, or delight; rapturous applause.,
R as in Rapturously (adv.) In a rapturous manner.,
R as in Rare (a.) Early.,
R as in Rare (superl.) Nearly raw; partially cooked; not thoroughly cooked; underdone; as, rare beef or mutton.,
R as in Rare (superl.) Not frequent; seldom met with or occurring; unusual; as, a rare event.,
R as in Rare (superl.) Of an uncommon nature; unusually excellent; valuable to a degree seldom found.,
R as in Rare (superl.) Thinly scattered; dispersed.,
R as in Rare (superl.) Characterized by wide separation of parts; of loose texture; not thick or dense; thin; as, a rare atmosphere at high elevations.,
R as in Rarebit (n.) A dainty morsel; a Welsh rabbit. See Welsh rabbit, under Rabbit.,
R as in Raree-show (n.) A show carried about in a box; a peep show.,
R as in Rarefaction (n.) The act or process of rarefying; the state of being rarefied; -- opposed to condensation; as, the rarefaction of air.,
R as in Rarefiable (a.) Capable of being rarefied.,
R as in Rarefied (imp. & p. p.) of Rarefy,
R as in Rarefying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rarefy,
R as in Rarefy (v. t.) To make rare, thin, porous, or less dense; to expand or enlarge without adding any new portion of matter to; -- opposed to condense.,
R as in Rarefy (v. i.) To become less dense; to become thin and porous.,
R as in Rarely (adv.) In a rare manner or degree; seldom; not often; as, things rarely seen.,
R as in Rarely (adv.) Finely; excellently; with rare skill. See 3d Rare, 2.,
R as in Rareness (n.) The state or quality of being rare.,
R as in Rareripe (a.) Early ripe; ripe before others, or before the usual season.,
R as in Rareripe (n.) An early ripening fruit, especially a kind of freestone peach.,
R as in Rarification (n.) See Rarefaction.,
R as in Rarities (pl. ) of Rarity,
R as in Rarity (n.) The quality or state of being rare; rareness; thinness; as, the rarity (contrasted with the density) of gases.,
R as in Rarity (n.) That which is rare; an uncommon thing; a thing valued for its scarcity.,
R as in Ras (n.) See 2d Reis.,
R as in Rasante (a.) Sweeping; grazing; -- applied to a style of fortification in which the command of the works over each other, and over the country, is kept very low, in order that the shot may more effectually sweep or graze the ground before them.,
R as in Rascal (v.) One of the rabble; a low, common sort of person or creature; collectively, the rabble; the common herd; also, a lean, ill-conditioned beast, esp. a deer.,
R as in Rascal (v.) A mean, trickish fellow; a base, dishonest person; a rogue; a scoundrel; a trickster.,
R as in Rascal (a.) Of or pertaining to the common herd or common people; low; mean; base.,
R as in Rascaldom (n.) State of being a rascal; rascality; domain of rascals; rascals, collectively.,
R as in Rascaless (n.) A female rascal.,
R as in Rascalities (pl. ) of Rascality,
R as in Rascality (n.) The quality or state of being rascally, or a rascal; mean trickishness or dishonesty; base fraud.,
R as in Rascality (n.) The poorer and lower classes of people.,
R as in Rascallion (n.) A low, mean wretch.,
R as in Rascally (a.) Like a rascal; trickish or dishonest; base; worthless; -- often in humorous disparagement, without implication of dishonesty.,
R as in Rased (imp. & p. p.) of Rase,
R as in Rasing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rase,
R as in Rase (v. t.) To rub along the surface of; to graze.,
R as in Rase (v. t.) To rub or scratch out; to erase.,
R as in Rase (v. t.) To level with the ground; to overthrow; to destroy; to raze.,
R as in Rase (v. i.) To be leveled with the ground; to fall; to suffer overthrow.,
R as in Rase (n.) A scratching out, or erasure.,
R as in Rase (n.) A slight wound; a scratch.,
R as in Rase (n.) A way of measuring in which the commodity measured was made even with the top of the measuring vessel by rasing, or striking off, all that was above it.,
R as in Rash (v. t.) To pull off or pluck violently.,
R as in Rash (v. t.) To slash; to hack; to cut; to slice.,
R as in Rash (n.) A fine eruption or efflorescence on the body, with little or no elevation.,
R as in Rash (n.) An inferior kind of silk, or mixture of silk and worsted.,
R as in Rash (superl.) Sudden in action; quick; hasty.,
R as in Rash (superl.) Requiring sudden action; pressing; urgent.,
R as in Rash (superl.) Esp., overhasty in counsel or action; precipitate; resolving or entering on a project or measure without due deliberation and caution; opposed to prudent; said of persons; as, a rash statesman or commander.,
R as in Rash (superl.) Uttered or undertaken with too much haste or too little reflection; as, rash words; rash measures.,
R as in Rash (superl.) So dry as to fall out of the ear with handling, as corn.,
R as in Rash (v. t.) To prepare with haste.,
R as in Rasher (n.) A thin slice of bacon.,
R as in Rasher (n.) A California rockfish (Sebastichthys miniatus).,
R as in Rashful (a.) Rash; hasty; precipitate.,
R as in Rashling (n.) A rash person.,
R as in Rashly (adv.) In a rash manner; with precipitation.,
R as in Rashness (n.) The quality or state of being rash.,
R as in Raskolnik (n.) One of the separatists or dissenters from the established or Greek church in Russia.,
R as in Rasores (v. t.) An order of birds; the Gallinae.,
R as in Rasorial (a.) Of or pertaining to the Rasores, or gallinaceous birds, as the peacock, domestic fowl, partridge, quail, and the like.,
R as in Rasour (n.) Razor.,
R as in Rasped (imp. & p. p.) of Rasp,
R as in Rasping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rasp,
R as in Rasp (v. t.) To rub or file with a rasp; to rub or grate with a rough file; as, to rasp wood to make it smooth; to rasp bones to powder.,
R as in Rasp (v. t.) Hence, figuratively: To grate harshly upon; to offend by coarse or rough treatment or language; as, some sounds rasp the ear; his insults rasped my temper.,
R as in Rasp (v.) A coarse file, on which the cutting prominences are distinct points raised by the oblique stroke of a sharp punch, instead of lines raised by a chisel, as on the true file.,
R as in Rasp (v.) The raspberry.,
R as in Raspatorium (n.) See Raspatory.,
R as in Raspatory (v.) A surgeon's rasp.,
R as in Raspberry (n.) The thimble-shaped fruit of the Rubus Idaeus and other similar brambles; as, the black, the red, and the white raspberry.,
R as in Raspberry (n.) The shrub bearing this fruit.,
R as in Rasper (n.) One who, or that which, rasps; a scraper.,
R as in Raspis (n.) The raspberry.,
R as in Raspy (a.) Like a rasp, or the sound made by a rasp; grating.,
R as in Rasse (n.) A carnivore (Viverricula Mallaccensis) allied to the civet but smaller, native of China and the East Indies. It furnishes a perfume resembling that of the civet, which is highly prized by the Javanese. Called also Malacca weasel, and lesser civet.,
R as in Rasure (v.) The act of rasing, scraping, or erasing; erasure; obliteration.,
R as in Rasure (v.) A mark by which a letter, word, or any part of a writing or print, is erased, effaced, or obliterated; an erasure.,
R as in Rat (n.) One of several species of small rodents of the genus Mus and allied genera, larger than mice, that infest houses, stores, and ships, especially the Norway, or brown, rat (M. decumanus), the black rat (M. rattus), and the roof rat (M. Alexandrinus). These were introduced into America from the Old World.,
R as in Rat (n.) A round and tapering mass of hair, or similar material, used by women to support the puffs and rolls of their natural hair.,
R as in Rat (n.) One who deserts his party or associates; hence, in the trades, one who works for lower wages than those prescribed by a trades union.,
R as in Ratted (imp. & p. p.) of Rat,
R as in Ratting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rat,
R as in Rat (v. i.) In English politics, to desert one's party from interested motives; to forsake one's associates for one's own advantage; in the trades, to work for less wages, or on other conditions, than those established by a trades union.,
R as in Rat (v. i.) To catch or kill rats.,
R as in Rata (n.) A New Zealand forest tree (Metrosideros robusta), also, its hard dark red wood, used by the Maoris for paddles and war clubs.,
R as in Ratability (n.) The quality or state of being ratable.,
R as in Ratable (a.) Capable of being rated, or set at a certain value.,
R as in Ratable (a.) Liable to, or subjected by law to, taxation; as, ratable estate.,
R as in Ratable (a.) Made at a proportionate rate; as, ratable payments.,
R as in Ratafia (n.) A spirituous liquor flavored with the kernels of cherries, apricots, peaches, or other fruit, spiced, and sweetened with sugar; -- a term applied to the liqueurs called noyau, cura/ao, etc.,
R as in Ratan (n.) See Rattan.,
R as in Ratany (n.) Same as Rhatany.,
R as in Rataplan (n.) The iterative sound of beating a drum, or of a galloping horse.,
R as in Ratch (n.) Same as Rotche.,
R as in Ratch (n.) A ratchet wheel, or notched bar, with which a pawl or click works.,
R as in Ratchel (n.) Gravelly stone.,
R as in Ratchet (n.) A pawl, click, or detent, for holding or propelling a ratchet wheel, or ratch, etc.,
R as in Ratchet (n.) A mechanism composed of a ratchet wheel, or ratch, and pawl. See Ratchet wheel, below, and 2d Ratch.,
R as in Rate (v. t. & i.) To chide with vehemence; to scold; to censure violently.,
R as in Rate (n.) Established portion or measure; fixed allowance.,
R as in Rate (n.) That which is established as a measure or criterion; degree; standard; rank; proportion; ratio; as, a slow rate of movement; rate of interest is the ratio of the interest to the principal, per annum.,
R as in Rate (n.) Valuation; price fixed with relation to a standard; cost; charge; as, high or low rates of transportation.,
R as in Rate (n.) A tax or sum assessed by authority on property for public use, according to its income or value; esp., in England, a local tax; as, parish rates; town rates.,
R as in Rate (n.) Order; arrangement.,
R as in Rate (n.) Ratification; approval.,
R as in Rate (n.) The gain or loss of a timepiece in a unit of time; as, daily rate; hourly rate; etc.,
R as in Rate (n.) The order or class to which a war vessel belongs, determined according to its size, armament, etc.; as, first rate, second rate, etc.,
R as in Rate (n.) The class of a merchant vessel for marine insurance, determined by its relative safety as a risk, as A1, A2, etc.,
R as in Rated (imp. & p. p.) of Rate,
R as in Rating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rate,
R as in Rate (v. t.) To set a certain estimate on; to value at a certain price or degree.,
R as in Rate (v. t.) To assess for the payment of a rate or tax.,
R as in Rate (v. t.) To settle the relative scale, rank, position, amount, value, or quality of; as, to rate a ship; to rate a seaman; to rate a pension.,
R as in Rate (v. t.) To ratify.,
R as in Rate (v. i.) To be set or considered in a class; to have rank; as, the ship rates as a ship of the line.,
R as in Rate (v. i.) To make an estimate.,
R as in Rateable (a.) See Ratable.,
R as in Ratel (n.) Any carnivore of the genus Mellivora, allied to the weasels and the skunks; -- called also honey badger.,
R as in Ratepayer (n.) One who pays rates or taxes.,
R as in Rater (n.) One who rates or estimates.,
R as in Rater (n.) One who rates or scolds.,
R as in Ratfish (n.) Same as Rat-tail.,
R as in Rath (n.) A hill or mound.,
R as in Rath (n.) A kind of ancient fortification found in Ireland.,
R as in Rath (a.) Alt. of Rathe,
R as in Rathe (a.) Coming before others, or before the usual time; early.,
R as in Rath (adv.) Alt. of Rathe,
R as in Rathe (adv.) Early; soon; betimes.,
R as in Rather (a.) Prior; earlier; former.,
R as in Rather (a.) Earlier; sooner; before.,
R as in Rather (a.) More readily or willingly; preferably.,
R as in Rather (a.) On the other hand; to the contrary of what was said or suggested; instead.,
R as in Rather (a.) Of two alternatives conceived of, this by preference to, or as more likely than, the other; somewhat.,
R as in Rather (a.) More properly; more correctly speaking.,
R as in Rather (a.) In some degree; somewhat; as, the day is rather warm; the house is rather damp.,
R as in Rathripe (a.) Rareripe, or early ripe.,
R as in Rathripe (n.) A rareripe.,
R as in Ratification (n.) The act of ratifying; the state of being ratified; confirmation; sanction; as, the ratification of a treaty.,
R as in Ratifier (n.) One who, or that which, ratifies; a confirmer.,
R as in Ratified (imp. & p. p.) of Ratify,
R as in Ratifying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ratify,
R as in Ratify (n.) To approve and sanction; to make valid; to confirm; to establish; to settle; especially, to give sanction to, as something done by an agent or servant; as, to ratify an agreement, treaty, or contract; to ratify a nomination.,
R as in Ratihabition (n.) Confirmation or approbation, as of an act or contract.,
R as in Ratio (n.) The relation which one quantity or magnitude has to another of the same kind. It is expressed by the quotient of the division of the first by the second; thus, the ratio of 3 to 6 is expressed by / or /; of a to b by a/b; or (less commonly) the second term is made the dividend; as, a:b = b/a.,
R as in Ratio (n.) Hence, fixed relation of number, quantity, or degree; rate; proportion; as, the ratio of representation in Congress.,
R as in Ratiocinate (v. i.) To reason, esp. deductively; to offer reason or argument.,
R as in Ratiocination (n.) The process of reasoning, or deducing conclusions from premises; deductive reasoning.,
R as in Ratiocinative (a.) Characterized by, or addicted to, ratiocination; consisting in the comparison of propositions or facts, and the deduction of inferences from the comparison; argumentative; as, a ratiocinative process.,
R as in Ratiocinatory (a.) Ratiocinative.,
R as in Ration (n.) A fixed daily allowance of provisions assigned to a soldier in the army, or a sailor in the navy, for his subsistence.,
R as in Ration (n.) Hence, a certain portion or fixed amount dealt out; an allowance; an allotment.,
R as in Ration (v. t.) To supply with rations, as a regiment.,
R as in Rational (a.) Relating to the reason; not physical; mental.,
R as in Rational (a.) Having reason, or the faculty of reasoning; endowed with reason or understanding; reasoning.,
R as in Rational (a.) Agreeable to reason; not absurd, preposterous, extravagant, foolish, fanciful, or the like; wise; judicious; as, rational conduct; a rational man.,
R as in Rational (a.) Expressing the type, structure, relations, and reactions of a compound; graphic; -- said of formulae. See under Formula.,
R as in Rational (n.) A rational being.,
R as in Rationale (a.) An explanation or exposition of the principles of some opinion, action, hypothesis, phenomenon, or the like; also, the principles themselves.,
R as in Rationalism (n.) The doctrine or system of those who deduce their religious opinions from reason or the understanding, as distinct from, or opposed to, revelation.,
R as in Rationalism (n.) The system that makes rational power the ultimate test of truth; -- opposed to sensualism, or sensationalism, and empiricism.,
R as in Rationalist (n.) One who accepts rationalism as a theory or system; also, disparagingly, a false reasoner. See Citation under Reasonist.,
R as in Rationalistic (a.) Alt. of Rationalistical,
R as in Rationalistical (a.) Belonging to, or in accordance with, the principles of rationalism.,
R as in -ties (pl. ) of Rationality,
R as in Rationality (n.) The quality or state of being rational; agreement with reason; possession of reason; due exercise of reason; reasonableness.,
R as in Rationalization (n.) The act or process of rationalizing.,
R as in Rationalize (v. t.) To make rational; also, to convert to rationalism.,
R as in Rationalize (v. t.) To interpret in the manner of a rationalist.,
R as in Rationalize (v. t.) To form a rational conception of.,
R as in Rationalize (v. t.) To render rational; to free from radical signs or quantities.,
R as in Rationalize (v. i.) To use, and rely on, reason in forming a theory, belief, etc., especially in matters of religion: to accord with the principles of rationalism.,
R as in Rationally (adv.) In a rational manner.,
R as in Rationalness (n.) The quality or state of being rational; rationality.,
R as in Ratitae (n. pl.) An order of birds in which the wings are small, rudimentary, or absent, and the breastbone is destitute of a keel. The ostrich, emu, moa, and apteryx are examples.,
R as in Ratitate (a.) Of or pertaining to the Ratitae.,
R as in Ratite (a.) Of or pertaining to the Ratitae.,
R as in Ratite (n.) One of the Ratitae.,
R as in Ratlines (n. pl.) Alt. of Ratlins,
R as in Ratlins (n. pl.) The small transverse ropes attached to the shrouds and forming the steps of a rope ladder.,
R as in Raton (n.) A small rat.,
R as in Ratoon (n.) Same as Rattoon, n.,
R as in Ratoon (n.) A rattan cane.,
R as in Ratoon (v. i.) Same as Rattoon, v. i.,
R as in Ratsbane (n.) Rat poison; white arsenic.,
R as in Ratsbaned (a.) Poisoned by ratsbane.,
R as in Rat-tail (a.) Like a rat's tail in form; as, a rat-tail file, which is round, slender, and tapering. See Illust. of File.,
R as in Rat-tail (n.) An excrescence growing from the pastern to the middle of the shank of a horse.,
R as in Rat-tail (n.) The California chimaera. See Chimaera.,
R as in Rat-tail (n.) Any fish of the genus Macrurus. See Grenadier, 2.,
R as in Rat-tailed (a.) Having a long, tapering tail like that of a rat.,
R as in Rattan (n.) One of the long slender flexible stems of several species of palms of the genus Calamus, mostly East Indian, though some are African and Australian. They are exceedingly tough, and are used for walking sticks, wickerwork, chairs and seats of chairs, cords and cordage, and many other purposes.,
R as in Ratteen (n.) A thick woolen stuff quilled or twilled.,
R as in Ratten (v. t.) To deprive feloniously of the tools used in one's employment (as by breaking or stealing them), for the purpose of annoying; as, to ratten a mechanic who works during a strike.,
R as in Ratter (n.) One who, or that which, rats, as one who deserts his party.,
R as in Ratter (n.) Anything which catches rats; esp., a dog trained to catch rats; a rat terrier. See Terrier.,
R as in Rattinet (n.) A woolen stuff thinner than ratteen.,
R as in Ratting (n.) The conduct or practices of one who rats. See Rat, v. i., 1.,
R as in Ratting (v. i.) The low sport of setting a dog upon rats confined in a pit to see how many he will kill in a given time.,
R as in Rattled (imp. & p. p.) of Rattle,
R as in Rattling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rattle,
R as in Rattle (v. i.) To make a quick succession of sharp, inharmonious noises, as by the collision of hard and not very sonorous bodies shaken together; to clatter.,
R as in Rattle (v. i.) To drive or ride briskly, so as to make a clattering; as, we rattled along for a couple of miles.,
R as in Rattle (v. i.) To make a clatter with the voice; to talk rapidly and idly; to clatter; -- with on or away; as, she rattled on for an hour.,
R as in Rattle (v. t.) To cause to make a rattling or clattering sound; as, to rattle a chain.,
R as in Rattle (v. t.) To assail, annoy, or stun with a rattling noise.,
R as in Rattle (v. t.) Hence, to disconcert; to confuse; as, to rattle one's judgment; to rattle a player in a game.,
R as in Rattle (v. t.) To scold; to rail at.,
R as in Rattle (n.) A rapid succession of sharp, clattering sounds; as, the rattle of a drum.,
R as in Rattle (n.) Noisy, rapid talk.,
R as in Rattle (n.) An instrument with which a rattling sound is made; especially, a child's toy that rattles when shaken.,
R as in Rattle (n.) A noisy, senseless talker; a jabberer.,
R as in Rattle (n.) A scolding; a sharp rebuke.,
R as in Rattle (n.) Any organ of an animal having a structure adapted to produce a rattling sound.,
R as in Rattle (n.) The noise in the throat produced by the air in passing through mucus which the lungs are unable to expel; -- chiefly observable at the approach of death, when it is called the death rattle. See R/le.,
R as in Rattlebox (n.) A toy that makes a rattling sound; a rattle.,
R as in Rattlebox (n.) An American herb (Crotalaria sagittalis), the seeds of which, when ripe, rattle in the inflated pod.,
R as in Rattlebox (n.) Any species of Crotalaria, a genus of yellow-flowered herbs, with inflated, many-seeded pods.,
R as in Rattle-brained (a.) Giddy; rattle-headed.,
R as in Rattlehead (n.) An empty, noisy talker.,
R as in Rattle-headed (a.) Noisy; giddy; unsteady.,
R as in Rattlemouse (n.) A bat.,
R as in Rattlepate (n.) A rattlehead.,
R as in Rattle-pated (a.) Rattle-headed.,
R as in Rattler (n.) One who, or that which, rattles.,
R as in Rattlesnake (n.) Any one of several species of venomous American snakes belonging to the genera Crotalus and Caudisona, or Sistrurus. They have a series of horny interlocking joints at the end of the tail which make a sharp rattling sound when shaken. The common rattlesnake of the Northern United States (Crotalus horridus), and the diamond rattlesnake of the South (C. adamanteus), are the best known. See Illust. of Fang.,
R as in Rattletrap (n.) Any machine or vehicle that does not run smoothly.,
R as in Rattleweed (n.) Any plant of the genus Astragalus. See Milk vetch.,
R as in Rattlewings (n.) The golden-eye.,
R as in Rattlewort (n.) Same as Rattlebox.,
R as in Rattlings (n. pl.) Ratlines.,
R as in Rattoon (n.) One of the stems or shoots of sugar cane of the second year's growth from the root, or later. See Plant-cane.,
R as in Rattooned (imp. & p. p.) of Rattoon,
R as in Rattooning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rattoon,
R as in Rattoon (v. i.) To sprout or spring up from the root, as sugar cane from the root of the previous year's planting.,
R as in Raucid (a.) Hoarse; raucous.,
R as in Raucity (n.) Harshness of sound; rough utterance; hoarseness; as, the raucity of a trumpet, or of the human voice.,
R as in Raucous (a.) Hoarse; harsh; rough; as, a raucous, thick tone.,
R as in Raught () imp. & p. p. of Reach.,
R as in Raught () imp. & p. p. of Reck.,
R as in Raunch (v. t.) See Ranch.,
R as in Raunsoun (n.) Ransom.,
R as in Ravage (n.) Desolation by violence; violent ruin or destruction; devastation; havoc; waste; as, the ravage of a lion; the ravages of fire or tempest; the ravages of an army, or of time.,
R as in Ravaged (imp. & p. p.) of Ravage,
R as in Ravaging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ravage,
R as in Ravage (n.) To lay waste by force; to desolate by violence; to commit havoc or devastation upon; to spoil; to plunder; to consume.,
R as in Ravager (n.) One who, or that which, ravages or lays waste; spoiler.,
R as in Rave () imp. of Rive.,
R as in Rave (n.) One of the upper side pieces of the frame of a wagon body or a sleigh.,
R as in Raved (imp. & p. p.) of Rave,
R as in Raving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rave,
R as in Rave (v. i.) To wander in mind or intellect; to be delirious; to talk or act irrationally; to be wild, furious, or raging, as a madman.,
R as in Rave (v. i.) To rush wildly or furiously.,
R as in Rave (v. i.) To talk with unreasonable enthusiasm or excessive passion or excitement; -- followed by about, of, or on; as, he raved about her beauty.,
R as in Rave (v. t.) To utter in madness or frenzy; to say wildly; as, to rave nonsense.,
R as in Ravehook (n.) A tool, hooked at the end, for enlarging or clearing seams for the reception of oakum.,
R as in Raveled (imp. & p. p.) of Ravel,
R as in Ravelled () of Ravel,
R as in Raveling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ravel,
R as in Ravelling () of Ravel,
R as in Ravel (v. t.) To separate or undo the texture of; to take apart; to untwist; to unweave or unknit; -- often followed by out; as, to ravel a twist; to ravel out a stocking.,
R as in Ravel (v. t.) To undo the intricacies of; to disentangle.,
R as in Ravel (v. t.) To pull apart, as the threads of a texture, and let them fall into a tangled mass; hence, to entangle; to make intricate; to involve.,
R as in Ravel (v. i.) To become untwisted or unwoven; to be disentangled; to be relieved of intricacy.,
R as in Ravel (v. i.) To fall into perplexity and confusion.,
R as in Ravel (v. i.) To make investigation or search, as by picking out the threads of a woven pattern.,
R as in Raveler (n.) One who ravels.,
R as in Ravelin (n.) A detached work with two embankments which make a salient angle. It is raised before the curtain on the counterscarp of the place. Formerly called demilune, and half-moon.,
R as in Raveling (n.) The act of untwisting or of disentangling.,
R as in Raveling (n.) That which is raveled out; esp., a thread detached from a texture.,
R as in Raven (n.) A large black passerine bird (Corvus corax), similar to the crow, but larger. It is native of the northern parts of Europe, Asia, and America, and is noted for its sagacity.,
R as in Raven (a.) Of the color of the raven; jet black; as, raven curls; raven darkness.,
R as in Raven (n.) Rapine; rapacity.,
R as in Raven (n.) Prey; plunder; food obtained by violence.,
R as in Ravened (imp. & p. p.) of Raven,
R as in Ravening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Raven,
R as in Raven (v. t.) To obtain or seize by violence.,
R as in Raven (v. t.) To devour with great eagerness.,
R as in Raven (v. i.) To prey with rapacity; to be greedy; to show rapacity.,
R as in Ravenala (n.) A genus of plants related to the banana.,
R as in Ravener (n.) One who, or that which, ravens or plunders.,
R as in Ravener (n.) A bird of prey, as the owl or vulture.,
R as in Ravening (n.) Eagerness for plunder; rapacity; extortion.,
R as in Ravening (a.) Greedily devouring; rapacious; as, ravening wolves.,
R as in Ravenous (a.) Devouring with rapacious eagerness; furiously voracious; hungry even to rage; as, a ravenous wolf or vulture.,
R as in Ravenous (a.) Eager for prey or gratification; as, a ravenous appetite or desire.,
R as in Raven's-duck (n.) A fine quality of sailcloth.,
R as in Raver (n.) One who raves.,
R as in Ravin (a.) Ravenous.,
R as in Ravin (n.) Alt. of Ravine,
R as in Ravine (n.) Food obtained by violence; plunder; prey; raven.,
R as in Ravin (v. t. & i.) Alt. of Ravine,
R as in Ravine (v. t. & i.) See Raven, v. t. & i.,
R as in Ravine (n.) A torrent of water.,
R as in Ravine (n.) A deep and narrow hollow, usually worn by a stream or torrent of water; a gorge; a mountain cleft.,
R as in Raving (a.) Talking irrationally and wildly; as, a raving lunatic.,
R as in Ravished (imp. & p. p.) of Ravish,
R as in Ravishing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ravish,
R as in Ravish (v. t.) To seize and carry away by violence; to snatch by force.,
R as in Ravish (v. t.) To transport with joy or delight; to delight to ecstasy.,
R as in Ravish (v. t.) To have carnal knowledge of (a woman) by force, and against her consent; to rape.,
R as in Ravisher (n.) One who ravishes (in any sense).,
R as in Ravishing (a.) Rapturous; transporting.,
R as in Ravishingly (adv.) In a ravishing manner.,
R as in Ravishment (n.) The act of carrying away by force or against consent; abduction; as, the ravishment of children from their parents, of a ward from his guardian, or of a wife from her husband.,
R as in Ravishment (n.) The state of being ravished; rapture; transport of delight; ecstasy.,
R as in Ravishment (n.) The act of ravishing a woman; rape.,
R as in Ravissant (a.) In a half-raised position, as if about to spring on prey.,
R as in Raw (superl.) Not altered from its natural state; not prepared by the action of heat; as, raw sienna; specifically, not cooked; not changed by heat to a state suitable for eating; not done; as, raw meat.,
R as in Raw (superl.) Hence: Unprepared for use or enjoyment; immature; unripe; unseasoned; inexperienced; unpracticed; untried; as, raw soldiers; a raw recruit.,
R as in Raw (superl.) Not worked in due form; in the natural state; untouched by art; unwrought.,
R as in Raw (superl.) Not distilled; as, raw water,
R as in Raw (superl.) Not spun or twisted; as, raw silk or cotton,
R as in Raw (superl.) Not mixed or diluted; as, raw spirits,
R as in Raw (superl.) Not tried; not melted and strained; as, raw tallow,
R as in Raw (superl.) Not tanned; as, raw hides,
R as in Raw (superl.) Not trimmed, covered, or folded under; as, the raw edge of a piece of metal or of cloth.,
R as in Raw (superl.) Not covered; bare.,
R as in Raw (superl.) Bald.,
R as in Raw (superl.) Deprived of skin; galled; as, a raw sore.,
R as in Raw (superl.) Sore, as if by being galled.,
R as in Raw (superl.) Disagreeably damp or cold; chilly; bleak; as, a raw wind.,
R as in Raw (n.) A raw, sore, or galled place; a sensitive spot; as, to touch one on the raw.,
R as in Rawbone (a.) Rawboned.,
R as in Rawboned (a.) Having little flesh on the bones; gaunt.,
R as in Rawhead (n.) A specter mentioned to frighten children; as, rawhead and bloodybones.,
R as in Rawhide (n.) A cowhide, or coarse riding whip, made of untanned (or raw) hide twisted.,
R as in Rawish (a.) Somewhat raw.,
R as in Rawly (adv.) In a raw manner; unskillfully; without experience.,
R as in Rawly (adv.) Without proper preparation or provision.,
R as in Rawness (n.) The quality or state of being raw.,
R as in Ray (v. t.) To array.,
R as in Ray (v. t.) To mark, stain, or soil; to streak; to defile.,
R as in Ray (n.) Array; order; arrangement; dress.,
R as in Ray (n.) One of a number of lines or parts diverging from a common point or center, like the radii of a circle; as, a star of six rays.,
R as in Ray (n.) A radiating part of a flower or plant; the marginal florets of a compound flower, as an aster or a sunflower; one of the pedicels of an umbel or other circular flower cluster; radius. See Radius.,
R as in Ray (n.) One of the radiating spines, or cartilages, supporting the fins of fishes.,
R as in Ray (n.) One of the spheromeres of a radiate, especially one of the arms of a starfish or an ophiuran.,
R as in Ray (n.) A line of light or heat proceeding from a radiant or reflecting point; a single element of light or heat propagated continuously; as, a solar ray; a polarized ray.,
R as in Ray (n.) One of the component elements of the total radiation from a body; any definite or limited portion of the spectrum; as, the red ray; the violet ray. See Illust. under Light.,
R as in Ray (n.) Sight; perception; vision; -- from an old theory of vision, that sight was something which proceeded from the eye to the object seen.,
R as in Ray (n.) One of a system of diverging lines passing through a point, and regarded as extending indefinitely in both directions. See Half-ray.,
R as in Rayed (imp. & p. p.) of Ray,
R as in Raying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ray,
R as in Ray (n.) To mark with long lines; to streak.,
R as in Ray (n.) To send forth or shoot out; to cause to shine out; as, to ray smiles.,
R as in Ray (v. i.) To shine, as with rays.,
R as in Ray (n.) Any one of numerous elasmobranch fishes of the order Raiae, including the skates, torpedoes, sawfishes, etc.,
R as in Ray (n.) In a restricted sense, any of the broad, flat, narrow-tailed species, as the skates and sting rays. See Skate.,
R as in Rayah (n.) A person not a Mohammedan, who pays the capitation tax.,
R as in Ray grass () A perennial European grass (Lolium perenne); -- called also rye grass, and red darnel. See Darnel, and Grass.,
R as in Rayless (a.) Destitute of rays; hence, dark; not illuminated; blind; as, a rayless sky; rayless eyes.,
R as in Rayon (n.) Ray; beam.,
R as in Rayonnant (a.) Darting forth rays, as the sun when it shines out.,
R as in Raze (n.) A Shakespearean word (used once) supposed to mean the same as race, a root.,
R as in Razed (imp. & p. p.) of Raze,
R as in Razing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Raze,
R as in Raze (v. t.) To erase; to efface; to obliterate.,
R as in Raze (v. t.) To subvert from the foundation; to lay level with the ground; to overthrow; to destroy; to demolish.,
R as in Razed (a.) Slashed or striped in patterns.,
R as in Razee (v. t.) An armed ship having her upper deck cut away, and thus reduced to the next inferior rate, as a seventy-four cut down to a frigate.,
R as in Razeed (imp. & p. p.) of Razee,
R as in Razeeing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Razee,
R as in Razee (v. t.) To cut down to a less number of decks, and thus to an inferior rate or class, as a ship; hence, to prune or abridge by cutting off or retrenching parts; as, to razee a book, or an article.,
R as in Razor (v. t.) A keen-edged knife of peculiar shape, used in shaving the hair from the face or the head.,
R as in Razor (v. t.) A tusk of a wild boar.,
R as in Razorable (a.) Ready for the razor; fit to be shaved.,
R as in Razorback (n.) The rorqual.,
R as in Razor-backed (a.) Having a sharp, lean, or thin back; as, a razor-backed hog, perch, etc.,
R as in Razorbill (n.) A species of auk (Alca torda) common in the Arctic seas. See Auk, and Illust. in Appendix.,
R as in Razorbill (n.) See Cutwater, 3.,
R as in Razure (n.) The act of erasing or effacing, or the state of being effaced; obliteration. See Rasure.,
R as in Razure (n.) An erasure; a change made by erasing.,
R as in Razzia (n.) A plundering and destructive incursion; a foray; a raid.,
R as in Re- () A prefix signifying back, against, again, anew; as, recline, to lean back; recall, to call back; recede; remove; reclaim, to call out against; repugn, to fight against; recognition, a knowing again; rejoin, to join again; reiterate; reassure. Combinations containing the prefix re- are readily formed, and are for the most part of obvious signification.,
R as in Re () A syllable applied in solmization to the second tone of the diatonic scale of C; in the American system, to the second tone of any diatonic scale.,
R as in Reabsorb (v. t.) To absorb again; to draw in, or imbibe, again what has been effused, extravasated, or thrown off; to swallow up again; as, to reabsorb chyle, lymph, etc.; -- used esp. of fluids.,
R as in Reabsorption (n.) The act or process of reabsorbing.,
R as in Reaccess (n.) A second access or approach; a return.,
R as in Reaccuse (v. t.) To accuse again.,
R as in Reach (v. i.) To retch.,
R as in Reach (n.) An effort to vomit.,
R as in Reached (imp. & p. p.) of Reach,
R as in Raught () of Reach,
R as in Reaching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Reach,
R as in Reach (v. t.) To extend; to stretch; to thrust out; to put forth, as a limb, a member, something held, or the like.,
R as in Reach (v. t.) Hence, to deliver by stretching out a member, especially the hand; to give with the hand; to pass to another; to hand over; as, to reach one a book.,
R as in Reach (v. t.) To attain or obtain by stretching forth the hand; to extend some part of the body, or something held by one, so as to touch, strike, grasp, or the like; as, to reach an object with the hand, or with a spear.,
R as in Reach (v. t.) To strike, hit, or touch with a missile; as, to reach an object with an arrow, a bullet, or a shell.,
R as in Reach (v. t.) Hence, to extend an action, effort, or influence to; to penetrate to; to pierce, or cut, as far as.,
R as in Reach (v. t.) To extend to; to stretch out as far as; to touch by virtue of extent; as, his land reaches the river.,
R as in Reach (v. t.) To arrive at; to come to; to get as far as.,
R as in Reach (v. t.) To arrive at by effort of any kind; to attain to; to gain; to be advanced to.,
R as in Reach (v. t.) To understand; to comprehend.,
R as in Reach (v. t.) To overreach; to deceive.,
R as in Reach (v. i.) To stretch out the hand.,
R as in Reach (v. i.) To strain after something; to make efforts.,
R as in Reach (v. i.) To extend in dimension, time, amount, action, influence, etc., so as to touch, attain to, or be equal to, something.,
R as in Reach (v. i.) To sail on the wind, as from one point of tacking to another, or with the wind nearly abeam.,
R as in Reach (n.) The act of stretching or extending; extension; power of reaching or touching with the person, or a limb, or something held or thrown; as, the fruit is beyond my reach; to be within reach of cannon shot.,
R as in Reach (n.) The power of stretching out or extending action, influence, or the like; power of attainment or management; extent of force or capacity.,
R as in Reach (n.) Extent; stretch; expanse; hence, application; influence; result; scope.,
R as in Reach (n.) An extended portion of land or water; a stretch; a straight portion of a stream or river, as from one turn to another; a level stretch, as between locks in a canal; an arm of the sea extending up into the land.,
R as in Reach (n.) An artifice to obtain an advantage.,
R as in Reach (n.) The pole or rod which connects the hind axle with the forward bolster of a wagon.,
R as in Reachable (a.) Being within reach.,
R as in Reacher (n.) One who reaches.,
R as in Reacher (n.) An exaggeration.,
R as in Reachless (a.) Being beyond reach; lofty.,
R as in React (v. t.) To act or perform a second time; to do over again; as, to react a play; the same scenes were reacted at Rome.,
R as in React (v. i.) To return an impulse or impression; to resist the action of another body by an opposite force; as, every body reacts on the body that impels it from its natural state.,
R as in React (v. i.) To act upon each other; to exercise a reciprocal or a reverse effect, as two or more chemical agents; to act in opposition.,
R as in Reaction (n.) Any action in resisting other action or force; counter tendency; movement in a contrary direction; reverse action.,
R as in Reaction (n.) The mutual or reciprocal action of chemical agents upon each other, or the action upon such chemical agents of some form of energy, as heat, light, or electricity, resulting in a chemical change in one or more of these agents, with the production of new compounds or the manifestation of distinctive characters. See Blowpipe reaction, Flame reaction, under Blowpipe, and Flame.,
R as in Reaction (n.) An action induced by vital resistance to some other action; depression or exhaustion of vital force consequent on overexertion or overstimulation; heightened activity and overaction succeeding depression or shock.,
R as in Reaction (n.) The force which a body subjected to the action of a force from another body exerts upon the latter body in the opposite direction.,
R as in Reaction (n.) Backward tendency or movement after revolution, reform, or great progress in any direction.,
R as in Reactionary (a.) Being, causing, or favoring reaction; as, reactionary movements.,
R as in Reactionaries (pl. ) of Reactionary,
R as in Reactionary (n.) One who favors reaction, or seeks to undo political progress or revolution.,
R as in Reactionist (n.) A reactionary.,
R as in Reactive (a.) Having power to react; tending to reaction; of the nature of reaction.,
R as in Read (n.) Rennet. See 3d Reed.,
R as in Read (imp. & p. p.) of Read,
R as in Reading (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Read,
R as in Read (v. t.) To advise; to counsel.,
R as in Read (v. t.) To interpret; to explain; as, to read a riddle.,
R as in Read (v. t.) To tell; to declare; to recite.,
R as in Read (v. t.) To go over, as characters or words, and utter aloud, or recite to one's self inaudibly; to take in the sense of, as of language, by interpreting the characters with which it is expressed; to peruse; as, to read a discourse; to read the letters of an alphabet; to read figures; to read the notes of music, or to read music; to read a book.,
R as in Read (v. t.) Hence, to know fully; to comprehend.,
R as in Read (v. t.) To discover or understand by characters, marks, features, etc.; to learn by observation.,
R as in Read (v. t.) To make a special study of, as by perusing textbooks; as, to read theology or law.,
R as in Read (v. i.) To give advice or counsel.,
R as in Read (v. i.) To tell; to declare.,
R as in Read (v. i.) To perform the act of reading; to peruse, or to go over and utter aloud, the words of a book or other like document.,
R as in Read (v. i.) To study by reading; as, he read for the bar.,
R as in Read (v. i.) To learn by reading.,
R as in Read (v. i.) To appear in writing or print; to be expressed by, or consist of, certain words or characters; as, the passage reads thus in the early manuscripts.,
R as in Read (v. i.) To produce a certain effect when read; as, that sentence reads queerly.,
R as in Read (v. t.) Saying; sentence; maxim; hence, word; advice; counsel. See Rede.,
R as in Read (v.) Reading.,
R as in Read () imp. & p. p. of Read, v. t. & i.,
R as in Read (a.) Instructed or knowing by reading; versed in books; learned.,
R as in Readability (n.) The state of being readable; readableness.,
R as in Readable (a.) Such as can be read; legible; fit or suitable to be read; worth reading; interesting.,
R as in Readdress (v. t.) To address a second time; -- often used reflexively.,
R as in Readept (v. t.) To regain; to recover.,
R as in Readeption (n.) A regaining; recovery of something lost.,
R as in Reader (n.) One who reads.,
R as in Reader (n.) One whose distinctive office is to read prayers in a church.,
R as in Reader (n.) One who reads lectures on scientific subjects.,
R as in Reader (n.) A proof reader.,
R as in Reader (n.) One who reads manuscripts offered for publication and advises regarding their merit.,
R as in Reader (n.) One who reads much; one who is studious.,
R as in Reader (n.) A book containing a selection of extracts for exercises in reading; an elementary book for practice in a language; a reading book.,
R as in Readership (n.) The office of reader.,
R as in Readily (adv.) In a ready manner; quickly; promptly.,
R as in Readily (adv.) Without delay or objection; without reluctance; willingly; cheerfully.,
R as in Readiness (n.) The state or quality of being ready; preparation; promptness; aptitude; willingness.,
R as in Reading (n.) The act of one who reads; perusal; also, printed or written matter to be read.,
R as in Reading (n.) Study of books; literary scholarship; as, a man of extensive reading.,
R as in Reading (n.) A lecture or prelection; public recital.,
R as in Reading (n.) The way in which anything reads; force of a word or passage presented by a documentary authority; lection; version.,
R as in Reading (n.) Manner of reciting, or acting a part, on the stage; way of rendering.,
R as in Reading (n.) An observation read from the scale of a graduated instrument; as, the reading of a barometer.,
R as in Reading (a.) Of or pertaining to the act of reading; used in reading.,
R as in Reading (a.) Addicted to reading; as, a reading community.,
R as in Readjourn (v. t.) To adjourn a second time; to adjourn again.,
R as in Readjournment (n.) The act of readjourning; a second or repeated adjournment.,
R as in Readjust (v. t.) To adjust or settle again; to put in a different order or relation; to rearrange.,
R as in Readjuster (n.) One who, or that which, readjusts; in some of the States of the United States, one who advocates a refunding, and sometimes a partial repudiation, of the State debt without the consent of the State's creditors.,
R as in Readjustment (n.) A second adjustment; a new or different adjustment.,
R as in Readmission (n.) The act of admitting again, or the state of being readmitted; as, the readmission of fresh air into an exhausted receiver; the readmission of a student into a seminary.,
R as in Readmit (v. t.) To admit again; to give entrance or access to again.,
R as in Readmittance (n.) Allowance to enter again; a second admission.,
R as in Readopt (v. t.) To adopt again.,
R as in Readorn (v. t.) To adorn again or anew.,
R as in Readvance (v. i.) To advance again.,
R as in Readvertency (n.) The act of adverting to again, or of reviewing.,
R as in Ready (superl.) Prepared for what one is about to do or experience; equipped or supplied with what is needed for some act or event; prepared for immediate movement or action; as, the troops are ready to march; ready for the journey.,
R as in Ready (superl.) Fitted or arranged for immediate use; causing no delay for lack of being prepared or furnished.,
R as in Ready (superl.) Prepared in mind or disposition; not reluctant; willing; free; inclined; disposed.,
R as in Ready (superl.) Not slow or hesitating; quick in action or perception of any kind; dexterous; prompt; easy; expert; as, a ready apprehension; ready wit; a ready writer or workman.,
R as in Ready (superl.) Offering itself at once; at hand; opportune; convenient; near; easy.,
R as in Ready (superl.) On the point; about; on the brink; near; -- with a following infinitive.,
R as in Ready (superl.) A word of command, or a position, in the manual of arms, at which the piece is cocked and held in position to execute promptly the next command, which is, aim.,
R as in Ready (adv.) In a state of preparation for immediate action; so as to need no delay.,
R as in Ready (n.) Ready money; cash; -- commonly with the; as, he was well supplied with the ready.,
R as in Ready (v. t.) To dispose in order.,
R as in Ready-made (a.) Made already, or beforehand, in anticipation of need; not made to order; as, ready-made clothing; ready-made jokes.,
R as in Ready-witted (a.) Having ready wit.,
R as in Reaffirm (v. t.) To affirm again.,
R as in Reaffirmance (n.) Alt. of Reaffirmation,
R as in Reaffirmation (n.) A second affirmation.,
R as in Reafforest (v. t.) To convert again into a forest, as a region of country.,
R as in Reafforestation (n.) The act or process of converting again into a forest.,
R as in Reagent (n.) A substance capable of producing with another a reaction, especially when employed to detect the presence of other bodies; a test.,
R as in Reaggravation (n.) The last monitory, published after three admonitions and before the last excommunication.,
R as in Reagree (v. i.) To agree again.,
R as in Reak (n.) A rush.,
R as in Reak (n.) A prank.,
R as in Real (n.) A small Spanish silver coin; also, a denomination of money of account, formerly the unit of the Spanish monetary system.,
R as in Real (a.) Royal; regal; kingly.,
R as in Real (a.) Actually being or existing; not fictitious or imaginary; as, a description of real life.,
R as in Real (a.) True; genuine; not artificial, counterfeit, or factitious; often opposed to ostensible; as, the real reason; real Madeira wine; real ginger.,
R as in Real (a.) Relating to things, not to persons.,
R as in Real (a.) Having an assignable arithmetical or numerical value or meaning; not imaginary.,
R as in Real (a.) Pertaining to things fixed, permanent, or immovable, as to lands and tenements; as, real property, in distinction from personal or movable property.,
R as in Real (n.) A realist.,
R as in Realgar (n.) Arsenic sulphide, a mineral of a brilliant red color; red orpiment. It is also an artificial product.,
R as in Realism (n.) As opposed to nominalism, the doctrine that genera and species are real things or entities, existing independently of our conceptions. According to realism the Universal exists ante rem (Plato), or in re (Aristotle).,
R as in Realism (n.) As opposed to idealism, the doctrine that in sense perception there is an immediate cognition of the external object, and our knowledge of it is not mediate and representative.,
R as in Realism (n.) Fidelity to nature or to real life; representation without idealization, and making no appeal to the imagination; adherence to the actual fact.,
R as in Realist (n.) One who believes in realism; esp., one who maintains that generals, or the terms used to denote the genera and species of things, represent real existences, and are not mere names, as maintained by the nominalists.,
R as in Realist (n.) An artist or writer who aims at realism in his work. See Realism, 2.,
R as in Realistic (a.) Of or pertaining to the realists; in the manner of the realists; characterized by realism rather than by imagination.,
R as in Realistically (adv.) In a realistic manner.,
R as in Realities (pl. ) of Reality,
R as in Reality (n.) The state or quality of being real; actual being or existence of anything, in distinction from mere appearance; fact.,
R as in Reality (n.) That which is real; an actual existence; that which is not imagination, fiction, or pretense; that which has objective existence, and is not merely an idea.,
R as in Reality (n.) Loyalty; devotion.,
R as in Reality (n.) See 2d Realty, 2.,
R as in Realizable (a.) Capable of being realized.,
R as in Realization (n.) The act of realizing, or the state of being realized.,
R as in Realized (imp. & p. p.) of Realize,
R as in Realizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Realize,
R as in Realize (v. t.) To make real; to convert from the imaginary or fictitious into the actual; to bring into concrete existence; to effectuate; to accomplish; as, to realize a scheme or project.,
R as in Realize (v. t.) To cause to seem real; to impress upon the mind as actual; to feel vividly or strongly; to make one's own in apprehension or experience.,
R as in Realize (v. t.) To convert into real property; to make real estate of; as, to realize his fortune.,
R as in Realize (v. t.) To acquire as an actual possession; to obtain as the result of plans and efforts; to gain; to get; as, to realize large profits from a speculation.,
R as in Realize (v. t.) To convert into actual money; as, to realize assets.,
R as in Realize (v. i.) To convert any kind of property into money, especially property representing investments, as shares in stock companies, bonds, etc.,
R as in Realizer (n.) One who realizes.,
R as in Realizing (a.) Serving to make real, or to impress on the mind as a reality; as, a realizing view of the danger incurred.,
R as in Reallege (v. t.) To allege again.,
R as in Realliance (n.) A renewed alliance.,
R as in Re-ally (v. t.) To bring together again; to compose or form anew.,
R as in Really (adv.) Royally.,
R as in Really (adv.) In a real manner; with or in reality; actually; in truth.,
R as in Realm (n.) A royal jurisdiction or domain; a region which is under the dominion of a king; a kingdom.,
R as in Realm (n.) Hence, in general, province; region; country; domain; department; division; as, the realm of fancy.,
R as in Realmless (a.) Destitute of a realm.,
R as in Realness (n.) The quality or condition of being real; reality.,
R as in Realty (n.) Royalty.,
R as in Realty (n.) Loyalty; faithfulness.,
R as in Realty (n.) Reality.,
R as in Realty (n.) Immobility, or the fixed, permanent nature of real property; as, chattels which savor of the realty; -- so written in legal language for reality.,
R as in Realty (n.) Real estate; a piece of real property.,
R as in Ream (n.) Cream; also, the cream or froth on ale.,
R as in Ream (v. i.) To cream; to mantle.,
R as in Ream (v. t.) To stretch out; to draw out into thongs, threads, or filaments.,
R as in Ream (n.) A bundle, package, or quantity of paper, usually consisting of twenty quires or 480 sheets.,
R as in Reamed (imp. & p. p.) of Ream,
R as in Reaming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ream,
R as in Ream (v. t.) To bevel out, as the mouth of a hole in wood or metal; in modern usage, to enlarge or dress out, as a hole, with a reamer.,
R as in Reame (n.) Realm.,
R as in Reamer (n.) One who, or that which, reams; specifically, an instrument with cutting or scraping edges, used, with a twisting motion, for enlarging a round hole, as the bore of a cannon, etc.,
R as in Reamputation (n.) The second of two amputations performed upon the same member.,
R as in Reanimate (v. t.) To animate anew; to restore to animation or life; to infuse new life, vigor, spirit, or courage into; to revive; to reinvigorate; as, to reanimate a drowned person; to reanimate disheartened troops; to reanimate languid spirits.,
R as in Reanimation (n.) The act or operation of reanimating, or the state of being reanimated; reinvigoration; revival.,
R as in Reannex (v. t.) To annex again or anew; to reunite.,
R as in Reannexation (n.) Act of reannexing.,
R as in Reanswer (v. t. & i.) To answer in return; to repay; to compensate; to make amends for.,
R as in Reaped (imp. & p. p.) of Reap,
R as in Reaping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Reap,
R as in Reap (v. t.) To cut with a sickle, scythe, or reaping machine, as grain; to gather, as a harvest, by cutting.,
R as in Reap (v. t.) To gather; to obtain; to receive as a reward or harvest, or as the fruit of labor or of works; -- in a good or a bad sense; as, to reap a benefit from exertions.,
R as in Reap (v. t.) To clear of a crop by reaping; as, to reap a field.,
R as in Reap (v. t.) To deprive of the beard; to shave.,
R as in Reap (v. i.) To perform the act or operation of reaping; to gather a harvest.,
R as in Reap (v.) A bundle of grain; a handful of grain laid down by the reaper as it is cut.,
R as in Reaper (n.) One who reaps.,
R as in Reaper (n.) A reaping machine.,
R as in Reapparel (v. t.) To clothe again.,
R as in Reappear (v. i.) To appear again.,
R as in Reappearance (n.) A second or new appearance; the act or state of appearing again.,
R as in Reapplication (n.) The act of reapplying, or the state of being reapplied.,
R as in Reapply (v. t. & i.) To apply again.,
R as in Reappoint (v. t.) To appoint again.,
R as in Reappointment (n.) The act of reappointing, or the state of being reappointed.,
R as in Reapportion (v. t.) To apportion again.,
R as in Reapportionment (n.) A second or a new apportionment.,
R as in Reapproach (v. i. & t.) To approach again or anew.,
R as in Rear (adv.) Early; soon.,
R as in Rear (n.) The back or hindmost part; that which is behind, or last in order; -- opposed to front.,
R as in Rear (n.) Specifically, the part of an army or fleet which comes last, or is stationed behind the rest.,
R as in Rear (a.) Being behind, or in the hindmost part; hindmost; as, the rear rank of a company.,
R as in Rear (v. t.) To place in the rear; to secure the rear of.,
R as in Reared (imp. & p. p.) of Rear,
R as in Rearing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rear,
R as in Rear (v. t.) To raise; to lift up; to cause to rise, become erect, etc.; to elevate; as, to rear a monolith.,
R as in Rear (v. t.) To erect by building; to set up; to construct; as, to rear defenses or houses; to rear one government on the ruins of another.,
R as in Rear (v. t.) To lift and take up.,
R as in Rear (v. t.) To bring up to maturity, as young; to educate; to instruct; to foster; as, to rear offspring.,
R as in Rear (v. t.) To breed and raise; as, to rear cattle.,
R as in Rear (v. t.) To rouse; to stir up.,
R as in Rear (v. i.) To rise up on the hind legs, as a horse; to become erect.,
R as in Reardorse (n.) Alt. of Reardoss,
R as in Reardoss (n.) A reredos.,
R as in Rearer (n.) One who, or that which, rears.,
R as in Reargue (v. t.) To argue anew or again.,
R as in Reargument (n.) An arguing over again, as of a motion made in court.,
R as in Rear-horse (n.) A mantis.,
R as in Rearly (adv.) Early.,
R as in Rearmost (a.) Farthest in the rear; last.,
R as in Rearmouse (n.) Alt. of Reremouse,
R as in Reremouse (n.) The leather-winged bat (Vespertilio murinus).,
R as in Rearrange (v. t.) To arrange again; to arrange in a different way.,
R as in Rearrangement (n.) The act of rearranging, or the state of being rearranged.,
R as in Rearward (n.) The last troop; the rear of an army; a rear guard. Also used figuratively.,
R as in Rearward (a. & adv.) At or toward the rear.,
R as in Reascend (v. i.) To rise, mount, or climb again.,
R as in Reascend (v. t.) To ascend or mount again; to reach by ascending again.,
R as in Reascension (n.) The act of reascending; a remounting.,
R as in Reascent (n.) A returning ascent or ascension; acclivity.,
R as in Reason (n.) A thought or a consideration offered in support of a determination or an opinion; a just ground for a conclusion or an action; that which is offered or accepted as an explanation; the efficient cause of an occurrence or a phenomenon; a motive for an action or a determination; proof, more or less decisive, for an opinion or a conclusion; principle; efficient cause; final cause; ground of argument.,
R as in Reason (n.) The faculty or capacity of the human mind by which it is distinguished from the intelligence of the inferior animals; the higher as distinguished from the lower cognitive faculties, sense, imagination, and memory, and in contrast to the feelings and desires. Reason comprises conception, judgment, reasoning, and the intuitional faculty. Specifically, it is the intuitional faculty, or the faculty of first truths, as distinguished from the understanding, which is called the discursive or ratiocinative faculty.,
R as in Reason (n.) Due exercise of the reasoning faculty; accordance with, or that which is accordant with and ratified by, the mind rightly exercised; right intellectual judgment; clear and fair deductions from true principles; that which is dictated or supported by the common sense of mankind; right conduct; right; propriety; justice.,
R as in Reason (n.) Ratio; proportion.,
R as in Reasoned (imp. & p. p.) of Reason,
R as in Reasoning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Reason,
R as in Reason (n.) To exercise the rational faculty; to deduce inferences from premises; to perform the process of deduction or of induction; to ratiocinate; to reach conclusions by a systematic comparison of facts.,
R as in Reason (n.) Hence: To carry on a process of deduction or of induction, in order to convince or to confute; to formulate and set forth propositions and the inferences from them; to argue.,
R as in Reason (n.) To converse; to compare opinions.,
R as in Reason (v. t.) To arrange and present the reasons for or against; to examine or discuss by arguments; to debate or discuss; as, I reasoned the matter with my friend.,
R as in Reason (v. t.) To support with reasons, as a request.,
R as in Reason (v. t.) To persuade by reasoning or argument; as, to reason one into a belief; to reason one out of his plan.,
R as in Reason (v. t.) To overcome or conquer by adducing reasons; -- with down; as, to reason down a passion.,
R as in Reason (v. t.) To find by logical processes; to explain or justify by reason or argument; -- usually with out; as, to reason out the causes of the librations of the moon.,
R as in Reasonable (n.) Having the faculty of reason; endued with reason; rational; as, a reasonable being.,
R as in Reasonable (n.) Governed by reason; being under the influence of reason; thinking, speaking, or acting rationally, or according to the dictates of reason; agreeable to reason; just; rational; as, the measure must satisfy all reasonable men.,
R as in Reasonable (n.) Not excessive or immoderate; within due limits; proper; as, a reasonable demand, amount, price.,
R as in Reasonable (adv.) Reasonably; tolerably.,
R as in Reasonableness (n.) Quality of being reasonable.,
R as in Reasonably (adv.) In a reasonable manner.,
R as in Reasonably (adv.) Moderately; tolerably.,
R as in Reasoner (n.) One who reasons or argues; as, a fair reasoner; a close reasoner; a logical reasoner.,
R as in Reasoning (n.) The act or process of adducing a reason or reasons; manner of presenting one's reasons.,
R as in Reasoning (n.) That which is offered in argument; proofs or reasons when arranged and developed; course of argument.,
R as in Reasonist (n.) A rationalist.,
R as in Reasonless (a.) Destitute of reason; as, a reasonless man or mind.,
R as in Reasonless (a.) Void of reason; not warranted or supported by reason; unreasonable.,
R as in Reassemblage (n.) Assemblage a second time or again.,
R as in Reassemble (v. t. & i.) To assemble again.,
R as in Reassert (v. t.) To assert again or anew; to maintain after an omission to do so.,
R as in Reassertion (n.) A second or renewed assertion of the same thing.,
R as in Reassessment (n.) A renewed or second assessment.,
R as in Reassign (v. t.) To assign back or again; to transfer back what has been assigned.,
R as in Reassignment (n.) The act of reassigning.,
R as in Reassimilate (v. t. & i.) To assimilate again.,
R as in Reassociate (v. t. & i.) To associate again; to bring again into close relations.,
R as in Reassume (v. t.) To assume again or anew; to resume.,
R as in Reassurance (n.) Assurance or confirmation renewed or repeated.,
R as in Reassurance (n.) Same as Reinsurance.,
R as in Reassure (v. t.) To assure anew; to restore confidence to; to free from fear or terror.,
R as in Reassure (v. t.) To reinsure.,
R as in Reassurer (n.) One who reassures.,
R as in Reasty (a.) Rusty and rancid; -- applied to salt meat.,
R as in Reata (n.) A lariat.,
R as in Reattach (v. t.) To attach again.,
R as in Reattachment (n.) The act of reattaching; a second attachment.,
R as in Reattain (v. t.) To attain again.,
R as in Reattainment (n.) The act of reattaining.,
R as in Reattempt (v. t.) To attempt again.,
R as in Reaume (n.) Realm.,
R as in Reaumur (a.) Of or pertaining to Rene Antoine Ferchault de Reaumur; conformed to the scale adopted by Reaumur in graduating the thermometer he invented.,
R as in Reaumur (n.) A Reaumur thermometer or scale.,
R as in Reaved (imp. & p. p.) of Reave,
R as in Reft () of Reave,
R as in Raft () of Reave,
R as in Reaving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Reave,
R as in Reave (v. i.) To take away by violence or by stealth; to snatch away; to rob; to despoil; to bereave. [Archaic],
R as in Reaver (n.) One who reaves.,
R as in Reawake (v. i.) To awake again.,
R as in Rebanish (v. t.) To banish again.,
R as in Rebaptism (n.) A second baptism.,
R as in Rebaptization (n.) A second baptism.,
R as in Rebaptize (v. t.) To baptize again or a second time.,
R as in Rebaptizer (n.) One who rebaptizes.,
R as in Rebarbarize (v. t.) To reduce again to barbarism.,
R as in Rebate (v. t.) To beat to obtuseness; to deprive of keenness; to blunt; to turn back the point of, as a lance used for exercise.,
R as in Rebate (v. t.) To deduct from; to make a discount from, as interest due, or customs duties.,
R as in Rebate (v. i.) To abate; to withdraw.,
R as in Rebate (n.) Diminution.,
R as in Rebate (n.) Deduction; abatement; as, a rebate of interest for immediate payment; a rebate of importation duties.,
R as in Rebate (n.) A rectangular longitudinal recess or groove, cut in the corner or edge of any body; a rabbet. See Rabbet.,
R as in Rebate (n.) A piece of wood hafted into a long stick, and serving to beat out mortar.,
R as in Rebate (n.) An iron tool sharpened something like a chisel, and used for dressing and polishing wood.,
R as in Rebate (n.) A kind of hard freestone used in making pavements.,
R as in Rebate (v. t.) To cut a rebate in. See Rabbet, v.,
R as in Rebatement (n.) Same as 3d Rebate.,
R as in Rebato (n.) Same as Rabato.,
R as in Rebec (n.) An instrument formerly used which somewhat resembled the violin, having three strings, and being played with a bow.,
R as in Rebec (n.) A contemptuous term applied to an old woman.,
R as in Rebel (v. i.) Pertaining to rebels or rebellion; acting in revolt; rebellious; as, rebel troops.,
R as in Rebel (n.) One who rebels.,
R as in Rebelled (imp. & p. p.) of Rebel,
R as in Rebelling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rebel,
R as in Rebel (v. i.) To renounce, and resist by force, the authority of the ruler or government to which one owes obedience. See Rebellion.,
R as in Rebel (v. i.) To be disobedient to authority; to assume a hostile or insubordinate attitude; to revolt.,
R as in Rebeldom (n.) A region infested by rebels; rebels, considered collectively; also, conduct or quality characteristic of rebels.,
R as in Rebeller (n.) One who rebels; a rebel.,
R as in Rebellion (v. i.) The act of rebelling; open and avowed renunciation of the authority of the government to which one owes obedience, and resistance to its officers and laws, either by levying war, or by aiding others to do so; an organized uprising of subjects for the purpose of coercing or overthrowing their lawful ruler or government by force; revolt; insurrection.,
R as in Rebellion (v. i.) Open resistance to, or defiance of, lawful authority.,
R as in Rebellious (a.) Engaged in rebellion; disposed to rebel; of the nature of rebels or of rebellion; resisting government or lawful authority by force.,
R as in Rebellow (v. i.) To bellow again; to repeat or echo a bellow.,
R as in Rebiting (n.) The act or process of deepening worn lines in an etched plate by submitting it again to the action of acid.,
R as in Rebloom (v. i.) To bloom again.,
R as in Reblossom (v. i.) To blossom again.,
R as in Reboant (a.) Rebellowing; resounding loudly.,
R as in Reboation (n.) Repetition of a bellow.,
R as in Reboil (v. t. & i.) To boil, or to cause to boil, again.,
R as in Reboil (v. t. & i.) Fig.: To make or to become hot.,
R as in Reborn (p. p.) Born again.,
R as in Rebound (v. i.) To spring back; to start back; to be sent back or reverberated by elastic force on collision with another body; as, a rebounding echo.,
R as in Rebound (v. i.) To give back an echo.,
R as in Rebound (v. i.) To bound again or repeatedly, as a horse.,
R as in Rebound (v. t.) To send back; to reverberate.,
R as in Rebound (n.) The act of rebounding; resilience.,
R as in Rebrace (v. t.) To brace again.,
R as in Rebreathe (v. t.) To breathe again.,
R as in Rebucous (a.) Rebuking.,
R as in Rebuff (n.) Repercussion, or beating back; a quick and sudden resistance.,
R as in Rebuff (n.) Sudden check; unexpected repulse; defeat; refusal; repellence; rejection of solicitation.,
R as in Rebuffed (imp. & p. p.) of Rebuff,
R as in Rebuffing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rebuff,
R as in Rebuff (v. t.) To beat back; to offer sudden resistance to; to check; to repel or repulse violently, harshly, or uncourteously.,
R as in Rebuild (v. t.) To build again, as something which has been demolished; to construct anew; as, to rebuild a house, a wall, a wharf, or a city.,
R as in Rebuilder (n.) One who rebuilds.,
R as in Rebukable (a.) Worthy of rebuke or reprehension; reprehensible.,
R as in Rebuked (imp. & p. p.) of Rebuke,
R as in Rebuking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rebuke,
R as in Rebuke (v. t.) To check, silence, or put down, with reproof; to restrain by expression of disapprobation; to reprehend sharply and summarily; to chide; to reprove; to admonish.,
R as in Rebuke (n.) A direct and pointed reproof; a reprimand; also, chastisement; punishment.,
R as in Rebuke (n.) Check; rebuff.,
R as in Rebukeful (a.) Containing rebuke; of the nature of rebuke.,
R as in Rebuker (n.) One who rebukes.,
R as in Rebukingly (adv.) By way of rebuke.,
R as in Rebullition (n.) The act of boiling up or effervescing.,
R as in Rebury (v. t.) To bury again.,
R as in Rebuses (pl. ) of Rebus,
R as in Rebus (n.) A mode of expressing words and phrases by pictures of objects whose names resemble those words, or the syllables of which they are composed; enigmatical representation of words by figures; hence, a peculiar form of riddle made up of such representations.,
R as in Rebus (n.) A pictorial suggestion on a coat of arms of the name of the person to whom it belongs. See Canting arms, under Canting.,
R as in Rebus (v. t.) To mark or indicate by a rebus.,
R as in Rebutted (imp. & p. p.) of Rebut,
R as in Rebutting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rebut,
R as in Rebut (v. t.) To drive or beat back; to repulse.,
R as in Rebut (v. t.) To contradict, meet, or oppose by argument, plea, or countervailing proof.,
R as in Rebut (v. i.) To retire; to recoil.,
R as in Rebut (v. i.) To make, or put in, an answer, as to a plaintiff's surrejoinder.,
R as in Rebuttable (a.) Capable of being rebutted.,
R as in Rebuttal (n.) The giving of evidence on the part of a plaintiff to destroy the effect of evidence introduced by the defendant in the same suit.,
R as in Rebutter (n.) The answer of a defendant in matter of fact to a plaintiff's surrejoinder.,
R as in Recadency (n.) A falling back or descending a second time; a relapse.,
R as in Recalcitrant (a.) Kicking back; recalcitrating; hence, showing repugnance or opposition; refractory.,
R as in Recalcitrate (v. t.) To kick against; to show repugnance to; to rebuff.,
R as in Recalcitrate (v. i.) To kick back; to kick against anything; hence, to express repugnance or opposition.,
R as in Recalcitration (n.) A kicking back again; opposition; repugnance; refractoriness.,
R as in Recall (v. t.) To call back; to summon to return; as, to recall troops; to recall an ambassador.,
R as in Recall (v. t.) To revoke; to annul by a subsequent act; to take back; to withdraw; as, to recall words, or a decree.,
R as in Recall (v. t.) To call back to mind; to revive in memory; to recollect; to remember; as, to recall bygone days.,
R as in Recall (n.) A calling back; a revocation.,
R as in Recall (n.) A call on the trumpet, bugle, or drum, by which soldiers are recalled from duty, labor, etc.,
R as in Recallable (a.) Capable of being recalled.,
R as in Recallment (n.) Recall.,
R as in Recanted (imp. & p. p.) of Recant,
R as in Recanting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Recant,
R as in Recant (v. t.) To withdraw or repudiate formally and publicly (opinions formerly expressed); to contradict, as a former declaration; to take back openly; to retract; to recall.,
R as in Recant (v. i.) To revoke a declaration or proposition; to unsay what has been said; to retract; as, convince me that I am wrong, and I will recant.,
R as in Recantation (n.) The act of recanting; a declaration that contradicts a former one; that which is thus asserted in contradiction; retraction.,
R as in Recanter (n.) One who recants.,
R as in Recapacitate (v. t.) To qualify again; to confer capacity on again.,
R as in Recapitulate (v. t.) To repeat, as the principal points in a discourse, argument, or essay; to give a summary of the principal facts, points, or arguments of; to relate in brief; to summarize.,
R as in Recapitulate (v. i.) To sum up, or enumerate by heads or topics, what has been previously said; to repeat briefly the substance.,
R as in Recapitulation (n.) The act of recapitulating; a summary, or concise statement or enumeration, of the principal points, facts, or statements, in a preceding discourse, argument, or essay.,
R as in Recapitulator (n.) One who recapitulates.,
R as in Recapitulatory (a.) Of the nature of a recapitulation; containing recapitulation.,
R as in Recapper (n.) A tool used for applying a fresh percussion cap or primer to a cartridge shell in reloading it.,
R as in Recaption (n.) The act of retaking, as of one who has escaped after arrest; reprisal; the retaking of one's own goods, chattels, wife, or children, without force or violence, from one who has taken them and who wrongfully detains them.,
R as in Recaptor (n.) One who recaptures; one who takes a prize which had been previously taken.,
R as in Recapture (n.) The act of retaking or recovering by capture; especially, the retaking of a prize or goods from a captor.,
R as in Recapture (n.) That which is captured back; a prize retaken.,
R as in Recapture (v. t.) To capture again; to retake.,
R as in Recarbonize (v. t.) To restore carbon to; as, to recarbonize iron in converting it into steel.,
R as in Recarnify (v. t.) To convert again into flesh.,
R as in Recarriage (n.) Act of carrying back.,
R as in Recarry (v. t.) To carry back.,
R as in Recast (v. t.) To throw again.,
R as in Recast (v. t.) To mold anew; to cast anew; to throw into a new form or shape; to reconstruct; as, to recast cannon; to recast an argument or a play.,
R as in Recast (v. t.) To compute, or cast up, a second time.,
R as in Recche (v. i.) To reck.,
R as in Reccheles (a.) Reckless.,
R as in Receded (imp. & p. p.) of Recede,
R as in Receding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Recede,
R as in Recede (v. i.) To move back; to retreat; to withdraw.,
R as in Recede (v. i.) To withdraw a claim or pretension; to desist; to relinquish what had been proposed or asserted; as, to recede from a demand or proposition.,
R as in Recede (v. i.) To cede back; to grant or yield again to a former possessor; as, to recede conquered territory.,
R as in Receipt (n.) The act of receiving; reception.,
R as in Receipt (n.) Reception, as an act of hospitality.,
R as in Receipt (n.) Capability of receiving; capacity.,
R as in Receipt (n.) Place of receiving.,
R as in Receipt (n.) Hence, a recess; a retired place.,
R as in Receipt (n.) A formulary according to the directions of which things are to be taken or combined; a recipe; as, a receipt for making sponge cake.,
R as in Receipt (n.) A writing acknowledging the taking or receiving of goods delivered; an acknowledgment of money paid.,
R as in Receipt (n.) That which is received; that which comes in, in distinction from what is expended, paid out, sent away, and the like; -- usually in the plural; as, the receipts amounted to a thousand dollars.,
R as in Receipted (imp. & p. p.) of Receipt,
R as in Receipting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Receipt,
R as in Receipt (v. t.) To give a receipt for; as, to receipt goods delivered by a sheriff.,
R as in Receipt (v. t.) To put a receipt on, as by writing or stamping; as, to receipt a bill.,
R as in Receipt (v. i.) To give a receipt, as for money paid.,
R as in Receiptment (n.) The receiving or harboring a felon knowingly, after the commission of a felony.,
R as in Receiptor (n.) One who receipts; specifically (Law), one who receipts for property which has been taken by the sheriff.,
R as in Receit (n.) Receipt.,
R as in Receivability (n.) The quality of being receivable; receivableness.,
R as in Receivable (a.) Capable of being received.,
R as in Received (imp. & p. p.) of Receive,
R as in Receiving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Receive,
R as in Receive (v. t.) To take, as something that is offered, given, committed, sent, paid, or the like; to accept; as, to receive money offered in payment of a debt; to receive a gift, a message, or a letter.,
R as in Receive (v. t.) Hence: To gain the knowledge of; to take into the mind by assent to; to give admission to; to accept, as an opinion, notion, etc.; to embrace.,
R as in Receive (v. t.) To allow, as a custom, tradition, or the like; to give credence or acceptance to.,
R as in Receive (v. t.) To give admittance to; to permit to enter, as into one's house, presence, company, and the like; as, to receive a lodger, visitor, ambassador, messenger, etc.,
R as in Receive (v. t.) To admit; to take in; to hold; to contain; to have capacity for; to be able to take in.,
R as in Receive (v. t.) To be affected by something; to suffer; to be subjected to; as, to receive pleasure or pain; to receive a wound or a blow; to receive damage.,
R as in Receive (v. t.) To take from a thief, as goods known to be stolen.,
R as in Receive (v. t.) To bat back (the ball) when served.,
R as in Receive (v. i.) To receive visitors; to be at home to receive calls; as, she receives on Tuesdays.,
R as in Receive (v. i.) To return, or bat back, the ball when served; as, it is your turn to receive.,
R as in Receivedness (n.) The state or quality of being received, accepted, or current; as, the receivedness of an opinion.,
R as in Receiver (n.) One who takes or receives in any manner.,
R as in Receiver (n.) A person appointed, ordinarily by a court, to receive, and hold in trust, money or other property which is the subject of litigation, pending the suit; a person appointed to take charge of the estate and effects of a corporation, and to do other acts necessary to winding up its affairs, in certain cases.,
R as in Receiver (n.) One who takes or buys stolen goods from a thief, knowing them to be stolen.,
R as in Receiver (n.) A vessel connected with an alembic, a retort, or the like, for receiving and condensing the product of distillation.,
R as in Receiver (n.) A vessel for receiving and containing gases.,
R as in Receiver (n.) The glass vessel in which the vacuum is produced, and the objects of experiment are put, in experiments with an air pump. Cf. Bell jar, and see Illust. of Air pump.,
R as in Receiver (n.) A vessel for receiving the exhaust steam from the high-pressure cylinder before it enters the low-pressure cylinder, in a compound engine.,
R as in Receiver (n.) A capacious vessel for receiving steam from a distant boiler, and supplying it dry to an engine.,
R as in Receiver (n.) That portion of a telephonic apparatus, or similar system, at which the message is received and made audible; -- opposed to transmitter.,
R as in Receivership (n.) The state or office of a receiver.,
R as in Recelebrate (v. t.) To celebrate again, or anew.,
R as in Recency (n.) The state or quality of being recent; newness; new state; late origin; lateness in time; freshness; as, the recency of a transaction, of a wound, etc.,
R as in Recense (v. t.) To review; to revise.,
R as in Recension (n.) The act of reviewing or revising; review; examination; enumeration.,
R as in Recension (n.) Specifically, the review of a text (as of an ancient author) by an editor; critical revisal and establishment.,
R as in Recension (n.) The result of such a work; a text established by critical revision; an edited version.,
R as in Recensionist (n.) One who makes recensions; specifically, a critical editor.,
R as in Recent (a.) Of late origin, existence, or occurrence; lately come; not of remote date, antiquated style, or the like; not already known, familiar, worn out, trite, etc.; fresh; novel; new; modern; as, recent news.,
R as in Recent (a.) Of or pertaining to the present or existing epoch; as, recent shells.,
R as in Recenter (v. t.) To center again; to restore to the center.,
R as in Recently (adv.) Newly; lately; freshly; not long since; as, advices recently received.,
R as in Recentness (n.) Quality or state of being recent.,
R as in Receptacle (n.) That which serves, or is used, for receiving and containing something, as a basket, a vase, a bag, a reservoir; a repository.,
R as in Receptacle (n.) The apex of the flower stalk, from which the organs of the flower grow, or into which they are inserted. See Illust. of Flower, and Ovary.,
R as in Receptacle (n.) The dilated apex of a pedicel which serves as a common support to a head of flowers.,
R as in Receptacle (n.) An intercellular cavity containing oil or resin or other matters.,
R as in Receptacle (n.) A special branch which bears the fructification in many cryptogamous plants.,
R as in Receptacular (a.) Pertaining to the receptacle, or growing on it; as, the receptacular chaff or scales in the sunflower.,
R as in Receptacula (pl. ) of Receptaculum,
R as in Receptaculum (n.) A receptacle; as, the receptaculum of the chyle.,
R as in Receptary (a.) Generally or popularly admitted or received.,
R as in Receptary (n.) That which is received.,
R as in Receptibility (n.) The quality or state of being receptible; receivableness.,
R as in Receptibility (n.) A receptible thing.,
R as in Receptible (a.) Such as may be received; receivable.,
R as in Reception (n.) The act of receiving; receipt; admission; as, the reception of food into the stomach; the reception of a letter; the reception of sensation or ideas; reception of evidence.,
R as in Reception (n.) The state of being received.,
R as in Reception (n.) The act or manner of receiving, esp. of receiving visitors; entertainment; hence, an occasion or ceremony of receiving guests; as, a hearty reception; an elaborate reception.,
R as in Reception (n.) Acceptance, as of an opinion or doctrine.,
R as in Reception (n.) A retaking; a recovery.,
R as in Receptive (a.) Having the quality of receiving; able or inclined to take in, absorb, hold, or contain; receiving or containing; as, a receptive mind.,
R as in Receptiveness (n.) The quality of being receptive.,
R as in Receptivity (n.) The state or quality of being receptive.,
R as in Receptivity (n.) The power or capacity of receiving impressions, as those of the external senses.,
R as in Receptory (n.) Receptacle.,
R as in Recess (n.) A withdrawing or retiring; a moving back; retreat; as, the recess of the tides.,
R as in Recess (n.) The state of being withdrawn; seclusion; privacy.,
R as in Recess (n.) Remission or suspension of business or procedure; intermission, as of a legislative body, court, or school.,
R as in Recess (n.) Part of a room formed by the receding of the wall, as an alcove, niche, etc.,
R as in Recess (n.) A place of retirement, retreat, secrecy, or seclusion.,
R as in Recess (n.) Secret or abstruse part; as, the difficulties and recesses of science.,
R as in Recess (n.) A sinus.,
R as in Recessed (imp. & p. p.) of Recess,
R as in Recessing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Recess,
R as in Recess (v. t.) To make a recess in; as, to recess a wall.,
R as in Recess (n.) A decree of the imperial diet of the old German empire.,
R as in Recessed (a.) Having a recess or recesses; as, a recessed arch or wall.,
R as in Recessed (a.) Withdrawn; secluded.,
R as in Recession (n.) The act of receding or withdrawing, as from a place, a claim, or a demand.,
R as in Recession (n.) The act of ceding back; restoration; repeated cession; as, the recession of conquered territory to its former sovereign.,
R as in Recessional (a.) Of or pertaining to recession or withdrawal.,
R as in Recessive (a.) Going back; receding.,
R as in Rechabite (n.) One of the descendants of Jonadab, the son of Rechab, all of whom by his injunction abstained from the use of intoxicating drinks and even from planting the vine. Jer. xxxv. 2-19. Also, in modern times, a member of a certain society of abstainers from alcoholic liquors.,
R as in Rechange (v. t. & i.) To change again, or change back.,
R as in Recharge (v. t. & i.) To charge or accuse in return.,
R as in Recharge (v. t. & i.) To attack again; to attack anew.,
R as in Recharter (n.) A second charter; a renewal of a charter.,
R as in Recharter (v. t.) To charter again or anew; to grant a second or another charter to.,
R as in Rechase (v. t.) To chase again; to chase or drive back.,
R as in Recheat (n.) A strain given on the horn to call back the hounds when they have lost track of the game.,
R as in Recheat (v. i.) To blow the recheat.,
R as in Recherche (a.) Sought out with care; choice. Hence: of rare quality, elegance, or attractiveness; peculiar and refined in kind.,
R as in Rechless (a.) Reckless.,
R as in Rechoose (v. t.) To choose again.,
R as in Recidivate (v. i.) To backslide; to fall again.,
R as in Recidivation (n.) A falling back; a backsliding.,
R as in Recidivous (a.) Tending or liable to backslide or relapse to a former condition or habit.,
R as in Recipes (pl. ) of Recipe,
R as in Recipe (n.) A formulary or prescription for making some combination, mixture, or preparation of materials; a receipt; especially, a prescription for medicine.,
R as in Recipiangle (n.) An instrument with two arms that are pivoted together at one end, and a graduated arc, -- used by military engineers for measuring and laying off angles of fortifications.,
R as in Recipience (n.) Alt. of Recipiency,
R as in Recipiency (n.) The quality or state of being recipient; a receiving; reception; receptiveness.,
R as in Recipient (n.) A receiver; the person or thing that receives; one to whom, or that to which, anything is given or communicated; specifically, the receiver of a still.,
R as in Recipient (a.) Receiving; receptive.,
R as in Reciprocal (a.) Recurring in vicissitude; alternate.,
R as in Reciprocal (a.) Done by each to the other; interchanging or interchanged; given and received; due from each to each; mutual; as, reciprocal love; reciprocal duties.,
R as in Reciprocal (a.) Mutually interchangeable.,
R as in Reciprocal (a.) Reflexive; -- applied to pronouns and verbs, but sometimes limited to such pronouns as express mutual action.,
R as in Reciprocal (a.) Used to denote different kinds of mutual relation; often with reference to the substitution of reciprocals for given quantities. See the Phrases below.,
R as in Reciprocal (n.) That which is reciprocal to another thing.,
R as in Reciprocal (n.) The quotient arising from dividing unity by any quantity; thus, / is the reciprocal of 4; 1/(a +b) is the reciprocal of a + b. The reciprocal of a fraction is the fraction inverted, or the denominator divided by the numerator.,
R as in Reciprocality (n.) The quality or condition of being reciprocal; reciprocalness.,
R as in Reciprocally (adv.) In a reciprocal manner; so that each affects the other, and is equally affected by it; interchangeably; mutually.,
R as in Reciprocally (adv.) In the manner of reciprocals.,
R as in Reciprocalness (n.) The quality or condition of being reciprocal; mutual return; alternateness.,
R as in Reciprocated (imp. & p. p.) of Reciprocate,
R as in Reciprocating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Reciprocate,
R as in Reciprocate (v. i.) To move forward and backward alternately; to recur in vicissitude; to act interchangeably; to alternate.,
R as in Reciprocate (v. t.) To give and return mutually; to make return for; to give in return; to interchange; to alternate; as, to reciprocate favors.,
R as in Reciprocation (n.) The act of reciprocating; interchange of acts; a mutual giving and returning; as, the reciprocation of kindnesses.,
R as in Reciprocation (n.) Alternate recurrence or action; as, the reciprocation of the sea in the flow and ebb of tides.,
R as in Reciprocity (n.) Mutual action and reaction.,
R as in Reciprocity (n.) Reciprocal advantages, obligations, or rights; reciprocation.,
R as in Reciprocornous (a.) Having horns turning backward and then forward, like those of a ram.,
R as in Reciprocous (a.) Reciprocal.,
R as in Reciprok (a.) Reciprocal.,
R as in Reciproque (a. & n.) Reciprocal.,
R as in Recision (n.) The act of cutting off.,
R as in Recital (n.) The act of reciting; the repetition of the words of another, or of a document; rehearsal; as, the recital of testimony.,
R as in Recital (n.) A telling in detail and due order of the particulars of anything, as of a law, an adventure, or a series of events; narration.,
R as in Recital (n.) That which is recited; a story; a narration.,
R as in Recital (n.) A vocal or instrumental performance by one person; -- distinguished from concert; as, a song recital; an organ, piano, or violin recital.,
R as in Recital (n.) The formal statement, or setting forth, of some matter of fact in any deed or writing in order to explain the reasons on which the transaction is founded; the statement of matter in pleading introductory to some positive allegation.,
R as in Recitation (n.) The act of reciting; rehearsal; repetition of words or sentences.,
R as in Recitation (n.) The delivery before an audience of something committed to memory, especially as an elocutionary exhibition; also, that which is so delivered.,
R as in Recitation (n.) The rehearsal of a lesson by pupils before their instructor.,
R as in Recitative (n.) A species of musical recitation in which the words are delivered in a manner resembling that of ordinary declamation; also, a piece of music intended for such recitation; -- opposed to melisma.,
R as in Recitative (a.) Of or pertaining to recitation; intended for musical recitation or declamation; in the style or manner of recitative.,
R as in Recitativo (n.) Recitative.,
R as in Recited (imp. & p. p.) of Recite,
R as in Reciting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Recite,
R as in Recite (v. t.) To repeat, as something already prepared, written down, committed to memory, or the like; to deliver from a written or printed document, or from recollection; to rehearse; as, to recite the words of an author, or of a deed or covenant.,
R as in Recite (v. t.) To tell over; to go over in particulars; to relate; to narrate; as, to recite past events; to recite the particulars of a voyage.,
R as in Recite (v. t.) To rehearse, as a lesson to an instructor.,
R as in Recite (v. t.) To state in or as a recital. See Recital, 5.,
R as in Recite (v. i.) To repeat, pronounce, or rehearse, as before an audience, something prepared or committed to memory; to rehearse a lesson learned.,
R as in Recite (n.) A recital.,
R as in Reciter (n.) One who recites; also, a book of extracts for recitation.,
R as in Recked (imp. & p. p.) of Reck,
R as in Roughte () of Reck,
R as in Recking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Reck,
R as in Reck (v. t.) To make account of; to care for; to heed; to regard.,
R as in Reck (v. t.) To concern; -- used impersonally.,
R as in Reck (v. i.) To make account; to take heed; to care; to mind; -- often followed by of.,
R as in Reckless (a.) Inattentive to duty; careless; neglectful; indifferent.,
R as in Reckless (a.) Rashly negligent; utterly careless or heedless.,
R as in Reckling (a.) Needing care; weak; feeble; as, a reckling child.,
R as in Reckling (n.) A weak child or animal.,
R as in Reckoned (imp. & p. p.) of Reckon,
R as in Reckoning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Reckon,
R as in Reckon (v. t.) To count; to enumerate; to number; also, to compute; to calculate.,
R as in Reckon (v. t.) To count as in a number, rank, or series; to estimate by rank or quality; to place by estimation; to account; to esteem; to repute.,
R as in Reckon (v. t.) To charge, attribute, or adjudge to one, as having a certain quality or value.,
R as in Reckon (v. t.) To conclude, as by an enumeration and balancing of chances; hence, to think; to suppose; -- followed by an objective clause; as, I reckon he won't try that again.,
R as in Reckon (v. i.) To make an enumeration or computation; to engage in numbering or computing.,
R as in Reckon (v. i.) To come to an accounting; to make up accounts; to settle; to examine and strike the balance of debt and credit; to adjust relations of desert or penalty.,
R as in Reckoner (n.) One who reckons or computes; also, a book of calculations, tables, etc., to assist in reckoning.,
R as in Reckoning (n.) The act of one who reckons, counts, or computes; the result of reckoning or counting; calculation.,
R as in Reckoning (n.) An account of time,
R as in Reckoning (n.) Adjustment of claims and accounts; settlement of obligations, liabilities, etc.,
R as in Reckoning (n.) The charge or account made by a host at an inn.,
R as in Reckoning (n.) Esteem; account; estimation.,
R as in Reckoning (n.) The calculation of a ship's position, either from astronomical observations, or from the record of the courses steered and distances sailed as shown by compass and log, -- in the latter case called dead reckoning (see under Dead); -- also used for dead reckoning in contradistinction to observation.,
R as in Reckoning (n.) The position of a ship as determined by calculation.,
R as in Reclaim (v. t.) To claim back; to demand the return of as a right; to attempt to recover possession of.,
R as in Reclaimed (imp. & p. p.) of Reclaim,
R as in Reclaiming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Reclaim,
R as in Reclaim (v. t.) To call back, as a hawk to the wrist in falconry, by a certain customary call.,
R as in Reclaim (v. t.) To call back from flight or disorderly action; to call to, for the purpose of subduing or quieting.,
R as in Reclaim (v. t.) To reduce from a wild to a tamed state; to bring under discipline; -- said especially of birds trained for the chase, but also of other animals.,
R as in Reclaim (v. t.) Hence: To reduce to a desired state by discipline, labor, cultivation, or the like; to rescue from being wild, desert, waste, submerged, or the like; as, to reclaim wild land, overflowed land, etc.,
R as in Reclaim (v. t.) To call back to rectitude from moral wandering or transgression; to draw back to correct deportment or course of life; to reform.,
R as in Reclaim (v. t.) To correct; to reform; -- said of things.,
R as in Reclaim (v. t.) To exclaim against; to gainsay.,
R as in Reclaim (v. i.) To cry out in opposition or contradiction; to exclaim against anything; to contradict; to take exceptions.,
R as in Reclaim (v. i.) To bring anyone back from evil courses; to reform.,
R as in Reclaim (v. i.) To draw back; to give way.,
R as in Reclaim (n.) The act of reclaiming, or the state of being reclaimed; reclamation; recovery.,
R as in Reclaimable (a.) That may be reclaimed.,
R as in Reclaimant (n.) One who reclaims; one who cries out against or contradicts.,
R as in Reclaimer (n.) One who reclaims.,
R as in Reclaimless (a.) That can not be reclaimed.,
R as in Reclamation (n.) The act or process of reclaiming.,
R as in Reclamation (n.) Representation made in opposition; remonstrance.,
R as in Reclasp (v. i.) To clasp or unite again.,
R as in Reclinant (a.) Bending or leaning backward.,
R as in Reclinate (a.) Reclined, as a leaf; bent downward, so that the point, as of a stem or leaf, is lower than the base.,
R as in Reclination (n.) The act of leaning or reclining, or the state of being reclined.,
R as in Reclination (n.) The angle which the plane of the dial makes with a vertical plane which it intersects in a horizontal line.,
R as in Reclination (n.) The act or process of removing a cataract, by applying the needle to its anterior surface, and depressing it into the vitreous humor in such a way that the front surface of the cataract becomes the upper one and its back surface the lower one.,
R as in Reclined (imp. & p. p.) of Recline,
R as in Reclining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Recline,
R as in Recline (v. t.) To cause or permit to lean, incline, rest, etc.; to place in a recumbent position; as, to recline the head on the hand.,
R as in Recline (v. i.) To lean or incline; as, to recline against a wall.,
R as in Recline (v. i.) To assume, or to be in, a recumbent position; as, to recline on a couch.,
R as in Recline (v. t.) Having a reclining posture; leaning; reclining.,
R as in Reclined (a.) Falling or turned downward; reclinate.,
R as in Recliner (n.) One who, or that which, reclines.,
R as in Reclining (a.) Bending or curving gradually back from the perpendicular.,
R as in Reclining (a.) Recumbent.,
R as in Reclose (v. t.) To close again.,
R as in Reclothe (v. t.) To clothe again.,
R as in Reclude (v. t.) To open; to unclose.,
R as in Recluse (a.) Shut up; sequestered; retired from the world or from public notice; solitary; living apart; as, a recluse monk or hermit; a recluse life.,
R as in Recluse (a.) A person who lives in seclusion from intercourse with the world, as a hermit or monk; specifically, one of a class of secluded devotees who live in single cells, usually attached to monasteries.,
R as in Recluse (a.) The place where a recluse dwells.,
R as in Recluse (v. t.) To shut up; to seclude.,
R as in Reclusely (adv.) In a recluse or solitary manner.,
R as in Recluseness (n.) Quality or state of being recluse.,
R as in Reclusion (n.) A state of retirement from the world; seclusion.,
R as in Reclusive (a.) Affording retirement from society.,
R as in Reclusory (n.) The habitation of a recluse; a hermitage.,
R as in Recoct (v. t.) To boil or cook again; hence, to make over; to vamp up; to reconstruct.,
R as in Recoction (n.) A second coction or preparation; a vamping up.,
R as in Recognition (n.) The act of recognizing, or the state of being recognized; acknowledgment; formal avowal; knowledge confessed or avowed; notice.,
R as in Recognitor (n.) One of a jury impaneled on an assize.,
R as in Recognitory (a.) Pertaining to, or connected with, recognition.,
R as in Recognizability (n.) The quality or condition of being recognizable.,
R as in Recognizable (a.) Capable of being recognized.,
R as in Recognizance (n.) An obligation of record entered into before some court of record or magistrate duly authorized, with condition to do some particular act, as to appear at the same or some other court, to keep the peace, or pay a debt. A recognizance differs from a bond, being witnessed by the record only, and not by the party's seal.,
R as in Recognizance (n.) The verdict of a jury impaneled upon assize.,
R as in Recognizance (n.) A token; a symbol; a pledge; a badge.,
R as in Recognizance (n.) Acknowledgment of a person or thing; avowal; profession; recognition.,
R as in Recognization (n.) Recognition.,
R as in Recognized (imp. & p. p.) of Recognize,
R as in Recognizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Recognize,
R as in Recognize (v. t.) To know again; to perceive the identity of, with a person or thing previously known; to recover or recall knowledge of.,
R as in Recognize (v. t.) To avow knowledge of; to allow that one knows; to consent to admit, hold, or the like; to admit with a formal acknowledgment; as, to recognize an obligation; to recognize a consul.,
R as in Recognize (v. t.) To acknowledge acquaintance with, as by salutation, bowing, or the like.,
R as in Recognize (v. t.) To show appreciation of; as, to recognize services by a testimonial.,
R as in Recognize (v. t.) To review; to reexamine.,
R as in Recognize (v. t.) To reconnoiter.,
R as in Recognize (v. i.) To enter an obligation of record before a proper tribunal; as, A B recognized in the sum of twenty dollars.,
R as in Recognizee (n.) The person in whose favor a recognizance is made.,
R as in Recognizer (n.) One who recognizes; a recognizor.,
R as in Recognizor (n.) One who enters into a recognizance.,
R as in Recognosce (v. t.) To recognize.,
R as in Recoiled (imp. & p. p.) of Recoil,
R as in Recoiling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Recoil,
R as in Recoil (v. i.) To start, roll, bound, spring, or fall back; to take a reverse motion; to be driven or forced backward; to return.,
R as in Recoil (v. i.) To draw back, as from anything repugnant, distressing, alarming, or the like; to shrink.,
R as in Recoil (v. i.) To turn or go back; to withdraw one's self; to retire.,
R as in Recoil (v. t.) To draw or go back.,
R as in Recoil (n.) A starting or falling back; a rebound; a shrinking; as, the recoil of nature, or of the blood.,
R as in Recoil (n.) The state or condition of having recoiled.,
R as in Recoil (n.) Specifically, the reaction or rebounding of a firearm when discharged.,
R as in Recoiler (n.) One who, or that which, recoils.,
R as in Recoilingly (adv.) In the manner of a recoil.,
R as in Recoilment (n.) Recoil.,
R as in Recoin (v. t.) To coin anew or again.,
R as in Recoinage (n.) The act of coining anew.,
R as in Recoinage (n.) That which is coined anew.,
R as in Re-collect (v. t.) To collect again; to gather what has been scattered; as, to re-collect routed troops.,
R as in Recollected (imp. & p. p.) of Recollect,
R as in Recollecting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Recollect,
R as in Recollect (v. t.) To recover or recall the knowledge of; to bring back to the mind or memory; to remember.,
R as in Recollect (v. t.) Reflexively, to compose one's self; to recover self-command; as, to recollect one's self after a burst of anger; -- sometimes, formerly, in the perfect participle.,
R as in Recollect (n.) A friar of the Strict Observance, -- an order of Franciscans.,
R as in Recollection (n.) The act of recollecting, or recalling to the memory; the operation by which objects are recalled to the memory, or ideas revived in the mind; reminiscence; remembrance.,
R as in Recollection (n.) The power of recalling ideas to the mind, or the period within which things can be recollected; remembrance; memory; as, an event within my recollection.,
R as in Recollection (n.) That which is recollected; something called to mind; reminiscence.,
R as in Recollection (n.) The act or practice of collecting or concentrating the mind; concentration; self-control.,
R as in Recollective (a.) Having the power of recollecting.,
R as in Recollet (n.) Same as Recollect, n.,
R as in Recolonization (n.) A second or renewed colonization.,
R as in Recolonize (v. t.) To colonize again.,
R as in Recombination (n.) Combination a second or additional time.,
R as in Recombine (v. t.) To combine again.,
R as in Recomfort (v. t.) To comfort again; to console anew; to give new strength to.,
R as in Recomfortless (a.) Without comfort.,
R as in Recomforture (n.) The act of recomforting; restoration of comfort.,
R as in Recommence (v. i.) To commence or begin again.,
R as in Recommence (v. i.) To begin anew to be; to act again as.,
R as in Recommence (v. t.) To commence again or anew.,
R as in Recommencement (n.) A commencement made anew.,
R as in Recommended (imp. & p. p.) of Recommend,
R as in Recommending (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Recommend,
R as in Recommend (v. t.) To commend to the favorable notice of another; to commit to another's care, confidence, or acceptance, with favoring representations; to put in a favorable light before any one; to bestow commendation on; as, he recommended resting the mind and exercising the body.,
R as in Recommend (v. t.) To make acceptable; to attract favor to.,
R as in Recommend (v. t.) To commit; to give in charge; to commend.,
R as in Recommendable (a.) Suitable to be recommended; worthy of praise; commendable.,
R as in Recommendation (n.) The act of recommending.,
R as in Recommendation (n.) That which recommends, or commends to favor; anything procuring, or tending to procure, a favorable reception, or to secure acceptance and adoption; as, he brought excellent recommendations.,
R as in Recommendation (n.) The state of being recommended; esteem.,
R as in Recommendative (n.) That which recommends; a recommendation.,
R as in Recommendatory (a.) Serving to recommend; recommending; commendatory.,
R as in Recommender (n.) One who recommends.,
R as in Recommission (v. t.) To commission again; to give a new commission to.,
R as in Recommit (v. t.) To commit again; to give back into keeping; specifically, to refer again to a committee; as, to recommit a bill to the same committee.,
R as in Recommitment (n.) Alt. of Recommittal,
R as in Recommittal (n.) A second or renewed commitment; a renewed reference to a committee.,
R as in Recompact (v. t.) To compact or join anew.,
R as in Recompensation (n.) Recompense.,
R as in Recompensation (n.) Used to denote a case where a set-off pleaded by the defendant is met by a set-off pleaded by the plaintiff.,
R as in Recompensed (imp. & p. p.) of Recompense,
R as in Recompensing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Recompense,
R as in Recompense (v. t.) To render an equivalent to, for service, loss, etc.; to requite; to remunerate; to compensate.,
R as in Recompense (v. t.) To return an equivalent for; to give compensation for; to atone for; to pay for.,
R as in Recompense (v. t.) To give in return; to pay back; to pay, as something earned or deserved.,
R as in Recompense (v. i.) To give recompense; to make amends or requital.,
R as in Recompense (n.) An equivalent returned for anything done, suffered, or given; compensation; requital; suitable return.,
R as in Recompensement (n.) Recompense; requital.,
R as in Recompenser (n.) One who recompenses.,
R as in Recompensive (a.) Of the nature of recompense; serving to recompense.,
R as in Recompilation (n.) A new compilation.,
R as in Recompile (v. t.) To compile anew.,
R as in Recompilement (n.) The act of recompiling; new compilation or digest; as, a recompilement of the laws.,
R as in Recomposed (imp. & p. p.) of Recompose,
R as in Recomposing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Recompose,
R as in Recompose (v. t.) To compose again; to form anew; to put together again or repeatedly.,
R as in Recompose (v. t.) To restore to composure; to quiet anew; to tranquilize; as, to recompose the mind.,
R as in Recomposer (n.) One who recomposes.,
R as in Recomposition (n.) The act of recomposing.,
R as in Reconcilable (a.) Capable of being reconciled; as, reconcilable adversaries; an act reconciable with previous acts.,
R as in Reconciled (imp. & p. p.) of Reconcile,
R as in Reconciling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Reconcile,
R as in Reconcile (v. t.) To cause to be friendly again; to conciliate anew; to restore to friendship; to bring back to harmony; to cause to be no longer at variance; as, to reconcile persons who have quarreled.,
R as in Reconcile (v. t.) To bring to acquiescence, content, or quiet submission; as, to reconcile one's self to affictions.,
R as in Reconcile (v. t.) To make consistent or congruous; to bring to agreement or suitableness; -- followed by with or to.,
R as in Reconcile (v. t.) To adjust; to settle; as, to reconcile differences.,
R as in Reconcile (v. i.) To become reconciled.,
R as in Reconcilement (n.) Reconciliation.,
R as in Reconciler (n.) One who reconciles.,
R as in Reconciliation (n.) The act of reconciling, or the state of being reconciled; reconcilenment; restoration to harmony; renewal of friendship.,
R as in Reconciliation (n.) Reduction to congruence or consistency; removal of inconsistency; harmony.,
R as in Reconciliatory (a.) Serving or tending to reconcile.,
R as in Recondensation (n.) The act or process of recondensing.,
R as in Recondense (v. t.) To condense again.,
R as in Recondite (a.) Hidden from the mental or intellectual view; secret; abstruse; as, recondite causes of things.,
R as in Recondite (a.) Dealing in things abstruse; profound; searching; as, recondite studies.,
R as in Reconditory (n.) A repository; a storehouse.,
R as in Reconduct (v. t.) To conduct back or again.,
R as in Reconfirm (v. t.) To confirm anew.,
R as in Reconfort (v. t.) To recomfort; to comfort.,
R as in Reconjoin (v. t.) To join or conjoin anew.,
R as in Reconnoissance (n.) Alt. of Reconnaissance,
R as in Reconnaissance (n.) The act of reconnoitering; preliminary examination or survey.,
R as in Reconnaissance (n.) An examination or survey of a region in reference to its general geological character.,
R as in Reconnaissance (n.) An examination of a region as to its general natural features, preparatory to a more particular survey for the purposes of triangulation, or of determining the location of a public work.,
R as in Reconnaissance (n.) An examination of a territory, or of an enemy's position, for the purpose of obtaining information necessary for directing military operations; a preparatory expedition.,
R as in Reconnoiter (v. t.) Alt. of Reconnoitre,
R as in Reconnoitre (v. t.) To examine with the eye to make a preliminary examination or survey of; esp., to survey with a view to military or engineering operations.,
R as in Reconnoitre (v. t.) To recognize.,
R as in Reconquer (v. t.) To conquer again; to recover by conquest; as, to reconquer a revolted province.,
R as in Reconquest (n.) A second conquest.,
R as in Reconsecrate (v. t.) To consecrate anew or again.,
R as in Reconsecration (n.) Renewed consecration.,
R as in Reconsider (v. t.) To consider again; as, to reconsider a subject.,
R as in Reconsider (v. t.) To take up for renewed consideration, as a motion or a vote which has been previously acted upon.,
R as in Reconsideration (n.) The act of reconsidering, or the state of being reconsidered; as, the reconsideration of a vote in a legislative body.,
R as in Reconsolate (v. t.) To console or comfort again.,
R as in Reconsolidate (v. t.) To consolidate anew or again.,
R as in Reconsolidation (n.) The act or process of reconsolidating; the state of being reconsolidated.,
R as in Reconstruct (v. t.) To construct again; to rebuild; to remodel; to form again or anew.,
R as in Reconstruction (n.) The act of constructing again; the state of being reconstructed.,
R as in Reconstruction (n.) The act or process of reorganizing the governments of the States which had passed ordinances of secession, and of reestablishing their constitutional relations to the national government, after the close of the Civil War.,
R as in Reconstructive (a.) Reconstructing; tending to reconstruct; as, a reconstructive policy.,
R as in Recontinuance (n.) The act or state of recontinuing.,
R as in Recontinue (v. t. & i.) To continue anew.,
R as in Reconvene (v. t. & i.) To convene or assemble again; to call or come together again.,
R as in Reconvention (n.) A cross demand; an action brought by the defendant against the plaintiff before the same judge.,
R as in Reconversion (n.) A second conversion.,
R as in Reconvert (v. t.) To convert again.,
R as in Reconvert (n.) A person who has been reconverted.,
R as in Reconvertible (a.) Capable of being reconverted; convertible again to the original form or condition.,
R as in Reconvey (v. t.) To convey back or to the former place; as, to reconvey goods.,
R as in Reconvey (v. t.) To transfer back to a former owner; as, to reconvey an estate.,
R as in Reconveyance (n.) Act of reconveying.,
R as in Recopy (v. t.) To copy again.,
R as in Recorded (imp. & p. p.) of Record,
R as in Recording (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Record,
R as in Record (v. t.) To recall to mind; to recollect; to remember; to meditate.,
R as in Record (v. t.) To repeat; to recite; to sing or play.,
R as in Record (v. t.) To preserve the memory of, by committing to writing, to printing, to inscription, or the like; to make note of; to write or enter in a book or on parchment, for the purpose of preserving authentic evidence of; to register; to enroll; as, to record the proceedings of a court; to record historical events.,
R as in Record (v. i.) To reflect; to ponder.,
R as in Record (v. i.) To sing or repeat a tune.,
R as in Record (v. t.) A writing by which some act or event, or a number of acts or events, is recorded; a register; as, a record of the acts of the Hebrew kings; a record of the variations of temperature during a certain time; a family record.,
R as in Record (v. t.) An official contemporaneous writing by which the acts of some public body, or public officer, are recorded; as, a record of city ordinances; the records of the receiver of taxes.,
R as in Record (v. t.) An authentic official copy of a document which has been entered in a book, or deposited in the keeping of some officer designated by law.,
R as in Record (v. t.) An official contemporaneous memorandum stating the proceedings of a court of justice; a judicial record.,
R as in Record (v. t.) The various legal papers used in a case, together with memoranda of the proceedings of the court; as, it is not permissible to allege facts not in the record.,
R as in Record (v. t.) Testimony; witness; attestation.,
R as in Record (v. t.) That which serves to perpetuate a knowledge of acts or events; a monument; a memorial.,
R as in Record (v. t.) That which has been, or might be, recorded; the known facts in the course, progress, or duration of anything, as in the life of a public man; as, a politician with a good or a bad record.,
R as in Record (v. t.) That which has been publicly achieved in any kind of competitive sport as recorded in some authoritative manner, as the time made by a winning horse in a race.,
R as in Recordance (n.) Remembrance.,
R as in Recordation (v. t.) Remembrance; recollection; also, a record.,
R as in Recorder (n.) One who records; specifically, a person whose official duty it is to make a record of writings or transactions.,
R as in Recorder (n.) The title of the chief judical officer of some cities and boroughs; also, of the chief justice of an East Indian settlement. The Recorder of London is judge of the Lord Mayor's Court, and one of the commissioners of the Central Criminal Court.,
R as in Recorder (n.) A kind of wind instrument resembling the flageolet.,
R as in Recordership (n.) The office of a recorder.,
R as in Recording (a.) Keeping a record or a register; as, a recording secretary; -- applied to numerous instruments with an automatic appliance which makes a record of their action; as, a recording gauge or telegraph.,
R as in Recorporification (n.) The act of investing again with a body; the state of being furnished anew with a body.,
R as in Recouch (v. i.) To retire again to a couch; to lie down again.,
R as in Recount (v. t.) To count or reckon again.,
R as in Recount (n.) A counting again, as of votes.,
R as in Recount (v.) To tell over; to relate in detail; to recite; to tell or narrate the particulars of; to rehearse; to enumerate; as, to recount one's blessings.,
R as in Recountment (n.) Recital.,
R as in Recoup (v. t.) Alt. of Recoupe,
R as in Recoupe (v. t.) To keep back rightfully (a part), as if by cutting off, so as to diminish a sum due; to take off (a part) from damages; to deduct; as, where a landlord recouped the rent of premises from damages awarded to the plaintiff for eviction.,
R as in Recoupe (v. t.) To get an equivalent or compensation for; as, to recoup money lost at the gaming table; to recoup one's losses in the share market.,
R as in Recoupe (v. t.) To reimburse; to indemnify; -- often used reflexively and in the passive.,
R as in Recouper (n.) One who recoups.,
R as in Recoupment (n.) The act of recouping.,
R as in Recourse (n.) A coursing back, or coursing again, along the line of a previous coursing; renewed course; return; retreat; recurence.,
R as in Recourse (n.) Recurrence in difficulty, perplexity, need, or the like; access or application for aid; resort.,
R as in Recourse (n.) Access; admittance.,
R as in Recourse (v. i.) To return; to recur.,
R as in Recourse (v. i.) To have recourse; to resort.,
R as in Recourseful (a.) Having recurring flow and ebb; moving alternately.,
R as in Recover (v. t.) To cover again.,
R as in Recovered (imp. & p. p.) of Recover,
R as in Recovering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Recover,
R as in Recover (v. t.) To get or obtain again; to get renewed possession of; to win back; to regain.,
R as in Recover (v. t.) To make good by reparation; to make up for; to retrieve; to repair the loss or injury of; as, to recover lost time.,
R as in Recover (v. t.) To restore from sickness, faintness, or the like; to bring back to life or health; to cure; to heal.,
R as in Recover (v. t.) To overcome; to get the better of, -- as a state of mind or body.,
R as in Recover (v. t.) To rescue; to deliver.,
R as in Recover (v. t.) To gain by motion or effort; to obtain; to reach; to come to.,
R as in Recover (v. t.) To gain as a compensation; to obtain in return for injury or debt; as, to recover damages in trespass; to recover debt and costs in a suit at law; to obtain title to by judgement in a court of law; as, to recover lands in ejectment or common recovery; to gain by legal process; as, to recover judgement against a defendant.,
R as in Recover (v. i.) To regain health after sickness; to grow well; to be restored or cured; hence, to regain a former state or condition after misfortune, alarm, etc.; -- often followed by of or from; as, to recover from a state of poverty; to recover from fright.,
R as in Recover (v. i.) To make one's way; to come; to arrive.,
R as in Recover (v. i.) To obtain a judgement; to succeed in a lawsuit; as, the plaintiff has recovered in his suit.,
R as in Recover (n.) Recovery.,
R as in Recoverable (a.) Capable of being recovered or regained; capable of being brought back to a former condition, as from sickness, misfortune, etc.; obtainable from a debtor or possessor; as, the debt is recoverable; goods lost or sunk in the ocean are not recoverable.,
R as in Re coverance (n.) Recovery.,
R as in Recoveree (n.) The person against whom a judgment is obtained in common recovery.,
R as in Recoverer (n.) One who recovers.,
R as in Recoveror (n.) The demandant in a common recovery after judgment.,
R as in Recovery (n.) The act of recovering, regaining, or retaking possession.,
R as in Recovery (n.) Restoration from sickness, weakness, faintness, or the like; restoration from a condition of mistortune, of fright, etc.,
R as in Recovery (n.) The obtaining in a suit at law of a right to something by a verdict and judgment of court.,
R as in Recovery (n.) The getting, or gaining, of something not previously had.,
R as in Recovery (n.) In rowing, the act of regaining the proper position for making a new stroke.,
R as in Recreance (n.) Recreancy.,
R as in Recreancy (n.) The quality or state of being recreant.,
R as in Recreant (a.) Crying for mercy, as a combatant in the trial by battle; yielding; cowardly; mean-spirited; craven.,
R as in Recreant (a.) Apostate; false; unfaithful.,
R as in Recreant (n.) One who yields in combat, and begs for mercy; a mean-spirited, cowardly wretch.,
R as in Re-create (v. t.) To create or form anew.,
R as in Recreated (imp. & p. p.) of Recreate,
R as in Recreating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Recreate,
R as in Recreate (v. t.) To give fresh life to; to reanimate; to revive; especially, to refresh after wearying toil or anxiety; to relieve; to cheer; to divert; to amuse; to gratify.,
R as in Recreate (v. i.) To take recreation.,
R as in Recreation (n.) The act of recreating, or the state of being recreated; refreshment of the strength and spirits after toil; amusement; diversion; sport; pastime.,
R as in Re-creation (n.) A forming anew; a new creation or formation.,
R as in Re-creative (a.) Creating anew; as, re-creative power.,
R as in Recreative (a.) Tending to recreate or refresh; recreating; giving new vigor or animation; reinvigorating; giving relief after labor or pain; amusing; diverting.,
R as in Recrement (n.) Superfluous matter separated from that which is useful; dross; scoria; as, the recrement of ore.,
R as in Recrement (n.) Excrement.,
R as in Recrement (n.) A substance secreted from the blood and again absorbed by it.,
R as in Recremental (a.) Recrementitious.,
R as in Recrementitial (a.) Of the nature of a recrement. See Recrement, 2 (b).,
R as in Recrementitious (a.) Of or pertaining to recrement; consisting of recrement or dross.,
R as in Recriminate (v. i.) To return one charge or accusation with another; to charge back fault or crime upon an accuser.,
R as in Recriminate (v. t.) To accuse in return.,
R as in Recrimination (n.) The act of recriminating; an accusation brought by the accused against the accuser; a counter accusation.,
R as in Recriminative (a.) Recriminatory.,
R as in Recriminator (n.) One who recriminates.,
R as in Recriminatory (a.) Having the quality of recrimination; retorting accusation; recriminating.,
R as in Recross (v. t.) To cross a second time.,
R as in Recrudency (n.) Recrudescence.,
R as in Recrudescence (n.) Alt. of Recrudescency,
R as in Recrudescency (n.) The state or condition of being recrudescent.,
R as in Recrudescency (n.) Increased severity of a disease after temporary remission.,
R as in Recrudescent (a.) Growing raw, sore, or painful again.,
R as in Recrudescent (a.) Breaking out again after temporary abatement or supression; as, a recrudescent epidemic.,
R as in Recruited (imp. & p. p.) of Recruit,
R as in Recruiting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Recruit,
R as in Recruit (v. t.) To repair by fresh supplies, as anything wasted; to remedy lack or deficiency in; as, food recruits the flesh; fresh air and exercise recruit the spirits.,
R as in Recruit (v. t.) Hence, to restore the wasted vigor of; to renew in strength or health; to reinvigorate.,
R as in Recruit (v. t.) To supply with new men, as an army; to fill up or make up by enlistment; as, he recruited two regiments; the army was recruited for a campaign; also, to muster; to enlist; as, he recruited fifty men.,
R as in Recruit (v. i.) To gain new supplies of anything wasted; to gain health, flesh, spirits, or the like; to recuperate; as, lean cattle recruit in fresh pastures.,
R as in Recruit (v. i.) To gain new supplies of men for military or other service; to raise or enlist new soldiers; to enlist troops.,
R as in Recruit (n.) A supply of anything wasted or exhausted; a reenforcement.,
R as in Recruit (n.) Specifically, a man enlisted for service in the army; a newly enlisted soldier.,
R as in Recruiter (n.) One who, or that which, recruits.,
R as in Recruitment (n.) The act or process of recruiting; especially, the enlistment of men for an army.,
R as in Recrystallization (n.) The process or recrystallizing.,
R as in Recrystallize (v. i. & t.) To crystallize again.,
R as in Rectal (a.) Of or pertaining to the rectum; in the region of the rectum.,
R as in Rectangle (n.) A four-sided figure having only right angles; a right-angled parallelogram.,
R as in Rectangle (a.) Rectangular.,
R as in Rectangled (a.) Rectangular.,
R as in Rectangular (a.) Right-angled; having one or more angles of ninety degrees.,
R as in Rectangularity (n.) The quality or condition of being rectangular, or right-angled.,
R as in Recti- () A combining form signifying straight; as, rectilineal, having straight lines; rectinerved.,
R as in Rectifiable (a.) Capable of being rectified; as, a rectifiable mistake.,
R as in Rectifiable (a.) Admitting, as a curve, of the construction of a straight l//e equal in length to any definite portion of the curve.,
R as in Rectification (n.) The act or operation of rectifying; as, the rectification of an error; the rectification of spirits.,
R as in Rectification (n.) The determination of a straight line whose length is equal a portion of a curve.,
R as in Rectificator (n.) That which rectifies or refines; esp., a part of a distilling apparatus in which the more volatile portions are separated from the less volatile by the process of evaporation and condensation; a rectifier.,
R as in Rectifier (n.) One who, or that which, rectifies.,
R as in Rectifier (n.) Specifically: (a) (Naut.) An instrument used for determining and rectifying the variations of the compass on board ship. (b) (Chem.) A rectificator.,
R as in Rectified (imp. & p. p.) of Rectify,
R as in Rectifying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rectify,
R as in Rectify (v. t.) To make or set right; to correct from a wrong, erroneous, or false state; to amend; as, to rectify errors, mistakes, or abuses; to rectify the will, the judgment, opinions; to rectify disorders.,
R as in Rectify (v. t.) To refine or purify by repeated distillation or sublimation, by which the fine parts of a substance are separated from the grosser; as, to rectify spirit of wine.,
R as in Rectify (v. t.) To produce ( as factitious gin or brandy) by redistilling low wines or ardent spirits (whisky, rum, etc.), flavoring substances, etc., being added.,
R as in Rectilineal (a.) Alt. of Rectilinear,
R as in Rectilinear (a.) Straight; consisting of a straight line or lines; bounded by straight lines; as, a rectineal angle; a rectilinear figure or course.,
R as in Rectilinearity (n.) The quality or state of being rectilinear.,
R as in Rectilineous (a.) Rectilinear.,
R as in Rectinerved (a.) Having the veins or nerves straight; -- said of leaves.,
R as in Rection (n.) See Government, n., 7.,
R as in Rectirostral (a.) Having a straight beak.,
R as in Rectiserial (a.) Arranged in exactly vertical ranks, as the leaves on stems of many kinds; -- opposed to curviserial.,
R as in Rectitis (n.) Proctitis.,
R as in Rectitude (n.) Straightness.,
R as in Rectitude (n.) Rightness of principle or practice; exact conformity to truth, or to the rules prescribed for moral conduct, either by divine or human laws; uprightness of mind; uprightness; integrity; honesty; justice.,
R as in Rectitude (n.) Right judgment.,
R as in Recto- () A combining form indicating connection with, or relation to, the rectum; as, recto-vesical.,
R as in Recto (n.) A writ of right.,
R as in Recto (n.) The right-hand page; -- opposed to verso.,
R as in Rector (n.) A ruler or governor.,
R as in Rector (n.) A clergyman who has the charge and cure of a parish, and has the tithes, etc.; the clergyman of a parish where the tithes are not impropriate. See the Note under Vicar.,
R as in Rector (n.) A clergyman in charge of a parish.,
R as in Rector (n.) The head master of a public school.,
R as in Rector (n.) The chief elective officer of some universities, as in France and Scotland; sometimes, the head of a college; as, the Rector of Exeter College, or of Lincoln College, at Oxford.,
R as in Rector (n.) The superior officer or chief of a convent or religious house; and among the Jesuits the superior of a house that is a seminary or college.,
R as in Rectoral (a.) Pertaining to a rector or governor.,
R as in Rectorate (n.) The office, rank, or station of a rector; rectorship.,
R as in Rectoress (n.) A governess; a rectrix.,
R as in Rectoress (n.) The wife of a rector.,
R as in Rectorial (a.) Pertaining to a rector or a rectory; rectoral.,
R as in Rectorship (n.) Government; guidance.,
R as in Rectorship (n.) The office or rank of a rector; rectorate.,
R as in Rectories (pl. ) of Rectory,
R as in Rectory (n.) The province of a rector; a parish church, parsonage, or spiritual living, with all its rights, tithes, and glebes.,
R as in Rectory (n.) A rector's mansion; a parsonage house.,
R as in Recto-uterine (a.) Of or pertaining to both the rectum and the uterus.,
R as in Rectovaginal (a.) Of or pertaining to both the rectum and the vagina.,
R as in Recto-vesical (a.) Of or pertaining to both the rectum and the bladder.,
R as in Rectress (n.) A rectoress.,
R as in Rectrices (pl. ) of Rectrix,
R as in Rectrix (n.) A governess; a rectoress.,
R as in Rectrix (n.) One of the quill feathers of the tail of a bird.,
R as in Rectum (n.) The terminal part of the large intestine; -- so named because supposed by the old anatomists to be straight. See Illust. under Digestive.,
R as in Recti (pl. ) of Rectus,
R as in Rectus (n.) A straight muscle; as, the recti of the eye.,
R as in Recubation (n.) Recumbence.,
R as in Recule (v. i.) To recoil.,
R as in Recule (n.) Alt. of Reculement,
R as in Reculement (n.) Recoil.,
R as in Recumb (v. i.) To lean; to recline; to repose.,
R as in Recumbence (n.) The act of leaning, resting, or reclining; the state of being recumbent.,
R as in Recumbency (n.) Recumbence.,
R as in Recumbent (a.) Leaning; reclining; lying; as, the recumbent posture of the Romans at their meals. Hence, figuratively; Resting; inactive; idle.,
R as in Recuperable (a.) Recoverable.,
R as in Recuperated (imp. &. p. p.) of Recuperate,
R as in Recuperating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Recuperate,
R as in Recuperate (v. i.) To recover health; to regain strength; to convalesce.,
R as in Recuperate (v. t.) To recover; to regain; as, to recuperate the health or strength.,
R as in Recuperation (n..) Recovery, as of anything lost, especially of the health or strength.,
R as in Recuperative (a.) Alt. of Recuperatory,
R as in Recuperatory (a.) Of or pertaining to recuperation; tending to recovery.,
R as in Recuperator (n.) Same as Regenerator.,
R as in Recurred (imp. & p. p.) of Recur,
R as in Recurring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Recur,
R as in Recur (v. i.) To come back; to return again or repeatedly; to come again to mind.,
R as in Recur (v. i.) To occur at a stated interval, or according to some regular rule; as, the fever will recur to-night.,
R as in Recur (v. i.) To resort; to have recourse; to go for help.,
R as in Recure (v. t.) To arrive at; to reach; to attain.,
R as in Recure (v. t.) To recover; to regain; to repossess.,
R as in Recure (v. t.) To restore, as from weariness, sickness; or the like; to repair.,
R as in Recure (v. t.) To be a cure for; to remedy.,
R as in Recure (n.) Cure; remedy; recovery.,
R as in Recureless (a.) Incapable of cure.,
R as in Recurrence (n.) Alt. of Recurrency,
R as in Recurrency (n.) The act of recurring, or state of being recurrent; return; resort; recourse.,
R as in Recurrent (a.) Returning from time to time; recurring; as, recurrent pains.,
R as in Recurrent (a.) Running back toward its origin; as, a recurrent nerve or artery.,
R as in Recursant (a.) Displayed with the back toward the spectator; -- said especially of an eagle.,
R as in Recursion (n.) The act of recurring; return.,
R as in Recurvate (a.) Recurved.,
R as in Recurvate (v. t.) To bend or curve back; to recurve.,
R as in Recurvation (n.) The act of recurving, or the state of being recurved; a bending or flexure backward.,
R as in Recurve (v. t.) To curve in an opposite or unusual direction; to bend back or down.,
R as in Recurved (a.) Curved in an opposite or uncommon direction; bent back; as, a bird with a recurved bill; flowers with recurved petals.,
R as in Recurviroster (n.) A bird whose beak bends upward, as the avocet.,
R as in Recurvirostral (a.) Having the beak bent upwards.,
R as in Recurvity (n.) Recurvation.,
R as in Recurvous (a.) Recurved.,
R as in Recusancy (n.) The state of being recusant; nonconformity.,
R as in Recusant (a.) Obstinate in refusal; specifically, in English history, refusing to acknowledge the supremacy of the king in the churc, or to conform to the established rites of the church; as, a recusant lord.,
R as in Recusant (n.) One who is obstinate in refusal; one standing out stubbornly against general practice or opinion.,
R as in Recusant (n.) A person who refuses to acknowledge the supremacy of the king in matters of religion; as, a Roman Catholic recusant, who acknowledges the supremacy of the pope.,
R as in Recusant (n.) One who refuses communion with the Church of England; a nonconformist.,
R as in Recusation (n.) Refusal.,
R as in Recusation (n.) The act of refusing a judge or challenging that he shall not try the cause, on account of his supposed partiality.,
R as in Recusative (a.) Refusing; denying; negative.,
R as in Recuse (v. t.) To refuse or reject, as a judge; to challenge that the judge shall not try the cause.,
R as in Recussion (n.) The act of beating or striking back.,
R as in Red () . imp. & p. p. of Read.,
R as in Red (v. t.) To put on order; to make tidy; also, to free from entanglement or embarrassement; -- generally with up; as, to red up a house.,
R as in Red (superl.) Of the color of blood, or of a tint resembling that color; of the hue of that part of the rainbow, or of the solar spectrum, which is furthest from the violet part.,
R as in Red (n.) The color of blood, or of that part of the spectrum farthest from violet, or a tint resembling these.,
R as in Red (n.) A red pigment.,
R as in Red (n.) An abbreviation for Red Republican. See under Red, a.,
R as in Red (a.) The menses.,
R as in Redact (v. t.) To reduce to form, as literary matter; to digest and put in shape (matter for publication); to edit.,
R as in Redacteur (n.) See Redactor.,
R as in Redaction (n.) The act of redacting; work produced by redacting; a digest.,
R as in Redactor (n.) One who redacts; one who prepares matter for publication; an editor.,
R as in Redan (n.) A work having two parapets whose faces unite so as to form a salient angle toward the enemy.,
R as in Redan (n.) A step or vertical offset in a wall on uneven ground, to keep the parts level.,
R as in Redargued (imp. & p. p.) of Redargue,
R as in Redarguing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Redargue,
R as in Redargue (v. t.) To disprove; to refute; toconfute; to reprove; to convict.,
R as in Redargution (n.) The act of redarguing; refutation.,
R as in Redargutory (a.) Pertaining to, or containing, redargution; refutatory.,
R as in Redback (n.) The dunlin.,
R as in Redbelly (n.) The char.,
R as in Redbird (n.) The cardinal bird.,
R as in Redbird (n.) The summer redbird (Piranga rubra).,
R as in Redbird (n.) The scarlet tanager. See Tanager.,
R as in Redbreast (n.) The European robin.,
R as in Redbreast (n.) The American robin. See Robin.,
R as in Redbreast (n.) The knot, or red-breasted snipe; -- called also robin breast, and robin snipe. See Knot.,
R as in Redbreast (n.) The long-eared pondfish. See Pondfish.,
R as in Redbud (n.) A small ornamental leguminous tree of the American species of the genus Cercis. See Judas tree, under Judas.,
R as in Redcap (n.) The European goldfinch.,
R as in Redcap (n.) A specter having long teeth, popularly supposed to haunt old castles in Scotland.,
R as in Redcoat (n.) One who wears a red coat; specifically, a red-coated British soldier.,
R as in Redde () obs. imp. of Read, or Rede.,
R as in Reddened (imp. & p. p.) of Redden,
R as in Reddening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Redden,
R as in Redden (a.) To make red or somewhat red; to give a red color to.,
R as in Redden (v. i.) To grow or become red; to blush.,
R as in Reddendum (n.) A clause in a deed by which some new thing is reserved out of what had been granted before; the clause by which rent is reserved in a lease.,
R as in Reddish (a.) Somewhat red; moderately red.,
R as in Reddition (n.) Restoration: restitution: surrender.,
R as in Reddition (n.) Explanation; representation.,
R as in Redditive (a.) Answering to an interrogative or inquiry; conveying a reply; as, redditive words.,
R as in Reddle (n.) Red chalk. See under Chalk.,
R as in Reddour (n.) Rigor; violence.,
R as in Rede (v. t.) To advise or counsel.,
R as in Rede (v. t.) To interpret; to explain.,
R as in Rede (n.) Advice; counsel; suggestion.,
R as in Rede (n.) A word or phrase; a motto; a proverb; a wise saw.,
R as in Redeemed (imp. & p. p.) of Redeem,
R as in Redeeming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Redeem,
R as in Redeem (v. t.) To purchase back; to regain possession of by payment of a stipulated price; to repurchase.,
R as in Redeem (v. t.) To recall, as an estate, or to regain, as mortgaged property, by paying what may be due by force of the mortgage.,
R as in Redeem (v. t.) To regain by performing the obligation or condition stated; to discharge the obligation mentioned in, as a promissory note, bond, or other evidence of debt; as, to redeem bank notes with coin.,
R as in Redeem (v. t.) To ransom, liberate, or rescue from captivity or bondage, or from any obligation or liability to suffer or to be forfeited, by paying a price or ransom; to ransom; to rescue; to recover; as, to redeem a captive, a pledge, and the like.,
R as in Redeem (v. t.) Hence, to rescue and deliver from the bondage of sin and the penalties of God's violated law.,
R as in Redeem (v. t.) To make good by performing fully; to fulfill; as, to redeem one's promises.,
R as in Redeem (v. t.) To pay the penalty of; to make amends for; to serve as an equivalent or offset for; to atone for; to compensate; as, to redeem an error.,
R as in Redeemability (n.) Redeemableness.,
R as in Redeemable (a.) Capable of being redeemed; subject to repurchase; held under conditions permitting redemption; as, a pledge securing the payment of money is redeemable.,
R as in Redeemable (a.) Subject to an obligation of redemtion; conditioned upon a promise of redemtion; payable; due; as, bonds, promissory notes, etc. , redeemabble in gold, or in current money, or four months after date.,
R as in Redeemableness (n.) The quality or state of being redeemable; redeemability.,
R as in Redeemer (n.) One who redeems.,
R as in Redeemer (n.) Specifically, the Savior of the world, Jesus Christ.,
R as in Redeless (a.) Without rede or counsel.,
R as in Redeliberate (v. t. & i.) To deliberate again; to reconsider.,
R as in Redeliver (v. t.) To deliver or give back; to return.,
R as in Redeliver (v. t.) To deliver or liberate a second time or again.,
R as in Redeliver (v. t.) To report; to deliver the answer of.,
R as in Redeliverance (n.) A second deliverance.,
R as in Redelivery (n.) Act of delivering back.,
R as in Redelivery (n.) A second or new delivery or liberation.,
R as in Redemand (v. t.) To demand back; to demand again.,
R as in Redemand (n.) A demanding back; a second or renewed demand.,
R as in Redemise (v. t.) To demise back; to convey or transfer back, as an estate.,
R as in Redemise (n.) The transfer of an estate back to the person who demised it; reconveyance; as, the demise and redemise of an estate. See under Demise.,
R as in Redemonstrate (v. t.) To demonstrate again, or anew.,
R as in Redemptible (a.) Redeemable.,
R as in Re-demption (n.) The act of redeeming, or the state of being redeemed; repurchase; ransom; release; rescue; deliverance; as, the redemption of prisoners taken in war; the redemption of a ship and cargo.,
R as in Re-demption (n.) The liberation of an estate from a mortgage, or the taking back of property mortgaged, upon performance of the terms or conditions on which it was conveyed; also, the right of redeeming and reentering upon an estate mortgaged. See Equity of redemption, under Equity.,
R as in Re-demption (n.) Performance of the obligation stated in a note, bill, bond, or other evidence of debt, by making payment to the holder.,
R as in Re-demption (n.) The procuring of God's favor by the sufferings and death of Christ; the ransom or deliverance of sinners from the bondage of sin and the penalties of God's violated law.,
R as in Redemptionary (n.) One who is, or may be, redeemed.,
R as in Redemptioner (n.) One who redeems himself, as from debt or servitude.,
R as in Redemptioner (n.) Formerly, one who, wishing to emigrate from Europe to America, sold his services for a stipulated time to pay the expenses of his passage.,
R as in Redemptionist (n.) A monk of an order founded in 1197; -- so called because the order was especially devoted to the redemption of Christians held in captivity by the Mohammedans. Called also Trinitarian.,
R as in Redemptive (a.) Serving or tending to redeem; redeeming; as, the redemptive work of Christ.,
R as in Redemptorist (n.) One of the Congregation of the Most Holy Redeemer, founded in Naples in 1732 by St. Alphonsus Maria de Liquori. It was introduced onto the United States in 1832 at Detroit. The Fathers of the Congregation devote themselves to preaching to the neglected, esp. in missions and retreats, and are forbidden by their rule to engage in the instruction of youth.,
R as in Redemptory (a.) Paid for ransom; serving to redeem.,
R as in Redempture (n.) Redemption.,
R as in Redented (a.) Formed like the teeth of a saw; indented.,
R as in Redeposit (v. t.) To deposit again.,
R as in Redescend (v. i.) To descend again.,
R as in Redeye (n.) The rudd.,
R as in Redeye (n.) Same as Redfish (d).,
R as in Redeye (n.) The goggle-eye, or fresh-water rock bass.,
R as in Redfin (n.) A small North American dace (Minnilus cornutus, or Notropis megalops). The male, in the breeding season, has bright red fins. Called also red dace, and shiner. Applied also to Notropis ardens, of the Mississippi valley.,
R as in Redfinch (n.) The European linnet.,
R as in Redfish (n.) The blueback salmon of the North Pacific; -- called also nerka. See Blueback (b).,
R as in Redfish (n.) The rosefish.,
R as in Redfish (n.) A large California labroid food fish (Trochocopus pulcher); -- called also fathead.,
R as in Redfish (n.) The red bass, red drum, or drumfish. See the Note under Drumfish.,
R as in Red-gum (n.) An eruption of red pimples upon the face, neck, and arms, in early infancy; tooth rash; strophulus.,
R as in Red-gum (n.) A name of rust on grain. See Rust.,
R as in Red-hand (a. / adv.) Alt. of Red-handed,
R as in Red-handed (a. / adv.) Having hands red with blood; in the very act, as if with red or bloody hands; -- said of a person taken in the act of homicide; hence, fresh from the commission of crime; as, he was taken red-hand or red-handed.,
R as in Redhead (n.) A person having red hair.,
R as in Redhead (n.) An American duck (Aythya Americana) highly esteemed as a game bird. It is closely allied to the canvasback, but is smaller and its head brighter red. Called also red-headed duck. American poachard, grayback, and fall duck. See Illust. under Poachard.,
R as in Redhead (n.) The red-headed woodpecker. See Woodpecker.,
R as in Redhead (n.) A kind of milkweed (Asclepias Curassavica) with red flowers. It is used in medicine.,
R as in Redhibition (n.) The annulling of a sale, and the return by the buyer of the article sold, on account of some defect.,
R as in Redhibitory (a.) Of or pertaining to redhibition; as, a redhibitory action or fault.,
R as in Redhoop (n.) The male of the European bullfinch.,
R as in Redhorn (n.) Any species of a tribe of butterflies (Fugacia) including the common yellow species and the cabbage butterflies. The antennae are usually red.,
R as in Red-hot (a.) Red with heat; heated to redness; as, red-hot iron; red-hot balls. Hence, figuratively, excited; violent; as, a red-hot radical.,
R as in Rediae (pl. ) of Redia,
R as in Redias (pl. ) of Redia,
R as in Redia (n.) A kind of larva, or nurse, which is prroduced within the sporocyst of certain trematodes by asexual generation. It in turn produces, in the same way, either another generation of rediae, or else cercariae within its own body. Called also proscolex, and nurse. See Illustration in Appendix.,
R as in Redient (a.) Returning.,
R as in Redigest (v. t.) To digest, or reduce to form, a second time.,
R as in Rediminish (v. t.) To diminish again.,
R as in Redingote (n.) A long plain double-breasted outside coat for women.,
R as in Redintegrate (a.) Restored to wholeness or a perfect state; renewed.,
R as in Redintegrate (v. t.) To make whole again; a renew; to restore to integrity or soundness.,
R as in Redintegration (n.) Restoration to a whole or sound state; renewal; renovation.,
R as in Redintegration (n.) Restoration of a mixed body or matter to its former nature and state.,
R as in Redintegration (n.) The law that objects which have been previously combined as part of a single mental state tend to recall or suggest one another; -- adopted by many philosophers to explain the phenomena of the association of ideas.,
R as in Redirect (a.) Applied to the examination of a witness, by the party calling him, after the cross-examination.,
R as in Redisburse (v. t.) To disburse anew; to give, or pay, back.,
R as in Rediscover (v. t.) To discover again.,
R as in Redispose (v. t.) To dispose anew or again; to readjust; to rearrange.,
R as in Redisseize (v. t.) To disseize anew, or a second time.,
R as in Redisseizin (n.) A disseizin by one who once before was adjudged to have dassezed the same person of the same lands, etc.; also, a writ which lay in such a case.,
R as in Redisseizor (n.) One who redisseizes.,
R as in Redissolve (v. t.) To dissolve again.,
R as in Redistill (v. t.) To distill again.,
R as in Redistrainer (n.) One who distrains again.,
R as in Redistribute (v. t.) To distribute again.,
R as in Redistrict (v. t.) To divide into new districts.,
R as in Redition (n.) Act of returning; return.,
R as in Redivide (v. t.) To divide anew.,
R as in Redleg (n.) Alt. of Redlegs,
R as in Redlegs (n.) The redshank.,
R as in Redlegs (n.) The turnstone.,
R as in Red-letter (a.) Of or pertaining to a red letter; marked by red letters.,
R as in Redly (adv.) In a red manner; with redness.,
R as in Redmouth (n.) Any one of several species of marine food fishes of the genus Diabasis, or Haemulon, of the Southern United States, having the inside of the mouth bright red. Called also flannelmouth, and grunt.,
R as in Redness (n.) The quality or state of being red; red color.,
R as in Redolence (n.) Alt. of Redolency,
R as in Redolency (n.) The quality of being redolent; sweetness of scent; pleasant odor; fragrance.,
R as in Redolent (a.) Diffusing odor or fragrance; spreading sweet scent; scented; odorous; smelling; -- usually followed by of.,
R as in Redouble (v. t.) To double again or repeatedly; to increase by continued or repeated additions; to augment greatly; to multiply.,
R as in Redouble (v. i.) To become greatly or repeatedly increased; to be multiplied; to be greatly augmented; as, the noise redoubles.,
R as in Redoubt (n.) A small, and usually a roughly constructed, fort or outwork of varying shape, commonly erected for a temporary purpose, and without flanking defenses, -- used esp. in fortifying tops of hills and passes, and positions in hostile territory.,
R as in Redoubt (n.) In permanent works, an outwork placed within another outwork. See F and i in Illust. of Ravelin.,
R as in Redoubt (v. t.) To stand in dread of; to regard with fear; to dread.,
R as in Redoubtable (a.) Formidable; dread; terrible to foes; as, a redoubtable hero; hence, valiant; -- often in contempt or burlesque.,
R as in Redoubted (a.) Formidable; dread.,
R as in Redoubting (n.) Reverence; honor.,
R as in Redounded (imp. & p. p.) of Redound,
R as in Redounding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Redound,
R as in Redound (v. i.) To roll back, as a wave or flood; to be sent or driven back; to flow back, as a consequence or effect; to conduce; to contribute; to result.,
R as in Redound (v. i.) To be in excess; to remain over and above; to be redundant; to overflow.,
R as in Redound (n.) The coming back, as of consequence or effect; result; return; requital.,
R as in Redound (n.) Rebound; reverberation.,
R as in Redowa (n.) A Bohemian dance of two kinds, one in triple time, like a waltz, the other in two-four time, like a polka. The former is most in use.,
R as in Redpole (n.) Same as Redpoll.,
R as in Redpoll (n.) Any one of several species of small northern finches of the genus Acanthis (formerly Aegiothus), native of Europe and America. The adults have the crown red or rosy. The male of the most common species (A. linarius) has also the breast and rump rosy. Called also redpoll linnet. See Illust. under Linnet.,
R as in Redpoll (n.) The common European linnet.,
R as in Redpoll (n.) The American redpoll warbler (Dendroica palmarum).,
R as in Redraft (v. t.) To draft or draw anew.,
R as in Redraft (n.) A second draft or copy.,
R as in Redraft (n.) A new bill of exchange which the holder of a protected bill draws on the drawer or indorsers, in order to recover the amount of the protested bill with costs and charges.,
R as in Redrew (imp.) of Redraw,
R as in Redrawn (p. p.) of Redraw,
R as in Redrawing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Redraw,
R as in Redraw (v. t.) To draw again; to make a second draft or copy of; to redraft.,
R as in Redraw (v. i.) To draw a new bill of exchange, as the holder of a protested bill, on the drawer or indorsers.,
R as in Redress (v. t.) To dress again.,
R as in Redress (v. t.) To put in order again; to set right; to emend; to revise.,
R as in Redress (v. t.) To set right, as a wrong; to repair, as an injury; to make amends for; to remedy; to relieve from.,
R as in Redress (v. t.) To make amends or compensation to; to relieve of anything unjust or oppressive; to bestow relief upon.,
R as in Redress (n.) The act of redressing; a making right; reformation; correction; amendment.,
R as in Redress (n.) A setting right, as of wrong, injury, or opression; as, the redress of grievances; hence, relief; remedy; reparation; indemnification.,
R as in Redress (n.) One who, or that which, gives relief; a redresser.,
R as in Redressal (n.) Redress.,
R as in Redresser (n.) One who redresses.,
R as in Redressible (a.) Such as may be redressed.,
R as in Redressive (a.) Tending to redress.,
R as in Redressless (a.) Not having redress; such as can not be redressed; irremediable.,
R as in Redressment (n.) The act of redressing; redress.,
R as in Red-riband (n.) The European red band fish, or fireflame. See Rend fish.,
R as in Redroot (n.) A name of several plants having red roots, as the New Jersey tea (see under Tea), the gromwell, the bloodroot, and the Lachnanthes tinctoria, an endogenous plant found in sandy swamps from Rhode Island to Florida.,
R as in Redsear (v. i.) To be brittle when red-hot; to be red-short.,
R as in Redshank (n.) A common Old World limicoline bird (Totanus calidris), having the legs and feet pale red. The spotted redshank (T. fuscus) is larger, and has orange-red legs. Called also redshanks, redleg, and clee.,
R as in Redshank (n.) The fieldfare.,
R as in Redshank (n.) A bare-legged person; -- a contemptuous appellation formerly given to the Scotch Highlanders, in allusion to their bare legs.,
R as in Red-short (a.) Hot-short; brittle when red-hot; -- said of certain kinds of iron.,
R as in Redskin (n.) A common appellation for a North American Indian; -- so called from the color of the skin.,
R as in Redstart (n.) A small, handsome European singing bird (Ruticilla phoenicurus), allied to the nightingale; -- called also redtail, brantail, fireflirt, firetail. The black redstart is P.tithys. The name is also applied to several other species of Ruticilla amnd allied genera, native of India.,
R as in Redstart (n.) An American fly-catching warbler (Setophaga ruticilla). The male is black, with large patches of orange-red on the sides, wings, and tail. The female is olive, with yellow patches.,
R as in Redstreak (n.) A kind of apple having the skin streaked with red and yellow, -- a favorite English cider apple.,
R as in Redstreak (n.) Cider pressed from redstreak apples.,
R as in Redtail (n.) The red-tailed hawk.,
R as in Redtail (n.) The European redstart.,
R as in Red-tailed (a.) Having a red tail.,
R as in Red-tape (a.) Pertaining to, or characterized by, official formality. See Red tape, under Red, a.,
R as in Red-tapism (n.) Strict adherence to official formalities.,
R as in Red-tapist (n.) One who is tenacious of a strict adherence to official formalities.,
R as in Redthroat (n.) A small Australian singing bird (Phyrrholaemus brunneus). The upper parts are brown, the center of the throat red.,
R as in Redtop (n.) A kind of grass (Agrostis vulgaris) highly valued in the United States for pasturage and hay for cattle; -- called also English grass, and in some localities herd's grass. See Illustration in Appendix. The tall redtop is Triodia seslerioides.,
R as in Redub (v. t.) To refit; to repair, or make reparation for; hence, to repay or requite.,
R as in Reduced (imp. & p. p.) of Reduce,
R as in Reducing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Reduce,
R as in Reduce (n.) To bring or lead back to any former place or condition.,
R as in Reduce (n.) To bring to any inferior state, with respect to rank, size, quantity, quality, value, etc.; to diminish; to lower; to degrade; to impair; as, to reduce a sergeant to the ranks; to reduce a drawing; to reduce expenses; to reduce the intensity of heat.,
R as in Reduce (n.) To bring to terms; to humble; to conquer; to subdue; to capture; as, to reduce a province or a fort.,
R as in Reduce (n.) To bring to a certain state or condition by grinding, pounding, kneading, rubbing, etc.; as, to reduce a substance to powder, or to a pasty mass; to reduce fruit, wood, or paper rags, to pulp.,
R as in Reduce (n.) To bring into a certain order, arrangement, classification, etc.; to bring under rules or within certain limits of descriptions and terms adapted to use in computation; as, to reduce animals or vegetables to a class or classes; to reduce a series of observations in astronomy; to reduce language to rules.,
R as in Reduce (n.) To change, as numbers, from one denomination into another without altering their value, or from one denomination into others of the same value; as, to reduce pounds, shillings, and pence to pence, or to reduce pence to pounds; to reduce days and hours to minutes, or minutes to days and hours.,
R as in Reduce (n.) To change the form of a quantity or expression without altering its value; as, to reduce fractions to their lowest terms, to a common denominator, etc.,
R as in Reduce (n.) To bring to the metallic state by separating from impurities; hence, in general, to remove oxygen from; to deoxidize; to combine with, or to subject to the action of, hydrogen; as, ferric iron is reduced to ferrous iron; or metals are reduced from their ores; -- opposed to oxidize.,
R as in Reduce (n.) To restore to its proper place or condition, as a displaced organ or part; as, to reduce a dislocation, a fracture, or a hernia.,
R as in Reducement (n.) Reduction.,
R as in Reducent (a.) Tending to reduce.,
R as in Reducent (n.) A reducent agent.,
R as in Reducer (n.) One who, or that which, reduces.,
R as in Reducible (a.) Capable of being reduced.,
R as in Reducibleness (n.) Quality of being reducible.,
R as in Reducing () a & n. from Reduce.,
R as in Reduct (v. t..) To reduce.,
R as in Reductibility (n.) The quality of being reducible; reducibleness.,
R as in Reduction (n.) The act of reducing, or state of being reduced; conversion to a given state or condition; diminution; conquest; as, the reduction of a body to powder; the reduction of things to order; the reduction of the expenses of government; the reduction of a rebellious province.,
R as in Reduction (n.) The act or process of reducing. See Reduce, v. t., 6. and To reduce an equation, To reduce an expression, under Reduce, v. t.,
R as in Reduction (v. t.) The correction of observations for known errors of instruments, etc.,
R as in Reduction (v. t.) The preparation of the facts and measurements of observations in order to deduce a general result.,
R as in Reduction (v. t.) The process of making a copy of something, as a figure, design, or draught, on a smaller scale, preserving the proper proportions.,
R as in Reduction (v. t.) The bringing of a syllogism in one of the so-called imperfect modes into a mode in the first figure.,
R as in Reduction (v. t.) The act, process, or result of reducing; as, the reduction of iron from its ores; the reduction of aldehyde from alcohol.,
R as in Reduction (v. t.) The operation of restoring a dislocated or fractured part to its former place.,
R as in Reductive (a.) Tending to reduce; having the power or effect of reducing.,
R as in Reductive (n.) A reductive agent.,
R as in Reductively (adv.) By reduction; by consequence.,
R as in Reduit (n.) A central or retired work within any other work.,
R as in Redundance (n.) Alt. of Redundancy,
R as in Redundancy (n.) The quality or state of being redundant; superfluity; superabundance; excess.,
R as in Redundancy (n.) That which is redundant or in excess; anything superfluous or superabundant.,
R as in Redundancy (n.) Surplusage inserted in a pleading which may be rejected by the court without impairing the validity of what remains.,
R as in Redundant (a.) Exceeding what is natural or necessary; superabundant; exuberant; as, a redundant quantity of bile or food.,
R as in Redundant (a.) Using more worrds or images than are necessary or useful; pleonastic.,
R as in Redundantly (adv.) In a refundant manner.,
R as in Reduplicate (a.) Double; doubled; reduplicative; repeated.,
R as in Reduplicate (a.) Valvate with the margins curved outwardly; -- said of the /stivation of certain flowers.,
R as in Reduplicate (v. t.) To redouble; to multiply; to repeat.,
R as in Reduplicate (v. t.) To repeat the first letter or letters of (a word). See Reduplication, 3.,
R as in Reduplication (n.) The act of doubling, or the state of being doubled.,
R as in Reduplication (n.) A figure in which the first word of a verse is the same as the last word of the preceding verse.,
R as in Reduplication (n.) The doubling of a stem or syllable (more or less modified), with the effect of changing the time expressed, intensifying the meaning, or making the word more imitative; also, the syllable thus added; as, L. tetuli; poposci.,
R as in Reduplicative (a.) Double; formed by reduplication; reduplicate.,
R as in Reduvid (n.) Any hemipterous insect of the genus Redivius, or family Reduvidae. They live by sucking the blood of other insects, and some species also attack man.,
R as in Redweed (n.) The red poppy (Papaver Rhoeas).,
R as in Redwing (n.) A European thrush (Turdus iliacus). Its under wing coverts are orange red. Called also redwinged thrush. (b) A North American passerine bird (Agelarius ph/niceus) of the family Icteridae. The male is black, with a conspicuous patch of bright red, bordered with orange, on each wing. Called also redwinged blackbird, red-winged troupial, marsh blackbird, and swamp blackbird.,
R as in Redwithe (n.) A west Indian climbing shrub (Combretum Jacquini) with slender reddish branchlets.,
R as in Redwood (n.) A gigantic coniferous tree (Sequoia sempervirens) of California, and its light and durable reddish timber. See Sequoia.,
R as in Redwood (n.) An East Indian dyewood, obtained from Pterocarpus santalinus, Caesalpinia Sappan, and several other trees.,
R as in Ree (n.) See Rei.,
R as in Ree (v. t.) To riddle; to sift; to separate or throw off.,
R as in Reebok (n.) The peele.,
R as in Reecho (v. t.) To echo back; to reverberate again; as, the hills reecho the roar of cannon.,
R as in Reecho (v. i.) To give echoes; to return back, or be reverberated, as an echo; to resound; to be resonant.,
R as in Reecho (n.) The echo of an echo; a repeated or second echo.,
R as in Reechy (a.) Smoky; reeky; hence, begrimed with dirt.,
R as in Reed (a.) Red.,
R as in Reed (v. & n.) Same as Rede.,
R as in Reed (n.) The fourth stomach of a ruminant; rennet.,
R as in Reed (n.) A name given to many tall and coarse grasses or grasslike plants, and their slender, often jointed, stems, such as the various kinds of bamboo, and especially the common reed of Europe and North America (Phragmites communis).,
R as in Reed (n.) A musical instrument made of the hollow joint of some plant; a rustic or pastoral pipe.,
R as in Reed (n.) An arrow, as made of a reed.,
R as in Reed (n.) Straw prepared for thatching a roof.,
R as in Reed (n.) A small piece of cane or wood attached to the mouthpiece of certain instruments, and set in vibration by the breath. In the clarinet it is a single fiat reed; in the oboe and bassoon it is double, forming a compressed tube.,
R as in Reed (n.) One of the thin pieces of metal, the vibration of which produce the tones of a melodeon, accordeon, harmonium, or seraphine; also attached to certain sets or registers of pipes in an organ.,
R as in Reed (n.) A frame having parallel flat stripe of metal or reed, between which the warp threads pass, set in the swinging lathe or batten of a loom for beating up the weft; a sley. See Batten.,
R as in Reed (n.) A tube containing the train of powder for igniting the charge in blasting.,
R as in Reed (n.) Same as Reeding.,
R as in Reedbird (n.) The bobolink.,
R as in Reedbird (n.) One of several small Asiatic singing birds of the genera Sch/nicola and Eurycercus; -- called also reed babbler.,
R as in Reedbuck (n.) See Rietboc.,
R as in Reeded (a.) Civered with reeds; reedy.,
R as in Reeded (a.) Formed with channels and ridges like reeds.,
R as in Reeden (a.) Consisting of a reed or reeds.,
R as in Reedification (n.) The act reedifying; the state of being reedified.,
R as in Reedify (v. t.) To edify anew; to build again after destruction.,
R as in Reeding (n.) A small convex molding; a reed (see Illust. (i) of Molding); one of several set close together to decorate a surface; also, decoration by means of reedings; -- the reverse of fluting.,
R as in Reeding (n.) The nurling on the edge of a coin; -- commonly called milling.,
R as in Reedless (a.) Destitute of reeds; as, reedless banks.,
R as in Reedling (n.) The European bearded titmouse (Panurus biarmicus); -- called also reed bunting, bearded pinnock, and lesser butcher bird.,
R as in Reed-mace (n.) The cat-tail.,
R as in Reedwork (n.) A collective name for the reed stops of an organ.,
R as in Reedy (a.) Abounding with reeds; covered with reeds.,
R as in Reedy (a.) Having the quality of reed in tone, that is, ///// and thin^ as some voices.,
R as in Reef (n.) A chain or range of rocks lying at or near the surface of the water. See Coral reefs, under Coral.,
R as in Reef (n.) A large vein of auriferous quartz; -- so called in Australia. Hence, any body of rock yielding valuable ore.,
R as in Reef (v. t.) That part of a sail which is taken in or let out by means of the reef points, in order to adapt the size of the sail to the force of the wind.,
R as in Reefed (imp. & p. p.) of Reef,
R as in Reefing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Reef,
R as in Reef (v. t.) To reduce the extent of (as a sail) by roiling or folding a certain portion of it and making it fast to the yard or spar.,
R as in Reef-band (n.) A piece of canvas sewed across a sail to strengthen it in the part where the eyelet holes for reefing are made.,
R as in Reefer (n.) One who reefs; -- a name often given to midshipmen.,
R as in Reefer (n.) A close-fitting lacket or short coat of thick cloth.,
R as in Reefing (n.) The process of taking in a reef.,
R as in Reefy (a.) Full of reefs or rocks.,
R as in Reek (n.) A rick.,
R as in Reek (n.) Vapor; steam; smoke; fume.,
R as in Reeked (imp. & p. p.) of Reek,
R as in Reeking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Reek,
R as in Reek (v. i.) To emit vapor, usually that which is warm and moist; to be full of fumes; to steam; to smoke; to exhale.,
R as in Reeky (a.) Soiled with smoke or steam; smoky; foul.,
R as in Reeky (a.) Emitting reek.,
R as in Reel (n.) A lively dance of the Highlanders of Scotland; also, the music to the dance; -- often called Scotch reel.,
R as in Reel (n.) A frame with radial arms, or a kind of spool, turning on an axis, on which yarn, threads, lines, or the like, are wound; as, a log reel, used by seamen; an angler's reel; a garden reel.,
R as in Reel (n.) A machine on which yarn is wound and measured into lays and hanks, -- for cotton or linen it is fifty-four inches in circuit; for worsted, thirty inches.,
R as in Reel (n.) A device consisting of radial arms with horizontal stats, connected with a harvesting machine, for holding the stalks of grain in position to be cut by the knives.,
R as in Reeled (imp. & p. p.) of Reel,
R as in Reeling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Reel,
R as in Reel (v. t.) To roll.,
R as in Reel (v. t.) To wind upon a reel, as yarn or thread.,
R as in Reel (v. i.) To incline, in walking, from one side to the other; to stagger.,
R as in Reel (v. i.) To have a whirling sensation; to be giddy.,
R as in Reel (n.) The act or motion of reeling or staggering; as, a drunken reel.,
R as in Reelect (v. t.) To elect again; as, to reelect the former governor.,
R as in Reelection (n.) Election a second time, or anew; as, the reelection of a former chief.,
R as in Reeler (n.) One who reels.,
R as in Reeler (n.) The grasshopper warbler; -- so called from its note.,
R as in Reeligible (a.) Eligible again; capable of reelection; as, reeligible to the same office.,
R as in Reem (n.) The Hebrew name of a horned wild animal, probably the Urus.,
R as in Reem (v. t.) To open (the seams of a vessel's planking) for the purpose of calking them.,
R as in Reembark (v. t. & i.) To put, or go, on board a vessel again; to embark again.,
R as in Reembarkation (n.) A putting, or going, on board a vessel again.,
R as in Reembody (v. t.) To embody again.,
R as in Reembrace (v. i.) To embrace again.,
R as in Reemerge (v. i.) To emerge again.,
R as in Reemergence (n.) Act of reemerging.,
R as in Reenact (v. t.) To enact again.,
R as in Reenaction (n.) The act of reenacting; the state of being reenacted.,
R as in Reenactment (n.) The enacting or passing of a law a second time; the renewal of a law.,
R as in Reencourage (v. t.) To encourage again.,
R as in Reendow (v. t.) To endow again.,
R as in Reenforce (v. t.) To strengthen with new force, assistance, material, or support; as, to reenforce an argument; to reenforce a garment; especially, to strengthen with additional troops, as an army or a fort, or with additional ships, as a fleet.,
R as in Reenforce (v.) Something which reenforces or strengthens.,
R as in Reenforce (v.) That part of a cannon near the breech which is thicker than the rest of the piece, so as better to resist the force of the exploding powder. See Illust. of Cannon.,
R as in Reenforce (v.) (b),
R as in Reenforce (v.) An additional thickness of canvas, cloth, or the like, around an eyelet, buttonhole, etc.,
R as in Reenforcement (n.) The act of reenforcing, or the state of being reenforced.,
R as in Reenforcement (n.) That which reenforces; additional force; especially, additional troops or force to augment the strength of any army, or ships to strengthen a navy or fleet.,
R as in Reengage (v. t. & i.) To engage a second time or again.,
R as in Reengagement (n.) A renewed or repeated engagement.,
R as in Reengrave (v. t.) To engrave anew.,
R as in Reenjoy (v. i.) To enjoy anew.,
R as in Reenjoyment (n.) Renewed enjoyment.,
R as in Reenkindle (v. t.) To enkindle again.,
R as in Reenlist (v. t. & i.) To enlist again.,
R as in Reenlistment (n.) A renewed enlistment.,
R as in Reenslave (v. t.) To enslave again.,
R as in Reenter (v. t.) To enter again.,
R as in Reenter (v. t.) To cut deeper, as engraved lines on a plate of metal, when the engraving has not been deep enough, or the plate has become worn in printing.,
R as in Reenter (v. i.) To enter anew or again.,
R as in Reentering (n.) The process of applying additional colors, by applications of printing blocks, to patterns already partly colored.,
R as in Reenthrone (v. t.) To enthrone again; to replace on a throne.,
R as in Reenthronement (n.) A second enthroning.,
R as in Reentrance (n.) The act entereing again; re/ntry.,
R as in Reentrant (a.) Reentering; pointing or directed inwardds; as, a re/ntrant angle.,
R as in Reentry (n.) A second or new entry; as, a reentry into public life.,
R as in Reentry (n.) A resuming or retaking possession of what one has lately foregone; -- applied especially to land; the entry by a lessor upon the premises leased, on failure of the tenant to pay rent or perform the covenants in the lease.,
R as in Reerect (v. t.) To erect again.,
R as in Reermouse (n.) See Rearmouse.,
R as in Reestablish (v. t.) To establish anew; to fix or confirm again; to restore; as, to reestablish a covenant; to reestablish health.,
R as in Reestablisher (n.) One who establishes again.,
R as in Reestablishment (n.) The act reestablishing; the state of being reestablished.,
R as in Reestate (v. t.) To reestablish.,
R as in Reeve (n.) The female of the ruff.,
R as in Rove (imp. & p. p.) of Reeve,
R as in Reeving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Reeve,
R as in Reeve (v. t.) To pass, as the end of a pope, through any hole in a block, thimble, cleat, ringbolt, cringle, or the like.,
R as in Reeve (n.) an officer, steward, bailiff, or governor; -- used chiefly in compounds; as, shirereeve, now written sheriff; portreeve, etc.,
R as in Reexaminable (a.) Admitting of being reexamined or reconsidered.,
R as in Reexamination (n.) A repeated examination. See under Examination.,
R as in Reexamine (v. t.) To examine anew.,
R as in Reexchange (v. t.) To exchange anew; to reverse (a previous exchange).,
R as in Reexchange (n.) A renewed exchange; a reversal of an exchange.,
R as in Reexchange (n.) The expense chargeable on a bill of exchange or draft which has been dishonored in a foreign country, and returned to the country in which it was made or indorsed, and then taken up.,
R as in Reexhibit (v. t.) To exhibit again.,
R as in Reexpel (v. t.) To expel again.,
R as in Reexperience (n.) A renewed or repeated experience.,
R as in Reexport (v. t.) To export again, as what has been imported.,
R as in Reexport (n.) Any commodity reexported; -- chiefly in the plural.,
R as in Reexportation (n.) The act of reexporting, or of exporting an import.,
R as in Reexpulsion (n.) Renewed or repeated expulsion.,
R as in Reezed (a.) Grown rank; rancid; rusty.,
R as in Refaction (n.) Recompense; atonement; retribution.,
R as in Refar (v. t.) To go over again; to repeat.,
R as in Refashion (v. t.) To fashion anew; to form or mold into shape a second time.,
R as in Refashionment (n.) The act of refashioning, or the state of being refashioned.,
R as in Refasten (v. t.) To fasten again.,
R as in Refect (v. t.) To restore after hunger or fatigue; to refresh.,
R as in Refection (n.) Refreshment after hunger or fatigue; a repast; a lunch.,
R as in Refective (a.) Refreshing; restoring.,
R as in Refective (n.) That which refreshes.,
R as in Refectories (pl. ) of Refectory,
R as in Refectory (n.) A room for refreshment; originally, a dining hall in monasteries or convents.,
R as in Refel (v. t.) To refute; to disprove; as, to refel the tricks of a sophister.,
R as in Referred (imp. & p. p.) of Refer,
R as in Referring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Refer,
R as in Refer (v. t.) To carry or send back.,
R as in Refer (v. t.) Hence: To send or direct away; to send or direct elsewhere, as for treatment, aid, information, decision, etc.; to make over, or pass over, to another; as, to refer a student to an author; to refer a beggar to an officer; to refer a bill to a committee; a court refers a matter of fact to a commissioner for investigation, or refers a question of law to a superior tribunal.,
R as in Refer (v. t.) To place in or under by a mental or rational process; to assign to, as a class, a cause, source, a motive, reason, or ground of explanation; as, he referred the phenomena to electrical disturbances.,
R as in Refer (v. i.) To have recourse; to apply; to appeal; to betake one's self; as, to refer to a dictionary.,
R as in Refer (v. i.) To have relation or reference; to relate; to point; as, the figure refers to a footnote.,
R as in Refer (v. i.) To carry the mind or thought; to direct attention; as, the preacher referred to the late election.,
R as in Refer (v. i.) To direct inquiry for information or a guarantee of any kind, as in respect to one's integrity, capacity, pecuniary ability, and the like; as, I referred to his employer for the truth of his story.,
R as in Referable (a.) Capable of being referred, or considered in relation to something else; assignable; ascribable.,
R as in Referee (n.) One to whom a thing is referred; a person to whom a matter in dispute has been referred, in order that he may settle it.,
R as in Reference (n.) The act of referring, or the state of being referred; as, reference to a chart for guidance.,
R as in Reference (n.) That which refers to something; a specific direction of the attention; as, a reference in a text-book.,
R as in Reference (n.) Relation; regard; respect.,
R as in Reference (n.) One who, or that which, is referred to.,
R as in Reference (n.) One of whom inquires can be made as to the integrity, capacity, and the like, of another.,
R as in Reference (n.) A work, or a passage in a work, to which one is referred.,
R as in Reference (n.) The act of submitting a matter in dispute to the judgment of one or more persons for decision.,
R as in Reference (n.) The process of sending any matter, for inquiry in a cause, to a master or other officer, in order that he may ascertain facts and report to the court.,
R as in Reference (n.) Appeal.,
R as in Referendary (n.) One to whose decision a cause is referred; a referee.,
R as in Referendary (n.) An officer who delivered the royal answer to petitions.,
R as in Referendary (n.) Formerly, an officer of state charged with the duty of procuring and dispatching diplomas and decrees.,
R as in Referendum (n.) A diplomatic agent's note asking for instructions from his government concerning a particular matter or point.,
R as in Referendum (n.) The right to approve or reject by popular vote a meassure passed upon by a legislature.,
R as in Referential (a.) Containing a reference; pointing to something out of itself; as, notes for referential use.,
R as in Referment (n.) The act of referring; reference.,
R as in Re-ferment (v. t. & i.) To ferment, or cause to ferment, again.,
R as in Referrer (n.) One who refers.,
R as in Referrible (a.) Referable.,
R as in Refigure (v. t.) To figure again.,
R as in Refill (v. t. & i.) To fill, or become full, again.,
R as in Refind (v. t.) To find again; to get or experience again.,
R as in Refined (imp. & p. p.) of Refine,
R as in Refining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Refine,
R as in Refine (v. t.) To reduce to a fine, unmixed, or pure state; to free from impurities; to free from dross or alloy; to separate from extraneous matter; to purify; to defecate; as, to refine gold or silver; to refine iron; to refine wine or sugar.,
R as in Refine (v. t.) To purify from what is gross, coarse, vulgar, inelegant, low, and the like; to make elegant or exellent; to polish; as, to refine the manners, the language, the style, the taste, the intellect, or the moral feelings.,
R as in Refine (v. i.) To become pure; to be cleared of feculent matter.,
R as in Refine (v. i.) To improve in accuracy, delicacy, or excellence.,
R as in Refine (v. i.) To affect nicety or subtilty in thought or language.,
R as in Refined (a.) Freed from impurities or alloy; purifed; polished; cultured; delicate; as; refined gold; refined language; refined sentiments.,
R as in Refinement (n.) The act of refining, or the state of being refined; as, the refinement or metals; refinement of ideas.,
R as in Refinement (n.) That which is refined, elaborated, or polished to excess; an affected subtilty; as, refinements of logic.,
R as in Refiner (n.) One who, or that which, refines.,
R as in Refineries (pl. ) of Refinery,
R as in Refinery (n.) The building and apparatus for refining or purifying, esp. metals and sugar.,
R as in Refinery (n.) A furnace in which cast iron is refined by the action of a blast on the molten metal.,
R as in Refit (v. t.) To fit or prepare for use again; to repair; to restore after damage or decay; as, to refit a garment; to refit ships of war.,
R as in Refit (v. t.) To fit out or supply a second time.,
R as in Refit (v. i.) To obtain repairs or supplies; as, the fleet returned to refit.,
R as in Refitment (n.) The act of refitting, or the state of being refitted.,
R as in Refix (v. t.) To fix again or anew; to establish anew.,
R as in Reflame (v. i.) To kindle again into flame.,
R as in Reflected (imp. & p. p.) of Reflect,
R as in Reflecting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Reflect,
R as in Reflect (v.) To bend back; to give a backwa/d turn to; to throw back; especially, to cause to return after striking upon any surface; as, a mirror reflects rays of light; polished metals reflect heat.,
R as in Reflect (v.) To give back an image or likeness of; to mirror.,
R as in Reflect (v. i.) To throw back light, heat, or the like; to return rays or beams.,
R as in Reflect (v. i.) To be sent back; to rebound as from a surface; to revert; to return.,
R as in Reflect (v. i.) To throw or turn back the thoughts upon anything; to contemplate. Specifically: To attend earnestly to what passes within the mind; to attend to the facts or phenomena of consciousness; to use attention or earnest thought; to meditate; especially, to think in relation to moral truth or rules.,
R as in Reflect (v. i.) To cast reproach; to cause censure or dishonor.,
R as in Reflected (a.) Thrown back after striking a surface; as, reflected light, heat, sound, etc.,
R as in Reflected (a.) Hence: Not one's own; received from another; as, his glory was reflected glory.,
R as in Reflected (a.) Bent backward or outward; reflexed.,
R as in Reflectent (a.) Bending or flying back; reflected.,
R as in Reflectent (a.) Reflecting; as, a reflectent body.,
R as in Reflectible (a.) Capable of being reflected, or thrown back; reflexible.,
R as in Reflecting (a.) Throwing back light, heat, etc., as a mirror or other surface.,
R as in Reflecting (a.) Given to reflection or serious consideration; reflective; contemplative; as, a reflecting mind.,
R as in Reflectingly (adv.) With reflection; also, with censure; reproachfully.,
R as in Reflection (n.) The act of reflecting, or turning or sending back, or the state of being reflected.,
R as in Reflection (n.) The return of rays, beams, sound, or the like, from a surface. See Angle of reflection, below.,
R as in Reflection (n.) The reverting of the mind to that which has already occupied it; continued consideration; meditation; contemplation; hence, also, that operation or power of the mind by which it is conscious of its own acts or states; the capacity for judging rationally, especially in view of a moral rule or standard.,
R as in Reflection (n.) Shining; brightness, as of the sun.,
R as in Reflection (n.) That which is produced by reflection.,
R as in Reflection (n.) An image given back from a reflecting surface; a reflected counterpart.,
R as in Reflection (n.) A part reflected, or turned back, at an angle; as, the reflection of a membrane.,
R as in Reflection (n.) Result of meditation; thought or opinion after attentive consideration or contemplation; especially, thoughts suggested by truth.,
R as in Reflection (n.) Censure; reproach cast.,
R as in Reflection (n.) The transference of an excitement from one nerve fiber to another by means of the nerve cells, as in reflex action. See Reflex action, under Reflex.,
R as in Reflective (a.) Throwing back images; as, a reflective mirror.,
R as in Reflective (a.) Capable of exercising thought or judgment; as, reflective reason.,
R as in Reflective (a.) Addicted to introspective or meditative habits; as, a reflective person.,
R as in Reflective (a.) Reflexive; reciprocal.,
R as in Reflector (n.) One who, or that which, reflects.,
R as in Reflector (n.) Something having a polished surface for reflecting light or heat, as a mirror, a speculum, etc.,
R as in Reflector (n.) A reflecting telescope.,
R as in Reflector (n.) A device for reflecting sound.,
R as in Reflex (a.) Directed back; attended by reflection; retroactive; introspective.,
R as in Reflex (a.) Produced in reaction, in resistance, or in return.,
R as in Reflex (a.) Of, pertaining to, or produced by, stimulus or excitation without the necessary intervention of consciousness.,
R as in Reflex (n.) Reflection; the light reflected from an illuminated surface to one in shade.,
R as in Reflex (n.) An involuntary movement produced by reflex action.,
R as in Reflex (v. t.) To reflect.,
R as in Reflex (v. t.) To bend back; to turn back.,
R as in Reflexed (a.) Bent backward or outward.,
R as in Reflexibility (n.) The quality or capability of being reflexible; as, the reflexibility of the rays of light.,
R as in Reflexible (a.) Capable of being reflected, or thrown back.,
R as in Reflexion (n.) See Reflection.,
R as in Reflexity (n.) The state or condition of being reflected.,
R as in Reflexive (a.) Bending or turned backward; reflective; having respect to something past.,
R as in Reflexive (a.) Implying censure.,
R as in Reflexive (a.) Having for its direct object a pronoun which refers to the agent or subject as its antecedent; -- said of certain verbs; as, the witness perjured himself; I bethought myself. Applied also to pronouns of this class; reciprocal; reflective.,
R as in Reflexly (adv.) In a reflex manner; reflectively.,
R as in Refloat (n.) Reflux; ebb.,
R as in Reflorescence (n.) A blossoming anew of a plant after it has apparently ceased blossoming for the season.,
R as in Reflourish (v. t. & i.) To flourish again.,
R as in Reflow (v. i.) To flow back; to ebb.,
R as in Reflower (v. i. & t.) To flower, or cause to flower, again.,
R as in Refluctuation (n.) A flowing back; refluence.,
R as in Refluence (n.) Alt. of Refluency,
R as in Refluency (n.) The quality of being refluent; a flowing back.,
R as in Refluent (a.) Flowing back; returning; ebbing.,
R as in Reflueus (a.) Refluent.,
R as in Reflux (a.) Returning, or flowing back; reflex; as, reflux action.,
R as in Reflux (n.) A flowing back, as the return of a fluid; ebb; reaction; as, the flux and reflux of the tides.,
R as in Refocillate (v. t.) To refresh; to revive.,
R as in Refocillation (n.) Restoration of strength by refreshment.,
R as in Refold (v. t.) To fold again.,
R as in Refoment (v. t.) To foment anew.,
R as in Reforestization (n.) The act or process of reforestizing.,
R as in Reforestize (v. t.) To convert again into a forest; to plant again with trees.,
R as in Reforge (v. t.) To forge again or anew; hence, to fashion or fabricate anew; to make over.,
R as in Reforger (n.) One who reforges.,
R as in Reform (v. t.) To put into a new and improved form or condition; to restore to a former good state, or bring from bad to good; to change from worse to better; to amend; to correct; as, to reform a profligate man; to reform corrupt manners or morals.,
R as in Reform (v. i.) To return to a good state; to amend or correct one's own character or habits; as, a man of settled habits of vice will seldom reform.,
R as in Reform (n.) Amendment of what is defective, vicious, corrupt, or depraved; reformation; as, reform of elections; reform of government.,
R as in Re-formed (imp. & p. p.) of Re-form,
R as in Re-forming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Re-form,
R as in Re-form (v. t. & i.) To give a new form to; to form anew; to take form again, or to take a new form; as, to re-form the line after a charge.,
R as in Reformable (a.) Capable of being reformed.,
R as in Reformade (n.) A reformado.,
R as in Reformado (v. t.) A monk of a reformed order.,
R as in Reformado (v. t.) An officer who, in disgrace, is deprived of his command, but retains his rank, and sometimes his pay.,
R as in Reformalize (v. i.) To affect reformation; to pretend to correctness.,
R as in Reformation (n.) The act of reforming, or the state of being reformed; change from worse to better; correction or amendment of life, manners, or of anything vicious or corrupt; as, the reformation of manners; reformation of the age; reformation of abuses.,
R as in Reformation (n.) Specifically (Eccl. Hist.), the important religious movement commenced by Luther early in the sixteenth century, which resulted in the formation of the various Protestant churches.,
R as in Re-formation (n.) The act of forming anew; a second forming in order; as, the reformation of a column of troops into a hollow square.,
R as in Reformative (a.) Forming again; having the quality of renewing form; reformatory.,
R as in Reformatory (a.) Tending to produce reformation; reformative.,
R as in -ries (pl. ) of Reformatory,
R as in Reformatory (n.) An institution for promoting the reformation of offenders.,
R as in Reformed (a.) Corrected; amended; restored to purity or excellence; said, specifically, of the whole body of Protestant churches originating in the Reformation. Also, in a more restricted sense, of those who separated from Luther on the doctrine of consubstantiation, etc., and carried the Reformation, as they claimed, to a higher point. The Protestant churches founded by them in Switzerland, France, Holland, and part of Germany, were called the Reformed churches.,
R as in Reformed (a.) Amended in character and life; as, a reformed gambler or drunkard.,
R as in Reformed (a.) Retained in service on half or full pay after the disbandment of the company or troop; -- said of an officer.,
R as in Reformer (n.) One who effects a reformation or amendment; one who labors for, or urges, reform; as, a reformer of manners, or of abuses.,
R as in Reformer (n.) One of those who commenced the reformation of religion in the sixteenth century, as Luther, Melanchthon, Zwingli, and Calvin.,
R as in Reformist (n.) A reformer.,
R as in Reformly (adv.) In the manner of a reform; for the purpose of reform.,
R as in Refortification (n.) A fortifying anew, or a second time.,
R as in Refortify (v. t.) To fortify anew.,
R as in Refossion (n.) The act of digging up again.,
R as in Refound (v. t.) To found or cast anew.,
R as in Refound (v. t.) To found or establish again; to re/stablish.,
R as in Refound () imp. & p. p. of Refind, v. t.,
R as in Refounder (n.) One who refounds.,
R as in Refracted (imp. & p. p.) of Refract,
R as in Refracting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Refract,
R as in Refract (n.) To bend sharply and abruptly back; to break off.,
R as in Refract (n.) To break the natural course of, as rays of light orr heat, when passing from one transparent medium to another of different density; to cause to deviate from a direct course by an action distinct from reflection; as, a dense medium refrcts the rays of light as they pass into it from a rare medium.,
R as in Refractable (a.) Capable of being refracted.,
R as in Refracted (a.) Bent backward angularly, as if half-broken; as, a refracted stem or leaf.,
R as in Refracted (a.) Turned from a direct course by refraction; as, refracted rays of light.,
R as in Refracting (a.) Serving or tending to refract; as, a refracting medium.,
R as in Refraction (n.) The act of refracting, or the state of being refracted.,
R as in Refraction (n.) The change in the direction of ray of light, heat, or the like, when it enters obliquely a medium of a different density from that through which it has previously moved.,
R as in Refraction (n.) The change in the direction of a ray of light, and, consequently, in the apparent position of a heavenly body from which it emanates, arising from its passage through the earth's atmosphere; -- hence distinguished as atmospheric refraction, or astronomical refraction.,
R as in Refraction (n.) The correction which is to be deducted from the apparent altitude of a heavenly body on account of atmospheric refraction, in order to obtain the true altitude.,
R as in Refractive (a.) Serving or having power to refract, or turn from a direct course; pertaining to refraction; as, refractive surfaces; refractive powers.,
R as in Refractiveness (n.) The quality or condition of being refractive.,
R as in Refractometer (n.) A contrivance for exhibiting and measuring the refraction of light.,
R as in Refractor (n.) Anything that refracts,
R as in Refractor (n.) A refracting telescope, in which the image to be viewed is formed by the refraction of light in passing through a convex lens.,
R as in Refractorily (adv.) In a refractory manner; perversely; obstinately.,
R as in Refractoriness (n.) The quality or condition of being refractory.,
R as in Refractory (a.) Obstinate in disobedience; contumacious; stubborn; unmanageable; as, a refractory child; a refractory beast.,
R as in Refractory (a.) Resisting ordinary treatment; difficult of fusion, reduction, or the like; -- said especially of metals and the like, which do not readily yield to heat, or to the hammer; as, a refractory ore.,
R as in Refractory (n.) A refractory person.,
R as in Refractory (n.) Refractoriness.,
R as in Refractory (n.) OPottery) A piece of ware covered with a vaporable flux and placed in a kiln, to communicate a glaze to the other articles.,
R as in Refracture (n.) A second breaking (as of a badly set bone) by the surgeon.,
R as in Refracture (v. t.) To break again, as a bone.,
R as in Refragable (a.) Capable of being refuted; refutable.,
R as in Refragate (v. i.) To oppose.,
R as in Refrained (imp. & p. p.) of Refrain,
R as in Refraining (p. pr. & vb/ n.) of Refrain,
R as in Refrain (v. t.) To hold back; to restrain; to keep within prescribed bounds; to curb; to govern.,
R as in Refrain (v. t.) To abstain from,
R as in Refrain (v. i.) To keep one's self from action or interference; to hold aloof; to forbear; to abstain.,
R as in Refrain (v.) The burden of a song; a phrase or verse which recurs at the end of each of the separate stanzas or divisions of a poetic composition.,
R as in Refrainer (n.) One who refrains.,
R as in Refrainment (n.) Act of refraining.,
R as in Reframe (v. t.) To frame again or anew.,
R as in Refrangibility (n.) The quality of being refrangible.,
R as in Refrangible (a.) Capable of being refracted, or turned out of a direct course, in passing from one medium to another, as rays of light.,
R as in Refrenation (v. t.) The act of refraining.,
R as in Refreshed (imp. & p. p.) of Refresh,
R as in Refreshing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Refresh,
R as in Refresh (a.) To make fresh again; to restore strength, spirit, animation, or the like, to; to relieve from fatigue or depression; to reinvigorate; to enliven anew; to reanimate; as, sleep refreshes the body and the mind.,
R as in Refresh (a.) To make as if new; to repair; to restore.,
R as in Refresh (n.) The act of refreshing.,
R as in Refresher (n.) One who, or that which, refreshes.,
R as in Refresher (n.) An extra fee paid to counsel in a case that has been adjourned from one term to another, or that is unusually protracted.,
R as in Refreshful (a.) Full of power to refresh; refreshing.,
R as in Refreshing (a.) Reviving; reanimating.,
R as in Refreshment (n.) The act of refreshing, or the state of being refreshed; restoration of strength, spirit, vigor, or liveliness; relief after suffering; new life or animation after depression.,
R as in Refreshment (n.) That which refreshes; means of restoration or reanimation; especially, an article of food or drink.,
R as in Refret (n.) Refrain.,
R as in Refreyd (v. t.) To chill; to cool.,
R as in Refrication (n.) A rubbing up afresh; a brightening.,
R as in Refrigerant (a.) Cooling; allaying heat or fever.,
R as in Refrigerant (n.) That which makes to be cool or cold; specifically, a medicine or an application for allaying fever, or the symptoms of fever; -- used also figuratively.,
R as in Refrigerated (imp. & p. p.) of Refrigerate,
R as in Refrigerating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Refrigerate,
R as in Refrigerate (v. t.) To cause to become cool; to make or keep cold or cool.,
R as in Refrigeration (n.) The act or process of refrigerating or cooling, or the state of being cooled.,
R as in Refrigerative (a.) Cooling; allaying heat.,
R as in Refrigerative (n.) A refrigerant.,
R as in Refrigerator (n.) That which refrigerates or makes cold; that which keeps cool.,
R as in Refrigerator (n.) A box or room for keeping food or other articles cool, usually by means of ice.,
R as in Refrigerator (n.) An apparatus for rapidly cooling heated liquids or vapors, connected with a still, etc.,
R as in Refrigeratory (a.) Mitigating heat; cooling.,
R as in -ries (pl. ) of Refrigeratory,
R as in Refrigeratory (n.) That which refrigerates or cools.,
R as in Refrigeratory (n.) In distillation, a vessel filled with cold water, surrounding the worm, the vapor in which is thereby condensed.,
R as in Refrigeratory (n.) The chamber, or tank, in which ice is formed, in an ice machine.,
R as in Refrigerium (n.) Cooling refreshment; refrigeration.,
R as in Refringency (n.) The power possessed by a substance to refract a ray; as, different substances have different refringencies.,
R as in Refringent (a.) Pertaining to, or possessing, refringency; refractive; refracting; as, a refringent prism of spar.,
R as in Reft (imp. & p. p.) Bereft.,
R as in Reft (n.) A chink; a rift. See Rift.,
R as in Refuge (n.) Shelter or protection from danger or distress.,
R as in Refuge (n.) That which shelters or protects from danger, or from distress or calamity; a stronghold which protects by its strength, or a sanctuary which secures safety by its sacredness; a place inaccessible to an enemy.,
R as in Refuge (n.) An expedient to secure protection or defense; a device or contrivance.,
R as in Refuge (v. t.) To shelter; to protect.,
R as in Refugee (n.) One who flees to a shelter, or place of safety.,
R as in Refugee (n.) Especially, one who, in times of persecution or political commotion, flees to a foreign power or country for safety; as, the French refugees who left France after the revocation of the edict of Nantes.,
R as in Refulgence (n.) Alt. of Refulgency,
R as in Refulgency (n.) The quality of being refulgent; brilliancy; splender; radiance.,
R as in Refulgent (a.) Casting a bright light; radiant; brilliant; resplendent; shining; splendid; as, refulgent beams.,
R as in Refund (v. t.) To fund again or anew; to replace (a fund or loan) by a new fund; as, to refund a railroad loan.,
R as in Refund (v. t.) To pour back.,
R as in Refund (v. t.) To give back; to repay; to restore.,
R as in Refund (v. t.) To supply again with funds; to reimburse.,
R as in Refunder (n.) One who refunds.,
R as in Refundment (n.) The act of refunding; also, that which is refunded.,
R as in Refurbish (v. t.) To furbish anew.,
R as in Refurnish (v. t.) To furnish again.,
R as in Refurnishment (n.) The act of refurnishing, or state of being refurnished.,
R as in Refusable (a.) Capable of being refused; admitting of refusal.,
R as in Refusal (n.) The act of refusing; denial of anything demanded, solicited, or offered for acceptance.,
R as in Refusal (n.) The right of taking in preference to others; the choice of taking or refusing; option; as, to give one the refusal of a farm; to have the refusal of an employment.,
R as in Refused (imp. & p. p.) of Refuse,
R as in Refusing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Refuse,
R as in Refuse (v. t.) To deny, as a request, demand, invitation, or command; to decline to do or grant.,
R as in Refuse (v. t.) To throw back, or cause to keep back (as the center, a wing, or a flank), out of the regular aligment when troops ar/ about to engage the enemy; as, to refuse the right wing while the left wing attacks.,
R as in Refuse (v. t.) To decline to accept; to reject; to deny the request or petition of; as, to refuse a suitor.,
R as in Refuse (v. t.) To disown.,
R as in Refuse (v. i.) To deny compliance; not to comply.,
R as in Refuse (n.) Refusal.,
R as in Refuse (n.) That which is refused or rejected as useless; waste or worthless matter.,
R as in Refuse (a.) Refused; rejected; hence; left as unworthy of acceptance; of no value; worthless.,
R as in Refuser (n.) One who refuses or rejects.,
R as in Refusion (n.) New or repeated melting, as of metals.,
R as in Refusion (n.) Restoration.,
R as in Refut (n.) Refuge.,
R as in Refutability (n.) The quality of being refutable.,
R as in Refutable (a.) Admitting of being refuted or disproved; capable of being proved false or erroneous.,
R as in Refutal (n.) Act of refuting; refutation.,
R as in Refutation (n.) The act or process of refuting or disproving, or the state of being refuted; proof of falsehood or error; the overthrowing of an argument, opinion, testimony, doctrine, or theory, by argument or countervailing proof.,
R as in Refutatory (a.) Tending tu refute; refuting.,
R as in Refuted (imp. & p. p.) of Refute,
R as in Refuting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Refute,
R as in Refute (v. t.) To disprove and overthrow by argument, evidence, or countervailing proof; to prove to be false or erroneous; to confute; as, to refute arguments; to refute testimony; to refute opinions or theories; to refute a disputant.,
R as in Refuter (n.) One who, or that which, refutes.,
R as in Regain (v. t.) To gain anew; to get again; to recover, as what has escaped or been lost; to reach again.,
R as in Regal (a.) Of or pertaining to a king; kingly; royal; as, regal authority, pomp, or sway.,
R as in Regal (n.) A small portable organ, played with one hand, the bellows being worked with the other, -- used in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries.,
R as in Regale (n.) A prerogative of royalty.,
R as in Regaled (imp. & p. p.) of Regale,
R as in Regaling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Regale,
R as in Regale (v. t.) To enerta/n in a regal or sumptuous manner; to enrtertain with something that delights; to gratify; to refresh; as, to regale the taste, the eye, or the ear.,
R as in Regale (v. i.) To feast; t/ fare sumtuously.,
R as in Regale (v. t.) A sumptuous repast; a banquet.,
R as in Regalement (n.) The act of regaling; anything which regales; refreshment; entertainment.,
R as in Regaler (n.) One who regales.,
R as in Regalia (n. pl.) That which belongs to royalty. Specifically: (a) The rights and prerogatives of a king. (b) Royal estates and revenues. (c) Ensings, symbols, or paraphernalia of royalty.,
R as in Regalia (n. pl.) Hence, decorations or insignia of an office or order, as of Freemasons, Odd Fellows,etc.,
R as in Regalia (n. pl.) Sumptuous food; delicacies.,
R as in Regalia (n.) A kind of cigar of large size and superior quality; also, the size in which such cigars are classed.,
R as in Regalian (a.) Pertaining to regalia; pertaining to the royal insignia or prerogatives.,
R as in Regalism (n.) The doctrine of royal prerogative or supremacy.,
R as in Regality (n.) Royalty; sovereignty; sovereign jurisdiction.,
R as in Regality (n.) An ensign or badge of royalty.,
R as in Regally (adv.) In a regal or royal manner.,
R as in Regarded (imp. & p. p.) of Regard,
R as in Regarding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Regard,
R as in Regard (v. t.) To keep in view; to behold; to look at; to view; to gaze upon.,
R as in Regard (v. t.) Hence, to look or front toward; to face.,
R as in Regard (v. t.) To look closely at; to observe attentively; to pay attention to; to notice or remark particularly.,
R as in Regard (v. t.) To look upon, as in a certain relation; to hold as an popinion; to consider; as, to regard abstinence from wine as a duty; to regard another as a friend or enemy.,
R as in Regard (v. t.) To consider and treat; to have a certain feeling toward; as, to regard one with favor or dislike.,
R as in Regard (v. t.) To pay respect to; to treat as something of peculiar value, sanctity, or the like; to care for; to esteem.,
R as in Regard (v. t.) To take into consideration; to take account of, as a fact or condition.,
R as in Regard (v. t.) To have relation to, as bearing upon; to respect; to relate to; to touch; as, an argument does not regard the question; -- often used impersonally; as, I agree with you as regards this or that.,
R as in Regard (v. i.) To look attentively; to consider; to notice.,
R as in Regard (v. t.) A look; aspect directed to another; view; gaze.,
R as in Regard (v. t.) Attention of the mind with a feeling of interest; observation; heed; notice.,
R as in Regard (v. t.) That view of the mind which springs from perception of value, estimable qualities, or anything that excites admiration; respect; esteem; reverence; affection; as, to have a high regard for a person; -- often in the plural.,
R as in Regard (v. t.) State of being regarded, whether favorably or otherwise; estimation; repute; note; account.,
R as in Regard (v. t.) Consideration; thought; reflection; heed.,
R as in Regard (v. t.) Matter for consideration; account; condition.,
R as in Regard (v. t.) Respect; relation; reference.,
R as in Regard (v. t.) Object of sight; scene; view; aspect.,
R as in Regard (v. t.) Supervision; inspection.,
R as in Regardable (a.) Worthy of regard or notice; to be regarded; observable.,
R as in Regardant (v. t.) Looking behind; looking backward watchfully.,
R as in Regardant (v. t.) Looking behind or backward; as, a lion regardant.,
R as in Regardant (v. t.) Annexed to the land or manor; as, a villain regardant.,
R as in Regarder (n.) One who regards.,
R as in Regarder (n.) An officer appointed to supervise the forest.,
R as in Regardful (a.) Heedful; attentive; observant.,
R as in Regarding (prep.) Concerning; respecting.,
R as in Regardless (a.) Having no regard; heedless; careless; as, regardless of life, consequences, dignity.,
R as in Regardless (a.) Not regarded; slighted.,
R as in Regather (v. t.) To gather again.,
R as in Regattas (pl. ) of Regatta,
R as in Regatta (n.) Originally, a gondola race in Venice; now, a rowing or sailing race, or a series of such races.,
R as in Regel (n.) See Rigel.,
R as in Regelate (v. i.) To freeze together again; to undergo regelation, as ice.,
R as in Regelation (n.) The act or process of freezing anew, or together,as two pieces of ice.,
R as in Regence (n.) Rule.,
R as in Regencies (pl. ) of Regency,
R as in Regency (a.) The office of ruler; rule; authority; government.,
R as in Regency (a.) Especially, the office, jurisdiction, or dominion of a regent or vicarious ruler, or of a body of regents; deputed or vicarious government.,
R as in Regency (a.) A body of men intrusted with vicarious government; as, a regency constituted during a king's minority, absence from the kingdom, or other disability.,
R as in Regeneracy (n.) The state of being regenerated.,
R as in Regenerate (a.) Reproduced.,
R as in Regenerate (a.) Born anew; become Christian; renovated in heart; changed from a natural to a spiritual state.,
R as in Regenerate (v. t.) To generate or produce anew; to reproduce; to give new life, strength, or vigor to.,
R as in Regenerate (v. t.) To cause to be spiritually born anew; to cause to become a Christian; to convert from sin to holiness; to implant holy affections in the heart of.,
R as in Regenerate (v. t.) Hence, to make a radical change for the better in the character or condition of; as, to regenerate society.,
R as in Regenerateness (n.) The quality or state of being rgenerate.,
R as in Regeneration (n.) The act of regenerating, or the state of being regenerated.,
R as in Regeneration (n.) The entering into a new spiritual life; the act of becoming, or of being made, Christian; that change by which holy affectations and purposes are substituted for the opposite motives in the heart.,
R as in Regeneration (n.) The reproduction of a part which has been removed or destroyed; re-formation; -- a process especially characteristic of a many of the lower animals; as, the regeneration of lost feelers, limbs, and claws by spiders and crabs.,
R as in Regeneration (n.) The reproduction or renewal of tissues, cells, etc., which have been used up and destroyed by the ordinary processes of life; as, the continual regeneration of the epithelial cells of the body, or the regeneration of the contractile substance of muscle.,
R as in Regeneration (n.) The union of parts which have been severed, so that they become anatomically perfect; as, the regeneration of a nerve.,
R as in Regenerative (a.) Of or pertaining to regeneration; tending to regenerate; as, regenerative influences.,
R as in Regeneratively (adv.) So as to regenerate.,
R as in Regenerator (n.) One who, or that which, regenerates.,
R as in Regenerator (n.) A device used in connection with hot-air engines, gas-burning furnaces, etc., in which the incoming air or gas is heated by being brought into contact with masses of iron, brick, etc., which have been previously heated by the outgoing, or escaping, hot air or gas.,
R as in Regeneratory (a.) Having power to renew; tending to reproduce; regenerating.,
R as in Regenesis (n.) New birth; renewal.,
R as in Regent (a.) Ruling; governing; regnant.,
R as in Regent (a.) Exercising vicarious authority.,
R as in Regent (a.) One who rules or reigns; a governor; a ruler.,
R as in Regent (a.) Especially, one invested with vicarious authority; one who governs a kingdom in the minority, absence, or disability of the sovereign.,
R as in Regent (a.) One of a governing board; a trustee or overseer; a superintendent; a curator; as, the regents of the Smithsonian Institution.,
R as in Regent (a.) A resident master of arts of less than five years' standing, or a doctor of less than twwo. They were formerly privileged to lecture in the schools.,
R as in Regentess (n.) A female regent.,
R as in Regentship (n.) The office of a regent; regency.,
R as in Regerminate (v. i.) To germinate again.,
R as in Regermination (n.) A germinating again or anew.,
R as in Regest (n.) A register.,
R as in Reget (v. t.) To get again.,
R as in Regian (n.) An upholder of kingly authority; a royalist.,
R as in Regible (a.) Governable; tractable.,
R as in Regicidal (a.) Pertaining to regicide, or to one committing it; having the nature of, or resembling, regicide.,
R as in Regicide (n.) One who kills or who murders a king; specifically (Eng.Hist.), one of the judges who condemned Charles I. to death.,
R as in Regicide (n.) The killing or the murder of a king.,
R as in Regild (v. t.) To gild anew.,
R as in Regime (n.) Mode or system of rule or management; character of government, or of the prevailing social system.,
R as in Regime (n.) The condition of a river with respect to the rate of its flow, as measured by the volume of water passing different cross sections in a given time, uniform regime being the condition when the flow is equal and uniform at all the cross sections.,
R as in Regimen (n.) Orderly government; system of order; adminisration.,
R as in Regimen (n.) Any regulation or remedy which is intended to produce beneficial effects by gradual operation,
R as in Regimen (n.) a systematic course of diet, etc., pursed with a view to improving or preserving the health, or for the purpose of attaining some particular effect, as a reduction of flesh; -- sometimes used synonymously with hygiene.,
R as in Regimen (n.) A syntactical relation between words, as when one depends on another and is regulated by it in respect to case or mood; government.,
R as in Regimen (n.) The word or words governed.,
R as in Regiment (n.) Government; mode of ruling; rule; authority; regimen.,
R as in Regiment (n.) A region or district governed.,
R as in Regiment (n.) A body of men, either horse, foot, or artillery, commanded by a colonel, and consisting of a number of companies, usually ten.,
R as in Regimented (imp. & p. p.) of Regiment,
R as in Regimenting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Regiment,
R as in Regiment (v. t.) To form into a regiment or into regiments.,
R as in Regimental (a.) Belonging to, or concerning, a regiment; as, regimental officers, clothing.,
R as in Regimentally (adv.) In or by a regiment or regiments; as, troops classified regimentally.,
R as in Regimentals (n. pl.) The uniform worn by the officers and soldiers of a regiment; military dress; -- formerly used in the singular in the same sense.,
R as in Regiminal (a.) Of or relating to regimen; as, regiminal rules.,
R as in Region (n.) One of the grand districts or quarters into which any space or surface, as of the earth or the heavens, is conceived of as divided; hence, in general, a portion of space or territory of indefinite extent; country; province; district; tract.,
R as in Region (n.) Tract, part, or space, lying about and including anything; neighborhood; vicinity; sphere.,
R as in Region (n.) The upper air; the sky; the heavens.,
R as in Region (n.) The inhabitants of a district.,
R as in Region (n.) Place; rank; station.,
R as in Regional (a.) Of or pertaining to a particular region; sectional.,
R as in Regious (a.) Regal; royal.,
R as in Register (n.) A written account or entry; an official or formal enumeration, description, or record; a memorial record; a list or roll; a schedule.,
R as in Register (n.) A record containing a list and description of the merchant vessels belonging to a port or customs district.,
R as in Register (n.) A certificate issued by the collector of customs of a port or district to the owner of a vessel, containing the description of a vessel, its name, ownership, and other material facts. It is kept on board the vessel, to be used as an evidence of nationality or as a muniment of title.,
R as in Register (n.) One who registers or records; a registrar; a recorder; especially, a public officer charged with the duty of recording certain transactions or events; as, a register of deeds.,
R as in Register (n.) That which registers or records.,
R as in Register (n.) A contrivance for automatically noting the performance of a machine or the rapidity of a process.,
R as in Register (n.) The part of a telegraphic apparatus which records automatically the message received.,
R as in Register (n.) A machine for registering automatically the number of persons passing through a gateway, fares taken, etc.; a telltale.,
R as in Register (n.) A lid, stopper, or sliding plate, in a furnace, stove, etc., for regulating the admission of air to the fuel; also, an arrangement containing dampers or shutters, as in the floor or wall of a room or passage, or in a chimney, for admitting or excluding heated air, or for regulating ventilation.,
R as in Register (n.) The inner part of the mold in which types are cast.,
R as in Register (n.) The correspondence of pages, columns, or lines on the opposite or reverse sides of the sheet.,
R as in Register (n.) The correspondence or adjustment of the several impressions in a design which is printed in parts, as in chromolithographic printing, or in the manufacture of paper hangings. See Register, v. i. 2.,
R as in Register (v. i.) The compass of a voice or instrument; a specified portion of the compass of a voice, or a series of vocal tones of a given compass; as, the upper, middle, or lower register; the soprano register; the tenor register.,
R as in Register (v. i.) A stop or set of pipes in an organ.,
R as in Registered (imp. & p. p.) of Register,
R as in Registering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Register,
R as in Register (n.) To enter in a register; to record formally and distinctly, as for future use or service.,
R as in Register (n.) To enroll; to enter in a list.,
R as in Register (v. i.) To enroll one's name in a register.,
R as in Register (v. i.) To correspond in relative position; as, two pages, columns, etc. , register when the corresponding parts fall in the same line, or when line falls exactly upon line in reverse pages, or (as in chromatic printing) where the various colors of the design are printed consecutively, and perfect adjustment of parts is necessary.,
R as in Registering (a.) Recording; -- applied to instruments; having an apparatus which registers; as, a registering thermometer. See Recording.,
R as in Registership (n.) The office of a register.,
R as in Registrant (n.) One who registers; esp., one who , by virtue of securing an official registration, obtains a certain right or title of possession, as to a trade-mark.,
R as in Registrar (n.) One who registers; a recorder; a keeper of records; as, a registrar of births, deaths, and marriages. See Register, n., 3.,
R as in Registrarship (n.) The office of a registrar.,
R as in Registrary (n.) A registrar.,
R as in Registrate (v. t.) To register.,
R as in Registration (v.) The act of registering; registry; enrollment.,
R as in Registration (v.) The art of selecting and combining the stops or registers of an organ.,
R as in Registry (n.) The act of recording or writing in a register; enrollment; registration.,
R as in Registry (n.) The place where a register is kept.,
R as in Registry (n.) A record; an account; a register.,
R as in Regius (a.) Of or pertaining to a king; royal.,
R as in Regive (v. t.) To give again; to give back.,
R as in Regle (v. t.) To rule; to govern.,
R as in Reglement (n.) Regulation.,
R as in Reglementary (a.) Regulative.,
R as in Reglet (n.) A flat, narrow molding, used chiefly to separate the parts or members of compartments or panels from one another, or doubled, turned, and interlaced so as to form knots, frets, or other ornaments. See Illust. (12) of Column.,
R as in Reglet (n.) A strip of wood or metal of the height of a quadrat, used for regulating the space between pages in a chase, and also for spacing out title-pages and other open matter. It is graded to different sizes, and designated by the name of the type that it matches; as, nonpareil reglet, pica reglet, and the like.,
R as in Regma (n.) A kind of dry fruit, consisting of three or more cells, each which at length breaks open at the inner angle.,
R as in Regmacarp (n.) Any dry dehiscent fruit.,
R as in Regnal (a.) Of or pertaining to the reign of a monarch; as, regnal years.,
R as in Regnancy (n.) The condition or quality of being regnant; sovereignty; rule.,
R as in Regnant (a.) Exercising regal authority; reigning; as, a queen regnant.,
R as in Regnant (a.) Having the chief power; ruling; predominant; prevalent.,
R as in Regnative (a.) Ruling; governing.,
R as in Regne (n. & v.) See Reign.,
R as in Regorge (v. t.) To vomit up; to eject from the stomach; to throw back.,
R as in Regorge (v. t.) To swallow again; to swallow back.,
R as in Regrade (v. i.) To retire; to go back.,
R as in Regraft (v. t.) To graft again.,
R as in Regrant (v. t.) To grant back; to grant again or anew.,
R as in Regrant (n.) The act of granting back to a former proprietor.,
R as in Regrant (n.) A renewed of a grant; as, the regrant of a monopoly.,
R as in Regrated (imp. & p. p.) of Regrate,
R as in Regrating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Regrate,
R as in Regrate (v. t.) To remove the outer surface of, as of an old hewn stone, so as to give it a fresh appearance.,
R as in Regrate (v. t.) To offend; to shock.,
R as in Regrate (v. t.) To buy in large quantities, as corn, provisions, etc., at a market or fair, with the intention of selling the same again, in or near the same place, at a higher price, -- a practice which was formerly treated as a public offense.,
R as in Regrater (n.) One who regrates.,
R as in Regratery (n.) The act or practice of regrating.,
R as in Regratiatory (n.) A returning or giving of thanks.,
R as in Regrator (n.) One guilty of regrating.,
R as in Regrede (v. i.) To go back; to retrograde, as the apsis of a planet's orbit.,
R as in Regredience (n.) A going back; a retrogression; a return.,
R as in Regreet (v. t.) To greet again; to resalute; to return a salutation to; to greet.,
R as in Regreet (n.) A return or exchange of salutation.,
R as in Regress (n.) The act of passing back; passage back; return; retrogression. "The progress or regress of man".,
R as in Regress (n.) The power or liberty of passing back.,
R as in Regressed (imp. & p. p.) of Regress,
R as in Regressing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Regress,
R as in Regress (v. i.) To go back; to return to a former place or state.,
R as in Regression (n.) The act of passing back or returning; retrogression; retrogradation.,
R as in Regressive (a.) Passing back; returning.,
R as in Regressive (a.) Characterized by retrogression; retrogressive.,
R as in Regressively (adv.) In a regressive manner.,
R as in Regret (v.) Pain of mind on account of something done or experienced in the past, with a wish that it had been different; a looking back with dissatisfaction or with longing; grief; sorrow; especially, a mourning on account of the loss of some joy, advantage, or satisfaction.,
R as in Regret (v.) Dislike; aversion.,
R as in Regretted (imp. & p. p.) of Regret,
R as in Regretting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Regret,
R as in Regret (v. t.) To experience regret on account of; to lose or miss with a sense of regret; to feel sorrow or dissatisfaction on account of (the happening or the loss of something); as, to regret an error; to regret lost opportunities or friends.,
R as in Regretful (a.) Full of regret; indulging in regrets; repining.,
R as in Regrow (v. i. & t.) To grow again.,
R as in Regrowth (n.) The act of regrowing; a second or new growth.,
R as in Reguardant (a.) Same as Regardant.,
R as in Reguerdon (v. t.) To reward.,
R as in Regulable (a.) Capable of being regulated.,
R as in Regular (a.) Conformed to a rule; agreeable to an established rule, law, principle, or type, or to established customary forms; normal; symmetrical; as, a regular verse in poetry; a regular piece of music; a regular verb; regular practice of law or medicine; a regular building.,
R as in Regular (a.) Governed by rule or rules; steady or uniform in course, practice, or occurence; not subject to unexplained or irrational variation; returning at stated intervals; steadily pursued; orderlly; methodical; as, the regular succession of day and night; regular habits.,
R as in Regular (a.) Constituted, selected, or conducted in conformity with established usages, rules, or discipline; duly authorized; permanently organized; as, a regular meeting; a regular physican; a regular nomination; regular troops.,
R as in Regular (a.) Belonging to a monastic order or community; as, regular clergy, in distinction dfrom the secular clergy.,
R as in Regular (a.) Thorough; complete; unmitigated; as, a regular humbug.,
R as in Regular (a.) Having all the parts of the same kind alike in size and shape; as, a regular flower; a regular sea urchin.,
R as in Regular (a.) Same as Isometric.,
R as in Regular (a.) A member of any religious order or community who has taken the vows of poverty, chastity, and obedience, and who has been solemnly recognized by the church.,
R as in Regular (a.) A soldier belonging to a permanent or standing army; -- chiefly used in the plural.,
R as in Regularia (n. pl.) A division of Echini which includes the circular, or regular, sea urchins.,
R as in Regularity (n.) The condition or quality of being regular; as, regularity of outline; the regularity of motion.,
R as in Regularize (v. t.) To cause to become regular; to regulate.,
R as in Regularly (adv.) In a regular manner; in uniform order; methodically; in due order or time.,
R as in Regularness (n.) Regularity.,
R as in Regulated (imp. & p. p.) of Regulate,
R as in Regulating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Regulate,
R as in Regulate (v. t.) To adjust by rule, method, or established mode; to direct by rule or restriction; to subject to governing principles or laws.,
R as in Regulate (v. t.) To put in good order; as, to regulate the disordered state of a nation or its finances.,
R as in Regulate (v. t.) To adjust, or maintain, with respect to a desired rate, degree, or condition; as, to regulate the temperature of a room, the pressure of steam, the speed of a machine, etc.,
R as in Regulation (n.) The act of regulating, or the state of being regulated.,
R as in Regulation (n.) A rule or order prescribed for management or government; prescription; a regulating principle; a governing direction; precept; law; as, the regulations of a society or a school.,
R as in Regulative (a.) Tending to regulate; regulating.,
R as in Regulative (a.) Necessarily assumed by the mind as fundamental to all other knowledge; furnishing fundamental principles; as, the regulative principles, or principles a priori; the regulative faculty.,
R as in Regulator (n.) One who, or that which, regulates.,
R as in Regulator (n.) A contrivance for regulating and controlling motion, as: (a) The lever or index in a watch, which controls the effective length of the hairspring, and thus regulates the vibrations of the balance. (b) The governor of a steam engine. (c) A valve for controlling the admission of steam to the steam chest, in a locomotive.,
R as in Regulator (n.) A clock, or other timepiece, used as a standard of correct time. See Astronomical clock (a), under Clock.,
R as in Regulator (n.) A member of a volunteer committee which, in default of the lawful authority, undertakes to preserve order and prevent crimes; also, sometimes, one of a band organized for the comission of violent crimes.,
R as in Reguline (a.) Of or pertaining to regulus.,
R as in Regulize (v. t.) To reduce to regulus; to separate, as a metal from extraneous matter; as, to regulize antimony.,
R as in Reguluses (pl. ) of Regulus,
R as in Reguli (pl. ) of Regulus,
R as in Regulus (n.) A petty king; a ruler of little power or consequence.,
R as in Regulus (n.) The button, globule, or mass of metal, in a more or less impure state, which forms in the bottom of the crucible in smelting and reduction of ores.,
R as in Regulus (n.) A star of the first magnitude in the constellation Leo; -- called also the Lion's Heart.,
R as in Regurgitate (v. t.) To throw or pour back, as from a deep or hollow place; to pour or throw back in great quantity.,
R as in Regurgitate (v. i.) To be thrown or poured back; to rush or surge back.,
R as in Regurgitation (n.) The act of flowing or pouring back by the orifice of entrance,
R as in Regurgitation (n.) the reversal of the natural direction in which the current or contents flow through a tube or cavity of the body.,
R as in Regurgitation (n.) The act of swallowing again; reabsorption.,
R as in Rehabilitated (imp. & p. p.) of Rehabilitate,
R as in Rehabilitating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rehabilitate,
R as in Rehabilitate (v. t.) To invest or clothe again with some right, authority, or dignity; to restore to a former capacity; to reinstate; to qualify again; to restore, as a delinquent, to a former right, rank, or privilege lost or forfeited; -- a term of civil and canon law.,
R as in Rehabilitation (n.) The act of rehabilitating, or the state of being rehabilitated.,
R as in Rehash (v. t.) To hash over again; to prepare or use again; as, to rehash old arguments.,
R as in Rehash (n.) Something hashed over, or made up from old materials.,
R as in Rehear (v. t.) To hear again; to try a second time; as, to rehear a cause in Chancery.,
R as in Rehearsal (n.) The act of rehearsing; recital; narration; repetition; specifically, a private recital, performance, or season of practice, in preparation for a public exhibition or exercise.,
R as in Rehearsed (imp. & p. p.) of Rehearse,
R as in Rehearsing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rehearse,
R as in Rehearse (v. t.) To repeat, as what has been already said; to tell over again; to recite.,
R as in Rehearse (v. t.) To narrate; to relate; to tell.,
R as in Rehearse (v. t.) To recite or repeat in private for experiment and improvement, before a public representation; as, to rehearse a tragedy.,
R as in Rehearse (v. t.) To cause to rehearse; to instruct by rehearsal.,
R as in Rehearse (v. i.) To recite or repeat something for practice.,
R as in Rehearser (n.) One who rehearses.,
R as in Reheat (v. t.) To heat again.,
R as in Reheat (v. t.) To revive; to cheer; to cherish.,
R as in Rehibition (n.) The returning of a thing purchased to the seller, on the ground of defect or frand.,
R as in Rehibitory (a.) Of or relating to rehibition; as, a rehibitory action.,
R as in Rehire (v. t.) To hire again.,
R as in Rehypothecate (v. t.) To hypothecate again.,
R as in Reis (pl. ) of Rei,
R as in Rei (n.) A portuguese money of account, in value about one tenth of a cent.,
R as in Reichsrath (n.) The parliament of Austria (exclusive of Hungary, which has its own diet, or parliament). It consists of an Upper and a Lower House, or a House of Lords and a House of Representatives.,
R as in Reichsstand (n.) A free city of the former German empire.,
R as in Reichstag (n.) The Diet, or House of Representatives, of the German empire, which is composed of members elected for a term of three years by the direct vote of the people. See Bundesrath.,
R as in Reif (n.) Robbery; spoil.,
R as in Reigle (n.) A hollow cut or channel for quiding anything; as, the reigle of a side post for a flood gate.,
R as in Reigle (v. t.) To regulate; to govern.,
R as in Reiglement (n.) Rule; regulation.,
R as in Reign (n.) Royal authority; supreme power; sovereignty; rule; dominion.,
R as in Reign (n.) The territory or sphere which is reigned over; kingdom; empire; realm; dominion.,
R as in Reign (n.) The time during which a king, queen, or emperor possesses the supreme authority; as, it happened in the reign of Elizabeth.,
R as in Reigned (imp. & p. p.) of Reign,
R as in Reigning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Reign,
R as in Reign (n.) To possess or exercise sovereign power or authority; to exercise government, as a king or emperor;; to hold supreme power; to rule.,
R as in Reign (n.) Hence, to be predominant; to prevail.,
R as in Reign (n.) To have superior or uncontrolled dominion; to rule.,
R as in Reigner (n.) One who reigns.,
R as in Reillume (v. t.) To light again; to cause to shine anew; to relume; to reillumine.,
R as in Reilluminate (v. t.) To enlighten again; to reillumine.,
R as in Reillumination (n.) The act or process of enlightening again.,
R as in Reillumine (v. t.) To illumine again or anew; to reillume.,
R as in Reim (n.) A strip of oxhide, deprived of hair, and rendered pliable, -- used for twisting into ropes, etc.,
R as in Reimbark (v. t. & i.) See Reembark.,
R as in Reimbody (v. t. & i.) To imbody again.,
R as in Reimbursable (a.) Capable of being repaid; repayable.,
R as in Reimbursed (imp. & p. p.) of Reimburse,
R as in Reimbursing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Reimburse,
R as in Reimburse (v. t.) To replace in a treasury or purse, as an equivalent for what has been taken, lost, or expended; to refund; to pay back; to restore; as, to reimburse the expenses of a war.,
R as in Reimburse (v. t.) To make restoration or payment of an equivalent to (a person); to pay back to; to indemnify; -- often reflexive; as, to reimburse one's self by successful speculation.,
R as in Reimbursement (n.) The act reimbursing.,
R as in Reimburser (n.) One who reimburses.,
R as in Reimplant (v. t.) To implant again.,
R as in Reimport (v. t.) To import again; to import what has been exported; to bring back.,
R as in Reimportation (n.) The act of reimporting; also, that which is reimported.,
R as in Reimportune (v. t.) To importune again.,
R as in Reimpose (v. t.) To impose anew.,
R as in Reimpregnate (v. t.) To impregnate again or anew.,
R as in Reimpress (v. t.) To impress anew.,
R as in Reimpression (n.) A second or repeated impression; a reprint.,
R as in Reimprint (v. t.) To imprint again.,
R as in Reimprison (v. t.) To imprison again.,
R as in Reimprisonment (n.) The act of reimprisoning, or the state of being reimprisoned.,
R as in Rein (n.) The strap of a bridle, fastened to the curb or snaffle on each side, by which the rider or driver governs the horse.,
R as in Rein (n.) Hence, an instrument or means of curbing, restraining, or governing; government; restraint.,
R as in Reined (imp. & p. p.) of Rein,
R as in Reining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rein,
R as in Rein (v. t.) To govern or direct with the reins; as, to rein a horse one way or another.,
R as in Rein (v. t.) To restrain; to control; to check.,
R as in Rein (v. i.) To be guided by reins.,
R as in Reinaugurate (v. t.) To inaugurate anew.,
R as in Reincit (v. t.) To incite again.,
R as in Reincorporate (v. t.) To incorporate again.,
R as in Reincrease (v. t.) To increase again.,
R as in Reincur (v. t.) To incur again.,
R as in Reindeer (n.) Any ruminant of the genus Rangifer, of the Deer family, found in the colder parts of both the Eastern and Western hemispheres, and having long irregularly branched antlers, with the brow tines palmate.,
R as in Reinduce (v. t.) To induce again.,
R as in Reinette (n.) A name given to many different kinds of apples, mostly of French origin.,
R as in Reinfect (v. t.) To infect again.,
R as in Reinfectious (a.) Capable of reinfecting.,
R as in Reinforce (v. t.) See Reenforce, v. t.,
R as in Reinforce (n.) See Reenforce, n.,
R as in Reinforcement (n.) See Reenforcement.,
R as in Reinfund (v. i.) To flow in anew.,
R as in Reingratiate (v. t.) To ingratiate again or anew.,
R as in Reinhabit (v. t.) To inhabit again.,
R as in Reinless (a.) Not having, or not governed by, reins; hence, not checked or restrained.,
R as in Reins (n. pl.) The kidneys; also, the region of the kidneys; the loins.,
R as in Reins (n. pl.) The inward impulses; the affections and passions; -- so called because formerly supposed to have their seat in the part of the body where the kidneys are.,
R as in Reinsert (v. t.) To insert again.,
R as in Reinsertion (n.) The act of reinserting.,
R as in Reinspect (v. t.) To inspect again.,
R as in Reinspection (n.) The act of reinspecting.,
R as in Reinspire (v. t.) To inspire anew.,
R as in Reinspirit (v. t.) To give fresh spirit to.,
R as in Reinstall (v. t.) To install again.,
R as in Reinstallment (n.) A renewed installment.,
R as in Reinstate (v. t.) To place again in possession, or in a former state; to restore to a state from which one had been removed; to instate again; as, to reinstate a king in the possession of the kingdom.,
R as in Reinstatement (n.) The act of reinstating; the state of being reinstated; re/stablishment.,
R as in Reinstation (n.) Reinstatement.,
R as in Reinstruct (v. t.) To instruct anew.,
R as in Reinsurance (n.) Insurance a second time or again; renewed insurance.,
R as in Reinsurance (n.) A contract by which an insurer is insured wholly or in part against the risk he has incurred in insuring somebody else. See Reassurance.,
R as in Reinsure (v. t.) To insure again after a former insuranse has ceased; to renew insurance on.,
R as in Reinsure (v. t.) To insure, as life or property, in favor of one who has taken an insurance risk upon it.,
R as in Reinsurer (n.) One who gives reinsurance.,
R as in Reintegrate (v. t.) To renew with regard to any state or quality; to restore; to bring again together into a whole, as the parts off anything; to reestablish; as, to reintegrate a nation.,
R as in Reintegration (n.) A renewing, or making whole again. See Redintegration.,
R as in Reinter (v. t.) To inter again.,
R as in Reinterrogate (v. t.) To interrogate again; to question repeatedly.,
R as in Reinthrone (v. t.) See Reenthrone.,
R as in Reinthronize (v. t.) To enthrone again.,
R as in Reintroduce (v. t.) To introduce again.,
R as in Reinvest (v. t.) To invest again or anew.,
R as in Reinvestigate (v. t.) To investigate again.,
R as in Reinvestment (n.) The act of investing anew; a second or repeated investment.,
R as in Reinvigorate (v. t.) To invigorate anew.,
R as in Reinvolve (v. t.) To involve anew.,
R as in Reis (n.) The word is used as a Portuguese designation of money of account, one hundred reis being about equal in value to eleven cents.,
R as in Reis (n.) A common title in the East for a person in authority, especially the captain of a ship.,
R as in Reis Effendi () A title formerly given to one of the chief Turkish officers of state. He was chancellor of the empire, etc.,
R as in Reissner's membrane () The thin membrane which separates the canal of the cochlea from the vestibular scala in the internal ear.,
R as in Reissuable (a.) Capable of being reissued.,
R as in Reissue (v. t. & i.) To issue a second time.,
R as in Reissue (n.) A second or repeated issue.,
R as in Reit (n.) Sedge; seaweed.,
R as in Reiter (n.) A German cavalry soldier of the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries.,
R as in Reiterant (a.) Reiterating.,
R as in Reiterated (imp. & p. p.) of Reiterate,
R as in Reiterating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Reiterate,
R as in Reiterate (v. t.) To repeat again and again; to say or do repeatedly; sometimes, to repeat.,
R as in Reiterate (a.) Reiterated; repeated.,
R as in Reiteratedly (adv.) Repeatedly.,
R as in Reiteration (n.) The act of reiterating; that which is reiterated.,
R as in Reiterative (n.) A word expressing repeated or reiterated action.,
R as in Reiterative (n.) A word formed from another, or used to form another, by repetition; as, dillydally.,
R as in Reiver (n.) See Reaver.,
R as in Rejected (imp. & p. p.) of Reject,
R as in Rejecting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Reject,
R as in Reject (v. t.) To cast from one; to throw away; to discard.,
R as in Reject (v. t.) To refuse to receive or to acknowledge; to decline haughtily or harshly; to repudiate.,
R as in Reject (v. t.) To refuse to grant; as, to reject a prayer or request.,
R as in Rejectable (a.) Capable of being, or that ought to be, rejected.,
R as in Rejectamenta (n. pl.) Things thrown out or away; especially, things excreted by a living organism.,
R as in Rejectaneous (a.) Not chosen or received; rejected.,
R as in Rejecter (n.) One who rejects.,
R as in Rejection (n.) Act of rejecting, or state of being rejected.,
R as in Rejectitious (a.) Implying or requiring rejection; rejectable.,
R as in Rejective (a.) Rejecting, or tending to reject.,
R as in Rejectment (n.) Act of rejecting; matter rejected, or thrown away.,
R as in Rejoiced (imp. & p. p.) of Rejoice,
R as in Rejoicing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rejoice,
R as in Rejoice (v. i.) To feel joy; to experience gladness in a high degree; to have pleasurable satisfaction; to be delighted.,
R as in Rejoice (v. t.) To enjoy.,
R as in Rejoice (v. t.) To give joy to; to make joyful; to gladden.,
R as in Rejoice (n.) The act of rejoicing.,
R as in Rejoicement (n.) Rejoicing.,
R as in Rejoicer (n.) One who rejoices.,
R as in Rejoicing (n.) Joy; gladness; delight.,
R as in Rejoicing (n.) The expression of joy or gladness.,
R as in Rejoicing (n.) That which causes to rejoice; occasion of joy.,
R as in Rejoicingly (adv.) With joi or exultation.,
R as in Rejoined (imp. & p. p.) of Rejoin,
R as in Rejoining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rejoin,
R as in Rejoin (v. t.) To join again; to unite after separation.,
R as in Rejoin (v. t.) To come, or go, again into the presence of; to join the company of again.,
R as in Rejoin (v. t.) To state in reply; -- followed by an object clause.,
R as in Rejoin (v. i.) To answer to a reply.,
R as in Rejoin (v. i.) To answer, as the defendant to the plaintiff's replication.,
R as in Rejoinder (n.) An answer to a reply; or, in general, an answer or reply.,
R as in Rejoinder (n.) The defendant's answer to the plaintiff's replication.,
R as in Rejoinder (v. i.) To make a rejoinder.,
R as in Rejoindure (n.) Act of joining again.,
R as in Rejoint (v. t.) To reunite the joints of; to joint anew.,
R as in Rejoint (v. t.) Specifically (Arch.), to fill up the joints of, as stones in buildings when the mortar has been dislodged by age and the action of the weather.,
R as in Rejolt (n.) A reacting jolt or shock; a rebound or recoil.,
R as in Rejolt (v. t.) To jolt or shake again.,
R as in Rejourn (v. t.) To adjourn; to put off.,
R as in Rejournment (n.) Adjournment.,
R as in Rejudge (v. t.) To judge again; to reexamine; to review; to call to a new trial and decision.,
R as in Rejuvenate (v. t.) To render young again.,
R as in Rejuvenation (n.) Rejuvenescence.,
R as in Rejuvenescence (n.) A renewing of youth; the state of being or growing young again.,
R as in Rejuvenescence (n.) A method of cell formation in which the entire protoplasm of an old cell escapes by rupture of the cell wall, and then develops a new cell wall. It is seen sometimes in the formation of zoospores, etc.,
R as in Rejuvenescency (n.) Rejuvenescence.,
R as in Rejuvenescent (a.) Becoming, or causing to become, rejuvenated; rejuvenating.,
R as in Rejuvenize (v. t.) To rejuvenate.,
R as in Rekindle (v. t. & i.) To kindle again.,
R as in Rekne (v. t.) To reckon.,
R as in Relade (v. t.) To lade or load again.,
R as in Relaid () imp. & p. p. of Relay.,
R as in Relais (n.) A narrow space between the foot of the rampart and the scarp of the ditch, serving to receive the earth that may crumble off or be washed down, and prevent its falling into the ditch.,
R as in Reland (v. t.) To land again; to put on land, as that which had been shipped or embarked.,
R as in Reland (v. i.) To go on shore after having embarked; to land again.,
R as in Relapsed (imp. & p. p.) of Relapse,
R as in Relapsing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Relapse,
R as in Relapse (v. i.) To slip or slide back, in a literal sense; to turn back.,
R as in Relapse (v. i.) To slide or turn back into a former state or practice; to fall back from some condition attained; -- generally in a bad sense, as from a state of convalescence or amended condition; as, to relapse into a stupor, into vice, or into barbarism; -- sometimes in a good sense; as, to relapse into slumber after being disturbed.,
R as in Relapse (v. i.) To fall from Christian faith into paganism, heresy, or unbelief; to backslide.,
R as in Relapse (v.) A sliding or falling back, especially into a former bad state, either of body or morals; backsliding; the state of having fallen back.,
R as in Relapse (v.) One who has relapsed, or fallen back, into error; a backslider; specifically, one who, after recanting error, returns to it again.,
R as in Relapser (n.) One who relapses.,
R as in Relapsing (a.) Marked by a relapse; falling back; tending to return to a former worse state.,
R as in Related (imp. & p. p.) of Relate,
R as in Relating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Relate,
R as in Relate (v. t.) To bring back; to restore.,
R as in Relate (v. t.) To refer; to ascribe, as to a source.,
R as in Relate (v. t.) To recount; to narrate; to tell over.,
R as in Relate (v. t.) To ally by connection or kindred.,
R as in Relate (v. i.) To stand in some relation; to have bearing or concern; to pertain; to refer; -- with to.,
R as in Relate (v. i.) To make reference; to take account.,
R as in Related (p. p. & a.) Allied by kindred; connected by blood or alliance, particularly by consanguinity; as, persons related in the first or second degree.,
R as in Related (p. p. & a.) Standing in relation or connection; as, the electric and magnetic forcec are closely related.,
R as in Related (p. p. & a.) Narrated; told.,
R as in Related (p. p. & a.) Same as Relative, 4.,
R as in Relatedness (n.) The state or condition of being related; relationship; affinity.,
R as in Relater (n.) One who relates or narrates.,
R as in Relation (n.) The act of relating or telling; also, that which is related; recital; account; narration; narrative; as, the relation of historical events.,
R as in Relation (n.) The state of being related or of referring; what is apprehended as appertaining to a being or quality, by considering it in its bearing upon something else; relative quality or condition; the being such and such with regard or respect to some other thing; connection; as, the relation of experience to knowledge; the relation of master to servant.,
R as in Relation (n.) Reference; respect; regard.,
R as in Relation (n.) Connection by consanguinity or affinity; kinship; relationship; as, the relation of parents and children.,
R as in Relation (n.) A person connected by cosanguinity or affinity; a relative; a kinsman or kinswoman.,
R as in Relation (n.) The carrying back, and giving effect or operation to, an act or proceeding frrom some previous date or time, by a sort of fiction, as if it had happened or begun at that time. In such case the act is said to take effect by relation.,
R as in Relation (n.) The act of a relator at whose instance a suit is begun.,
R as in Relational (a.) Having relation or kindred; related.,
R as in Relational (a.) Indicating or specifying some relation.,
R as in Relationist (n.) A relative; a relation.,
R as in Relationship (n.) The state of being related by kindred, affinity, or other alliance.,
R as in Relative (a.) Having relation or reference; referring; respecting; standing in connection; pertaining; as, arguments not relative to the subject.,
R as in Relative (a.) Arising from relation; resulting from connection with, or reference to, something else; not absolute.,
R as in Relative (a.) Indicating or expressing relation; refering to an antecedent; as, a relative pronoun.,
R as in Relative (a.) Characterizing or pertaining to chords and keys, which, by reason of the identify of some of their tones, admit of a natural transition from one to the other.,
R as in Relative (n.) One who, or that which, relates to, or is considered in its relation to, something else; a relative object or term; one of two object or term; one of two objects directly connected by any relation.,
R as in Relative (n.) A person connected by blood or affinity; strictly, one allied by blood; a relation; a kinsman or kinswoman.,
R as in Relative (n.) A relative pronoun; a word which relates to, or represents, another word or phrase, called its antecedent; as, the relatives "who", "which", "that".,
R as in Relatively (adv.) In a relative manner; in relation or respect to something else; not absolutely.,
R as in Relativeness (n.) The state of being relative, or having relation; relativity.,
R as in Relativity (n.) The state of being relative; as, the relativity of a subject.,
R as in Relator (n.) One who relates; a relater.,
R as in Relator (n.) A private person at whose relation, or in whose behalf, the attorney-general allows an information in the nature of a quo warranto to be filed.,
R as in Relatrix (n.) A female relator.,
R as in Relaxed (imp. & p. p.) of Relax,
R as in Relaxing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Relax,
R as in Relax (n.) To make lax or loose; to make less close, firm, rigid, tense, or the like; to slacken; to loosen; to open; as, to relax a rope or cord; to relax the muscles or sinews.,
R as in Relax (n.) To make less severe or rigorous; to abate the stringency of; to remit in respect to strenuousness, earnestness, or effort; as, to relax discipline; to relax one's attention or endeavors.,
R as in Relax (n.) Hence, to relieve from attention or effort; to ease; to recreate; to divert; as, amusement relaxes the mind.,
R as in Relax (n.) To relieve from constipation; to loosen; to open; as, an aperient relaxes the bowels.,
R as in Relax (v. i.) To become lax, weak, or loose; as, to let one's grasp relax.,
R as in Relax (v. i.) To abate in severity; to become less rigorous.,
R as in Relax (v. i.) To remit attention or effort; to become less diligent; to unbend; as, to relax in study.,
R as in Relax (n.) Relaxation.,
R as in Relax (a.) Relaxed; lax; hence, remiss; careless.,
R as in Relaxable (a.) Capable of being relaxed.,
R as in Relaxant (n.) A medicine that relaxes; a laxative.,
R as in Relaxation (n.) The act or process of relaxing, or the state of being relaxed; as, relaxation of the muscles; relaxation of a law.,
R as in Relaxation (n.) Remission from attention and effort; indulgence in recreation, diversion, or amusement.,
R as in Relaxative (a.) Having the quality of relaxing; laxative.,
R as in Relaxative (n.) A relaxant.,
R as in Relaid (imp. & p. p.) of Relay,
R as in Relaying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Relay,
R as in Relay (v. t.) To lay again; to lay a second time; as, to relay a pavement.,
R as in Relay (n.) A supply of anything arranged beforehand for affording relief from time to time, or at successive stages; provision for successive relief.,
R as in Relay (n.) A supply of horses placced at stations to be in readiness to relieve others, so that a trveler may proceed without delay.,
R as in Relay (n.) A supply of hunting dogs or horses kept in readiness at certain places to relive the tired dogs or horses, and to continue the pursuit of the game if it comes that way.,
R as in Relay (n.) A number of men who relieve others in carrying on some work.,
R as in Relay (n.) In various forms of telegraphic apparatus, a magnet which receives the circuit current, and is caused by it to bring into into action the power of a local battery for performing the work of making the record; also, a similar device by which the current in one circuit is made to open or close another circuit in which a current is passing.,
R as in Relbun (n.) The roots of the Chilian plant Calceolaria arachnoidea, -- used for dyeing crimson.,
R as in Releasable (a.) That may be released.,
R as in Release (v. t.) To lease again; to grant a new lease of; to let back.,
R as in Released (imp. & p. p.) of Release,
R as in Releasing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Release,
R as in Release (n.) To let loose again; to set free from restraint, confinement, or servitude; to give liberty to, or to set at liberty; to let go.,
R as in Release (n.) To relieve from something that confines, burdens, or oppresses, as from pain, trouble, obligation, penalty.,
R as in Release (n.) To let go, as a legal claim; to discharge or relinquish a right to, as lands or tenements, by conveying to another who has some right or estate in possession, as when the person in remainder releases his right to the tenant in possession; to quit.,
R as in Release (n.) To loosen; to relax; to remove the obligation of; as, to release an ordinance.,
R as in Release (n.) The act of letting loose or freeing, or the state of being let loose or freed; liberation or discharge from restraint of any kind, as from confinement or bondage.,
R as in Release (n.) Relief from care, pain, or any burden.,
R as in Release (n.) Discharge from obligation or responsibility, as from debt, penalty, or claim of any kind; acquittance.,
R as in Release (n.) A giving up or relinquishment of some right or claim; a conveyance of a man's right in lands or tenements to another who has some estate in possession; a quitclaim.,
R as in Release (n.) The act of opening the exhaust port to allow the steam to escape.,
R as in Releasee (n.) One to whom a release is given.,
R as in Releasement (n.) The act of releasing, as from confinement or obligation.,
R as in Releaser (n.) One who releases, or sets free.,
R as in Releasor (n.) One by whom a release is given.,
R as in Relegated (imp. & p. p.) of Relegate,
R as in Relegating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Relegate,
R as in Relegate (v. t.) To remove, usually to an inferior position; to consign; to transfer; specifically, to send into exile; to banish.,
R as in Relegation (n.) The act of relegating, or the state of being relegated; removal; banishment; exile.,
R as in Relented (imp. & p. p.) of Relent,
R as in Relenting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Relent,
R as in Relent (v. i.) To become less rigid or hard; to yield; to dissolve; to melt; to deliquesce.,
R as in Relent (v. i.) To become less severe or intense; to become less hard, harsh, cruel, or the like; to soften in temper; to become more mild and tender; to feel compassion.,
R as in Relent (v. t.) To slacken; to abate.,
R as in Relent (v. t.) To soften; to dissolve.,
R as in Relent (v. t.) To mollify ; to cause to be less harsh or severe.,
R as in Relent (n.) Stay; stop; delay.,
R as in Relentless (a.) Unmoved by appeals for sympathy or forgiveness; insensible to the distresses of others; destitute of tenderness; unrelenting; unyielding; unpitying; as, a prey to relentless despotism.,
R as in Relentment (n.) The act or process of relenting; the state of having relented.,
R as in Relesse (v. t.) To release.,
R as in Relessee (n.) See Releasee.,
R as in Relessor (n.) See Releasor.,
R as in Re-let (v. t.) To let anew, as a house.,
R as in Relevance (n.) Alt. of Relevancy,
R as in Relevancy (n.) The quality or state of being relevant; pertinency; applicability.,
R as in Relevancy (n.) Sufficiency to infer the conclusion.,
R as in Relevant (a.) Relieving; lending aid or support.,
R as in Relevant (a.) Bearing upon, or properly applying to, the case in hand; pertinent; applicable.,
R as in Relevant (a.) Sufficient to support the cause.,
R as in Relevantly (adv.) In a relevant manner.,
R as in Relevation (n.) A raising or lifting up.,
R as in Reliability (n.) The state or quality of being reliable; reliableness.,
R as in Reliable (a.) Suitable or fit to be relied on; worthy of dependance or reliance; trustworthy.,
R as in Reliance (n.) The act of relying, or the condition or quality of being reliant; dependence; confidence; trust; repose of mind upon what is deemed sufficient support or authority.,
R as in Reliance (n.) Anything on which to rely; dependence; ground of trust; as, the boat was a poor reliance.,
R as in Reliant (a.) Having, or characterized by, reliance; confident; trusting.,
R as in Relic (n.) That which remains; that which is left after loss or decay; a remaining portion; a remnant.,
R as in Relic (n.) The body from which the soul has departed; a corpse; especially, the body, or some part of the body, of a deceased saint or martyr; -- usually in the plural when referring to the whole body.,
R as in Relic (n.) Hence, a memorial; anything preserved in remembrance; as, relics of youthful days or friendships.,
R as in Relicly (adv.) In the manner of relics.,
R as in Relict (n.) A woman whose husband is dead; a widow.,
R as in Relicted (a.) Left uncovered, as land by recession of water.,
R as in Reliction (n.) A leaving dry; a recession of the sea or other water, leaving dry land; land left uncovered by such recession.,
R as in Relief (n.) The act of relieving, or the state of being relieved; the removal, or partial removal, of any evil, or of anything oppressive or burdensome, by which some ease is obtained; succor; alleviation; comfort; ease; redress.,
R as in Relief (n.) Release from a post, or from the performance of duty, by the intervention of others, by discharge, or by relay; as, a relief of a sentry.,
R as in Relief (n.) That which removes or lessens evil, pain, discomfort, uneasiness, etc.; that which gives succor, aid, or comfort; also, the person who relieves from performance of duty by taking the place of another; a relay.,
R as in Relief (n.) A fine or composition which the heir of a deceased tenant paid to the lord for the privilege of taking up the estate, which, on strict feudal principles, had lapsed or fallen to the lord on the death of the tenant.,
R as in Relief (n.) The projection of a figure above the ground or plane on which it is formed.,
R as in Relief (n.) The appearance of projection given by shading, shadow, etc., to any figure.,
R as in Relief (n.) The height to which works are raised above the bottom of the ditch.,
R as in Relief (n.) The elevations and surface undulations of a country.,
R as in Reliefful (a.) Giving relief.,
R as in Reliefless (a.) Destitute of relief; also, remediless.,
R as in Relier (n.) One who relies.,
R as in Relievable (a.) Capable of being relieved; fitted to recieve relief.,
R as in Relieved (imp. & p. p.) of Relieve,
R as in Relieving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Relieve,
R as in Relieve (v. t.) To lift up; to raise again, as one who has fallen; to cause to rise.,
R as in Relieve (v. t.) To cause to seem to rise; to put in relief; to give prominence or conspicuousness to; to set off by contrast.,
R as in Relieve (v. t.) To raise up something in; to introduce a contrast or variety into; to remove the monotony or sameness of.,
R as in Relieve (v. t.) To raise or remove, as anything which depresses, weighs down, or crushes; to render less burdensome or afflicting; to alleviate; to abate; to mitigate; to lessen; as, to relieve pain; to relieve the wants of the poor.,
R as in Relieve (v. t.) To free, wholly or partly, from any burden, trial, evil, distress, or the like; to give ease, comfort, or consolation to; to give aid, help, or succor to; to support, strengthen, or deliver; as, to relieve a besieged town.,
R as in Relieve (v. t.) To release from a post, station, or duty; to put another in place of, or to take the place of, in the bearing of any burden, or discharge of any duty.,
R as in Relieve (v. t.) To ease of any imposition, burden, wrong, or oppression, by judicial or legislative interposition, as by the removal of a grievance, by indemnification for losses, or the like; to right.,
R as in Relievement (n.) The act of relieving, or the state of being relieved; relief; release.,
R as in Reliever (n.) One who, or that which, relieves.,
R as in Relieving (a.) Serving or tending to relieve.,
R as in Relievo (n.) See Relief, n., 5.,
R as in Relight (v. t.) To light or kindle anew.,
R as in Religieuse (n. m.) Alt. of Religieux,
R as in Religieux (n. m.) A person bound by monastic vows; a nun; a monk.,
R as in Religion (n.) The outward act or form by which men indicate their recognition of the existence of a god or of gods having power over their destiny, to whom obedience, service, and honor are due; the feeling or expression of human love, fear, or awe of some superhuman and overruling power, whether by profession of belief, by observance of rites and ceremonies, or by the conduct of life; a system of faith and worship; a manifestation of piety; as, ethical religions; monotheistic religions; natural religion; revealed religion; the religion of the Jews; the religion of idol worshipers.,
R as in Religion (n.) Specifically, conformity in faith and life to the precepts inculcated in the Bible, respecting the conduct of life and duty toward God and man; the Christian faith and practice.,
R as in Religion (n.) A monastic or religious order subject to a regulated mode of life; the religious state; as, to enter religion.,
R as in Religion (n.) Strictness of fidelity in conforming to any practice, as if it were an enjoined rule of conduct.,
R as in Religionary (a.) Relating to religion; pious; as, religionary professions.,
R as in Religionary (n.) Alt. of Religioner,
R as in Religioner (n.) A religionist.,
R as in Religionism (n.) The practice of, or devotion to, religion.,
R as in Religionism (n.) Affectation or pretense of religion.,
R as in Religionist (n.) One earnestly devoted or attached to a religion; a religious zealot.,
R as in Religionize (v. t.) To bring under the influence of religion.,
R as in Religionless (a.) Destitute of religion.,
R as in Religiosity (n.) The quality of being religious; religious feeling or sentiment; religiousness.,
R as in Religious (a.) Of or pertaining to religion; concerned with religion; teaching, or setting forth, religion; set apart to religion; as, a religious society; a religious sect; a religious place; religious subjects, books, teachers, houses, wars.,
R as in Religious (a.) Possessing, or conforming to, religion; pious; godly; as, a religious man, life, behavior, etc.,
R as in Religious (a.) Scrupulously faithful or exact; strict.,
R as in Religious (a.) Belonging to a religious order; bound by vows.,
R as in Religious (n.) A person bound by monastic vows, or sequestered from secular concern, and devoted to a life of piety and religion; a monk or friar; a nun.,
R as in Religiously (adv.) In a religious manner.,
R as in Religiousness (n.) The quality of being religious.,
R as in Relik (n.) Relic.,
R as in Relinquent (a.) Relinquishing.,
R as in Relinquent (n.) One who relinquishes.,
R as in Relinquished (imp. & p. p.) of Relinquish,
R as in Relinquishing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Relinquish,
R as in Relinquish (v. t.) To withdraw from; to leave behind; to desist from; to abandon; to quit; as, to relinquish a pursuit.,
R as in Relinquish (v. t.) To give up; to renounce a claim to; resign; as, to relinquish a debt.,
R as in Relinquisher (n.) One who relinquishes.,
R as in Relinquishment (n.) The act of relinquishing.,
R as in -ries (pl. ) of Reliquary,
R as in Reliquary (n.) A depositary, often a small box or casket, in which relics are kept.,
R as in Relique (n.) See Relic.,
R as in Reliquiae (n. pl.) Remains of the dead; organic remains; relics.,
R as in Reliquiae (n. pl.) Same as Induviae.,
R as in Reliquian (a.) Of or pertaining to a relic or relics; of the nature of a relic.,
R as in Reliquidate (v. t.) To liquidate anew; to adjust a second time.,
R as in Reliquidation (n.) A second or renewed liquidation; a renewed adjustment.,
R as in Relished (imp. & p. p.) of Relish,
R as in Relishing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Relish,
R as in Relish (v. t.) To taste or eat with pleasure; to like the flavor of; to partake of with gratification; hence, to enjoy; to be pleased with or gratified by; to experience pleasure from; as, to relish food.,
R as in Relish (v. t.) To give a relish to; to cause to taste agreeably.,
R as in Relish (v. i.) To have a pleasing or appetizing taste; to give gratification; to have a flavor.,
R as in Relish (n.) A pleasing taste; flavor that gratifies the palate; hence, enjoyable quality; power of pleasing.,
R as in Relish (n.) Savor; quality; characteristic tinge.,
R as in Relish (n.) A taste for; liking; appetite; fondness.,
R as in Relish (n.) That which is used to impart a flavor; specifically, something taken with food to render it more palatable or to stimulate the appetite; a condiment.,
R as in Relish (n.) The projection or shoulder at the side of, or around, a tenon, on a tenoned piece.,
R as in Relishable (a.) Capable of being relished; agreeable to the taste; gratifying.,
R as in Relive (v. i.) To live again; to revive.,
R as in Relive (v. t.) To recall to life; to revive.,
R as in Reload (v. t.) To load again, as a gun.,
R as in Reloan (n.) A second lending of the same thing; a renewal of a loan.,
R as in Relocate (v. t.) To locate again.,
R as in Relocation (n.) A second location.,
R as in Relocation (n.) Renewal of a lease.,
R as in Relodge (v. t.) To lodge again.,
R as in Relove (v. t.) To love in return.,
R as in Relucent (a.) Reflecting light; shining; glittering; glistening; bright; luminous; splendid.,
R as in Reluct (v. i.) To strive or struggle against anything; to make resistance; to draw back; to feel or show repugnance or reluctance.,
R as in Reluctance (n.) Alt. of Reluctancy,
R as in Reluctancy (n.) The state or quality of being reluctant; repugnance; aversion of mind; unwillingness; -- often followed by an infinitive, or by to and a noun, formerly sometimes by against.,
R as in Reluctant (a.) Striving against; opposed in desire; unwilling; disinclined; loth.,
R as in Reluctant (a.) Proceeding from an unwilling mind; granted with reluctance; as, reluctant obedience.,
R as in Reluctantly (adv.) In a reluctant manner.,
R as in Reluctate (v. i.) To struggle against anything; to resist; to oppose.,
R as in Reluctation (n.) Repugnance; resistance; reluctance.,
R as in Relumed (imp. & p. p.) of Relume,
R as in Reluming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Relume,
R as in Relume (v. t.) To rekindle; to light again.,
R as in Relumined (imp. & p. p.) of Relumine,
R as in Relumining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Relumine,
R as in Relumine (v. t.) To light anew; to rekindle.,
R as in Relumine (v. t.) To illuminate again.,
R as in Relied (imp. & p. p.) of Rely,
R as in Relying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rely,
R as in Rely (v. i.) To rest with confidence, as when fully satisfied of the veracity, integrity, or ability of persons, or of the certainty of facts or of evidence; to have confidence; to trust; to depend; -- with on, formerly also with in.,
R as in Remade () imp. & p. p. of Remake.,
R as in Remained (imp. & p. p.) of Remain,
R as in Remaining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Remain,
R as in Remain (v. i.) To stay behind while others withdraw; to be left after others have been removed or destroyed; to be left after a number or quantity has been subtracted or cut off; to be left as not included or comprised.,
R as in Remain (v. i.) To continue unchanged in place, form, or condition, or undiminished in quantity; to abide; to stay; to endure; to last.,
R as in Remain (v. t.) To await; to be left to.,
R as in Remain (n.) State of remaining; stay.,
R as in Remain (n.) That which is left; relic; remainder; -- chiefly in the plural.,
R as in Remain (n.) That which is left of a human being after the life is gone; relics; a dead body.,
R as in Remain (n.) The posthumous works or productions, esp. literary works, of one who is dead; as, Cecil's,
R as in Remainder (n.) Anything that remains, or is left, after the separation and removal of a part; residue; remnant.,
R as in Remainder (n.) The quantity or sum that is left after subtraction, or after any deduction.,
R as in Remainder (n.) An estate in expectancy, generally in land, which becomes an estate in possession upon the determination of a particular prior estate, created at the same time, and by the same instrument; for example, if land be conveyed to A for life, and on his death to B, A's life interest is a particuar estate, and B's interest is a remainder, or estate in remainder.,
R as in Remainder (a.) Remaining; left; left over; refuse.,
R as in Remainder-men (pl. ) of Remainder-man,
R as in Remainder-man (n.) One who has an estate after a particular estate is determined. See Remainder, n., 3.,
R as in Remake (v. t.) To make anew.,
R as in Remanded (imp. & p. p.) of Remand,
R as in Remanding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Remand,
R as in Remand (v. t.) To recommit; to send back.,
R as in Remand (n.) The act of remanding; the order for recommitment.,
R as in Remandment (n.) A remand.,
R as in Remanence (a.) Alt. of Remanency,
R as in Remanency (a.) The state of being remanent; continuance; permanence.,
R as in Remanent (a.) That which remains; a remnant; a residue.,
R as in Remanent (a.) Remaining; residual.,
R as in Remanet (n.) A case for trial which can not be tried during the term; a postponed case.,
R as in Re-mark (v. t.) To mark again, or a second time; to mark anew.,
R as in Remarked (imp. & p. p.) of Remark,
R as in Remarking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Remark,
R as in Remark (n.) To mark in a notable manner; to distinquish clearly; to make noticeable or conspicuous; to piont out.,
R as in Remark (n.) To take notice of, or to observe, mentally; as, to remark the manner of a speaker.,
R as in Remark (n.) To express in words or writing, as observed or noticed; to state; to say; -- often with a substantive clause; as, he remarked that it was time to go.,
R as in Remark (v. i.) To make a remark or remarks; to comment.,
R as in Remark (n.) Act of remarking or attentively noticing; notice or observation.,
R as in Remark (n.) The expression, in speech or writing, of something remarked or noticed; the mention of that which is worthy of attention or notice; hence, also, a casual observation, comment, or statement; as, a pertinent remark.,
R as in Remarkable (a.) Worthy of being remarked or noticed; noticeable; conspicuous; hence, uncommon; extraordinary.,
R as in Remarker (n.) One who remarks.,
R as in Remarriage (n.) A second or repeated marriage.,
R as in Remarry (v. t. & i.) To marry again.,
R as in Remast (v. t.) To furnish with a new mast or set of masts.,
R as in Remasticate (v. t.) To chew or masticate again; to chew over and over, as the cud.,
R as in Remastication (n.) The act of masticating or chewing again or repeatedly.,
R as in Remberge (n.) See Ramberge.,
R as in Remblai (n.) Earth or materials made into a bank after having been excavated.,
R as in Remble (v. t.) To remove.,
R as in Reme (n.) Realm.,
R as in Remean (v. t.) To give meaning to; to explain the meaning of; to interpret.,
R as in Remeant (a.) Coming back; returning.,
R as in Remeasure (v. t.) To measure again; to retrace.,
R as in Remede (n.) Remedy.,
R as in Remediable (a.) Capable of being remedied or cured.,
R as in Remedial (a.) Affording a remedy; intended for a remedy, or for the removal or abatement of an evil; as, remedial treatment.,
R as in Remedially (adv.) In a remedial manner.,
R as in Remediate (a.) Remedial.,
R as in Remediless (a.) Not admitting of a remedy; incapable of being restored or corrected; incurable; irreparable; as, a remediless mistake or loss.,
R as in Remediless (a.) Not answering as a remedy; ineffectual.,
R as in Remedies (pl. ) of Remedy,
R as in Remedy (n.) That which relieves or cures a disease; any medicine or application which puts an end to disease and restores health; -- with for; as, a remedy for the gout.,
R as in Remedy (n.) That which corrects or counteracts an evil of any kind; a corrective; a counteractive; reparation; cure; -- followed by for or against, formerly by to.,
R as in Remedy (n.) The legal means to recover a right, or to obtain redress for a wrong.,
R as in Remedied (imp. & p. p.) of Remedy,
R as in Remedying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Remedy,
R as in Remedy (n.) To apply a remedy to; to relieve; to cure; to heal; to repair; to redress; to correct; to counteract.,
R as in Remelt (v. t.) To melt again.,
R as in Remembered (imp. & p. p.) of Remember,
R as in Remembering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Remember,
R as in Remember (v. t.) To have ( a notion or idea) come into the mind again, as previously perceived, known, or felt; to have a renewed apprehension of; to bring to mind again; to think of again; to recollect; as, I remember the fact; he remembers the events of his childhood; I cannot remember dates.,
R as in Remember (v. t.) To be capable of recalling when required; to keep in mind; to be continually aware or thoughtful of; to preserve fresh in the memory; to attend to; to think of with gratitude, affection, respect, or any other emotion.,
R as in Remember (v. t.) To put in mind; to remind; -- also used reflexively and impersonally.,
R as in Remember (v. t.) To mention.,
R as in Remember (v. t.) To recall to the mind of another, as in the friendly messages, remember me to him, he wishes to be remembered to you, etc.,
R as in Remember (v. i.) To execise or have the power of memory; as, some remember better than others.,
R as in Rememberable (a.) Capable or worthy of being remembered.,
R as in Rememberer (n.) One who remembers.,
R as in Remembrance (n.) The act of remembering; a holding in mind, or bringing to mind; recollection.,
R as in Remembrance (n.) The state of being remembered, or held in mind; memory; recollection.,
R as in Remembrance (n.) Something remembered; a person or thing kept in memory.,
R as in Remembrance (n.) That which serves to keep in or bring to mind; a memorial; a token; a memento; a souvenir; a memorandum or note of something to be remembered.,
R as in Remembrance (n.) Something to be remembered; counsel; admoni//on; instruction.,
R as in Remembrance (n.) Power of remembering; reach of personal knowledge; period over which one's memory extends.,
R as in Remembrancer (n.) One who, or that which, serves to bring to, or keep in, mind; a memento; a memorial; a reminder.,
R as in Remembrancer (n.) A term applied in England to several officers, having various functions, their duty originally being to bring certain matters to the attention of the proper persons at the proper time.,
R as in Rememorate (v. i.) To recall something by means of memory; to remember.,
R as in Rememoration (n.) A recalling by the faculty of memory; remembrance.,
R as in Rememorative (a.) Tending or serving to remind.,
R as in Remenant (n.) A remnant.,
R as in Remercie (v. t.) Alt. of Remercy,
R as in Remercy (v. t.) To thank.,
R as in Remerge (v. i.) To merge again.,
R as in Remeve (v. t. & i.) Alt. of Remewe,
R as in Remewe (v. t. & i.) To remove.,
R as in Remiform (a.) Shaped like an oar.,
R as in Remiges (n. pl.) The quill feathers of the wings of a bird.,
R as in Remigrate (v. i.) To migrate again; to go back; to return.,
R as in Remigration (n.) Migration back to the place from which one came.,
R as in Remind (v. t.) To put (one) in mind of something; to bring to the remembrance of; to bring to the notice or consideration of (a person).,
R as in Reminder (n.) One who, or that which, reminds; that which serves to awaken remembrance.,
R as in Remindful (a.) Tending or adapted to remind; careful to remind.,
R as in Reminiscence (n.) The act or power of recalling past experience; the state of being reminiscent; remembrance; memory.,
R as in Reminiscence (n.) That which is remembered, or recalled to mind; a statement or narration of remembered experience; a recollection; as, pleasing or painful reminiscences.,
R as in Reminiscency (n.) Reminiscence.,
R as in Reminiscent (a.) Recalling to mind, or capable of recalling to mind; having remembrance; reminding one of something.,
R as in Reminiscent (n.) One who is addicted to indulging, narrating, or recording reminiscences.,
R as in Reminiscential (a.) Of or pertaining to reminiscence, or remembrance.,
R as in Remiped (a.) Having feet or legs that are used as oars; -- said of certain crustaceans and insects.,
R as in Remiped (n.) An animal having limbs like oars, especially one of certain crustaceans.,
R as in Remiped (n.) One of a group of aquatic beetles having tarsi adapted for swimming. See Water beetle.,
R as in Remised (imp. & p. p.) of Remise,
R as in Remising (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Remise,
R as in Remise (v. t.) To send, give, or grant back; to release a claim to; to resign or surrender by deed; to return.,
R as in Remise (n.) A giving or granting back; surrender; return; release, as of a claim.,
R as in Remiss (a.) Not energetic or exact in duty or business; not careful or prompt in fulfilling engagements; negligent; careless; tardy; behindhand; lagging; slack; hence, lacking earnestness or activity; languid; slow.,
R as in Remiss (n.) The act of being remiss; inefficiency; failure.,
R as in Remissful (a.) Inclined to remit punishment; lenient; clement.,
R as in Remissibility (n.) The state or quality of being remissible.,
R as in Remissible (a.) Capable of being remitted or forgiven.,
R as in Remission (n.) The act of remitting, surrendering, resigning, or giving up.,
R as in Remission (n.) Discharge from that which is due; relinquishment of a claim, right, or obligation; pardon of transgression; release from forfeiture, penalty, debt, etc.,
R as in Remission (n.) Diminution of intensity; abatement; relaxation.,
R as in Remission (n.) A temporary and incomplete subsidence of the force or violence of a disease or of pain, as destinguished from intermission, in which the disease completely leaves the patient for a time; abatement.,
R as in Remission (n.) The act of sending back.,
R as in Remission (n.) Act of sending in payment, as money; remittance.,
R as in Remissive (a.) Remitting; forgiving; abating.,
R as in Remissly (adv.) In a remiss or negligent manner; carelessly.,
R as in Remissness (n.) Quality or state of being remiss.,
R as in Remissory (a.) Serving or tending to remit, or to secure remission; remissive.,
R as in Remitted (imp. & p. p.) of Remit,
R as in Remitting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Remit,
R as in Remit (v. t.) To send back; to give up; to surrender; to resign.,
R as in Remit (v. t.) To restore.,
R as in Remit (v. t.) To transmit or send, esp. to a distance, as money in payment of a demand, account, draft, etc.; as, he remitted the amount by mail.,
R as in Remit (v. t.) To send off or away; hence: (a) To refer or direct (one) for information, guidance, help, etc. "Remitting them . . . to the works of Galen." Sir T. Elyot. (b) To submit, refer, or leave (something) for judgment or decision.,
R as in Remit (v. t.) To relax in intensity; to make less violent; to abate.,
R as in Remit (v. t.) To forgive; to pardon; to remove.,
R as in Remit (v. t.) To refrain from exacting or enforcing; as, to remit the performance of an obligation.,
R as in Remit (v. i.) To abate in force or in violence; to grow less intense; to become moderated; to abate; to relax; as, a fever remits; the severity of the weather remits.,
R as in Remit (v. i.) To send money, as in payment.,
R as in Remitment (n.) The act of remitting, or the state of being remitted; remission.,
R as in Remittal (n.) A remitting; a giving up; surrender; as, the remittal of the first fruits.,
R as in Remittance (n.) The act of transmitting money, bills, or the like, esp. to a distant place, as in satisfaction of a demand, or in discharge of an obligation.,
R as in Remittance (n.) The sum or thing remitted.,
R as in Remittee (n.) One to whom a remittance is sent.,
R as in Remittent (a.) Remitting; characterized by remission; having remissions.,
R as in Remitter (n.) One who remits.,
R as in Remitter (n.) One who pardons.,
R as in Remitter (n.) One who makes remittance.,
R as in Remitter (n.) The sending or placing back of a person to a title or right he had before; the restitution of one who obtains possession of property under a defective title, to his rights under some valid title by virtue of which he might legally have entered into possession only by suit.,
R as in Remittitur (n.) A remission or surrender, -- remittitur damnut being a remission of excess of damages.,
R as in Remittitur (n.) A sending back, as when a record is remitted by a superior to an inferior court.,
R as in Remittor (n.) One who makes a remittance; a remitter.,
R as in Remix (v. t.) To mix again or repeatedly.,
R as in Remnant (a.) Remaining; yet left.,
R as in Remnant (a.) That which remains after a part is removed, destroyed, used up, performed, etc.; residue.,
R as in Remnant (a.) A small portion; a slight trace; a fragment; a little bit; a scrap.,
R as in Remnant (a.) An unsold end of piece goods, as cloth, ribbons, carpets, etc.,
R as in Remodel (v. t.) To model or fashion anew; to change the form of.,
R as in Remodification (n.) The act of remodifying; the state of being remodified.,
R as in Remodify (v. t.) To modify again or anew; to reshape.,
R as in Remolade (n.) Alt. of Remoulad,
R as in Remoulad (n.) A kind of piquant sauce or salad dressing resembling mayonnaise.,
R as in Remold (v. t.) Alt. of Remould,
R as in Remould (v. t.) To mold or shape anew or again; to reshape.,
R as in Remollient (a.) Mollifying; softening.,
R as in Remonetization (n.) The act of remonetizing.,
R as in Remonetize (v. t.) To restore to use as money; as, to remonetize silver.,
R as in Remonstrance (n.) The act of remonstrating,
R as in Remonstrance (n.) A pointing out; manifestation; proof; demonstration.,
R as in Remonstrance (n.) Earnest presentation of reason in opposition to something; protest; expostulation.,
R as in Remonstrance (n.) Same as Monstrance.,
R as in Remonstrant (a.) Inclined or tending to remonstrate; expostulatory; urging reasons in opposition to something.,
R as in Remonstrant (n.) One who remonstrates,
R as in Remonstrant (n.) one of the Arminians who remonstrated against the attacks of the Calvinists in 1610, but were subsequently condemned by the decisions of the Synod of Dort in 1618. See Arminian.,
R as in Remonstrantly (adv.) In a remonstrant manner.,
R as in Remonstrated (imp. & p. p.) of Remonstrate,
R as in Remonstrating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Remonstrate,
R as in Remonstrate (v. t.) To point out; to show clearly; to make plain or manifest; hence, to prove; to demonstrate.,
R as in Remonstrate (v. i.) To present and urge reasons in opposition to an act, measure, or any course of proceedings; to expostulate; as, to remonstrate with a person regarding his habits; to remonstrate against proposed taxation.,
R as in Remonstration (n.) The act of remonstrating; remonstrance.,
R as in Remonstrative (a.) Having the character of a remonstrance; expressing remonstrance.,
R as in Remonstrator (n.) One who remonstrates; a remonsrant.,
R as in Remontant (a.) Rising again; -- applied to a class of roses which bloom more than once in a season; the hybrid perpetual roses, of which the Jacqueminot is a well-known example.,
R as in Remontoir (n.) See under Escapement.,
R as in Remora (n.) Delay; obstacle; hindrance.,
R as in Remora (n.) Any one of several species of fishes belonging to Echeneis, Remora, and allied genera. Called also sucking fish.,
R as in Remora (n.) An instrument formerly in use, intended to retain parts in their places.,
R as in Remorate (v. t.) To hinder; to delay.,
R as in Remord (v. t.) To excite to remorse; to rebuke.,
R as in Remord (v. i.) To feel remorse.,
R as in Remordency (n.) Remorse; compunction; compassion.,
R as in Remorse (n.) The anguish, like gnawing pain, excited by a sense of guilt; compunction of conscience for a crime committed, or for the sins of one's past life.,
R as in Remorse (n.) Sympathetic sorrow; pity; compassion.,
R as in Remorsed (a.) Feeling remorse.,
R as in Remorseful (a.) Full of remorse.,
R as in Remorseful (a.) Compassionate; feeling tenderly.,
R as in Remorseful (a.) Exciting pity; pitiable.,
R as in Remorseless (a.) Being without remorse; having no pity; hence, destitute of sensibility; cruel; insensible to distress; merciless.,
R as in Remote (superl.) Removed to a distance; not near; far away; distant; -- said in respect to time or to place; as, remote ages; remote lands.,
R as in Remote (superl.) Hence, removed; not agreeing, according, or being related; -- in various figurative uses.,
R as in Remote (superl.) Not agreeing; alien; foreign.,
R as in Remote (superl.) Not nearly related; not close; as, a remote connection or consanguinity.,
R as in Remote (superl.) Separate; abstracted.,
R as in Remote (superl.) Not proximate or acting directly; primary; distant.,
R as in Remote (superl.) Not obvious or sriking; as, a remote resemblance.,
R as in Remote (superl.) Separated by intervals greater than usual.,
R as in Remotion (n.) The act of removing; removal.,
R as in Remotion (n.) The state of being remote; remoteness.,
R as in Remould (v. t.) See Remold.,
R as in Remount (v. t. & i.) To mount again.,
R as in Remount (n.) The opportunity of, or things necessary for, remounting; specifically, a fresh horse, with his equipments; as, to give one a remount.,
R as in Removable (a.) Admitting of being removed.,
R as in Removal (n.) The act of removing, or the state of being removed.,
R as in Removed (imp. & p. p.) of Remove,
R as in Removing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Remove,
R as in Remove (v. t.) To move away from the position occupied; to cause to change place; to displace; as, to remove a building.,
R as in Remove (v. t.) To cause to leave a person or thing; to cause to cease to be; to take away; hence, to banish; to destroy; to put an end to; to kill; as, to remove a disease.,
R as in Remove (v. t.) To dismiss or discharge from office; as, the President removed many postmasters.,
R as in Remove (v. i.) To change place in any manner, or to make a change in place; to move or go from one residence, position, or place to another.,
R as in Remove (n.) The act of removing; a removal.,
R as in Remove (n.) The transfer of one's business, or of one's domestic belongings, from one location or dwelling house to another; -- in the United States usually called a move.,
R as in Remove (n.) The state of being removed.,
R as in Remove (n.) That which is removed, as a dish removed from table to make room for something else.,
R as in Remove (n.) The distance or space through which anything is removed; interval; distance; stage; hence, a step or degree in any scale of gradation; specifically, a division in an English public school; as, the boy went up two removes last year.,
R as in Remove (n.) The act of resetting a horse's shoe.,
R as in Removed (a.) Changed in place.,
R as in Removed (a.) Dismissed from office.,
R as in Removed (a.) Distant in location; remote.,
R as in Removed (a.) Distant by degrees in relationship; as, a cousin once removed.,
R as in Remover (n.) One who removes; as, a remover of landmarks.,
R as in Remuable (a.) That may be removed; removable.,
R as in Remue (v. t.) To remove.,
R as in Remugient (a.) Rebellowing.,
R as in Remunerable (a.) Admitting, or worthy, of remuneration.,
R as in Remunerated (imp. & p. p.) of Remunerate,
R as in Remunerating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Remunerate,
R as in Remunerate (v. t.) To pay an equivalent to for any service, loss, expense, or other sacrifice; to recompense; to requite; as, to remunerate men for labor.,
R as in Remuneration (n.) The act of remunerating.,
R as in Remuneration (n.) That which is given to remunerate; an equivalent given, as for services, loss, or sufferings.,
R as in Remunerative (a.) Affording remuneration; as, a remunerative payment for services; a remunerative business.,
R as in Remuneratory (a.) Remunerative.,
R as in Remurmur (v. t. & i.) To murmur again; to utter back, or reply, in murmurs.,
R as in Ren (v. t. & i.) See Renne.,
R as in Ren (n.) A run.,
R as in Renable (a.) Reasonable; also, loquacious.,
R as in Renaissance (n.) A new birth, or revival.,
R as in Renaissance (n.) The transitional movement in Europe, marked by the revival of classical learning and art in Italy in the 15th century, and the similar revival following in other countries.,
R as in Renaissance (n.) The style of art which prevailed at this epoch.,
R as in Renaissant (a.) Of or pertaining to the Renaissance.,
R as in Renal (a.) Of or pertaining to the kidneys; in the region of the kidneys.,
R as in Renal-portal (a.) Both renal and portal. See Portal.,
R as in Rename (v. t.) To give a new name to.,
R as in Renard (n.) A fox; -- so called in fables or familiar tales, and in poetry.,
R as in Renardine (a.) Of or pertaining to Renard, the fox, or the tales in which Renard is mentioned.,
R as in Renascence (n.) The state of being renascent.,
R as in Renascence (n.) Same as Renaissance.,
R as in Renascency (n.) State of being renascent.,
R as in Renascent (a.) Springing or rising again into being; being born again, or reproduced.,
R as in Renascent (a.) See Renaissant.,
R as in Renascible (a.) Capable of being reproduced; ablle to spring again into being.,
R as in Renate (a.) Born again; regenerate; renewed.,
R as in Renavigate (v. t.) To navigate again.,
R as in Renay (v. t.) To deny; to disown.,
R as in Rencontre (n.) Same as Rencounter, n.,
R as in Rencountered (imp. & p. p.) of Rencounter,
R as in Rencountering (p. pr. & vb/ n.) of Rencounter,
R as in Rencounter (v. t.) To meet unexpectedly; to encounter.,
R as in Rencounter (v. t.) To attack hand to hand.,
R as in Rencounter (v. i.) To meet unexpectedly; to encounter in a hostile manner; to come in collision; to skirmish.,
R as in Rencounter (n.) A meeting of two persons or bodies; a collision; especially, a meeting in opposition or contest; a combat, action, or engagement.,
R as in Rencounter (n.) A causal combat or action; a sudden contest or fight without premeditation, as between individuals or small parties.,
R as in Rent (imp. & p. p.) of Rend,
R as in Rending (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rend,
R as in Rend (v. t.) To separate into parts with force or sudden violence; to tear asunder; to split; to burst; as, powder rends a rock in blasting; lightning rends an oak.,
R as in Rend (v. t.) To part or tear off forcibly; to take away by force.,
R as in Rend (v. i.) To be rent or torn; to become parted; to separate; to split.,
R as in Render (n.) One who rends.,
R as in Rendered (imp. & p. p.) of Render,
R as in Rendering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Render,
R as in Render (v. t.) To return; to pay back; to restore.,
R as in Render (v. t.) To inflict, as a retribution; to requite.,
R as in Render (v. t.) To give up; to yield; to surrender.,
R as in Render (v. t.) Hence, to furnish; to contribute.,
R as in Render (v. t.) To furnish; to state; to deliver; as, to render an account; to render judgment.,
R as in Render (v. t.) To cause to be, or to become; as, to render a person more safe or more unsafe; to render a fortress secure.,
R as in Render (v. t.) To translate from one language into another; as, to render Latin into English.,
R as in Render (v. t.) To interpret; to set forth, represent, or exhibit; as, an actor renders his part poorly; a singer renders a passage of music with great effect; a painter renders a scene in a felicitous manner.,
R as in Render (v. t.) To try out or extract (oil, lard, tallow, etc.) from fatty animal substances; as, to render tallow.,
R as in Render (v. t.) To plaster, as a wall of masonry, without the use of lath.,
R as in Render (v. i.) To give an account; to make explanation or confession.,
R as in Render (v. i.) To pass; to run; -- said of the passage of a rope through a block, eyelet, etc.; as, a rope renders well, that is, passes freely; also, to yield or give way.,
R as in Render (n.) A surrender.,
R as in Render (n.) A return; a payment of rent.,
R as in Render (n.) An account given; a statement.,
R as in Renderable (a.) Capable of being rendered.,
R as in Renderer (n.) One who renders.,
R as in Renderer (n.) A vessel in which lard or tallow, etc., is rendered.,
R as in Rendering (n.) The act of one who renders, or that which is rendered.,
R as in Rendering (n.) A version; translation; as, the rendering of the Hebrew text.,
R as in Rendering (n.) In art, the presentation, expression, or interpretation of an idea, theme, or part.,
R as in Rendering (n.) The act of laying the first coat of plaster on brickwork or stonework.,
R as in Rendering (n.) The coat of plaster thus laid on.,
R as in Rendering (n.) The process of trying out or extracting lard, tallow, etc., from animal fat.,
R as in Rendezvouses (pl. ) of Rendezvous,
R as in Rendezvous (n.) A place appointed for a meeting, or at which persons customarily meet.,
R as in Rendezvous (n.) Especially, the appointed place for troops, or for the ships of a fleet, to assemble; also, a place for enlistment.,
R as in Rendezvous (n.) A meeting by appointment.,
R as in Rendezvous (n.) Retreat; refuge.,
R as in Rendezvoused (imp. &. p. p.) of Rendezvous,
R as in Rendezvousing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rendezvous,
R as in Rendezvous (v. i.) To assemble or meet at a particular place.,
R as in Rendezvous (v. t.) To bring together at a certain place; to cause to be assembled.,
R as in Rendible (a.) Capable of being rent or torn.,
R as in Rendible (a.) Capable, or admitting, of being rendered.,
R as in Rendition (n.) The act of rendering; especially, the act of surrender, as of fugitives from justice, at the claim of a foreign government; also, surrender in war.,
R as in Rendition (n.) Translation; rendering; version.,
R as in Rendrock (n.) A kind of dynamite used in blasting.,
R as in Renegade (n.) One faithless to principle or party.,
R as in Renegade (n.) An apostate from Christianity or from any form of religious faith.,
R as in Renegade (n.) One who deserts from a military or naval post; a deserter.,
R as in Renegade (n.) A common vagabond; a worthless or wicked fellow.,
R as in Renegado (n.) See Renegade.,
R as in Renegat (n.) A renegade.,
R as in Renegation (n.) A denial.,
R as in Renege (v. t.) To deny; to disown.,
R as in Renege (v. i.) To deny.,
R as in Renege (v. i.) To revoke.,
R as in Renerve (v. t.) To nerve again; to give new vigor to; to reinvigorate.,
R as in Reneved (imp. & p. p.) of Renew,
R as in Renewing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Renew,
R as in Renew (v. t.) To make new again; to restore to freshness, perfection, or vigor; to give new life to; to rejuvenate; to re/stablish; to recreate; to rebuild.,
R as in Renew (v. t.) Specifically, to substitute for (an old obligation or right) a new one of the same nature; to continue in force; to make again; as, to renew a lease, note, or patent.,
R as in Renew (v. t.) To begin again; to recommence.,
R as in Renew (v. t.) To repeat; to go over again.,
R as in Renew (v. t.) To make new spiritually; to regenerate.,
R as in Renew (v. i.) To become new, or as new; to grow or begin again.,
R as in Renewability (n.) The quality or state of being renewable.,
R as in Renewable (a.) Capable of being renewed; as, a lease renewable at pleasure.,
R as in Renewal (n.) The act of renewing, or the state of being renewed; as, the renewal of a treaty.,
R as in Renewedly (adv.) Again; once more.,
R as in Renewedness (n.) The state of being renewed.,
R as in Renewer (n.) One who, or that which, renews.,
R as in Reneye (v. t.) To deny; to reject; to renounce.,
R as in Reng (n.) A rank; a row.,
R as in Reng (n.) A rung or round of a ladder.,
R as in Renidification (n.) The act of rebuilding a nest.,
R as in Reniform (a.) Having the form or shape of a kidney; as, a reniform mineral; a reniform leaf.,
R as in Renitence (n.) Alt. of Renitency,
R as in Renitency (n.) The state or quality of being renitent; resistance; reluctance.,
R as in Renitent (a.) Resisting pressure or the effect of it; acting against impulse by elastic force.,
R as in Renitent (a.) Persistently opposed.,
R as in Renne (v. t.) To plunder; -- only in the phrase "to rape and renne." See under Rap, v. t., to snatch.,
R as in Renne (v. i.) To run.,
R as in Renner (n.) A runner.,
R as in Rennet (n.) A name of many different kinds of apples. Cf. Reinette.,
R as in Rennet (v.) The inner, or mucous, membrane of the fourth stomach of the calf, or other young ruminant; also, an infusion or preparation of it, used for coagulating milk.,
R as in Renneted (a.) Provided or treated with rennet.,
R as in Renneting (n.) Same as 1st Rennet.,
R as in Rennin (n.) A milk-clotting enzyme obtained from the true stomach (abomasum) of a suckling calf. Mol. wt. about 31,000. Also called chymosin, rennase, and abomasal enzyme.,
R as in Renning (n.) See 2d Rennet.,
R as in Renomee (n.) Renown.,
R as in Renounced (imp. & p. p.) of Renounce,
R as in Renouncing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Renounce,
R as in Renounce (v. t.) To declare against; to reject or decline formally; to refuse to own or acknowledge as belonging to one; to disclaim; as, to renounce a title to land or to a throne.,
R as in Renounce (v. t.) To cast off or reject deliberately; to disown; to dismiss; to forswear.,
R as in Renounce (v. t.) To disclaim having a card of (the suit led) by playing a card of another suit.,
R as in Renounce (v. i.) To make renunciation.,
R as in Renounce (v. i.) To decline formally, as an executor or a person entitled to letters of administration, to take out probate or letters.,
R as in Renounce (n.) Act of renouncing.,
R as in Renouncement (n.) The act of disclaiming or rejecting; renunciation.,
R as in Renouncer (n.) One who renounces.,
R as in Renovate (v. t.) To make over again; to restore to freshness or vigor; to renew.,
R as in Renovation (n.) The act or process of renovating; the state of being renovated or renewed.,
R as in Renovator (n.) One who, or that which, renovates.,
R as in Renovel (v. t.) To renew; to renovate.,
R as in Renovelance (n.) Renewal.,
R as in Renowme (n.) Renown.,
R as in Renowmed (a.) Renowned.,
R as in Renown (v.) The state of being much known and talked of; exalted reputation derived from the extensive praise of great achievements or accomplishments; fame; celebrity; -- always in a good sense.,
R as in Renown (v.) Report of nobleness or exploits; praise.,
R as in Renown (v. t.) To make famous; to give renown to.,
R as in Renowned (a.) Famous; celebrated for great achievements, for distinguished qualities, or for grandeur; eminent; as, a renowned king.,
R as in Renownedly (adv.) With renown.,
R as in Renowner (n.) One who gives renown.,
R as in Renownful (a.) Having great renown; famous.,
R as in Renownless (a.) Without renown; inglorius.,
R as in Rensselaerite (n.) A soft, compact variety of talc,, being an altered pyroxene. It is often worked in a lathe into inkstands and other articles.,
R as in Rent (v. i.) To rant.,
R as in Rent () imp. & p. p. of Rend.,
R as in Rent (n.) An opening made by rending; a break or breach made by force; a tear.,
R as in Rent (n.) Figuratively, a schism; a rupture of harmony; a separation; as, a rent in the church.,
R as in Rent (v. t.) To tear. See Rend.,
R as in Rent (n.) Income; revenue. See Catel.,
R as in Rent (n.) Pay; reward; share; toll.,
R as in Rent (n.) A certain periodical profit, whether in money, provisions, chattels, or labor, issuing out of lands and tenements in payment for the use; commonly, a certain pecuniary sum agreed upon between a tenant and his landlord, paid at fixed intervals by the lessee to the lessor, for the use of land or its appendages; as, rent for a farm, a house, a park, etc.,
R as in Rented (imp. & p. p.) of Rent,
R as in Renting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rent,
R as in Rent (n.) To grant the possession and enjoyment of, for a rent; to lease; as, the owwner of an estate or house rents it.,
R as in Rent (n.) To take and hold under an agreement to pay rent; as, the tennant rents an estate of the owner.,
R as in Rent (v. i.) To be leased, or let for rent; as, an estate rents for five hundred dollars a year.,
R as in Rentable (a.) Capable of being rented, or suitable for renting.,
R as in Rentage (n.) Rent.,
R as in Rental (n.) A schedule, account, or list of rents, with the names of the tenants, etc.; a rent roll.,
R as in Rental (n.) A sum total of rents; as, an estate that yields a rental of ten thousand dollars a year.,
R as in Rente (n.) In France, interest payable by government on indebtedness; the bonds, shares, stocks, etc., which represent government indebtedness.,
R as in Renter (n.) One who rents or leases an estate; -- usually said of a lessee or tenant.,
R as in Rentered (imp. & p. p.) of Renter,
R as in Rentering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Renter,
R as in Renter (v. t.) To sew together so that the seam is scarcely visible; to sew up with skill and nicety; to finedraw.,
R as in Renter (v. t.) To restore the original design of, by working in new warp; -- said with reference to tapestry.,
R as in Renterer (n.) One who renters.,
R as in Rentier (n.) One who has a fixed income, as from lands, stocks, or the like.,
R as in Renumerate (v. t.) To recount.,
R as in Renunciation (n.) The act of renouncing.,
R as in Renunciation (n.) Formal declination to take out letters of administration, or to assume an office, privilege, or right.,
R as in Renunciatory (a.) Pertaining to renunciation; containing or declaring a renunciation; as, renunciatory vows.,
R as in Renverse (v. t.) To reverse.,
R as in Renverse (a.) Alt. of Renverse,
R as in Renverse (a.) Reversed; set with the head downward; turned contrary to the natural position.,
R as in Renversement (n.) A reversing.,
R as in Renvoy (v. t.) To send back.,
R as in Renvoy (n.) A sending back.,
R as in Reobtain (v. t.) To obtain again.,
R as in Reobtainable (a.) That may be reobtained.,
R as in Reoccupy (v. t.) To occupy again.,
R as in Reometer (n.) Same as Rheometer.,
R as in Reopen (v. t. & i.) To open again.,
R as in Reoppose (v. t.) To oppose again.,
R as in Reordain (v. t.) To ordain again, as when the first ordination is considered defective.,
R as in Reorder (v. t.) To order a second time.,
R as in Reordination (n.) A second ordination.,
R as in Reorganization (n.) The act of reorganizing; a reorganized existence; as, reorganization of the troops.,
R as in Reorganize (v. t. & i.) To organize again or anew; as, to reorganize a society or an army.,
R as in Reorient (a.) Rising again.,
R as in Reostat (n.) See Rheostat.,
R as in Reotrope (n.) See Rheotrope.,
R as in Rep (n.) A fabric made of silk or wool, or of silk and wool, and having a transversely corded or ribbed surface.,
R as in Rep (a.) Formed with a surface closely corded, or ribbed transversely; -- applied to textile fabrics of silk or wool; as, rep silk.,
R as in Repace (v. t.) To pace again; to walk over again in a contrary direction.,
R as in Repacify (v. t.) To pacify again.,
R as in Repack (v. t.) To pack a second time or anew; as, to repack beef; to repack a trunk.,
R as in Repacker (n.) One who repacks.,
R as in Repaganize (v. t.) To paganize anew; to bring back to paganism.,
R as in Repaid () imp. & p. p. of Repay.,
R as in Repaint (v. t.) To paint anew or again; as, to repaint a house; to repaint the ground of a picture.,
R as in Repair (v. i.) To return.,
R as in Repair (v. i.) To go; to betake one's self; to resort; ass, to repair to sanctuary for safety.,
R as in Repair (n.) The act of repairing or resorting to a place.,
R as in Repair (n.) Place to which one repairs; a haunt; a resort.,
R as in Repaired (imp. & p. p.) of Repair,
R as in Repairing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Repair,
R as in Repair (v. t.) To restore to a sound or good state after decay, injury, dilapidation, or partial destruction; to renew; to restore; to mend; as, to repair a house, a road, a shoe, or a ship; to repair a shattered fortune.,
R as in Repair (v. t.) To make amends for, as for an injury, by an equivalent; to indemnify for; as, to repair a loss or damage.,
R as in Repair (n.) Restoration to a sound or good state after decay, waste, injury, or partial restruction; supply of loss; reparation; as, materials are collected for the repair of a church or of a city.,
R as in Repair (n.) Condition with respect to soundness, perfectness, etc.; as, a house in good, or bad, repair; the book is out of repair.,
R as in Repairable (a.) Reparable.,
R as in Repairer (n.) One who, or that which, repairs, restores, or makes amends.,
R as in Repairment (n.) Act of repairing.,
R as in Repand (a.) Having a slightly undulating margin; -- said of leaves.,
R as in Reparability (n.) The quality or state of being reparable.,
R as in Reparable (a.) Capable of being repaired, restored to a sound or good state, or made good; restorable; as, a reparable injury.,
R as in Reparably (adv.) In a reparable manner.,
R as in Reparation (n.) The act of renewing, restoring, etc., or the state of being renewed or repaired; as, the reparation of a bridge or of a highway; -- in this sense, repair is oftener used.,
R as in Reparation (n.) The act of making amends or giving satisfaction or compensation for a wrong, injury, etc.; also, the thing done or given; amends; satisfaction; indemnity.,
R as in Reparative (a.) Repairing, or tending to repair.,
R as in Reparative (n.) That which repairs.,
R as in Reparel (n.) A change of apparel; a second or different suit.,
R as in Repartee (n.) A smart, ready, and witty reply.,
R as in Reparteed (imp. & p. p.) of Repartee,
R as in Reparteeing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Repartee,
R as in Repartee (v. i.) To make smart and witty replies.,
R as in Repartimiento (n.) A partition or distribution, especially of slaves; also, an assessment of taxes.,
R as in Repartotion (n.) Another, or an additional, separation into parts.,
R as in Repass (v. t.) To pass again; to pass or travel over in the opposite direction; to pass a second time; as, to repass a bridge or a river; to repass the sea.,
R as in Repass (v. i.) To pass or go back; to move back; as, troops passing and repassing before our eyes.,
R as in Repassage (n.) The act of repassing; passage back.,
R as in Repassant (a.) Counterpassant.,
R as in Repast (n.) The act of taking food.,
R as in Repast (n.) That which is taken as food; a meal; figuratively, any refreshment.,
R as in Repast (v. t. & i.) To supply food to; to feast; to take food.,
R as in Repaster (n.) One who takes a repast.,
R as in Repasture (n.) Food; entertainment.,
R as in Repatriate (v. t.) To restore to one's own country.,
R as in Repatriation (n.) Restoration to one's country.,
R as in Repaid (imp. & p. p.) of Repay,
R as in Repaying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Repay,
R as in Repay (v. t.) To pay back; to refund; as, to repay money borrowed or advanced.,
R as in Repay (v. t.) To make return or requital for; to recompense; -- in a good or bad sense; as, to repay kindness; to repay an injury.,
R as in Repay (v. t.) To pay anew, or a second time, as a debt.,
R as in Repayable (a.) Capable of being, or proper to be , repaid; due; as, a loan repayable in ten days; services repayable in kind.,
R as in Repayment (n.) The act of repaying; reimbursement.,
R as in Repayment (n.) The money or other thing repaid.,
R as in Repealed (imp. & p. p.) of Repeal,
R as in Repealing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Repeal,
R as in Repeal (v. t.) To recall; to summon again, as persons.,
R as in Repeal (v. t.) To recall, as a deed, will, law, or statute; to revoke; to rescind or abrogate by authority, as by act of the legislature; as, to repeal a law.,
R as in Repeal (v. t.) To suppress; to repel.,
R as in Repeal (n.) Recall, as from exile.,
R as in Repeal (n.) Revocation; abrogation; as, the repeal of a statute; the repeal of a law or a usage.,
R as in Repealability (n.) The quality or state of being repealable.,
R as in Repealable (a.) Capable of being repealed.,
R as in Repealer (n.) One who repeals; one who seeks a repeal; specifically, an advocate for the repeal of the Articles of Union between Great Britain and Ireland.,
R as in Repealment (n.) Recall, as from banishment.,
R as in Repeated (imp. & p. p.) of Repeat,
R as in Repeating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Repeat,
R as in Repeat (v. t.) To go over again; to attempt, do, make, or utter again; to iterate; to recite; as, to repeat an effort, an order, or a poem.,
R as in Repeat (v. t.) To make trial of again; to undergo or encounter again.,
R as in Repeat (v. t.) To repay or refund (an excess received).,
R as in Repeat (n.) The act of repeating; repetition.,
R as in Repeat (n.) That which is repeated; as, the repeat of a pattern; that is, the repetition of the engraved figure on a roller by which an impression is produced (as in calico printing, etc.).,
R as in Repeat (n.) A mark, or series of dots, placed before and after, or often only at the end of, a passage to be repeated in performance.,
R as in Repeatedly (adv.) More than once; again and again; indefinitely.,
R as in Repeater (n.) One who, or that which, repeats.,
R as in Repeater (n.) A watch with a striking apparatus which, upon pressure of a spring, will indicate the time, usually in hours and quarters.,
R as in Repeater (n.) A repeating firearm.,
R as in Repeater (n.) An instrument for resending a telegraphic message automatically at an intermediate point.,
R as in Repeater (n.) A person who votes more than once at an election.,
R as in Repeater (n.) See Circulating decimal, under Decimal.,
R as in Repeater (n.) A pennant used to indicate that a certain flag in a hoist of signal is duplicated.,
R as in Repeating (a.) Doing the same thing over again; accomplishing a given result many times in succession; as, a repeating firearm; a repeating watch.,
R as in Repedation (n.) A stepping or going back.,
R as in Repelled (imp. & p. p.) of Repel,
R as in Repelling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Repel,
R as in Repel (v. t.) To drive back; to force to return; to check the advance of; to repulse as, to repel an enemy or an assailant.,
R as in Repel (v. t.) To resist or oppose effectually; as, to repel an assault, an encroachment, or an argument.,
R as in Repel (v. i.) To act with force in opposition to force impressed; to exercise repulsion.,
R as in Repellence (n.) Alt. of Repellency,
R as in Repellency (n.) The principle of repulsion; the quality or capacity of repelling; repulsion.,
R as in Repellent (a.) Driving back; able or tending to repel.,
R as in Repellent (n.) That which repels.,
R as in Repellent (n.) A remedy to repel from a tumefied part the fluids which render it tumid.,
R as in Repellent (n.) A kind of waterproof cloth.,
R as in Repeller (n.) One who, or that which, repels.,
R as in Repent (a.) Prostrate and rooting; -- said of stems.,
R as in Repent (a.) Same as Reptant.,
R as in Repented (imp. & p. p.) of Repent,
R as in Repenting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Repent,
R as in Repent (v. i.) To feel pain, sorrow, or regret, for what one has done or omitted to do.,
R as in Repent (v. i.) To change the mind, or the course of conduct, on account of regret or dissatisfaction.,
R as in Repent (v. i.) To be sorry for sin as morally evil, and to seek forgiveness; to cease to love and practice sin.,
R as in Repent (v. t.) To feel pain on account of; to remember with sorrow.,
R as in Repent (v. t.) To feel regret or sorrow; -- used reflexively.,
R as in Repent (v. t.) To cause to have sorrow or regret; -- used impersonally.,
R as in Repentance (n.) The act of repenting, or the state of being penitent; sorrow for what one has done or omitted to do; especially, contrition for sin.,
R as in Repentant (a.) Penitent; sorry for sin.,
R as in Repentant (a.) Expressing or showing sorrow for sin; as, repentant tears; repentant ashes.,
R as in Repentant (n.) One who repents, especially one who repents of sin; a penitent.,
R as in Repentantly (adv.) In a repentant manner.,
R as in Repenter (n.) One who repents.,
R as in Repentingly (adv.) With repentance; penitently.,
R as in Repentless (a.) Unrepentant.,
R as in Repeople (v. t.) To people anew.,
R as in Reperception (n.) The act of perceiving again; a repeated perception of the same object.,
R as in Repercussed (imp. & p. p.) of Repercuss,
R as in Repercussing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Repercuss,
R as in Repercuss (v. t.) To drive or beat back; hence, to reflect; to reverberate.,
R as in Repercussion (n.) The act of driving back, or the state of being driven back; reflection; reverberation; as, the repercussion of sound.,
R as in Repercussion (n.) Rapid reiteration of the same sound.,
R as in Repercussion (n.) The subsidence of a tumor or eruption by the action of a repellent.,
R as in Repercussion (n.) In a vaginal examination, the act of imparting through the uterine wall with the finger a shock to the fetus, so that it bounds upward, and falls back again against the examining finger.,
R as in Repercussive (a.) Tending or able to repercuss; having the power of sending back; causing to reverberate.,
R as in Repercussive (a.) Repellent.,
R as in Repercussive (a.) Driven back; rebounding; reverberated.,
R as in Repercussive (n.) A repellent.,
R as in Repertitious (a.) Found; gained by finding.,
R as in Repertoire (n.) A list of dramas, operas, pieces, parts, etc., which a company or a person has rehearsed and is prepared to perform.,
R as in Repertory (n.) A place in which things are disposed in an orderly manner, so that they can be easily found, as the index of a book, a commonplace book, or the like.,
R as in Repertory (n.) A treasury; a magazine; a storehouse.,
R as in Repertory (n.) Same as Repertoire.,
R as in Reperusal (n.) A second or repeated perusal.,
R as in Reperuse (v. t.) To peruse again.,
R as in Repetend (n.) That part of a circulating decimal which recurs continually, ad infinitum: -- sometimes indicated by a dot over the first and last figures; thus, in the circulating decimal .728328328 + (otherwise .7/8/), the repetend is 283.,
R as in Repetition (n.) The act of repeating; a doing or saying again; iteration.,
R as in Repetition (n.) Recital from memory; rehearsal.,
R as in Repetition (n.) The act of repeating, singing, or playing, the same piece or part a second time; reiteration of a note.,
R as in Repetition (n.) Reiteration, or repeating the same word, or the same sense in different words, for the purpose of making a deeper impression on the audience.,
R as in Repetition (n.) The measurement of an angle by successive observations with a repeating instrument.,
R as in Repetitional (a.) Alt. of Repetitionary,
R as in Repetitionary (a.) Of the nature of, or containing, repetition.,
R as in Repetitioner (n.) One who repeats.,
R as in Repetitious (a.) Repeating; containing repetition.,
R as in Repetitive (a.) Containing repetition; repeating.,
R as in Repetitor (n.) A private instructor.,
R as in Repine (v. i.) To fail; to wane.,
R as in Repine (v. i.) To continue pining; to feel inward discontent which preys on the spirits; to indulge in envy or complaint; to murmur.,
R as in Repine (n.) Vexation; mortification.,
R as in Repiner (n.) One who repines.,
R as in Repiningly (adv.) With repening or murmuring.,
R as in Repkie (n.) Any edible sea urchin.,
R as in Replace (v. t.) To place again; to restore to a former place, position, condition, or the like.,
R as in Replace (v. t.) To refund; to repay; to restore; as, to replace a sum of money borrowed.,
R as in Replace (v. t.) To supply or substitute an equivalent for; as, to replace a lost document.,
R as in Replace (v. t.) To take the place of; to supply the want of; to fulfull the end or office of.,
R as in Replace (v. t.) To put in a new or different place.,
R as in Replaceability (n.) The quality, state, or degree of being replaceable.,
R as in Replaceable (a.) Capable or admitting of being put back into a place.,
R as in Replaceable (a.) Admitting of having its place supplied by a like thing or an equivalent; as, the lost book is replaceable.,
R as in Replaceable (a.) Capable of being replaced (by), or of being exchanged (for); as, the hydrogen of acids is replaceable by metals or by basic radicals.,
R as in Replacement (n.) The act of replacing.,
R as in Replacement (n.) The removal of an edge or an angle by one or more planes.,
R as in Replait (v. t.) To plait or fold again; to fold, as one part over another, again and again.,
R as in Replant (v. t.) To plant again.,
R as in Replantable (a.) That may be planted again.,
R as in Replantation (n.) The act of planting again; a replanting.,
R as in Replead (v. t. & i.) To plead again.,
R as in Repleader (n.) A second pleading, or course of pleadings; also, the right of pleading again.,
R as in Replenished (imp. & p. p.) of Replenish,
R as in Replenishing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Replenish,
R as in Replenish (v. t.) To fill again after having been diminished or emptied; to stock anew; hence, to fill completely; to cause to abound.,
R as in Replenish (v. t.) To finish; to complete; to perfect.,
R as in Replenish (v. i.) To recover former fullness.,
R as in Replenisher (n.) One who replenishes.,
R as in Replenishment (n.) The act of replenishing, or the state of being replenished.,
R as in Replenishment (n.) That which replenishes; supply.,
R as in Replete (a.) Filled again; completely filled; full; charged; abounding.,
R as in Replete (v. t.) To fill completely, or to satiety.,
R as in Repleteness (n.) The state of being replete.,
R as in Repletion (n.) The state of being replete; superabundant fullness.,
R as in Repletion (n.) Fullness of blood; plethora.,
R as in Repletive (a.) Tending to make replete; filling.,
R as in Repletory (a.) Repletive.,
R as in Repleviable (a.) Capable of being replevied.,
R as in Replevin (n.) A personal action which lies to recover possession of goods and chattle wrongfully taken or detained. Originally, it was a remedy peculiar to cases for wrongful distress, but it may generally now be brought in all cases of wrongful taking or detention.,
R as in Replevin (n.) The writ by which goods and chattels are replevied.,
R as in Replevin (v. t.) To replevy.,
R as in Replevisable (a.) Repleviable.,
R as in Replevied (imp. & p. p.) of Replevy,
R as in Replevying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Replevy,
R as in Replevy (v. t.) To take or get back, by a writ for that purpose (goods and chattels wrongfully taken or detained), upon giving security to try the right to them in a suit at law, and, if that should be determined against the plaintiff, to return the property replevied.,
R as in Replevy (v. t.) To bail.,
R as in Replevy (n.) Replevin.,
R as in Replica (v. & n.) A copy of a work of art, as of a picture or statue, made by the maker of the original.,
R as in Replica (v. & n.) Repetition.,
R as in Replicant (n.) One who replies.,
R as in Replicate (v. t.) To reply.,
R as in Replicate (a.) Alt. of Replicated,
R as in Replicated (a.) Folded over or backward; folded back upon itself; as, a replicate leaf or petal; a replicate margin of a shell.,
R as in Replication (n.) An answer; a reply.,
R as in Replication (n.) The reply of the plaintiff, in matters of fact, to the defendant's plea.,
R as in Replication (n.) Return or repercussion, as of sound; echo.,
R as in Replication (n.) A repetition; a copy.,
R as in Replier (n.) One who replies.,
R as in Replum (n.) The framework of some pods, as the cress, which remains after the valves drop off.,
R as in Replied (imp. & p. p.) of Reply,
R as in Replying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Reply,
R as in Reply (v. i.) To make a return in words or writing; to respond; to answer.,
R as in Reply (v. i.) To answer a defendant's plea.,
R as in Reply (v. i.) Figuratively, to do something in return for something done; as, to reply to a signal; to reply to the fire of a battery.,
R as in Reply (v. t.) To return for an answer.,
R as in Replies (pl. ) of Reply,
R as in Reply (v. i.) That which is said, written, or done in answer to what is said, written, or done by another; an answer; a response.,
R as in Replyer (n.) See Replier.,
R as in Repolish (v. t.) To polish again.,
R as in Repone (v. t.) To replace.,
R as in Repopulation (n.) The act of repeopling; act of furnishing with a population anew.,
R as in Reported (imp. & p. p.) of Report,
R as in Report (v. t.) To refer.,
R as in Report (v. t.) To bring back, as an answer; to announce in return; to relate, as what has been discovered by a person sent to examine, explore, or investigate; as, a messenger reports to his employer what he has seen or ascertained; the committee reported progress.,
R as in Report (v. t.) To give an account of; to relate; to tell; to circulate publicly, as a story; as, in the common phrase, it is reported.,
R as in Report (v. t.) To give an official account or statement of; as, a treasurer reports the receipts and expenditures.,
R as in Report (v. t.) To return or repeat, as sound; to echo.,
R as in Report (v. t.) To return or present as the result of an examination or consideration of any matter officially referred; as, the committee reported the bill witth amendments, or reported a new bill, or reported the results of an inquiry.,
R as in Report (v. t.) To make minutes of, as a speech, or the doings of a public body; to write down from the lips of a speaker.,
R as in Report (v. t.) To write an account of for publication, as in a newspaper; as, to report a public celebration or a horse race.,
R as in Report (v. t.) To make a statement of the conduct of, especially in an unfavorable sense; as, to report a servant to his employer.,
R as in Report (v. i.) To make a report, or response, in respect of a matter inquired of, a duty enjoined, or information expected; as, the committee will report at twelve o'clock.,
R as in Report (v. i.) To furnish in writing an account of a speech, the proceedings at a meeting, the particulars of an occurrence, etc., for publication.,
R as in Report (v. i.) To present one's self, as to a superior officer, or to one to whom service is due, and to be in readiness for orders or to do service; also, to give information, as of one's address, condition, etc.; as, the officer reported to the general for duty; to report weekly by letter.,
R as in Report (v. t.) That which is reported.,
R as in Report (v. t.) An account or statement of the results of examination or inquiry made by request or direction; relation.,
R as in Report (v. t.) A story or statement circulating by common talk; a rumor; hence, fame; repute; reputation.,
R as in Report (v. t.) Sound; noise; as, the report of a pistol or cannon.,
R as in Report (v. t.) An official statement of facts, verbal or written; especially, a statement in writing of proceedings and facts exhibited by an officer to his superiors; as, the reports of the heads af departments to Congress, of a master in chancery to the court, of committees to a legislative body, and the like.,
R as in Report (v. t.) An account or statement of a judicial opinion or decision, or of case argued and determined in a court of law, chancery, etc.; also, in the plural, the volumes containing such reports; as, Coke's Reports.,
R as in Report (v. t.) A sketch, or a fully written account, of a speech, debate, or the proceedings of a public meeting, legislative body, etc.,
R as in Report (v. t.) Rapport; relation; connection; reference.,
R as in Reportable (a.) Capable or admitting of being reported.,
R as in Reportage (n.) SAme as Report.,
R as in Reporter (n.) One who reports.,
R as in Reporter (n.) An officer or person who makes authorized statements of law proceedings and decisions, or of legislative debates.,
R as in Reporter (n.) One who reports speeches, the proceedings of public meetings, news, etc., for the newspapers.,
R as in Reportingly (adv.) By report or common fame.,
R as in Reportorial (a.) Of or pertaining to a reporter or reporters; as, the reportorial staff of a newspaper.,
R as in Reposal (n.) The act or state of reposing; as, the reposal of a trust.,
R as in Reposal (n.) That on which one reposes.,
R as in Reposance (n.) Reliance.,
R as in Reposed (imp. & p. p.) of Repose,
R as in Reposing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Repose,
R as in Repose (v.) To cause to stop or to rest after motion; hence, to deposit; to lay down; to lodge; to reposit.,
R as in Repose (v.) To lay at rest; to cause to be calm or quiet; to compose; to rest, -- often reflexive; as, to repose one's self on a couch.,
R as in Repose (v.) To place, have, or rest; to set; to intrust.,
R as in Repose (v. i.) To lie at rest; to rest.,
R as in Repose (v. i.) Figuratively, to remain or abide restfully without anxiety or alarms.,
R as in Repose (v. i.) To lie; to be supported; as, trap reposing on sand.,
R as in Repose (v.) A lying at rest; sleep; rest; quiet.,
R as in Repose (v.) Rest of mind; tranquillity; freedom from uneasiness; also, a composed manner or deportment.,
R as in Repose (v.) A rest; a pause.,
R as in Repose (v.) That harmony or moderation which affords rest for the eye; -- opposed to the scattering and division of a subject into too many unconnected parts, and also to anything which is overstrained; as, a painting may want repose.,
R as in Reposed (a.) Composed; calm; tranquil; at rest.,
R as in Reposeful (a.) Full of repose; quiet.,
R as in Reposer (n.) One who reposes.,
R as in Reposited (imp. & p. p.) of Reposit,
R as in Repositing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Reposit,
R as in Reposit (v. t.) To cause to rest or stay; to lay away; to lodge, as for safety or preservation; to place; to store.,
R as in Reposition (n.) The act of repositing; a laying up.,
R as in Repositor (n.) An instrument employed for replacing a displaced organ or part.,
R as in Repository (n.) A place where things are or may be reposited, or laid up, for safety or preservation; a depository.,
R as in Repossess (v. t.) To possess again; as, to repossess the land.,
R as in Repossession (n.) The act or the state of possessing again.,
R as in Reposure (n.) Rest; quiet.,
R as in Repour (v. t.) To pour again.,
R as in Repousse (a.) Formed in relief, as a pattern on metal.,
R as in Repousse (a.) Ornamented with patterns in relief made by pressing or hammering on the reverse side; -- said of thin metal, or of a vessel made of thin metal.,
R as in Repousse (n.) Repousse work.,
R as in Reprefe (n.) Reproof.,
R as in Reprehended (imp. & p. p.) of Reprehend,
R as in Reprehending (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Reprehend,
R as in Reprehend (v. t.) To reprove or reprimand with a view of restraining, checking, or preventing; to make charge of fault against; to disapprove of; to chide; to blame; to censure.,
R as in Reprehender (n.) One who reprehends.,
R as in Reprehensible (a.) Worthy of reprehension; culpable; censurable; blamable.,
R as in Reprehension (n.) Reproof; censure; blame; disapproval.,
R as in Reprehensive (a.) Containing reprehension; conveying reproof.,
R as in Reprehensory (a.) Containing reproof; reprehensive; as, reprehensory complaint.,
R as in Re-present (v. t.) To present again; as, to re-present the points of an argument.,
R as in Represent (v. t.) To present again or anew; to present by means of something standing in the place of; to exhibit the counterpart or image of; to typify.,
R as in Represent (v. t.) To portray by pictoral or plastic art; to delineate; as, to represent a landscape in a picture, a horse in bronze, and the like.,
R as in Represent (v. t.) To portray by mimicry or action of any kind; to act the part or character of; to personate; as, to represent Hamlet.,
R as in Represent (v. t.) To stand in the place of; to supply the place, perform the duties, exercise the rights, or receive the share, of; to speak and act with authority in behalf of; to act the part of (another); as, an heir represents his ancestor; an attorney represents his client in court; a member of Congress represents his district in Congress.,
R as in Represent (v. t.) To exhibit to another mind in language; to show; to give one's own impressions and judgement of; to bring before the mind; to set forth; sometimes, to give an account of; to describe.,
R as in Represent (v. t.) To serve as a sign or symbol of; as, mathematical symbols represent quantities or relations; words represent ideas or things.,
R as in Represent (v. t.) To bring a sensation of into the mind or sensorium; to cause to be known, felt, or apprehended; to present.,
R as in Represent (v. t.) To form or image again in consciousness, as an object of cognition or apprehension (something which was originally apprehended by direct presentation). See Presentative, 3.,
R as in Representable (a.) Capable of being represented.,
R as in Representance (n.) Representation; likeness.,
R as in Representant (a.) Appearing or acting for another; representing.,
R as in Representant (n.) A representative.,
R as in Representation (n.) The act of representing, in any sense of the verb.,
R as in Representation (n.) That which represents.,
R as in Representation (n.) A likeness, a picture, or a model; as, a representation of the human face, or figure, and the like.,
R as in Representation (n.) A dramatic performance; as, a theatrical representation; a representation of Hamlet.,
R as in Representation (n.) A description or statement; as, the representation of an historian, of a witness, or an advocate.,
R as in Representation (n.) The body of those who act as representatives of a community or society; as, the representation of a State in Congress.,
R as in Representation (n.) Any collateral statement of fact, made orally or in writing, by which an estimate of the risk is affected, or either party is influenced.,
R as in Representation (n.) The state of being represented.,
R as in Re-presentation (n.) The act of re-presenting, or the state of being presented again; a new presentation; as, re-presentation of facts previously stated.,
R as in Representationary (a.) Implying representation; representative.,
R as in Representative (a.) Fitted to represent; exhibiting a similitude.,
R as in Representative (a.) Bearing the character or power of another; acting for another or others; as, a council representative of the people.,
R as in Representative (a.) Conducted by persons chosen to represent, or act as deputies for, the people; as, a representative government.,
R as in Representative (a.) Serving or fitted to present the full characters of the type of a group; typical; as, a representative genus in a family.,
R as in Representative (a.) Similar in general appearance, structure, and habits, but living in different regions; -- said of certain species and varieties.,
R as in Representative (a.) Giving, or existing as, a transcript of what was originally presentative knowledge; as, representative faculties; representative knowledge. See Presentative, 3 and Represent, 8.,
R as in Representative (n.) One who, or that which, represents (anything); that which exhibits a likeness or similitude.,
R as in Representative (n.) An agent, deputy, or substitute, who supplies the place of another, or others, being invested with his or their authority.,
R as in Representative (n.) One who represents, or stands in the place of, another.,
R as in Representative (n.) A member of the lower or popular house in a State legislature, or in the national Congress.,
R as in Representative (n.) That which presents the full character of the type of a group.,
R as in Representative (n.) A species or variety which, in any region, takes the place of a similar one in another region.,
R as in Representatively (adv.) In a representative manner; vicariously.,
R as in Representativeness (n.) The quality or state of being representative.,
R as in Representer (n.) One who shows, exhibits, or describes.,
R as in Representer (n.) A representative.,
R as in Representment (n.) Representation.,
R as in Repress (v. t.) To press again.,
R as in Repress (v. t.) To press back or down effectually; to crush down or out; to quell; to subdue; to supress; as, to repress sedition or rebellion; to repress the first risings of discontent.,
R as in Repress (v. t.) Hence, to check; to restrain; to keep back.,
R as in Repress (n.) The act of repressing.,
R as in Represser (n.) One who, or that which, represses.,
R as in Repressible (a.) Capable of being repressed.,
R as in Repression (n.) The act of repressing, or state of being repressed; as, the repression of evil and evil doers.,
R as in Repression (n.) That which represses; check; restraint.,
R as in Repressive (a.) Having power, or tending, to repress; as, repressive acts or measures.,
R as in Reprevable (a.) Reprovable.,
R as in Repreve (v. t.) To reprove.,
R as in Repreve (n.) Reproof.,
R as in Repriefe (n.) Repreve.,
R as in Reprieval (n.) Reprieve.,
R as in Reprieved (imp. & p. p.) of Reprieve,
R as in Reprieving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Reprieve,
R as in Reprieve (v. t.) To delay the punishment of; to suspend the execution of sentence on; to give a respite to; to respite; as, to reprieve a criminal for thirty days.,
R as in Reprieve (v. t.) To relieve for a time, or temporarily.,
R as in Reprieve (n.) A temporary suspension of the execution of a sentence, especially of a sentence of death.,
R as in Reprieve (n.) Interval of ease or relief; respite.,
R as in Reprimand (n.) Severe or formal reproof; reprehension, private or public.,
R as in Reprimanded (imp. & p. p.) of Reprimand,
R as in Reprimanding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Reprimand,
R as in Reprimand (n.) To reprove severely; to reprehend; to chide for a fault; to consure formally.,
R as in Reprimand (n.) To reprove publicly and officially, in execution of a sentence; as, the court ordered him to be reprimanded.,
R as in Reprimander (n.) One who reprimands.,
R as in Reprimer (n.) A machine or implement for applying fresh primers to spent cartridge shells, so that the shells be used again.,
R as in Reprint (v. t.) To print again; to print a second or a new edition of.,
R as in Reprint (v. t.) To renew the impression of.,
R as in Reprint (n.) A second or a new impression or edition of any printed work; specifically, the publication in one country of a work previously published in another.,
R as in Reprinter (n.) One who reprints.,
R as in Reprisal (n.) The act of taking from an enemy by way of reteliation or indemnity.,
R as in Reprisal (n.) Anything taken from an enemy in retaliation.,
R as in Reprisal (n.) The act of retorting on an enemy by inflicting suffering or death on a prisoner taken from him, in retaliation for an act of inhumanity.,
R as in Reprisal (n.) Any act of retaliation.,
R as in Reprise (n.) A taking by way of retaliation.,
R as in Reprise (n.) Deductions and duties paid yearly out of a manor and lands, as rent charge, rent seck, pensions, annuities, and the like.,
R as in Reprise (n.) A ship recaptured from an enemy or from a pirate.,
R as in Reprise (v. t.) To take again; to retake.,
R as in Reprise (v. t.) To recompense; to pay.,
R as in Repristinate (v. t.) To restore to an original state.,
R as in Repristination (n.) Restoration to an original state; renewal of purity.,
R as in Reprive (v. t.) To take back or away.,
R as in Reprive (v. t.) To reprieve.,
R as in Reprize (v. t.) See Reprise.,
R as in Reprizes (n. pl.) See Reprise, n., 2.,
R as in Reproached (imp. & p. p.) of Reproach,
R as in Reproaching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Reproach,
R as in Reproach (v. t.) To come back to, or come home to, as a matter of blame; to bring shame or disgrace upon; to disgrace.,
R as in Reproach (v. t.) To attribute blame to; to allege something disgraceful against; to charge with a fault; to censure severely or contemptuously; to upbraid.,
R as in Reproach (v.) The act of reproaching; censure mingled with contempt; contumelious or opprobrious language toward any person; abusive reflections; as, severe reproach.,
R as in Reproach (v.) A cause of blame or censure; shame; disgrace.,
R as in Reproach (v.) An object of blame, censure, scorn, or derision.,
R as in Reproachablr (a.) Deserving reproach; censurable.,
R as in Reproachablr (a.) Opprobrius; scurrilous.,
R as in Reproacher (n.) One who reproaches.,
R as in Reproachful (a.) Expressing or containing reproach; upbraiding; opprobrious; abusive.,
R as in Reproachful (a.) Occasioning or deserving reproach; shameful; base; as, a reproachful life.,
R as in Reproachless (a.) Being without reproach.,
R as in Reprobacy (n.) Reprobation.,
R as in Reprobance (n.) Reprobation.,
R as in Reprobate (a.) Not enduring proof or trial; not of standard purity or fineness; disallowed; rejected.,
R as in Reprobate (a.) Abandoned to punishment; hence, morally abandoned and lost; given up to vice; depraved.,
R as in Reprobate (a.) Of or pertaining to one who is given up to wickedness; as, reprobate conduct.,
R as in Reprobate (n.) One morally abandoned and lost.,
R as in Reprobated (imp. & p. p.) of Reprobate,
R as in Reprobating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Reprobate,
R as in Reprobate (v. t.) To disapprove with detestation or marks of extreme dislike; to condemn as unworthy; to disallow; to reject.,
R as in Reprobate (v. t.) To abandon to punishment without hope of pardon.,
R as in Reprobateness (n.) The state of being reprobate.,
R as in Reprobater (n.) One who reprobates.,
R as in Reprobation (n.) The act of reprobating; the state of being reprobated; strong disapproval or censure.,
R as in Reprobation (n.) The predestination of a certain number of the human race as reprobates, or objects of condemnation and punishment.,
R as in Reprobationer (n.) One who believes in reprobation. See Reprobation, 2.,
R as in Reprobative (a.) Of or pertaining to reprobation; expressing reprobation.,
R as in Reprobatory (a.) Reprobative.,
R as in Reproduce (v. t.) To produce again.,
R as in Reproduce (v. t.) To bring forward again; as, to reproduce a witness; to reproduce charges; to reproduce a play.,
R as in Reproduce (v. t.) To cause to exist again.,
R as in Reproduce (v. t.) To produce again, by generation or the like; to cause the existence of (something of the same class, kind, or nature as another thing); to generate or beget, as offspring; as, to reproduce a rose; some animals are reproduced by gemmation.,
R as in Reproduce (v. t.) To make an image or other representation of; to portray; to cause to exist in the memory or imagination; to make a copy of; as, to reproduce a person's features in marble, or on canvas; to reproduce a design.,
R as in Reproducer (n.) One who, or that which, reproduces.,
R as in Reproduction (n.) The act or process of reproducing; the state of being reproduced,
R as in Reproduction (n.) the process by which plants and animals give rise to offspring.,
R as in Reproduction (n.) That which is reproduced.,
R as in Reproductive (a.) Tending, or pertaining, to reproduction; employed in reproduction.,
R as in Reproductory (a.) Reproductive.,
R as in Reproof (n.) Refutation; confutation; contradiction.,
R as in Reproof (n.) An expression of blame or censure; especially, blame expressed to the face; censure for a fault; chiding; reproach.,
R as in Reprovable (a.) Worthy of reproof or censure.,
R as in Re proval (n.) Reproof.,
R as in Reproved (imp. & p. p.) of Reprove,
R as in Reproving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Reprove,
R as in Reprove (v. t.) To convince.,
R as in Reprove (v. t.) To disprove; to refute.,
R as in Reprove (v. t.) To chide to the face as blameworthy; to accuse as guilty; to censure.,
R as in Reprove (v. t.) To express disapprobation of; as, to reprove faults.,
R as in Reprover (n.) One who, or that which, reproves.,
R as in Reprovingly (adv.) In a reproving manner.,
R as in Reprune (v. t.) To prune again or anew.,
R as in Rep-silver (n.) Money anciently paid by servile tenants to their lord, in lieu of the customary service of reaping his corn or grain.,
R as in Reptant (a.) Same as Repent.,
R as in Reptant (a.) Creeping; crawling; -- said of reptiles, worms, etc.,
R as in Reptantia (n. pl.) A division of gastropods; the Pectinibranchiata.,
R as in Reptation (n.) The act of creeping.,
R as in Reptatory (a.) Creeping.,
R as in Reptile (a.) Creeping; moving on the belly, or by means of small and short legs.,
R as in Reptile (a.) Hence: Groveling; low; vulgar; as, a reptile race or crew; reptile vices.,
R as in Reptile (n.) An animal that crawls, or moves on its belly, as snakes,, or by means of small, short legs, as lizards, and the like.,
R as in Reptile (n.) One of the Reptilia, or one of the Amphibia.,
R as in Reptile (n.) A groveling or very mean person.,
R as in Reptilia (n. pl.) A class of air-breathing oviparous vertebrates, usually covered with scales or bony plates. The heart generally has two auricles and one ventricle. The development of the young is the same as that of birds.,
R as in Reptilian (a.) Belonging to the reptiles.,
R as in Reptilian (n.) One of the Reptilia; a reptile.,
R as in Republic (a.) Common weal.,
R as in Republic (a.) A state in which the sovereign power resides in the whole body of the people, and is exercised by representatives elected by them; a commonwealth. Cf. Democracy, 2.,
R as in Republican (a.) Of or pertaining to a republic.,
R as in Republican (a.) Consonant with the principles of a republic; as, republican sentiments or opinions; republican manners.,
R as in Republican (n.) One who favors or prefers a republican form of government.,
R as in Republican (n.) A member of the Republican party.,
R as in Republican (n.) The American cliff swallow. The cliff swallows build their nests side by side, many together.,
R as in Republican (n.) A South African weaver bird (Philetaerus socius). These weaver birds build many nests together, under a large rooflike shelter, which they make of straw.,
R as in Republicanism (n.) A republican form or system of government; the principles or theory of republican government.,
R as in Republicanism (n.) Attachment to, or political sympathy for, a republican form of government.,
R as in Republicanism (n.) The principles and policy of the Republican party, so called,
R as in Republicanized (imp. & p. p.) of Republicanize,
R as in Republicanizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Republicanize,
R as in Republicanize (v. t.) To change, as a state, into a republic; to republican principles; as, France was republicanized; to republicanize the rising generation.,
R as in Republicate (v. t.) To make public again; to republish.,
R as in Republication (n.) A second publication, or a new publication of something before published, as of a former will, of a volume already published, or the like; specifically, the publication in one country of a work first issued in another; a reprint.,
R as in Republished (imp. & p. p.) of Republish,
R as in Republishing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Republish,
R as in Republish (v. t.) To publish anew; specifically, to publish in one country (a work first published in another); also, to revive (a will) by re/xecution or codicil.,
R as in Republisher (n.) One who republishes.,
R as in Repudiable (a.) Admitting of repudiation; fit or proper to be put away.,
R as in Repudiated (imp. & p. p.) of Repudiate,
R as in Repudiating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Repudiate,
R as in Repudiate (v. t.) To cast off; to disavow; to have nothing to do with; to renounce; to reject.,
R as in Repudiate (v. t.) To divorce, put away, or discard, as a wife, or a woman one has promised to marry.,
R as in Repudiate (v. t.) To refuse to acknowledge or to pay; to disclaim; as, the State has repudiated its debts.,
R as in Repudiation (n.) The act of repudiating, or the state of being repuddiated; as, the repudiation of a doctrine, a wife, a debt, etc.,
R as in Repudiation (n.) One who favors repudiation, especially of a public debt.,
R as in Repudiator (n.) One who repudiates.,
R as in Repugn (v. t.) To fight against; to oppose; to resist.,
R as in Repugnable (a.) Capable of being repugned or resisted.,
R as in Repugnance (n.) Alt. of Repugnancy,
R as in Repugnancy (n.) The state or condition of being repugnant; opposition; contrariety; especially, a strong instinctive antagonism; aversion; reluctance; unwillingness, as of mind, passions, principles, qualities, and the like.,
R as in Repugnant (a.) Disposed to fight against; hostile; at war with; being at variance; contrary; inconsistent; refractory; disobedient; also, distasteful in a high degree; offensive; -- usually followed by to, rarely and less properly by with; as, all rudeness was repugnant to her nature.,
R as in Repugnantly (adv.) In a repugnant manner.,
R as in Repugnate (v. t.) To oppose; to fight against.,
R as in Repugner (n.) One who repugns.,
R as in Repullulate (v. i.) To bud again.,
R as in Repullulation (n.) The act of budding again; the state of having budded again.,
R as in Repulsed (imp. & p. p.) of Repulse,
R as in Repulsing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Repulse,
R as in Repulse (v. t.) To repel; to beat or drive back; as, to repulse an assault; to repulse the enemy.,
R as in Repulse (v. t.) To repel by discourtesy, coldness, or denial; to reject; to send away; as, to repulse a suitor or a proffer.,
R as in Repulse (n.) The act of repelling or driving back; also, the state of being repelled or driven back.,
R as in Repulse (n.) Figuratively: Refusal; denial; rejection; failure.,
R as in Repulseless (a.) Not capable of being repulsed.,
R as in Repulser (n.) One who repulses, or drives back.,
R as in Repulsion (n.) The act of repulsing or repelling, or the state of being repulsed or repelled.,
R as in Repulsion (n.) A feeling of violent offence or disgust; repugnance.,
R as in Repulsion (n.) The power, either inherent or due to some physical action, by which bodies, or the particles of bodies, are made to recede from each other, or to resist each other's nearer approach; as, molecular repulsion; electrical repulsion.,
R as in Repulsive (a.) Serving, or able, to repulse; repellent; as, a repulsive force.,
R as in Repulsive (a.) Cold; forbidding; offensive; as, repulsive manners.,
R as in Repulsory (a.) Repulsive; driving back.,
R as in Repurchase (v. t.) To buy back or again; to regain by purchase.,
R as in Repurchase (n.) The act of repurchasing.,
R as in Repurify (v. t.) To purify again.,
R as in Reputable (a.) Having, or worthy of, good repute; held in esteem; honorable; praiseworthy; as, a reputable man or character; reputable conduct.,
R as in Reputation (v. t.) The estimation in which one is held; character in public opinion; the character attributed to a person, thing, or action; repute.,
R as in Reputation (v. t.) The character imputed to a person in the community in which he lives. It is admissible in evidence when he puts his character in issue, or when such reputation is otherwise part of the issue of a case.,
R as in Reputation (v. t.) Specifically: Good reputation; favorable regard; public esteem; general credit; good name.,
R as in Reputation (v. t.) Account; value.,
R as in Reputatively (adv.) By repute.,
R as in Reputed (imp. & p. p.) of Repute,
R as in Reputing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Repute,
R as in Repute (v. t.) To hold in thought; to account; to estimate; to hold; to think; to reckon.,
R as in Repute (n.) Character reputed or attributed; reputation, whether good or bad; established opinion; public estimate.,
R as in Repute (n.) Specifically: Good character or reputation; credit or honor derived from common or public opinion; -- opposed to disrepute.,
R as in Reputedly (adv.) In common opinion or estimation; by repute.,
R as in Reputeless (a.) Not having good repute; disreputable; disgraceful; inglorius.,
R as in Requere (v. t.) To require.,
R as in Request (n.) The act of asking for anything desired; expression of desire or demand; solicitation; prayer; petition; entreaty.,
R as in Request (n.) That which is asked for or requested.,
R as in Request (n.) A state of being desired or held in such estimation as to be sought after or asked for; demand.,
R as in Requested (imp. & p. p.) of Request,
R as in Requesting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Request,
R as in Request (v. t.) To ask for (something); to express desire ffor; to solicit; as, to request his presence, or a favor.,
R as in Request (v. t.) To address with a request; to ask.,
R as in Requester (n.) One who requests; a petitioner.,
R as in Requicken (v. t.) To quicken anew; to reanimate; to give new life to.,
R as in Requiem (n.) A mass said or sung for the repose of a departed soul.,
R as in Requiem (n.) Any grand musical composition, performed in honor of a deceased person.,
R as in Requiem (n.) Rest; quiet; peace.,
R as in Requietory (n.) A sepulcher.,
R as in Requin (n.) The man-eater, or white shark (Carcharodon carcharias); -- so called on account of its causing requiems to be sung.,
R as in Requirable (a.) Capable of being required; proper to be required.,
R as in Required (imp. & p. p.) of Require,
R as in Requiring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Require,
R as in Require (v. t.) To demand; to insist upon having; to claim as by right and authority; to exact; as, to require the surrender of property.,
R as in Require (v. t.) To demand or exact as indispensable; to need.,
R as in Require (v. t.) To ask as a favor; to request.,
R as in Requirement (n.) The act of requiring; demand; requisition.,
R as in Requirement (n.) That which is required; an imperative or authoritative command; an essential condition; something needed or necessary; a need.,
R as in Requirer (n.) One who requires.,
R as in Requisite (n.) That which is required, or is necessary; something indispensable.,
R as in Requisite (a.) Required by the nature of things, or by circumstances; so needful that it can not be dispensed with; necessary; indispensable.,
R as in Requisition (n.) The act of requiring, as of right; a demand or application made as by authority.,
R as in Requisition (n.) A formal demand made by one state or government upon another for the surrender or extradition of a fugitive from justice.,
R as in Requisition (n.) A notarial demand of a debt.,
R as in Requisition (n.) A demand by the invader upon the people of an invaded country for supplies, as of provision, forage, transportation, etc.,
R as in Requisition (n.) A formal application by one officer to another for things needed in the public service; as, a requisition for clothing, troops, or money.,
R as in Requisition (n.) That which is required by authority; especially, a quota of supplies or necessaries.,
R as in Requisition (n.) A written or normal call; an invitation; a summons; as, a reqisition for a public meeting.,
R as in Requisition (v. t.) To make a reqisition on or for; as, to requisition a district for forage; to requisition troops.,
R as in Requisition (v. t.) To present a requisition to; to summon request; as, to requisition a person to be a candidate.,
R as in Requisitionist (n.) One who makes or signs a requisition.,
R as in Requisitive (a.) Expressing or implying demand.,
R as in Requisitive (n.) One who, or that which, makes requisition; a requisitionist.,
R as in Requisitor (n.) One who makes reqisition; esp., one authorized by a requisition to investigate facts.,
R as in Requisitory (a.) Sought for; demanded.,
R as in Requitable (a.) That may be requited.,
R as in Requital (n.) The act of requiting; also, that which requites; return, good or bad, for anything done; in a good sense, compensation; recompense; as, the requital of services; in a bad sense, retaliation, or punishment; as, the requital of evil deeds.,
R as in Requited (imp. & p. p.) of Requite,
R as in Requiting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Requite,
R as in Requite (v. t.) To repay; in a good sense, to recompense; to return (an equivalent) in good; to reward; in a bad sense, to retaliate; to return (evil) for evil; to punish.,
R as in Requitement (n.) Requital,
R as in Requiter (n.) One who requites.,
R as in Rerebrace (n.) Armor for the upper part of the arm.,
R as in Reredemain (n.) A backward stroke.,
R as in Reredos (n.) A screen or partition wall behind an altar.,
R as in Reredos (n.) The back of a fireplace.,
R as in Reredos (n.) The open hearth, upon which fires were lighted, immediately under the louver, in the center of ancient halls.,
R as in Rerefief (n.) A fief held of a superior feudatory; a fief held by an under tenant.,
R as in Rereign (v. i.) To reign again.,
R as in Re-reiterate (v. t.) To reiterate many times.,
R as in Reremouse (n.) A rearmouse.,
R as in Re-resolve (v. t. & i.) To resolve again.,
R as in Rereward (n.) The rear guard of an army.,
R as in Res (pl. ) of Res,
R as in Res (n.) A thing; the particular thing; a matter; a point.,
R as in Resail (v. t. & i.) To sail again; also, to sail back, as to a former port.,
R as in Resale (n.) A sale at second hand, or at retail; also, a second sale.,
R as in Resalgar (n.) Realgar.,
R as in Resalute (v. t.) To salute again.,
R as in Resaw (v. t.) To saw again; specifically, to saw a balk, or a timber, which has already been squared, into dimension lumber, as joists, boards, etc.,
R as in Rescat (v. t.) To ransom; to release; to rescue.,
R as in Rescat (n.) Ransom; release.,
R as in Rescinded (imp. & p. p.) of Rescind,
R as in Rescinding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rescind,
R as in Rescind (v. t.) To cut off; to abrogate; to annul.,
R as in Rescind (v. t.) Specifically, to vacate or make void, as an act, by the enacting authority or by superior authority; to repeal; as, to rescind a law, a resolution, or a vote; to rescind a decree or a judgment.,
R as in Rescindable (a.) Capable of being rescinded.,
R as in Rescindment (n.) The act of rescinding; rescission.,
R as in Rescission (n.) The act of rescinding, abrogating, annulling, or vacating; as, the rescission of a law, decree, or judgment.,
R as in Rescissory (a.) Tending to rescind; rescinding.,
R as in Rescous (n.) Rescue; deliverance.,
R as in Rescous (n.) See Rescue, 2.,
R as in Rescowe (v. t.) To rescue.,
R as in Rescribe (v. t.) To write back; to write in reply.,
R as in Rescribe (v. t.) To write over again.,
R as in Rescript (v. t.) The answer of an emperor when formallyconsulted by particular persons on some difficult question; hence, an edict or decree.,
R as in Rescript (v. t.) The official written answer of the pope upon a question of canon law, or morals.,
R as in Rescript (v. t.) A counterpart.,
R as in Rescription (n.) A writing back; the answering of a letter.,
R as in Rescriptive (a.) Pertaining to, or answering the purpose of, a rescript; hence, deciding; settling; determining.,
R as in Rescriptively (adv.) By rescript.,
R as in Rescuable (a.) That may be rescued.,
R as in Rescued (imp. & p. p.) of Rescue,
R as in Rescuing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rescue,
R as in Rescue (v. t.) To free or deliver from any confinement, violence, danger, or evil; to liberate from actual restraint; to remove or withdraw from a state of exposure to evil; as, to rescue a prisoner from the enemy; to rescue seamen from destruction.,
R as in Rescue (v.) The act of rescuing; deliverance from restraint, violence, or danger; liberation.,
R as in Rescue (v.) The forcible retaking, or taking away, against law, of things lawfully distrained.,
R as in Rescue (v.) The forcible liberation of a person from an arrest or imprisonment.,
R as in Rescue (v.) The retaking by a party captured of a prize made by the enemy.,
R as in Rescueless (a.) Without rescue or release.,
R as in Rescuer (n.) One who rescues.,
R as in Rescussee (n.) The party in whose favor a rescue is made.,
R as in Rescussor (n.) One who makes an unlawful rescue; a rescuer.,
R as in Rese (v. i.) To shake; to quake; to tremble.,
R as in Re-search (v. t.) To search again; to examine anew.,
R as in Research (n.) Diligent inquiry or examination in seeking facts or principles; laborious or continued search after truth; as, researches of human wisdom.,
R as in Research (v. t.) To search or examine with continued care; to seek diligently.,
R as in Researcher (n.) One who researches.,
R as in Researchful (a.) Making researches; inquisitive.,
R as in Reseat (v. t.) To seat or set again, as on a chair, throne, etc.,
R as in Reseat (v. t.) To put a new seat, or new seats, in; as, to reseat a theater; to reseat a chair or trousers.,
R as in Resected (imp. & p. p.) of Resect,
R as in Resecting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Resect,
R as in Resect (v. t.) To cut or pare off; to remove by cutting.,
R as in Resection (n.) The act of cutting or paring off.,
R as in Resection (n.) The removal of the articular extremity of a bone, or of the ends of the bones in a false articulation.,
R as in Reseda (n.) A genus of plants, the type of which is mignonette.,
R as in Reseda (n.) A grayish green color, like that of the flowers of mignonette.,
R as in Reseek (v. t.) To seek again.,
R as in Reseize (v. t.) To seize again, or a second time.,
R as in Reseize (v. t.) To put in possession again; to reinstate.,
R as in Reseize (v. t.) To take possession of, as lands and tenements which have been disseized.,
R as in Reseizer (n.) One who seizes again.,
R as in Reseizer (n.) The taking of lands into the hands of the king where a general livery, or oustre le main, was formerly mis-sued, contrary to the form and order of law.,
R as in Reseizure (n.) A second seizure; the act of seizing again.,
R as in Resell (v. t.) To sell again; to sell what has been bought or sold; to retail.,
R as in Resemblable (a.) Admitting of being compared; like.,
R as in Resemblance (n.) The quality or state of resembling; likeness; similitude; similarity.,
R as in Resemblance (n.) That which resembles, or is similar; a representation; a likeness.,
R as in Resemblance (n.) A comparison; a simile.,
R as in Resemblance (n.) Probability; verisimilitude.,
R as in Resemblant (a.) Having or exhibiting resemblance; resembling.,
R as in Resembled (imp. & p. p.) of Resemble,
R as in Resembling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Resemble,
R as in Resemble (v. t.) To be like or similar to; to bear the similitude of, either in appearance or qualities; as, these brothers resemble each other.,
R as in Resemble (v. t.) To liken; to compare; to represent as like.,
R as in Resemble (v. t.) To counterfeit; to imitate.,
R as in Resemble (v. t.) To cause to imitate or be like.,
R as in Resembler (n.) One who resembles.,
R as in Resemblingly (adv.) So as to resemble; with resemblance or likeness.,
R as in Reseminate (v. t.) To produce again by means of seed.,
R as in Resend (v. t.) To send again; as, to resend a message.,
R as in Resend (v. t.) To send back; as, to resend a gift.,
R as in Resend (v. t.) To send on from an intermediate station by means of a repeater.,
R as in Resented (imp. & p. p.) of Resent,
R as in Resenting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Resent,
R as in Resent (v. t.) To be sensible of; to feel,
R as in Resent (v. t.) In a good sense, to take well; to receive with satisfaction.,
R as in Resent (v. t.) In a bad sense, to take ill; to consider as an injury or affront; to be indignant at.,
R as in Resent (v. t.) To express or exhibit displeasure or indignation at, as by words or acts.,
R as in Resent (v. t.) To recognize; to perceive, especially as if by smelling; -- associated in meaning with sent, the older spelling of scent to smell. See Resent, v. i.,
R as in Resent (v. i.) To feel resentment.,
R as in Resent (v. i.) To give forth an odor; to smell; to savor.,
R as in Resenter (n.) One who resents.,
R as in Resentful (a.) Inclined to resent; easily provoked to anger; irritable.,
R as in Resentiment (n.) Resentment.,
R as in Resentingly (adv.) With deep sense or strong perception.,
R as in Resentingly (adv.) With a sense of wrong or affront; with resentment.,
R as in Resentive (a.) Resentful.,
R as in Resentment (n.) The act of resenting.,
R as in Resentment (n.) The state of holding something in the mind as a subject of contemplation, or of being inclined to reflect upon something; a state of consciousness; conviction; feeling; impression.,
R as in Resentment (n.) In a good sense, satisfaction; gratitude.,
R as in Resentment (n.) In a bad sense, strong displeasure; anger; hostility provoked by a wrong or injury experienced.,
R as in Reserate (v. t.) To unlock; to open.,
R as in Reservance (n.) Reservation.,
R as in Reservation (n.) The act of reserving, or keeping back; concealment, or withholding from disclosure; reserve.,
R as in Reservation (n.) Something withheld, either not expressed or disclosed, or not given up or brought forward.,
R as in Reservation (n.) A tract of the public land reserved for some special use, as for schools, for the use of Indians, etc.,
R as in Reservation (n.) The state of being reserved, or kept in store.,
R as in Reservation (n.) A clause in an instrument by which some new thing is reserved out of the thing granted, and not in esse before.,
R as in Reservation (n.) A proviso.,
R as in Reservation (n.) The portion of the sacramental elements reserved for purposes of devotion and for the communion of the absent and sick.,
R as in Reservation (n.) A term of canon law, which signifies that the pope reserves to himself appointment to certain benefices.,
R as in Reservative (a.) Tending to reserve or keep; keeping; reserving.,
R as in Reservatory (v. t.) A place in which things are reserved or kept.,
R as in Reserved (imp. & p. p.) of Reserve,
R as in Reserving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Reserve,
R as in Reserve (v. t.) To keep back; to retain; not to deliver, make over, or disclose.,
R as in Reserve (v. t.) Hence, to keep in store for future or special use; to withhold from present use for another purpose or time; to keep; to retain.,
R as in Reserve (v. t.) To make an exception of; to except.,
R as in Reserve (n.) The act of reserving, or keeping back; reservation.,
R as in Reserve (n.) That which is reserved, or kept back, as for future use.,
R as in Reserve (n.) That which is excepted; exception.,
R as in Reserve (n.) Restraint of freedom in words or actions; backwardness; caution in personal behavior.,
R as in Reserve (n.) A tract of land reserved, or set apart, for a particular purpose; as, the Connecticut Reserve in Ohio, originally set apart for the school fund of Connecticut; the Clergy Reserves in Canada, for the support of the clergy.,
R as in Reserve (n.) A body of troops in the rear of an army drawn up for battle, reserved to support the other lines as occasion may require; a force or body of troops kept for an exigency.,
R as in Reserve (n.) Funds kept on hand to meet liabilities.,
R as in Reserved (a.) Kept for future or special use, or for an exigency; as, reserved troops; a reserved seat in a theater.,
R as in Reserved (a.) Restrained from freedom in words or actions; backward, or cautious, in communicating one's thoughts and feelings; not free or frank.,
R as in Reservee (n.) One to, or for, whom anything is reserved; -- contrasted with reservor.,
R as in Reserver (n.) One who reserves.,
R as in Reservist (n.) A member of a reserve force of soldiers or militia.,
R as in Reservoir (n.) A place where anything is kept in store; especially, a place where water is collected and kept for use when wanted, as to supply a fountain, a canal, or a city by means of aqueducts, or to drive a mill wheel, or the like.,
R as in Reservoir (n.) A small intercellular space, often containing resin, essential oil, or some other secreted matter.,
R as in Reservor (n.) One who reserves; a reserver.,
R as in Reset (v. t.) To set again; as, to reset type; to reset copy; to reset a diamond.,
R as in Reset (n.) The act of resetting.,
R as in Reset (n.) That which is reset; matter set up again.,
R as in Reset (n.) The receiving of stolen goods, or harboring an outlaw.,
R as in Reset (v. t.) To harbor or secrete; to hide, as stolen goods or a criminal.,
R as in Resetter (n.) One who receives or conceals, as stolen goods or criminal.,
R as in Resetter (n.) One who resets, or sets again.,
R as in Resettle (v. t.) To settle again.,
R as in Resettle (v. i.) To settle again, or a second time.,
R as in Resettlement (n.) Act of settling again, or state of being settled again; as, the resettlement of lees.,
R as in Reshape (v. t.) To shape again.,
R as in Reship (v. t.) To ship again; to put on board of a vessel a second time; to send on a second voyage; as, to reship bonded merchandise.,
R as in Reship (v. i.) To engage one's self again for service on board of a vessel after having been discharged.,
R as in Reshipment (n.) The act of reshipping; also, that which is reshippped.,
R as in Reshipper (n.) One who reships.,
R as in Resiance (n.) Residence; abode.,
R as in Resiant (a.) Resident; present in a place.,
R as in Resiant (n.) A resident.,
R as in Resided (imp. & p. p.) of Reside,
R as in Residing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Reside,
R as in Reside (v. i.) To dwell permanently or for a considerable time; to have a settled abode for a time; to abide continuosly; to have one's domicile of home; to remain for a long time.,
R as in Reside (v. i.) To have a seat or fixed position; to inhere; to lie or be as in attribute or element.,
R as in Reside (v. i.) To sink; to settle, as sediment.,
R as in Residence (n.) The act or fact of residing, abiding, or dwelling in a place for some continuance of time; as, the residence of an American in France or Italy for a year.,
R as in Residence (n.) The place where one resides; an abode; a dwelling or habitation; esp., a settled or permanent home or domicile.,
R as in Residence (n.) The residing of an incumbent on his benefice; -- opposed to nonresidence.,
R as in Residence (n.) The place where anything rests permanently.,
R as in Residence (n.) Subsidence, as of a sediment.,
R as in Residence (n.) That which falls to the bottom of liquors; sediment; also, refuse; residuum.,
R as in Residency (n.) Residence.,
R as in Residency (n.) A political agency at a native court in British India, held by an officer styled the Resident; also, a Dutch commercial colony or province in the East Indies.,
R as in Resident (a.) Dwelling, or having an abode, in a place for a continued length of time; residing on one's own estate; -- opposed to nonresident; as, resident in the city or in the country.,
R as in Resident (a.) Fixed; stable; certain.,
R as in Resident (n.) One who resides or dwells in a place for some time.,
R as in Resident (n.) A diplomatic representative who resides at a foreign court; -- a term usualy applied to ministers of a rank inferior to that of ambassadors. See the Note under Minister, 4.,
R as in Residenter (n.) A resident.,
R as in Residential (a.) Of or pertaining to a residence or residents; as, residential trade.,
R as in Residential (a.) Residing; residentiary.,
R as in Residentiary (a.) Having residence; as, a canon residentary; a residentiary guardian.,
R as in Residentiary (n.) One who is resident.,
R as in Residentiary (n.) An ecclesiastic who keeps a certain residence.,
R as in Residentiaryship (n.) The office or condition of a residentiary.,
R as in Residentship (n.) The office or condition of a resident.,
R as in Resider (n.) One who resides in a place.,
R as in Residual (a.) Pertaining to a residue; remaining after a part is taken.,
R as in Residual (n.) The difference of the results obtained by observation, and by computation from a formula.,
R as in Residual (n.) The difference between the mean of several observations and any one of them.,
R as in Residuary (a.) Consisting of residue; as, residuary matter; pertaining to the residue, or part remaining; as, the residuary advantage of an estate.,
R as in Residue (n.) That which remains after a part is taken, separated, removed, or designated; remnant; remainder.,
R as in Residue (n.) That part of a testeator's estate wwhich is not disposed of in his will by particular and special legacies and devises, and which remains after payment of debts and legacies.,
R as in Residue (n.) That which remains of a molecule after the removal of a portion of its constituents; hence, an atom or group regarded as a portion of a molecule; -- used as nearly equivalent to radical, but in a more general sense.,
R as in Residue (n.) Any positive or negative number that differs from a given number by a multiple of a given modulus; thus, if 7 is the modulus, and 9 the given number, the numbers -5, 2, 16, 23, etc., are residues.,
R as in Residuous (a.) Remaining; residual.,
R as in Residuum (n.) That which is left after any process of separation or purification; that which remains after certain specified deductions are made; residue.,
R as in Resiege (v. t.) To seat again; to reinstate.,
R as in Re-sign (v. t.) To affix one's signature to, a second time; to sign again.,
R as in Resigned (imp. & p. p.) of Resign,
R as in Resigning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Resign,
R as in Resign (v. t.) To sign back; to return by a formal act; to yield to another; to surrender; -- said especially of office or emolument. Hence, to give up; to yield; to submit; -- said of the wishes or will, or of something valued; -- also often used reflexively.,
R as in Resign (v. t.) To relinquish; to abandon.,
R as in Resign (v. t.) To commit to the care of; to consign.,
R as in Re sign (n.) Resignation.,
R as in Resignation (n.) The act of resigning or giving up, as a claim, possession, office, or the like; surrender; as, the resignation of a crown or comission.,
R as in Resignation (n.) The state of being resigned or submissive; quiet or patient submission; unresisting acquiescence; as, resignation to the will and providence of God.,
R as in Resigned (a.) Submissive; yielding; not disposed to resist or murmur.,
R as in Resignedly (adv.) With submission.,
R as in Resignee (n.) One to whom anything is resigned, or in whose favor a resignation is made.,
R as in Resigner (n.) One who resigns.,
R as in Resignment (n.) The act of resigning.,
R as in Resiled (imp. & p. p.) of Resile,
R as in Resiling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Resile,
R as in Resile (v. i.) To start back; to recoil; to recede from a purpose.,
R as in Resilience (n.) Alt. of Resiliency,
R as in Resiliency (n.) The act of resiling, springing back, or rebounding; as, the resilience of a ball or of sound.,
R as in Resiliency (n.) The mechanical work required to strain an elastic body, as a deflected beam, stretched spring, etc., to the elastic limit; also, the work performed by the body in recovering from such strain.,
R as in Resilient (a.) Leaping back; rebounding; recoiling.,
R as in Resilition (n.) Resilience.,
R as in Resin (n.) Any one of a class of yellowish brown solid inflammable substances, of vegetable origin, which are nonconductors of electricity, have a vitreous fracture, and are soluble in ether, alcohol, and essential oils, but not in water; specif., pine resin (see Rosin).,
R as in Resinaceous (a.) Having the quality of resin; resinous.,
R as in Resinate (n.) Any one of the salts the resinic acids.,
R as in Resinic (a.) Pertaining to, or obtained from, resin; as, the resinic acids.,
R as in Resiniferous (a.) Yielding resin; as, a resiniferous tree or vessel.,
R as in Resiniform (a.) Having the form of resin.,
R as in Resino-electric (a.) Containing or exhibiting resinous electricity.,
R as in Resinoid (a.) Somewhat like resin.,
R as in Resinous (a.) Of or pertaining to resin; of the nature of resin; resembling or obtained from resin.,
R as in Resinously (adv.) By means, or in the manner, of resin.,
R as in Resinousness (n.) The quality of being resinous.,
R as in Resiny (a.) Like resin; resinous.,
R as in Resipiscence (n.) Wisdom derived from severe experience; hence, repentance.,
R as in Resisted (imp. & p. p.) of Resist,
R as in Resisting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Resist,
R as in Resist (v. t.) To stand against; to withstand; to obstruct.,
R as in Resist (v. t.) To strive against; to endeavor to counteract, defeat, or frustrate; to act in opposition to; to oppose.,
R as in Resist (v. t.) To counteract, as a force, by inertia or reaction.,
R as in Resist (v. t.) To be distasteful to.,
R as in Resist (v. i.) To make opposition.,
R as in Resist (n.) A substance used to prevent a color or mordant from fixing on those parts to which it has been applied, either by acting machanically in preventing the color, etc., from reaching the cloth, or chemically in changing the color so as to render it incapable of fixing itself in the fibers.. The pastes prepared for this purpose are called resist pastes.,
R as in Resistance (n.) The act of resisting; opposition, passive or active.,
R as in Resistance (n.) The quality of not yielding to force or external pressure; that power of a body which acts in opposition to the impulse or pressure of another, or which prevents the effect of another power; as, the resistance of the air to a body passing through it; the resistance of a target to projectiles.,
R as in Resistance (n.) A means or method of resisting; that which resists.,
R as in Resistance (n.) A certain hindrance or opposition to the passage of an electrical current or discharge offered by conducting bodies. It bears an inverse relation to the conductivity, -- good conductors having a small resistance, while poor conductors or insulators have a very high resistance. The unit of resistance is the ohm.,
R as in Resistant (a.) Making resistance; resisting.,
R as in Resistant (n.) One who, or that which, resists.,
R as in Resister (n.) One who resists.,
R as in Resistful (a.) Making much resistance.,
R as in Resistibility (n..) The quality of being resistible; resistibleness.,
R as in Resistibility (n..) The quality of being resistant; resitstance.,
R as in Resistible (a.) Capable of being resisted; as, a resistible force.,
R as in Resisting (a.) Making resistance; opposing; as, a resisting medium.,
R as in Resistive (a.) Serving to resist.,
R as in Resistless (a.) Having no power to resist; making no opposition.,
R as in Resistless (a.) Incapable of being resisted; irresistible.,
R as in Resoluble (a.) Admitting of being resolved; resolvable; as, bodies resoluble by fire.,
R as in Resolute (v. t. & i.) Having a decided purpose; determined; resolved; fixed in a determination; hence, bold; firm; steady.,
R as in Resolute (v. t. & i.) Convinced; satisfied; sure.,
R as in Resolute (v. t. & i.) Resolving, or explaining; as, the Resolute Doctor Durand.,
R as in Resolute (n.) One who is resolute; hence, a desperado.,
R as in Resolute (n.) Redelivery; repayment.,
R as in Resolutely (adv.) In a resolute manner; with fixed purpose; boldly; firmly; steadily; with perseverance.,
R as in Resoluteness (n.) The quality of being resolute.,
R as in Resolution (n.) The act, operation, or process of resolving. Specifically: (a) The act of separating a compound into its elements or component parts. (b) The act of analyzing a complex notion, or solving a vexed question or difficult problem.,
R as in Resolution (n.) The state of being relaxed; relaxation.,
R as in Resolution (n.) The state of being resolved, settled, or determined; firmness; steadiness; constancy; determination.,
R as in Resolution (n.) That which is resolved or determined; a settled purpose; determination. Specifically: A formal expression of the opinion or will of an official body or a public assembly, adopted by vote; as, a legislative resolution; the resolutions of a public meeting.,
R as in Resolution (n.) The state of being resolved or firm in opinion or thought; conviction; assurance.,
R as in Resolution (n.) The act or process of solving; solution; as, the resolution of an equation or problem.,
R as in Resolution (n.) A breaking up, disappearance; or termination, as of a fever, a tumor, or the like.,
R as in Resolution (n.) The passing of a dissonant into a consonant chord by the rising or falling of the note which makes the discord.,
R as in Resolutioner (n.) One who makes a resolution; one who joins with others in a declaration or resolution; specifically, one of a party in the Scottish Church in the 17th century.,
R as in Resolutionist (n.) One who makes a resolution.,
R as in Resolutive (a.) Serving to dissolve or relax.,
R as in Resolutory (a.) Resolutive.,
R as in Resolvability (n.) The quality or condition of being resolvable; resolvableness.,
R as in Resolvable (a.) Admitting of being resolved; admitting separation into constituent parts, or reduction to first principles; admitting solution or explanation; as, resolvable compounds; resolvable ideas or difficulties.,
R as in Resolvableness (n.) The quality of being resolvable; resolvability.,
R as in Resolved (imp. & p. p.) of Resolve,
R as in Resolving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Resolve,
R as in Resolve (v. i.) To separate the component parts of; to reduce to the constituent elements; -- said of compound substances; hence, sometimes, to melt, or dissolve.,
R as in Resolve (v. i.) To reduce to simple or intelligible notions; -- said of complex ideas or obscure questions; to make clear or certain; to free from doubt; to disentangle; to unravel; to explain; hence, to clear up, or dispel, as doubt; as, to resolve a riddle.,
R as in Resolve (v. i.) To cause to perceive or understand; to acquaint; to inform; to convince; to assure; to make certain.,
R as in Resolve (v. i.) To determine or decide in purpose; to make ready in mind; to fix; to settle; as, he was resolved by an unexpected event.,
R as in Resolve (v. i.) To express, as an opinion or determination, by resolution and vote; to declare or decide by a formal vote; -- followed by a clause; as, the house resolved (or, it was resolved by the house) that no money should be apropriated (or, to appropriate no money).,
R as in Resolve (v. i.) To change or convert by resolution or formal vote; -- used only reflexively; as, the house resolved itself into a committee of the whole.,
R as in Resolve (v. i.) To solve, as a problem, by enumerating the several things to be done, in order to obtain what is required; to find the answer to, or the result of.,
R as in Resolve (v. i.) To dispere or scatter; to discuss, as an inflammation or a tumor.,
R as in Resolve (v. i.) To let the tones (as of a discord) follow their several tendencies, resulting in a concord.,
R as in Resolve (v. i.) To relax; to lay at ease.,
R as in Resolve (v. i.) To be separated into its component parts or distinct principles; to undergo resolution.,
R as in Resolve (v. i.) To melt; to dissolve; to become fluid.,
R as in Resolve (v. i.) To be settled in opinion; to be convinced.,
R as in Resolve (v. i.) To form a purpose; to make a decision; especially, to determine after reflection; as, to resolve on a better course of life.,
R as in Resolve (n.) The act of resolving or making clear; resolution; solution.,
R as in Resolve (n.) That which has been resolved on or determined; decisive conclusion; fixed purpose; determination; also, legal or official determination; a legislative declaration; a resolution.,
R as in Resolved (p. p. & a.) Having a fixed purpose; determined; resolute; -- usually placed after its noun; as, a man resolved to be rich.,
R as in Resolvedly (adv.) So as to resolve or clear up difficulties; clearly.,
R as in Resolvedly (adv.) Resolutely; decidedly; firmly.,
R as in Resolvedness (n.) Fixedness of purpose; firmness; resolution.,
R as in Resolvent (a.) Having power to resolve; causing solution; solvent.,
R as in Resolvent (n.) That which has the power of resolving, or causing solution; a solvent.,
R as in Resolvent (n.) That which has power to disperse inflammatory or other tumors; a discutient; anything which aids the absorption of effused products.,
R as in Resolvent (n.) An equation upon whose solution the solution of a given pproblem depends.,
R as in Resolver (n.) That which decomposes, or dissolves.,
R as in Resolver (n.) That which clears up and removes difficulties, and makes the mind certain or determined.,
R as in Resolver (n.) One who resolves, or formal a firm purpose.,
R as in Resonance (n.) The act of resounding; the quality or state of being resonant.,
R as in Resonance (n.) A prolongation or increase of any sound, either by reflection, as in a cavern or apartment the walls of which are not distant enough to return a distinct echo, or by the production of vibrations in other bodies, as a sounding-board, or the bodies of musical instruments.,
R as in Resonancy (n.) Resonance.,
R as in Resonant (a.) Returning, or capable of returning, sound; fitted to resound; resounding; echoing back.,
R as in Resonantly (adv.) In a resonant manner.,
R as in Resonator (n.) Anything which resounds; specifically, a vessel in the form of a cylinder open at one end, or a hollow ball of brass with two apertures, so contrived as to greatly intensify a musical tone by its resonance. It is used for the study and analysis of complex sounds.,
R as in Resorb (v. t.) To swallow up.,
R as in Resorbent (a.) Swallowing up.,
R as in Resorcin (n.) A colorless crystalline substance of the phenol series, obtained by melting certain resins, as galbanum, asafetida, etc., with caustic potash. It is also produced artificially and used in making certain dyestuffs, as phthalein, fluorescein, and eosin.,
R as in Resorcylic (a.) Of, or pertaining to, or producing, resorcin; as, resorcylic acid.,
R as in Resorption (n.) The act of resorbing; also, the act of absorbing again; reabsorption.,
R as in Resort (n.) Active power or movement; spring.,
R as in Resorted (imp. & p. p.) of Resort,
R as in Resorting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Resort,
R as in Resort (v. i.) To go; to repair; to betake one's self.,
R as in Resort (v. i.) To fall back; to revert.,
R as in Resort (v. i.) To have recourse; to apply; to one's self for help, relief, or advantage.,
R as in Resort (v.) The act of going to, or making application; a betaking one's self; the act of visiting or seeking; recourse; as, a place of popular resort; -- often figuratively; as, to have resort to force.,
R as in Resort (v.) A place to which one betakes himself habitually; a place of frequent assembly; a haunt.,
R as in Resort (v.) That to which one resorts or looks for help; resource; refuge.,
R as in Resorter (n.) One who resorts; a frequenter.,
R as in Resoun (n.) Reason.,
R as in Resoun (v. i. & t.) To resound.,
R as in Re-sound (v. t. & i.) To sound again or anew.,
R as in Resounded (imp. & p. p.) of Resound,
R as in Resounding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Resound,
R as in Resound (v. i.) To sound loudly; as, his voice resounded far.,
R as in Resound (v. i.) To be filled with sound; to ring; as, the woods resound with song.,
R as in Resound (v. i.) To be echoed; to be sent back, as sound.,
R as in Resound (v. i.) To be mentioned much and loudly.,
R as in Resound (v. i.) To echo or reverberate; to be resonant; as, the earth resounded with his praise.,
R as in Resound (v. t.) To throw back, or return, the sound of; to echo; to reverberate.,
R as in Resound (v. t.) To praise or celebrate with the voice, or the sound of instruments; to extol with sounds; to spread the fame of.,
R as in Resound (n.) Return of sound; echo.,
R as in Resource (n.) That to which one resorts orr on which one depends for supply or support; means of overcoming a difficulty; resort; expedient.,
R as in Resource (n.) Pecuniary means; funds; money, or any property that can be converted into supplies; available means or capabilities of any kind.,
R as in Resourceful (a.) Full of resources.,
R as in Resourceless (a.) Destitute of resources.,
R as in Resow (v. t.) To sow again.,
R as in Resown (v.) To resound.,
R as in Respeak (v. t.) To speak or utter again.,
R as in Respeak (v. t.) To answer; to echo.,
R as in Respected (imp. & p. p.) of Respect,
R as in Respecting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Respect,
R as in Respect (v. t.) To take notice of; to regard with special attention; to regard as worthy of special consideration; hence, to care for; to heed.,
R as in Respect (v. t.) To consider worthy of esteem; to regard with honor.,
R as in Respect (v. t.) To look toward; to front upon or toward.,
R as in Respect (v. t.) To regard; to consider; to deem.,
R as in Respect (v. t.) To have regard to; to have reference to; to relate to; as, the treaty particularly respects our commerce.,
R as in Respect (v.) The act of noticing with attention; the giving particular consideration to; hence, care; caution.,
R as in Respect (v.) Esteem; regard; consideration; honor.,
R as in Respect (v.) An expression of respect of deference; regards; as, to send one's respects to another.,
R as in Respect (v.) Reputation; repute.,
R as in Respect (v.) Relation; reference; regard.,
R as in Respect (v.) Particular; point regarded; point of view; as, in this respect; in any respect; in all respects.,
R as in Respect (v.) Consideration; motive; interest.,
R as in Respectability (n.) The state or quality of being respectable; the state or quality which deserves or commands respect.,
R as in Respectable (a.) Worthy of respect; fitted to awaken esteem; deserving regard; hence, of good repute; not mean; as, a respectable citizen.,
R as in Respectable (a.) Moderate in degree of excellence or in number; as, a respectable performance; a respectable audience.,
R as in Respectant (a.) Placed so as to face one another; -- said of animals.,
R as in Respecter (n.) One who respects.,
R as in Respectful (a.) Marked or characterized by respect; as, respectful deportment.,
R as in Respecting (prep.) With regard or relation to; regarding; concerning; as, respecting his conduct there is but one opinion.,
R as in Respection (n.) The act of respecting; respect; regard.,
R as in Respective (a.) Noticing with attention; hence, careful; wary; considerate.,
R as in Respective (a.) Looking towardl having reference to; relative, not absolute; as, the respective connections of society.,
R as in Respective (a.) Relating to particular persons or things, each to each; particular; own; as, they returned to their respective places of abode.,
R as in Respective (a.) Fitted to awaken respect.,
R as in Respective (a.) Rendering respect; respectful; regardful.,
R as in Respectively (adv.) As relating to each; particularly; as each belongs to each; as each refers to each in order; as, let each man respectively perform his duty.,
R as in Respectively (adv.) Relatively; not absolutely.,
R as in Respectively (adv.) Partially; with respect to private views.,
R as in Respectively (adv.) With respect; regardfully.,
R as in Respectless (a.) Having no respect; without regard; regardless.,
R as in Respectuous (a.) Respectful; as, a respectuous silence.,
R as in Respectuous (a.) Respectable.,
R as in Respell (v. t.) To spell again.,
R as in Resperse (v. t.) To sprinkle; to scatter.,
R as in Respersion (n.) The act of sprinkling or scattering.,
R as in Respirability (n.) The quality or state of being respirable; respirableness.,
R as in Respirable (a.) Suitable for being breathed; adapted for respiration.,
R as in Respiration (n.) The act of respiring or breathing again, or catching one's breath.,
R as in Respiration (n.) Relief from toil or suffering: rest.,
R as in Respiration (n.) Interval; intermission.,
R as in Respiration (n.) The act of resping or breathing; the act of taking in and giving out air; the aggregate of those processes bu which oxygen is introduced into the system, and carbon dioxide, or carbonic acid, removed.,
R as in Respirational (a.) Of or pertaining to respiration; as, respirational difficulties.,
R as in Respirative (a.) Of or pertaining to respiration; as, respirative organs.,
R as in Respirator (n.) A divice of gauze or wire, covering the mouth or nose, to prevent the inhalation of noxious substances, as dust or smoke. Being warmed by the breath, it tempers cold air passing through it, and may also be used for the inhalation of medicated vapors.,
R as in Respiratory (a.) Of or pertaining to respiration; serving for respiration; as, the respiratory organs; respiratory nerves; the respiratory function; respiratory changes.,
R as in Respired (imp. & p. p.) of Respire,
R as in Respiring (p. pr. & vvb. n.) of Respire,
R as in Respire (v. i.) To take breath again; hence, to take rest or refreshment.,
R as in Respire (v. i.) To breathe; to inhale air into the lungs, and exhale it from them, successively, for the purpose of maintaining the vitality of the blood.,
R as in Respire (v. t.) To breathe in and out; to inspire and expire,, as air; to breathe.,
R as in Respire (v. t.) To breathe out; to exhale.,
R as in Respite (n.) A putting off of that which was appointed; a postponement or delay.,
R as in Respite (n.) Temporary intermission of labor, or of any process or operation; interval of rest; pause; delay.,
R as in Respite (n.) Temporary suspension of the execution of a capital offender; reprieve.,
R as in Respite (n.) The delay of appearance at court granted to a jury beyond the proper term.,
R as in Respited (imp. & p. p.) of Respite,
R as in Respiting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Respite,
R as in Respite (n.) To give or grant a respite to.,
R as in Respite (n.) To delay or postpone; to put off.,
R as in Respite (n.) To keep back from execution; to reprieve.,
R as in Respite (n.) To relieve by a pause or interval of rest.,
R as in Respiteless (a.) Without respite.,
R as in Resplendence (n.) Alt. of Resplendency,
R as in Resplendency (n.) The quality or state of being resplendent; brilliant luster; vivid brightness; splendor.,
R as in Resplendent (a.) Shining with brilliant luster; very bright.,
R as in Resplendishant (a.) Resplendent; brilliant.,
R as in Resplendishing (a.) Resplendent.,
R as in Resplit (v. t. & i.) To split again.,
R as in Responded (imp. & p. p.) of Respond,
R as in Responding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Respond,
R as in Respond (v. i.) To say somethin in return; to answer; to reply; as, to respond to a question or an argument.,
R as in Respond (v. i.) To show some effect in return to a force; to act in response; to accord; to correspond; to suit.,
R as in Respond (v. i.) To render satisfaction; to be answerable; as, the defendant is held to respond in damages.,
R as in Respond (v. t.) To answer; to reply.,
R as in Respond (v. t.) To suit or accord with; to correspond to.,
R as in Respond (n.) An answer; a response.,
R as in Respond (n.) A short anthem sung at intervals during the reading of a chapter.,
R as in Respond (n.) A half pier or pillar attached to a wall to support an arch.,
R as in Respondence (n.) Alt. of Respondency,
R as in Respondency (n.) The act of responding; the state of being respondent; an answering.,
R as in Respondent (a.) Disposed or expected to respond; answering; according; corresponding.,
R as in Respondent (n.) One who responds. It corresponds in general to defendant.,
R as in Respondent (n.) One who answers in certain suits or proceedings, generally those which are not according to the course of the common law, as in equity and admiralty causes, in petitions for partition, and the like; -- distinquished from appellant.,
R as in Respondent (n.) One who maintains a thesis in reply, and whose province it is to refute objections, or overthrow arguments; -- distinguished from opponent.,
R as in Respondentia (n.) A loan upon goods laden on board a ship. It differs from bottomry, which is a loan on the ship itself.,
R as in Responsal (a.) Answerable.,
R as in Responsal (n.) One who is answerable or responsible.,
R as in Responsal (n.) Response.,
R as in Response (n.) The act of responding.,
R as in Response (n.) An answer or reply.,
R as in Response (n.) Reply to an objection in formal disputation.,
R as in Response (n.) The answer of the people or congregation to the priest or clergyman, in the litany and other parts of divine service.,
R as in Response (n.) A kind of anthem sung after the lessons of matins and some other parts of the office.,
R as in Response (n.) A repetition of the given subject in a fugue by another part on the fifth above or fourth below.,
R as in Responseless (a.) Giving no response.,
R as in -ties (pl. ) of Responsibility,
R as in Responsibility (n.) The state of being responsible, accountable, or answerable, as for a trust, debt, or obligation.,
R as in Responsibility (n.) That for which anyone is responsible or accountable; as, the resonsibilities of power.,
R as in Responsibility (n.) Ability to answer in payment; means of paying.,
R as in Responsible (a.) Liable to respond; likely to be called upon to answer; accountable; answerable; amenable; as, a guardian is responsible to the court for his conduct in the office.,
R as in Responsible (a.) Able to respond or answer for one's conduct and obligations; trustworthy, financially or otherwise; as, to have a responsible man for surety.,
R as in Responsible (a.) Involving responsibility; involving a degree of accountability on the part of the person concerned; as, a responsible office.,
R as in Responsion (n.) The act of answering.,
R as in Responsion (n.) The first university examination; -- called also little go. See under Little, a.,
R as in Responsive (a.) That responds; ready or inclined to respond.,
R as in Responsive (a.) Suited to something else; correspondent.,
R as in Responsive (a.) Responsible.,
R as in Responsorial (a.) Responsory; antiphonal.,
R as in Responsory (a.) Containing or making answer; answering.,
R as in -ries (pl. ) of Responsory,
R as in Responsory (n.) The answer of the people to the priest in alternate speaking, in church service.,
R as in Responsory (n.) A versicle sung in answer to the priest, or as a refrain.,
R as in Responsory (n.) An antiphonary; a response book.,
R as in Rest (v. t.) To arrest.,
R as in Rest (n.) A state of quiet or repose; a cessation from motion or labor; tranquillity; as, rest from mental exertion; rest of body or mind.,
R as in Rest (n.) Hence, freedom from everything which wearies or disturbs; peace; security.,
R as in Rest (n.) Sleep; slumber; hence, poetically, death.,
R as in Rest (n.) That on which anything rests or leans for support; as, a rest in a lathe, for supporting the cutting tool or steadying the work.,
R as in Rest (n.) A projection from the right side of the cuirass, serving to support the lance.,
R as in Rest (n.) A place where one may rest, either temporarily, as in an inn, or permanently, as, in an abode.,
R as in Rest (n.) A short pause in reading verse; a c/sura.,
R as in Rest (n.) The striking of a balance at regular intervals in a running account.,
R as in Rest (n.) A set or game at tennis.,
R as in Rest (n.) Silence in music or in one of its parts; the name of the character that stands for such silence. They are named as notes are, whole, half, quarter,etc.,
R as in Rested (imp. & p. p.) of Rest,
R as in Resting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rest,
R as in Rest (n.) To cease from action or motion, especially from action which has caused weariness; to desist from labor or exertion.,
R as in Rest (n.) To be free from whanever wearies or disturbs; to be quiet or still.,
R as in Rest (n.) To lie; to repose; to recline; to lan; as, to rest on a couch.,
R as in Rest (n.) To stand firm; to be fixed; to be supported; as, a column rests on its pedestal.,
R as in Rest (n.) To sleep; to slumber; hence, poetically, to be dead.,
R as in Rest (n.) To lean in confidence; to trust; to rely; to repose without anxiety; as, to rest on a man's promise.,
R as in Rest (n.) To be satisfied; to acquiesce.,
R as in Rest (v. t.) To lay or place at rest; to quiet.,
R as in Rest (v. t.) To place, as on a support; to cause to lean.,
R as in Rest (n.) That which is left, or which remains after the separation of a part, either in fact or in contemplation; remainder; residue.,
R as in Rest (n.) Those not included in a proposition or description; the remainder; others.,
R as in Rest (n.) A surplus held as a reserved fund by a bank to equalize its dividends, etc.; in the Bank of England, the balance of assets above liabilities.,
R as in Rest (v. i.) To be left; to remain; to continue to be.,
R as in Restagnant (a.) Stagnant; motionless.,
R as in Restagnate (v. i.) To stagnate; to cease to flow.,
R as in Restagnation (n.) Stagnation.,
R as in Restant (a.) Persistent.,
R as in Restate (v. t.) To state anew.,
R as in Restaurant (n.) An eating house.,
R as in Restaurate (v. t.) To restore.,
R as in Restaurateur (n.) The keeper of an eathing house or a restaurant.,
R as in Restauration (n.) Restoration.,
R as in Restem (v. t.) To force back against the current; as, to restem their backward course.,
R as in Restem (v. t.) To stem, or move against; as, to restem a current.,
R as in Restful (a.) Being at rest; quiet.,
R as in Restful (a.) Giving rest; freeing from toil, trouble, etc.,
R as in Rest-harrow (n.) A European leguminous plant (Ononis arvensis) with long, tough roots.,
R as in Restiff (a.) Restive.,
R as in Restiff (n.) A restive or stubborn horse.,
R as in Restiffness (n.) Restiveness.,
R as in Restiform (a.) Formed like a rope; -- applied especially to several ropelike bundles or masses of fibers on the dorsal side of the medulla oblongata.,
R as in Restily (adv.) In a resty manner.,
R as in Restinction (n.) Act of quenching or extingishing.,
R as in Restiness (n.) The quality or state of being resty; sluggishness.,
R as in Resting () a. & n. from Rest, v. t. & i.,
R as in Restinguish (v. t.) To quench or extinguish.,
R as in Restitute (v. t.) To restore to a former state.,
R as in Restitute (n.) That which is restored or offered in place of something; a substitute.,
R as in Restitution (v.) The act of restoring anything to its rightful owner, or of making good, or of giving an equivalent for any loss, damage, or injury; indemnification.,
R as in Restitution (v.) That which is offered or given in return for what has been lost, injured, or destroved; compensation.,
R as in Restitution (v.) The act of returning to, or recovering, a former state; as, the restitution of an elastic body.,
R as in Restitution (v.) The movement of rotetion which usually occurs in childbirth after the head has been delivered, and which causes the latter to point towards the side to which it was directed at the beginning of labor.,
R as in Restitutor (n.) One who makes restitution.,
R as in Restive (a.) Unwilling to go on; obstinate in refusing to move forward; stubborn; drawing back.,
R as in Restive (a.) Inactive; sluggish.,
R as in Restive (a.) Impatient under coercion, chastisement, or opposition; refractory.,
R as in Restive (a.) Uneasy; restless; averse to standing still; fidgeting about; -- applied especially to horses.,
R as in Restless (a.) Never resting; unquiet; uneasy; continually moving; as, a restless child.,
R as in Restless (a.) Not satisfied to be at rest or in peace; averse to repose or quiet; eager for change; discontented; as, restless schemers; restless ambition; restless subjects.,
R as in Restless (a.) Deprived of rest or sleep.,
R as in Restless (a.) Passed in unquietness; as, the patient has had a restless night.,
R as in Restless (a.) Not affording rest; as, a restless chair.,
R as in Restorable (a.) Admitting of being restored; capable of being reclaimed; as, restorable land.,
R as in Restoral (n.) Restoration.,
R as in Restoration (n.) The act of restoring or bringing back to a former place, station, or condition; the fact of being restored; renewal; reestablishment; as, the restoration of friendship between enemies; the restoration of peace after war.,
R as in Restoration (n.) The state of being restored; recovery of health, strength, etc.; as, restoration from sickness.,
R as in Restoration (n.) That which is restored or renewed.,
R as in Restorationer (n.) A Restorationist.,
R as in Restorationism (n.) The belief or doctrines of the Restorationists.,
R as in Restorationist (n.) One who believes in a temporary future punishment and a final restoration of all to the favor and presence of God; a Universalist.,
R as in Restorative (a.) Of or pertaining to restoration; having power to restore.,
R as in Restorative (n.) Something which serves to restore; especially, a restorative medicine.,
R as in Restoratively (adv.) In a restorative manner.,
R as in Restorator (n.) A restaurateur.,
R as in Restoratory (a.) Restorative.,
R as in Re-store (v. t.) To store again; as, the goods taken out were re-stored.,
R as in Restored (imp. & p. p.) of Restore,
R as in Restoring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Restore,
R as in Restore (v. t.) To bring back to its former state; to bring back from a state of ruin, decay, disease, or the like; to repair; to renew; to recover.,
R as in Restore (v. t.) To give or bring back, as that which has been lost., or taken away; to bring back to the owner; to replace.,
R as in Restore (v. t.) To renew; to reestablish; as, to restore harmony among those who are variance.,
R as in Restore (v. t.) To give in place of, or as satisfaction for.,
R as in Restore (v. t.) To make good; to make amends for.,
R as in Restore (v. t.) To bring back from a state of injury or decay, or from a changed condition; as, to restore a painting, statue, etc.,
R as in Restore (v. t.) To form a picture or model of, as of something lost or mutilated; as, to restore a ruined building, city, or the like.,
R as in Restore (n.) Restoration.,
R as in Restorement (n.) Restoration.,
R as in Restorer (n.) One who, or that which, restores.,
R as in Restrained (imp. & p. p.) of Restrain,
R as in Restraining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Restrain,
R as in Restrain (v. t.) To draw back again; to hold back from acting, proceeding, or advancing, either by physical or moral force, or by any interposing obstacle; to repress or suppress; to keep down; to curb.,
R as in Restrain (v. t.) To draw back toghtly, as a rein.,
R as in Restrain (v. t.) To hinder from unlimited enjoiment; to abridge.,
R as in Restrain (v. t.) To limit; to confine; to restrict.,
R as in Restrain (v. t.) To withhold; to forbear.,
R as in Restrainable (a.) Capable of being restrained; controllable.,
R as in Restrainedly (adv.) With restraint.,
R as in Restrainer (n.) One who, or that which, restrains.,
R as in Restrainment (n.) The act of restraining.,
R as in Restraint (n.) The act or process of restraining, or of holding back or hindering from motion or action, in any manner; hindrance of the will, or of any action, physical or mental.,
R as in Restraint (n.) The state of being restrained.,
R as in Restraint (n.) That which restrains, as a law, a prohibition, or the like; limitation; restriction.,
R as in Restrengthen (v. t.) To strengthen again; to fortify anew.,
R as in Restrict (a.) Restricted.,
R as in Restricted (imp. & p. p.) of Restrict,
R as in Restricting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Restrict,
R as in Restrict (v. t.) To restrain within bounds; to limit; to confine; as, to restrict worlds to a particular meaning; to restrict a patient to a certain diet.,
R as in Restriction (n.) The act of restricting, or state of being restricted; confinement within limits or bounds.,
R as in Restriction (n.) That which restricts; limitation; restraint; as, restrictions on trade.,
R as in Restrictionary (a.) Restrictive.,
R as in Restrictive (a.) Serving or tending to restrict; limiting; as, a restrictive particle; restrictive laws of trade.,
R as in Restrictive (a.) Astringent or styptic in effect.,
R as in Restringed (imp. & p. p.) of Restringe,
R as in Restringing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Restringe,
R as in Restringe (v. t.) To confine; to contract; to stringe.,
R as in Restringency (n.) Quality or state of being restringent; astringency.,
R as in Restringent (a.) Restringing; astringent; styptic.,
R as in Restringent (n.) A restringent medicine.,
R as in Restrive (v. i.) To strive anew.,
R as in Resty (a.) Disposed to rest; indisposed toexercton; sluggish; also, restive.,
R as in Resubjection (n.) A second subjection.,
R as in Resublime (v. t.) To sublime again.,
R as in Resudation (n.) Act of sweating again.,
R as in Resulted (imp. & p. p.) of Result,
R as in Resulting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Result,
R as in Result (v. i.) To leap back; to rebound.,
R as in Result (v. i.) To come out, or have an issue; to terminate; to have consequences; -- followed by in; as, this measure will result in good or in evil.,
R as in Result (v. i.) To proceed, spring, or rise, as a consequence, from facts, arguments, premises, combination of circumstances, consultation, thought, or endeavor.,
R as in Result (n.) A flying back; resilience.,
R as in Result (n.) That which results; the conclusion or end to which any course or condition of things leads, or which is obtained by any process or operation; consequence or effect; as, the result of a course of action; the result of a mathematical operation.,
R as in Result (n.) The decision or determination of a council or deliberative assembly; a resolve; a decree.,
R as in Resultance (n.) The act of resulting; that which results; a result.,
R as in Resultant (a.) Resulting or issuing from a combination; existing or following as a result or consequence.,
R as in Resultant (n.) That which results.,
R as in Resultant (n.) A reultant force or motion.,
R as in Resultant (n.) An eliminant.,
R as in Resultate (n.) A result.,
R as in Resultful (a.) HAving results or effects.,
R as in Resultive (a.) Resultant.,
R as in Resultless (a.) Being without result; as, resultless investigations.,
R as in Resumable (a.) Capable of, or admitting of, being resumed.,
R as in Resume (n.) A summing up; a condensed statement; an abridgment or brief recapitulation.,
R as in Resumed (imp. & p. p.) of Resume,
R as in Resuming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Resume,
R as in Resume (v. t.) To take back.,
R as in Resume (v. t.) To enter upon, or take up again.,
R as in Resume (v. t.) To begin again; to recommence, as something which has been interrupted; as, to resume an argument or discourse.,
R as in Resummon (v. t.) To summon again.,
R as in Resummons (n.) A second summons.,
R as in Resumption (n.) The act of resuming; as, the resumption of a grant, of delegated powers, of an argument, of specie payments, etc.,
R as in Resumption (n.) The taking again into the king's hands of such lands or tenements as he had granted to any man on false suggestions or other error.,
R as in Resumptive (a.) Taking back; resuming, or tending toward resumption; as, resumptive measures.,
R as in Resupinate (a.) Inverted in position; appearing to be upside down or reversed, as the flowers of the orchis and the leaves of some plants.,
R as in Resupinated (a.) Resupinate.,
R as in Resupination (n.) The state of luing on the back; the state of being resupinate, or reversed.,
R as in Resupine (a.) Lying on the back; supine; hence, careless.,
R as in Resupply (v. t.) To supply again.,
R as in Resurgence (n.) The act of rising again; resurrection.,
R as in Resurgent (a.) Rising again, as from the dead.,
R as in Resurgent (n.) One who rises again, as from the dead.,
R as in Resurrect (v. t.) To take from the grave; to disinter.,
R as in Resurrect (v. t.) To reanimate; to restore to life; to bring to view (that which was forgotten or lost).,
R as in Resurrection (n.) A rising again; the resumption of vigor.,
R as in Resurrection (n.) Especially, the rising again from the dead; the resumption of life by the dead; as, the resurrection of Jesus Christ; the general resurrection of all the dead at the Day of Judgment.,
R as in Resurrection (n.) State of being risen from the dead; future state.,
R as in Resurrection (n.) The cause or exemplar of a rising from the dead.,
R as in Resurrectionist (n.) One who steals bodies from the grave, as for dissection.,
R as in Resurrectionize (v. t.) To raise from the dead.,
R as in Resurvey (v. t.) To survey again or anew; to review.,
R as in Resurvey (n.) A second or new survey.,
R as in Resuscitable (a.) Capable of resuscitation; as, resuscitable plants.,
R as in Resuscitant (n.) One who, or that which resuscitates. Also used adjectively.,
R as in Resuscitate (a.) Restored to life.,
R as in Resuscitated (imp. & p. p.) of Resuscitate,
R as in Resuscitating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Resuscitate,
R as in Resuscitate (v. t.) To revivify; to revive; especially, to recover or restore from apparent death; as, to resuscitate a drowned person; to resuscitate withered plants.,
R as in Resuscitate (v. i.) To come to life again; to revive.,
R as in Resuscitation (n.) The act of resuscitating, or state of being resuscitated.,
R as in Resuscitative (a.) Tending to resuscitate; reviving; revivifying.,
R as in Resuscitator (n.) One who, or that which, resuscitates.,
R as in Ret (v. t.) See Aret.,
R as in Ret (v. t.) To prepare for use, as flax, by separating the fibers from the woody part by process of soaking, macerating, and other treatment.,
R as in Retable (n.) A shelf behind the altar, for display of lights, vases of wlowers, etc.,
R as in Retail (v.) The sale of commodities in small quantities or parcels; -- opposed to wholesale; sometimes, the sale of commodities at second hand.,
R as in Retail (a.) Done at retail; engaged in retailing commodities; as a retail trade; a retail grocer.,
R as in Retailed (imp. & p. p.) of Retail,
R as in Retailing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Retail,
R as in Retail (n.) To sell in small quantities, as by the single yard, pound, gallon, etc.; to sell directly to the consumer; as, to retail cloth or groceries.,
R as in Retail (n.) To sell at second hand.,
R as in Retail (n.) To distribute in small portions or at second hand; to tell again or to many (what has been told or done); to report; as, to retail slander.,
R as in Retailer (n.) One who retails anything; as, a retailer of merchandise; a retailer of gossip.,
R as in Retailment (n.) The act of retailing.,
R as in Retained (imp. & p. p.) of Retain,
R as in Retaining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Retain,
R as in Retain (v. t.) To continue to hold; to keep in possession; not to lose, part with, or dismiss; to retrain from departure, escape, or the like.,
R as in Retain (v. t.) To keep in pay; to employ by a preliminary fee paid; to hire; to engage; as, to retain a counselor.,
R as in Retain (v. t.) To restrain; to prevent.,
R as in Retain (v. i.) To belong; to pertain.,
R as in Retain (v. i.) To keep; to continue; to remain.,
R as in Retainable (a.) Capable of being retained.,
R as in Retainal (n.) The act of retaining; retention.,
R as in Retainer (n.) One who, or that which, retains.,
R as in Retainer (n.) One who is retained or kept in service; an attendant; an adherent; a hanger-on.,
R as in Retainer (n.) Hence, a servant, not a domestic, but occasionally attending and wearing his master's livery.,
R as in Retainer (n.) The act of a client by which he engages a lawyer or counselor to manage his cause.,
R as in Retainer (n.) The act of withholding what one has in his hands by virtue of some right.,
R as in Retainer (n.) A fee paid to engage a lawyer or counselor to maintain a cause, or to prevent his being employed by the opposing party in the case; -- called also retaining fee.,
R as in Retainer (n.) The act of keeping dependents, or the state of being in dependence.,
R as in Retainment (n.) The act of retaining; retention.,
R as in Retake (v. t.) To take or receive again.,
R as in Retake (v. t.) To take from a captor; to recapture; as, to retake a ship or prisoners.,
R as in Retaker (n.) One who takes again what has been taken; a recaptor.,
R as in Retaliated (imp. & p. p.) of Retaliate,
R as in Retaliating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Retaliate,
R as in Retaliate (v. t.) To return the like for; to repay or requite by an act of the same kind; to return evil for (evil). [Now seldom used except in a bad sense.],
R as in Retaliate (v. i.) To return like for like; specifically, to return evil for evil; as, to retaliate upon an enemy.,
R as in Retaliation (n.) The act of retaliating, or of returning like for like; retribution; now, specifically, the return of evil for evil; e.g., an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth.,
R as in Retaliative (a.) Same as Retaliatory.,
R as in Retaliatory (a.) Tending to, or involving, retaliation; retaliative; as retaliatory measures.,
R as in Retarded (imp. & p. p.) of Retard,
R as in Retarding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Retard,
R as in Retard (v. t.) To keep delaying; to continue to hinder; to prevent from progress; to render more slow in progress; to impede; to hinder; as, to retard the march of an army; to retard the motion of a ship; -- opposed to accelerate.,
R as in Retard (v. t.) To put off; to postpone; as, to retard the attacks of old age; to retard a rupture between nations.,
R as in Retard (v. i.) To stay back.,
R as in Retard (n.) Retardation; delay.,
R as in Retardation (n.) The act of retarding; hindrance; the act of delaying; as, the retardation of the motion of a ship; -- opposed to acceleration.,
R as in Retardation (n.) That which retards; an obstacle; an obstruction.,
R as in Retardation (n.) The keeping back of an approaching consonant chord by prolonging one or more tones of a previous chord into the intermediate chord which follows; -- differing from suspension by resolving upwards instead of downwards.,
R as in Retardation (n.) The extent to which anything is retarded; the amount of retarding or delay.,
R as in Retardative (a.) Tending, or serving, to retard.,
R as in Retarder (n.) One who, or that which, retards.,
R as in Retardment (n.) The act of retarding; retardation.,
R as in Retched (imp. & p. p.) of Retch,
R as in Retching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Retch,
R as in Retch (v. i.) To make an effort to vomit; to strain, as in vomiting.,
R as in Retch (v. t. & i.) To care for; to heed; to reck.,
R as in Retchless (a.) Careless; reckless.,
R as in Rete (n.) A net or network; a plexus; particularly, a network of blood vessels or nerves, or a part resembling a network.,
R as in Retecious (a.) Resembling network; retiform.,
R as in Retection (n.) Act of disclosing or uncovering something concealed.,
R as in Retell (v. t.) To tell again.,
R as in Retene (n.) A white crystalline hydrocarbon, polymeric with benzene. It is extracted from pine tar, and is also found in certain fossil resins.,
R as in Retent (n.) That which is retained.,
R as in Retention (n.) The act of retaining, or the state of being ratined.,
R as in Retention (n.) The power of retaining; retentiveness.,
R as in Retention (n.) That which contains something, as a tablet; a //// of preserving impressions.,
R as in Retention (n.) The act of withholding; retraint; reserve.,
R as in Retention (n.) Place of custody or confinement.,
R as in Retention (n.) The right of withholding a debt, or of retaining property until a debt due to the person claiming the right be duly paid; a lien.,
R as in Retentive (a.) Having power to retain; as, a retentive memory.,
R as in Retentive (n.) That which retains or confines; a restraint.,
R as in Retentively (adv.) In a retentive manner.,
R as in Retentiveness (n.) The quality of being retentive.,
R as in Retentivity (n.) The power of retaining; retentive force; as, the retentivity of a magnet.,
R as in Retentor (n.) A muscle which serves to retain an organ or part in place, esp. when retracted. See Illust. of Phylactolemata.,
R as in Retepore (n.) Any one of several species of bryozoans of the genus Retepora. They form delicate calcareous corals, usually composed of thin fenestrated fronds.,
R as in Retex (v. t.) To annual, as orders.,
R as in Retexture (n.) The act of weaving or forming again.,
R as in Rethor (n.) A rhetorician; a careful writer.,
R as in Rethoryke (n.) Rhetoric.,
R as in Retiarius (n.) A gladiator armed with a net for entangling his adversary and a trident for despatching him.,
R as in Retiary (n.) Any spider which spins webs to catch its prey.,
R as in Retiary (n.) A retiarius.,
R as in Retiary (a.) Netlike.,
R as in Retiary (a.) Constructing or using a web, or net, to catch prey; -- said of certain spiders.,
R as in Retiary (a.) Armed with a net; hence, skillful to entangle.,
R as in Reticence (n.) The quality or state of being reticent, or keeping silence; the state of holding one's tonque; refraining to speak of that which is suggested; uncommunicativeness.,
R as in Reticence (n.) A figure by which a person really speaks of a thing while he makes a show as if he would say nothingon the subject.,
R as in Reticency (n.) Reticence.,
R as in Reticent (a.) Inclined to keep silent; reserved; uncommunicative.,
R as in Reticle (n.) A small net.,
R as in Reticle (n.) A reticule. See Reticule, 2.,
R as in Reticular (a.) Having the form of a net, or of network; formed with interstices; retiform; as, reticular cartilage; a reticular leaf.,
R as in Reticular (a.) Of or pertaining to a reticulum.,
R as in Reticularia (n. pl.) An extensive division of rhizopods in which the pseudopodia are more or less slender and coalesce at certain points, forming irregular meshes. It includes the shelled Foraminifera, together with some groups which lack a true shell.,
R as in Reticularian (n.) One of the Reticularia.,
R as in Reticularly (adv.) In a reticular manner.,
R as in Reticulate (a.) Alt. of Reticulated,
R as in Reticulated (a.) Resembling network; having the form or appearance of a net; netted; as, a reticulated structure.,
R as in Reticulated (a.) Having veins, fibers, or lines crossing like the threads or fibers of a network; as, a reticulate leaf; a reticulated surface; a reticulated wing of an insect.,
R as in Reticulation (n.) The quality or state of being reticulated, or netlike; that which is reticulated; network; an organization resembling a net.,
R as in Reticule (n..) A little bag, originally of network; a woman's workbag, or a little bag to be carried in the hand.,
R as in Reticule (n..) A system of wires or lines in the focus of a telescope or other instrument; a reticle.,
R as in Reticulosa (n. pl.) Same as Reticularia.,
R as in Reticulose (a.) Forming a network; characterized by a reticulated sructure.,
R as in Reticula (pl. ) of Reticulum,
R as in Reticulum (n.) The second stomach of ruminants, in which folds of the mucous membrane form hexagonal cells; -- also called the honeycomb stomach.,
R as in Reticulum (n.) The neuroglia.,
R as in Retiform (a.) Composed of crossing lines and interstices; reticular; netlike; as, the retiform coat of the eye.,
R as in Retina (n.) The delicate membrane by which the back part of the globe of the eye is lined, and in which the fibers of the optic nerve terminate. See Eye.,
R as in Retinacula (pl. ) of Retinaculum,
R as in Retinaculum (n.) A connecting band; a fraenum; as, the retinacula of the ileocaecal and ileocolic valves.,
R as in Retinaculum (n.) One of the annular ligaments which hold the tendons close to the bones at the larger joints, as at the wrist and ankle.,
R as in Retinaculum (n.) One of the retractor muscles of the proboscis of certain worms.,
R as in Retinaculum (n.) A small gland or process to which bodies are attached; as, the glandular retinacula to which the pollinia of orchids are attached, or the hooks which support the seeds in many acanthaceous plants.,
R as in Retinal (a.) Of or pertaining to the retina.,
R as in Retinalite (n.) A translucent variety of serpentine, of a honey yellow or greenish yellow color, having a waxy resinlike luster.,
R as in Retinasphalt (n.) Alt. of Retinasphaltum,
R as in Retinasphaltum (n.) Retinite.,
R as in Retinerved (a.) Having reticulated veins.,
R as in Retinea (pl. ) of Retineum,
R as in Retineum (n.) That part of the eye of an invertebrate which corresponds in function with the retina of a vertebrate.,
R as in Retinic (a.) Of or pertaining to resin; derived from resin; specifically, designating an acid found in certain fossil resins and hydrocarbons.,
R as in Retinite (n.) An inflammable mineral resin, usually of a yellowish brown color, found in roundish masses, sometimes with coal.,
R as in Retinitis (n.) Inflammation of the retina.,
R as in Retinoid (a.) Resinlike, or resinform; resembling a resin without being such.,
R as in Retinol (n.) A hydrocarbon oil obtained by the distillation of resin, -- used in printer's ink.,
R as in Retiniphorae (pl. ) of Retinophora,
R as in Retinophora (n.) One of group of two to four united cells which occupy the axial part of the ocelli, or ommatidia, of the eyes of invertebrates, and contain the terminal nerve fibrillae. See Illust. under Ommatidium.,
R as in Retinophoral (a.) Of or pertaining to retinophorae.,
R as in Retinoscopy (n.) The study of the retina of the eye by means of the ophthalmoscope.,
R as in Retinue (n.) The body of retainers who follow a prince or other distinguished person; a train of attendants; a suite.,
R as in Retinulae (pl. ) of Retinula,
R as in Retinula (n.) One of the group of pigmented cells which surround the retinophorae of invertebrates. See Illust. under Ommatidium.,
R as in Retinulate (a.) Having, or characterized by, retinul/.,
R as in Retiped (n.) A bird having small polygonal scales covering the tarsi.,
R as in Retiracy (n.) Retirement; -- mostly used in a jocose or burlesque way.,
R as in Retirade (n.) A kind of retrenchment, as in the body of a bastion, which may be disputed inch by inch after the defenses are dismantled. It usually consists of two faces which make a reentering angle.,
R as in Retired (imp. & p. p.) of Retire,
R as in Retiring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Retire,
R as in Retire (v. t.) To withdraw; to take away; -- sometimes used reflexively.,
R as in Retire (v. t.) To withdraw from circulation, or from the market; to take up and pay; as, to retire bonds; to retire a note.,
R as in Retire (v. t.) To cause to retire; specifically, to designate as no longer qualified for active service; to place on the retired list; as, to retire a military or naval officer.,
R as in Retire (v. i.) To go back or return; to draw back or away; to keep aloof; to withdraw or retreat, as from observation; to go into privacy; as, to retire to his home; to retire from the world, or from notice.,
R as in Retire (v. i.) To retreat from action or danger; to withdraw for safety or pleasure; as, to retire from battle.,
R as in Retire (v. i.) To withdraw from a public station, or from business; as, having made a large fortune, he retired.,
R as in Retire (v. i.) To recede; to fall or bend back; as, the shore of the sea retires in bays and gulfs.,
R as in Retire (v. i.) To go to bed; as, he usually retires early.,
R as in Retire (n.) The act of retiring, or the state of being retired; also, a place to which one retires.,
R as in Retire (n.) A call sounded on a bugle, announcing to skirmishers that they are to retire, or fall back.,
R as in Retired (a.) Private; secluded; quiet; as, a retired life; a person of retired habits.,
R as in Retired (a.) Withdrawn from active duty or business; as, a retired officer; a retired physician.,
R as in Retirement (n.) The act of retiring, or the state of being retired; withdrawal; seclusion; as, the retirement of an officer.,
R as in Retirement (n.) A place of seclusion or privacy; a place to which one withdraws or retreats; a private abode.,
R as in Retirer (n.) One who retires.,
R as in Retiring (a.) Reserved; shy; not forward or obtrusive; as, retiring modesty; retiring manners.,
R as in Retiring (a.) Of or pertaining to retirement; causing retirement; suited to, or belonging to, retirement.,
R as in Retistene (n.) A white crystalline hydrocarbon produced indirectly from retene.,
R as in Retitelae (n. pl.) A group of spiders which spin irregular webs; -- called also Retitelariae.,
R as in Retold () imp. & p. p. of Retell.,
R as in Retorsion (n.) Same as Retortion.,
R as in Retorted (imp. & p. p.) of Retort,
R as in Retorting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Retort,
R as in Retort (n.) To bend or curve back; as, a retorted line.,
R as in Retort (n.) To throw back; to reverberate; to reflect.,
R as in Retort (n.) To return, as an argument, accusation, censure, or incivility; as, to retort the charge of vanity.,
R as in Retort (v. i.) To return an argument or a charge; to make a severe reply.,
R as in Retort (v. t.) The return of, or reply to, an argument, charge, censure, incivility, taunt, or witticism; a quick and witty or severe response.,
R as in Retort (v. t.) A vessel in which substances are subjected to distillation or decomposition by heat. It is made of different forms and materials for different uses, as a bulb of glass with a curved beak to enter a receiver for general chemical operations, or a cylinder or semicylinder of cast iron for the manufacture of gas in gas works.,
R as in Retorter (n.) One who retorts.,
R as in Retortion (v. t.) Act of retorting or throwing back; reflection or turning back.,
R as in Retortion (v. t.) Retaliation.,
R as in Retortive (a.) Containing retort.,
R as in Retoss (v. t.) To toss back or again.,
R as in Retouch (v. t.) To touch again, or rework, in order to improve; to revise; as, to retouch a picture or an essay.,
R as in Retouch (v. t.) To correct or change, as a negative, by handwork.,
R as in Retouch (n.) A partial reworking,as of a painting, a sculptor's clay model, or the like.,
R as in Retoucher (n.) One who retouches.,
R as in Retrace (v. t.) To trace back, as a line.,
R as in Retrace (v. t.) To go back, in or over (a previous course); to go over again in a reverse direction; as, to retrace one's steps; to retrace one's proceedings.,
R as in Retrace (v. t.) To trace over again, or renew the outline of, as a drawing; to draw again.,
R as in Retracted (imp. & p. p.) of Retract,
R as in Retracting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Retract,
R as in Retract (v. t.) To draw back; to draw up or shorten; as, the cat can retract its claws; to retract a muscle.,
R as in Retract (v. t.) To withdraw; to recall; to disavow; to recant; to take back; as, to retract an accusation or an assertion.,
R as in Retract (v. t.) To take back,, as a grant or favor previously bestowed; to revoke.,
R as in Retract (v. i.) To draw back; to draw up; as, muscles retract after amputation.,
R as in Retract (v. i.) To take back what has been said; to withdraw a concession or a declaration.,
R as in Retract (n.) The pricking of a horse's foot in nailing on a shoe.,
R as in Retractable (a.) Capable of being retracted; retractile.,
R as in Retractate (v. t.) To retract; to recant.,
R as in Retractation (n.) The act of retracting what has been said; recantation.,
R as in Retractible (a.) Retractable.,
R as in Retractile (a.) Capable of retraction; capable of being drawn back or up; as, the claws of a cat are retractile.,
R as in Retraction (n.) The act of retracting, or drawing back; the state of being retracted; as, the retraction of a cat's claws.,
R as in Retraction (n.) The act of withdrawing something advanced, stated, claimed, or done; declaration of change of opinion; recantation.,
R as in Retraction (n.) The act of retracting or shortening; as, the retraction of a severed muscle; the retraction of a sinew.,
R as in Retraction (n.) The state or condition of a part when drawn back, or towards the center of the body.,
R as in Retractive (a.) Serving to retract; of the nature of a retraction.,
R as in Retractive (n.) That which retracts, or withdraws.,
R as in Retractor (n.) One who, or that which, retracts.,
R as in Retractor (n.) In breech-loading firearms, a device for withdrawing a cartridge shell from the barrel.,
R as in Retractor (n.) An instrument for holding apart the edges of a wound during amputation.,
R as in Retractor (n.) A bandage to protect the soft parts from injury by the saw during amputation.,
R as in Retractor (n.) A muscle serving to draw in any organ or part. See Illust. under Phylactolaemata.,
R as in Retraict (n.) Retreat.,
R as in Retrait (n.) A portrait; a likeness.,
R as in Retransform (v. t.) To transform anew or back.,
R as in Retranslate (v. t.) To translate anew; especially, to translate back into the original language.,
R as in Retraxit (n.) The withdrawing, or open renunciation, of a suit in court by the plaintiff, by which he forever lost his right of action.,
R as in Retread (v. t. & i.) To tread again.,
R as in Retreat (n.) The act of retiring or withdrawing one's self, especially from what is dangerous or disagreeable.,
R as in Retreat (n.) The place to which anyone retires; a place or privacy or safety; a refuge; an asylum.,
R as in Retreat (n.) The retiring of an army or body of men from the face of an enemy, or from any ground occupied to a greater distance from the enemy, or from an advanced position.,
R as in Retreat (n.) The withdrawing of a ship or fleet from an enemy for the purpose of avoiding an engagement or escaping after defeat.,
R as in Retreat (n.) A signal given in the army or navy, by the beat of a drum or the sounding of trumpet or bugle, at sunset (when the roll is called), or for retiring from action.,
R as in Retreat (n.) A special season of solitude and silence to engage in religious exercises.,
R as in Retreat (n.) A period of several days of withdrawal from society to a religious house for exclusive occupation in the duties of devotion; as, to appoint or observe a retreat.,
R as in Retreated (imp. & p. p.) of Retreat,
R as in Retreating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Retreat,
R as in Retreat (v. i.) To make a retreat; to retire from any position or place; to withdraw; as, the defeated army retreated from the field.,
R as in Retreatful (a.) Furnishing or serving as a retreat.,
R as in Retreatment (n.) The act of retreating; specifically, the Hegira.,
R as in Retrenched (imp. & p. p.) of Retrench,
R as in Retrenching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Retrench,
R as in Retrench (v. t.) To cut off; to pare away.,
R as in Retrench (v. t.) To lessen; to abridge; to curtail; as, to retrench superfluities or expenses.,
R as in Retrench (v. t.) To confine; to limit; to restrict.,
R as in Retrench (v. t.) To furnish with a retrenchment; as, to retrench bastions.,
R as in Retrench (v. i.) To cause or suffer retrenchment; specifically, to cut down living expenses; as, it is more reputable to retrench than to live embarrassed.,
R as in Retrenchment (n.) The act or process of retrenching; as, the retrenchment of words in a writing.,
R as in Retrenchment (n.) A work constructed within another, to prolong the defense of the position when the enemy has gained possession of the outer work; or to protect the defenders till they can retreat or obtain terms for a capitulation.,
R as in Retrial (n.) A secdond trial, experiment, or test; a second judicial trial, as of an accused person.,
R as in Retribute (v. t.) To pay back; to give in return, as payment, reward, or punishment; to requite; as, to retribute one for his kindness; to retribute just punishment to a criminal.,
R as in Retributer (n.) One who makes retribution.,
R as in Retribution (n.) The act of retributing; repayment.,
R as in Retribution (n.) That which is given in repayment or compensation; return suitable to the merits or deserts of, as an action; commonly, condign punishment for evil or wrong.,
R as in Retribution (n.) Specifically, reward and punishment, as distributed at the general judgment.,
R as in Retributive (a.) Alt. of Retributory,
R as in Retributory (a.) Of or pertaining to retribution; of the nature of retribution; involving retribution or repayment; as, retributive justice; retributory comforts.,
R as in Retrievable (a.) That may be retrieved or recovered; admitting of retrieval.,
R as in Retrieval (n.) The act retrieving.,
R as in Retrieved (imp. & p. p.) of Retrieve,
R as in Retrieving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Retrieve,
R as in Retrieve (v. t.) To find again; to recover; to regain; to restore from loss or injury; as, to retrieve one's character; to retrieve independence.,
R as in Retrieve (v. t.) To recall; to bring back.,
R as in Retrieve (v. t.) To remedy the evil consequence of, to repair, as a loss or damadge.,
R as in Retrieve (v. i.) To discover and bring in game that has been killed or wounded; as, a dog naturally inclined to retrieve.,
R as in Retrieve (n.) A seeking again; a discovery.,
R as in Retrieve (n.) The recovery of game once sprung; -- an old sporting term.,
R as in Retrievement (n.) Retrieval.,
R as in Retriever (n.) One who retrieves.,
R as in Retriever (n.) A dor, or a breed of dogs, chiefly employed to retrieve, or to find and recover game birds that have been killed or wounded.,
R as in Retrim (v. t.) To trim again.,
R as in Retriment (n.) Refuse; dregs.,
R as in Retro- () A prefix or combining form signifying backward, back; as, retroact, to act backward; retrospect, a looking back.,
R as in Retroact (v. i.) To act backward, or in return; to act in opposition; to be retrospective.,
R as in Retroaction (n.) Action returned, or action backward.,
R as in Retroaction (n.) Operation on something past or preceding.,
R as in Retroactive (a.) Fitted or designed to retroact; operating by returned action; affecting what is past; retrospective.,
R as in Retroactively (adv.) In a retroactive manner.,
R as in Retrocede (v. t.) To cede or grant back; as, to retrocede a territory to a former proprietor.,
R as in Retrocede (v. i.) To go back.,
R as in Retrocedent (a.) Disposed or likely to retrocede; -- said of diseases which go from one part of the body to another, as the gout.,
R as in Retrocession (n.) The act of retroceding.,
R as in Retrocession (n.) The state of being retroceded, or granted back.,
R as in Retrocession (n.) Metastasis of an eruption or a tumor from the surface to the interior of the body.,
R as in Retrochoir (n.) Any extension of a church behind the high altar, as a chapel; also, in an apsidal church, all the space beyond the line of the back or eastern face of the altar.,
R as in Retrocopulant (a.) Copulating backward, or from behind.,
R as in Retrocopulation (n.) Copulation from behind.,
R as in Retroduction (n.) A leading or bringing back.,
R as in Retroflex (a.) Alt. of Retroflexed,
R as in Retroflexed (a.) Reflexed; bent or turned abruptly backward.,
R as in Retroflexion (n.) The act of reflexing; the state of being retroflexed. Cf. Retroversion.,
R as in Retrofract (a.) Alt. of Retrofracted,
R as in Retrofracted (a.) Refracted; as, a retrofract stem.,
R as in Retrogenerative (a.) Begetting young by retrocopulation.,
R as in Retrogradation (n.) The act of retrograding, or moving backward.,
R as in Retrogradation (n.) The state of being retrograde; decline.,
R as in Retrograde (a.) Apparently moving backward, and contrary to the succession of the signs, that is, from east to west, as a planet.,
R as in Retrograde (a.) Tending or moving backward; having a backward course; contrary; as, a retrograde motion; -- opposed to progressive.,
R as in Retrograde (a.) Declining from a better to a worse state; as, a retrograde people; retrograde ideas, morals, etc.,
R as in Retrograded (imp. & p. p.) of Retrograde,
R as in Retrograding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Retrograde,
R as in Retrograde (v. i.) To go in a retrograde direction; to move, or appear to move, backward, as a planet.,
R as in Retrograde (v. i.) Hence, to decline from a better to a worse condition, as in morals or intelligence.,
R as in Retrogradingly (adv.) By retrograding; so as to retrograde.,
R as in Retrogress (n.) Retrogression.,
R as in Retrogression (n.) The act of retrograding, or going backward; retrogradation.,
R as in Retrogression (n.) Backward development; a passing from a higher to a lower state of organization or structure, as when an animal, approaching maturity, becomes less highly organized than would be expected from its earlier stages or known relationship. Called also retrograde development, and regressive metamorphism.,
R as in Retrogressive (a.) Tending to retrograde; going or moving backward; declining from a better to a worse state.,
R as in Retrogressive (a.) Passing from a higher to a lower condition; declining from a more perfect state of organization; regressive.,
R as in Retrogressively (adv.) In a retrogressive manner.,
R as in Retromingency (n.) The quality or state of being retromingent.,
R as in Retromingent (a.) Organized so as to discharge the urine backward.,
R as in Retromingent (n.) An animal that discharges its urine backward.,
R as in Retropulsive (a.) Driving back; repelling.,
R as in Retrorse (a.) Bent backward or downward.,
R as in Retrospect (v. i.) To look backward; hence, to affect or concern what is past.,
R as in Retrospect (n.) A looking back on things past; view or contemplation of the past.,
R as in Retrospection (n.) The act, or the faculty, of looking back on things past.,
R as in Retrospective (a.) Looking backward; contemplating things past; -- opposed to prospective; as, a retrospective view.,
R as in Retrospective (a.) Having reference to what is past; affecting things past; retroactive; as, a retrospective law.,
R as in Retrospectively (adv.) By way of retrospect.,
R as in Retrousse (a.) Turned up; -- said of a pug nose.,
R as in Retrovaccination (n.) The inoculation of a cow with human vaccine virus.,
R as in Retroversion (n.) A turning or bending backward; also, the state of being turned or bent backward; displacement backwards; as, retroversion of the uterus.,
R as in Retroverted (imp. & p. p.) of Retrovert,
R as in Retroverting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Retrovert,
R as in Retrovert (v. t.) To turn back.,
R as in Retroverted (a.) In a state of retroversion.,
R as in Retruded (imp. & p. p.) of Retrude,
R as in Retruding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Retrude,
R as in Retrude (v. t.) To thrust back.,
R as in Retruse (a.) Abstruse.,
R as in Retrusion (n.) The act of retruding, or the state of being retruded.,
R as in Retry (v. t.) To try (esp. judicially) a second time; as, to retry a case; to retry an accused person.,
R as in Rette (v. t.) See Aret.,
R as in Rettery (n.) A place or establishment where flax is retted. See Ret.,
R as in Retting (n.) The act or process of preparing flax for use by soaking, maceration, and kindred processes; -- also called rotting. See Ret.,
R as in Retting (n.) A place where flax is retted; a rettery.,
R as in Retund (v. t.) To blunt; to turn, as an edge; figuratively, to cause to be obtuse or dull; as, to retund confidence.,
R as in Re-turn (v. t. & i.) To turn again.,
R as in Returned (imp. & p. p.) of Return,
R as in Returning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Return,
R as in Return (v. i.) To turn back; to go or come again to the same place or condition.,
R as in Return (v. i.) To come back, or begin again, after an interval, regular or irregular; to appear again.,
R as in Return (v. i.) To speak in answer; to reply; to respond.,
R as in Return (v. i.) To revert; to pass back into possession.,
R as in Return (v. i.) To go back in thought, narration, or argument.,
R as in Return (v. t.) To bring, carry, send, or turn, back; as, to return a borrowed book, or a hired horse.,
R as in Return (v. t.) To repay; as, to return borrowed money.,
R as in Return (v. t.) To give in requital or recompense; to requite.,
R as in Return (v. t.) To give back in reply; as, to return an answer; to return thanks.,
R as in Return (v. t.) To retort; to throw back; as, to return the lie.,
R as in Return (v. t.) To report, or bring back and make known.,
R as in Return (v. t.) To render, as an account, usually an official account, to a superior; to report officially by a list or statement; as, to return a list of stores, of killed or wounded; to return the result of an election.,
R as in Return (v. t.) Hence, to elect according to the official report of the election officers.,
R as in Return (v. t.) To bring or send back to a tribunal, or to an office, with a certificate of what has been done; as, to return a writ.,
R as in Return (v. t.) To convey into official custody, or to a general depository.,
R as in Return (v. t.) To bat (the ball) back over the net.,
R as in Return (v. t.) To lead in response to the lead of one's partner; as, to return a trump; to return a diamond for a club.,
R as in Return (n.) The act of returning (intransitive), or coming back to the same place or condition; as, the return of one long absent; the return of health; the return of the seasons, or of an anniversary.,
R as in Return (n.) The act of returning (transitive), or sending back to the same place or condition; restitution; repayment; requital; retribution; as, the return of anything borrowed, as a book or money; a good return in tennis.,
R as in Return (n.) That which is returned.,
R as in Return (n.) A payment; a remittance; a requital.,
R as in Return (n.) An answer; as, a return to one's question.,
R as in Return (n.) An account, or formal report, of an action performed, of a duty discharged, of facts or statistics, and the like; as, election returns; a return of the amount of goods produced or sold; especially, in the plural, a set of tabulated statistics prepared for general information.,
R as in Return (n.) The profit on, or advantage received from, labor, or an investment, undertaking, adventure, etc.,
R as in Return (n.) The continuation in a different direction, most often at a right angle, of a building, face of a building, or any member, as a molding or mold; -- applied to the shorter in contradistinction to the longer; thus, a facade of sixty feet east and west has a return of twenty feet north and south.,
R as in Return (n.) The rendering back or delivery of writ, precept, or execution, to the proper officer or court.,
R as in Return (n.) The certificate of an officer stating what he has done in execution of a writ, precept, etc., indorsed on the document.,
R as in Return (n.) The sending back of a commission with the certificate of the commissioners.,
R as in Return (n.) A day in bank. See Return day, below.,
R as in Return (n.) An official account, report, or statement, rendered to the commander or other superior officer; as, the return of men fit for duty; the return of the number of the sick; the return of provisions, etc.,
R as in Return (n.) The turnings and windings of a trench or mine.,
R as in Returnable (a.) Capable of, or admitting of, being returned.,
R as in Returnable (a.) Legally required to be returned, delivered, given, or rendered; as, a writ or precept returnable at a certain day; a verdict returnable to the court.,
R as in Returner (n.) One who returns.,
R as in Returnless (a.) Admitting no return.,
R as in Retuse (a.) Having the end rounded and slightly indented; as, a retuse leaf.,
R as in Reule (n.& v.) Rule.,
R as in Reume (n.) Realm.,
R as in Reunion (n.) A second union; union formed anew after separation, secession, or discord; as, a reunion of parts or particles of matter; a reunion of parties or sects.,
R as in Reunion (n.) An assembling of persons who have been separated, as of a family, or the members of a disbanded regiment; an assembly so composed.,
R as in Reunite (v. t. & i.) To unite again; to join after separation or variance.,
R as in Reunitedly (adv.) In a reunited manner.,
R as in Reunition (n.) A second uniting.,
R as in Reurge (v. t.) To urge again.,
R as in Revaccinate (v. t.) To vaccinate a second time or again.,
R as in Revalescence (n.) The act of growing well; the state of being revalescent.,
R as in Revalescent (a.) Growing well; recovering strength.,
R as in Revaluation (n.) A second or new valuation.,
R as in Revamp (v. t.) To vamp again; hence, to patch up; to reconstruct.,
R as in Reve (v. t.) To reave.,
R as in Reve (n.) An officer, steward, or governor.,
R as in Revealed (imp. & p. p.) of Reveal,
R as in Revealing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Reveal,
R as in Reveal (v. t.) To make known (that which has been concealed or kept secret); to unveil; to disclose; to show.,
R as in Reveal (v. t.) Specifically, to communicate (that which could not be known or discovered without divine or supernatural instruction or agency).,
R as in Reveal (n.) A revealing; a disclosure.,
R as in Reveal (n.) The side of an opening for a window, doorway, or the like, between the door frame or window frame and the outer surface of the wall; or, where the opening is not filled with a door, etc., the whole thickness of the wall; the jamb.,
R as in Revealability (n.) The quality or state of being revealable; revealableness.,
R as in Revealable (a.) Capable of being revealed.,
R as in Revealer (n.) One who, or that which, reveals.,
R as in Revealment (n.) Act of revealing.,
R as in Revegetate (v. i.) To vegetate anew.,
R as in Reveille (n.) The beat of drum, or bugle blast, about break of day, to give notice that it is time for the soldiers to rise, and for the sentinels to forbear challenging.,
R as in Revel (n.) See Reveal.,
R as in Revel (v. i.) A feast with loose and noisy jollity; riotous festivity or merrymaking; a carousal.,
R as in Reveled (imp. & p. p.) of Revel,
R as in Revelled () of Revel,
R as in Reveling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Revel,
R as in Revelling () of Revel,
R as in Revel (v. i.) To feast in a riotous manner; to carouse; to act the bacchanalian; to make merry.,
R as in Revel (v. i.) To move playfully; to indulge without restraint.,
R as in Revel (v. t.) To draw back; to retract.,
R as in Revelate (v. t.) To reveal.,
R as in Revelation (n.) The act of revealing, disclosing, or discovering to others what was before unknown to them.,
R as in Revelation (n.) That which is revealed.,
R as in Revelation (n.) The act of revealing divine truth.,
R as in Revelation (n.) That which is revealed by God to man; esp., the Bible.,
R as in Revelation (n.) Specifically, the last book of the sacred canon, containing the prophecies of St. John; the Apocalypse.,
R as in Revelator (n.) One who makes a revelation; a revealer.,
R as in Reveler (n.) One who revels.,
R as in Revellent (v. t.) Causing revulsion; revulsive.,
R as in Revellent (n.) A revulsive medicine.,
R as in Revelment (n.) The act of reveling.,
R as in Revelous (a.) Fond of festivity; given to merrymaking or reveling.,
R as in Revel-rout (n.) Tumultuous festivity; revelry.,
R as in Revel-rout (n.) A rabble; a riotous assembly; a mob.,
R as in Revelry (n.) The act of engaging in a revel; noisy festivity; reveling.,
R as in Revendicated (imp. & p. p.) of Revendicate,
R as in Revendicating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Revendicate,
R as in Revendicate (v. t.) To reclaim; to demand the restoration of.,
R as in Revendication (n.) The act of revendicating.,
R as in Revenged (imp. & p. p.) of Revenge,
R as in Revenging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Revenge,
R as in Revenge (v. t.) To inflict harm in return for, as an injury, insult, etc.; to exact satisfaction for, under a sense of injury; to avenge; -- followed either by the wrong received, or by the person or thing wronged, as the object, or by the reciprocal pronoun as direct object, and a preposition before the wrong done or the wrongdoer.,
R as in Revenge (v. t.) To inflict injury for, in a spiteful, wrong, or malignant spirit; to wreak vengeance for maliciously.,
R as in Revenge (v. i.) To take vengeance; -- with,
R as in Revenge (n.) The act of revenging; vengeance; retaliation; a returning of evil for evil.,
R as in Revenge (n.) The disposition to revenge; a malignant wishing of evil to one who has done us an injury.,
R as in Revengeable (a.) Capable of being revenged; as, revengeable wrong.,
R as in Revengeance (n.) Vengeance; revenge.,
R as in Revengeful (a.) Full of, or prone to, revenge; vindictive; malicious; revenging; wreaking revenge.,
R as in Revengeless (a.) Unrevenged.,
R as in Revengement (n.) Revenge.,
R as in Revenger (n.) One who revenges.,
R as in Revenging (a.) Executing revenge; revengeful.,
R as in Revenue (n.) That which returns, or comes back, from an investment; the annual rents, profits, interest, or issues of any species of property, real or personal; income.,
R as in Revenue (n.) Hence, return; reward; as, a revenue of praise.,
R as in Revenue (n.) The annual yield of taxes, excise, customs, duties, rents, etc., which a nation, state, or municipality collects and receives into the treasury for public use.,
R as in Reverb (v. t.) To echo.,
R as in Reverberant (a.) Having the quality of reverberation; reverberating.,
R as in Reverberate (a.) Reverberant.,
R as in Reverberate (a.) Driven back, as sound; reflected.,
R as in Reverberated (imp. & p. p.) of Reverberate,
R as in Reverberating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Reverberate,
R as in Reverberate (v. t.) To return or send back; to repel or drive back; to echo, as sound; to reflect, as light, as light or heat.,
R as in Reverberate (v. t.) To send or force back; to repel from side to side; as, flame is reverberated in a furnace.,
R as in Reverberate (v. t.) Hence, to fuse by reverberated heat.,
R as in Reverberate (v. i.) To resound; to echo.,
R as in Reverberate (v. i.) To be driven back; to be reflected or repelled, as rays of light; to be echoed, as sound.,
R as in Reverberation (n.) The act of reverberating; especially, the act of reflecting light or heat, or reechoing sound; as, the reverberation of rays from a mirror; the reverberation of rays from a mirror; the reverberation of voices; the reverberation of heat or flame in a furnace.,
R as in Reverberative (a.) Of the nature of reverberation; tending to reverberate; reflective.,
R as in Reverberator (n.) One who, or that which, produces reverberation.,
R as in Reverberatory (a.) Producing reverberation; acting by reverberation; reverberative.,
R as in Reverberatory (n.) A reverberatory furnace.,
R as in Reverdure (v. t.) To cover again with verdure.,
R as in Revered (imp. & p. p.) of Revere,
R as in Revering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Revere,
R as in Revere (v. t.) To regard with reverence, or profound respect and affection, mingled with awe or fear; to venerate; to reverence; to honor in estimation.,
R as in Reverence (n.) Profound respect and esteem mingled with fear and affection, as for a holy being or place; the disposition to revere; veneration.,
R as in Reverence (n.) The act of revering; a token of respect or veneration; an obeisance.,
R as in Reverence (n.) That which deserves or exacts manifestations of reverence; reverend character; dignity; state.,
R as in Reverence (n.) A person entitled to be revered; -- a title applied to priests or other ministers with the pronouns his or your; sometimes poetically to a father.,
R as in Reverenced (imp. & p. p.) of Reverence,
R as in Reverencing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Reverence,
R as in Reverence (v. t.) To regard or treat with reverence; to regard with respect and affection mingled with fear; to venerate.,
R as in Reverencer (n.) One who regards with reverence.,
R as in Reverend (a.) Worthy of reverence; entitled to respect mingled with fear and affection; venerable.,
R as in Reverendly (adv.) Reverently.,
R as in Reverent (a.) Disposed to revere; impressed with reverence; submissive; humble; respectful; as, reverent disciples.,
R as in Reverent (a.) Expressing reverence, veneration, devotion, or submission; as, reverent words; reverent behavior.,
R as in Reverential (a.) Proceeding from, or expressing, reverence; having a reverent quality; reverent; as, reverential fear or awe.,
R as in Reverentially (adv.) In a reverential manner.,
R as in Reverently (adv.) In a reverent manner; in respectful regard.,
R as in Reverer (n.) One who reveres.,
R as in Reveries (pl. ) of Revery,
R as in Reverie (n.) Alt. of Revery,
R as in Revery (n.) A loose or irregular train of thought occurring in musing or mediation; deep musing; daydream.,
R as in Revery (n.) An extravagant conceit of the fancy; a vision.,
R as in Reversal (a.) Intended to reverse; implying reversal.,
R as in Reversal (n.) The act of reversing; the causing to move or face in an opposite direction, or to stand or lie in an inverted position; as, the reversal of a rotating wheel; the reversal of objects by a convex lens.,
R as in Reversal (n.) A change or overthrowing; as, the reversal of a judgment, which amounts to an official declaration that it is false; the reversal of an attainder, or of an outlawry, by which the sentence is rendered void.,
R as in Reverse (a.) Turned backward; having a contrary or opposite direction; hence; opposite or contrary in kind; as, the reverse order or method.,
R as in Reverse (a.) Turned upside down; greatly disturbed.,
R as in Reverse (a.) Reversed; as, a reverse shell.,
R as in Reverse (a.) That which appears or is presented when anything, as a lance, a line, a course of conduct, etc., is reverted or turned contrary to its natural direction.,
R as in Reverse (a.) That which is directly opposite or contrary to something else; a contrary; an opposite.,
R as in Reverse (a.) The act of reversing; complete change; reversal; hence, total change in circumstances or character; especially, a change from better to worse; misfortune; a check or defeat; as, the enemy met with a reverse.,
R as in Reverse (a.) The back side; as, the reverse of a drum or trench; the reverse of a medal or coin, that is, the side opposite to the obverse. See Obverse.,
R as in Reverse (a.) A thrust in fencing made with a backward turn of the hand; a backhanded stroke.,
R as in Reverse (a.) A turn or fold made in bandaging, by which the direction of the bandage is changed.,
R as in Reversed (imp. & p. p.) of Reverse,
R as in Reversing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Reverse,
R as in Reverse (a.) To turn back; to cause to face in a contrary direction; to cause to depart.,
R as in Reverse (a.) To cause to return; to recall.,
R as in Reverse (a.) To change totally; to alter to the opposite.,
R as in Reverse (a.) To turn upside down; to invert.,
R as in Reverse (a.) Hence, to overthrow; to subvert.,
R as in Reverse (a.) To overthrow by a contrary decision; to make void; to under or annual for error; as, to reverse a judgment, sentence, or decree.,
R as in Reverse (v. i.) To return; to revert.,
R as in Reverse (v. i.) To become or be reversed.,
R as in Reversed (a.) Turned side for side, or end for end; changed to the contrary; specifically (Bot. & Zool.), sinistrorse or sinistral; as, a reversed, or sinistral, spiral or shell.,
R as in Reversed (a.) Annulled and the contrary substituted; as, a reversed judgment or decree.,
R as in Reversedly (adv.) In a reversed way.,
R as in Reverseless (a.) Irreversible.,
R as in Reversely (adv.) In a reverse manner; on the other hand; on the opposite.,
R as in Reverser (n.) One who reverses.,
R as in Reversibility (n.) The quality of being reversible.,
R as in Reversible (a.) Capable of being reversed; as, a chair or seat having a reversible back; a reversible judgment or sentence.,
R as in Reversible (a.) Hence, having a pattern or finished surface on both sides, so that either may be used; -- said of fabrics.,
R as in Reversibly (adv.) In a reversible manner.,
R as in Reversing (a.) Serving to effect reversal, as of motion; capable of being reversed.,
R as in Reversion (n.) The act of returning, or coming back; return.,
R as in Reversion (n.) That which reverts or returns; residue.,
R as in Reversion (n.) The returning of an esttate to the grantor or his heirs, by operation of law, after the grant has terminated; hence, the residue of an estate left in the proprietor or owner thereof, to take effect in possession, by operation of law, after the termination of a limited or less estate carved out of it and conveyed by him.,
R as in Reversion (n.) Hence, a right to future possession or enjoiment; succession.,
R as in Reversion (n.) A payment which is not to be received, or a benefit which does not begin, until the happening of some event, as the death of a living person.,
R as in Reversion (n.) A return towards some ancestral type or character; atavism.,
R as in Reversionary (a.) Of or pertaining to a reversion; involving a reversion; to be enjoyed in succession, or after the termination of a particular estate; as, a reversionary interest or right.,
R as in Reversionary (n.) That which is to be received in reversion.,
R as in Reversioner (n.) One who has a reversion, or who is entitled to lands or tenements, after a particular estate granted is terminated.,
R as in Reversis (n.) A certain game at cards.,
R as in Reverted (imp. & p. p.) of Revert,
R as in Reverting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Revert,
R as in Revert (v. t.) To turn back, or to the contrary; to reverse.,
R as in Revert (v. t.) To throw back; to reflect; to reverberate.,
R as in Revert (v. t.) To change back. See Revert, v. i.,
R as in Revert (v. i.) To return; to come back.,
R as in Revert (v. i.) To return to the proprietor after the termination of a particular estate granted by him.,
R as in Revert (v. i.) To return, wholly or in part, towards some preexistent form; to take on the traits or characters of an ancestral type.,
R as in Revert (v. i.) To change back, as from a soluble to an insoluble state or the reverse; thus, phosphoric acid in certain fertilizers reverts.,
R as in Revert (n.) One who, or that which, reverts.,
R as in Reverted (a.) Turned back; reversed. Specifically: (Her.) Bent or curved twice, in opposite directions, or in the form of an S.,
R as in Revertent (n.) A remedy which restores the natural order of the inverted irritative motions in the animal system.,
R as in Reverter (n.) One who, or that which, reverts.,
R as in Reverter (n.) Reversion.,
R as in Revertible (a.) Capable of, or admitting of, reverting or being reverted; as, a revertible estate.,
R as in Revertive (a.) Reverting, or tending to revert; returning.,
R as in Revery (n.) Same as Reverie.,
R as in Revest (v. t.) To clothe again; to cover, as with a robe; to robe.,
R as in Revest (v. t.) To vest again with possession or office; as, to revest a magistrate with authority.,
R as in Revest (v. i.) To take effect or vest again, as a title; to revert to former owner; as, the title or right revests in A after alienation.,
R as in Revestiary (n.) The apartment, in a church or temple, where the vestments, etc., are kept; -- now contracted into vestry.,
R as in Revestry (n.) Same as Revestiary.,
R as in Revestture (n.) Vesture.,
R as in Revetted (imp. & p. p.) of Revet,
R as in Revetting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Revet,
R as in Revet (v. t.) To face, as an embankment, with masonry, wood, or other material.,
R as in Revetment (v. t.) A facing of wood, stone, or any other material, to sustain an embankment when it receives a slope steeper than the natural slope; also, a retaining wall.,
R as in Revibrate (v. i.) To vibrate back or in return.,
R as in Revict (v. t.) To reconquer.,
R as in Reviction (n.) Return to life.,
R as in Revictual (v. t.) To victual again.,
R as in Revie (v. t.) To vie with, or rival, in return.,
R as in Revie (v. t.) To meet a wager on, as on the taking of a trick, with a higher wager.,
R as in Revie (v. i.) To exceed an adversary's wager in card playing.,
R as in Revie (v. i.) To make a retort; to bandy words.,
R as in Review/d (imp. & p. p.) of Review,
R as in Reveiwing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Review,
R as in Review (n.) To view or see again; to look back on.,
R as in Review (n.) To go over and examine critically or deliberately.,
R as in Review (n.) To reconsider; to revise, as a manuscript before printing it, or a book for a new edition.,
R as in Review (n.) To go over with critical examination, in order to discover exellences or defects; hence, to write a critical notice of; as, to review a new novel.,
R as in Review (n.) To make a formal or official examination of the state of, as troops, and the like; as, to review a regiment.,
R as in Review (n.) To reexamine judically; as, a higher court may review the proceedings and judgments of a lower one.,
R as in Review (n.) To retrace; to go over again.,
R as in Review (v. i.) To look back; to make a review.,
R as in Review (n.) A second or repeated view; a reexamination; a retrospective survey; a looking over again; as, a review of one's studies; a review of life.,
R as in Review (n.) An examination with a view to amendment or improvement; revision; as, an author's review of his works.,
R as in Review (n.) A critical examination of a publication, with remarks; a criticism; a critique.,
R as in Review (n.) A periodical containing critical essays upon matters of interest, as new productions in literature, art, etc.,
R as in Review (n.) An inspection, as of troops under arms or of a naval force, by a high officer, for the purpose of ascertaining the state of discipline, equipments, etc.,
R as in Review (n.) The judicial examination of the proceedings of a lower court by a higher.,
R as in Review (n.) A lesson studied or recited for a second time.,
R as in Reviewable (a.) Capable of being reviewed.,
R as in Reviewal (n.) A review.,
R as in Reviewer (n.) One who reviews or reexamines; an inspector; one who examines publications critically, and publishes his opinion upon their merits; a professional critic of books.,
R as in Revigorate (a.) Having new vigor or strength; invigorated anew.,
R as in Revigorate (v. t.) To give new vigor to.,
R as in Reviled (imp. & p. p.) of Revile,
R as in Reviling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Revile,
R as in Revile (v. t. & i.) To address or abuse with opprobrious and contemptuous language; to reproach.,
R as in Revile (n.) Reproach; reviling.,
R as in Revilement (n.) The act of reviling; also, contemptuous language; reproach; abuse.,
R as in Reviler (n.) One who reviles.,
R as in Reviling (n.) Reproach; abuse; vilification.,
R as in Reviling (a.) Uttering reproaches; containing reproaches.,
R as in Revince (v. t.) To overcome; to refute, as error.,
R as in Revindicate (v. t.) To vindicate again; to reclaim; to demand and take back.,
R as in Revirescence (n.) A growing green or fresh again; renewal of youth or vigor.,
R as in Revisable (a.) That may be revised.,
R as in Revisal (n.) The act of revising, or reviewing and reexamining for correction and improvement; revision; as, the revisal of a manuscript; the revisal of a proof sheet; the revisal of a treaty.,
R as in Revised (imp. & p. p.) of Revise,
R as in Revising (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Revise,
R as in Revise (v. t.) To look at again for the detection of errors; to reexamine; to review; to look over with care for correction; as, to revise a writing; to revise a translation.,
R as in Revise (v. t.) To compare (a proof) with a previous proof of the same matter, and mark again such errors as have not been corrected in the type.,
R as in Revise (v. t.) To review, alter, and amend; as, to revise statutes; to revise an agreement; to revise a dictionary.,
R as in Revise (n.) A review; a revision.,
R as in Revise (n.) A second proof sheet; a proof sheet taken after the first or a subsequent correction.,
R as in Reviser (n.) One who revises.,
R as in Revision (n.) The act of revising; reexamination for correction; review; as, the revision of a book or writing, or of a proof sheet; a revision of statutes.,
R as in Revision (n.) That which is made by revising.,
R as in Revisional (a.) Alt. of Revisionary,
R as in Revisionary (a.) Of or pertaining to revision; revisory.,
R as in Revisit (v. t.) To visit again.,
R as in Revisit (v. t.) To revise.,
R as in Revisitation (n.) The act of revisiting.,
R as in Revisory (a.) Having the power or purpose to revise; revising.,
R as in Revitalize (v. t.) To restore vitality to; to bring back to life.,
R as in Revivable (a.) That may be revived.,
R as in Revival (n.) The act of reviving, or the state of being revived.,
R as in Revival (n.) Renewed attention to something, as to letters or literature.,
R as in Revival (n.) Renewed performance of, or interest in, something, as the drama and literature.,
R as in Revival (n.) Renewed interest in religion, after indifference and decline; a period of religious awakening; special religious interest.,
R as in Revival (n.) Reanimation from a state of langour or depression; -- applied to the health, spirits, and the like.,
R as in Revival (n.) Renewed pursuit, or cultivation, or flourishing state of something, as of commerce, arts, agriculture.,
R as in Revival (n.) Renewed prevalence of something, as a practice or a fashion.,
R as in Revival (n.) Restoration of force, validity, or effect; renewal; as, the revival of a debt barred by limitation; the revival of a revoked will, etc.,
R as in Revival (n.) Revivification, as of a metal. See Revivification, 2.,
R as in Revivalism (n.) The spirit of religious revivals; the methods of revivalists.,
R as in Revivalist (n.) A clergyman or layman who promotes revivals of religion; an advocate for religious revivals; sometimes, specifically, a clergyman, without a particular charge, who goes about to promote revivals. Also used adjectively.,
R as in Revivalistic (a.) Pertaining to revivals.,
R as in Revived (imp. & p. p.) of Revive,
R as in Reviving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Revive,
R as in Revive (v. i.) To return to life; to recover life or strength; to live anew; to become reanimated or reinvigorated.,
R as in Revive (v. i.) Hence, to recover from a state of oblivion, obscurity, neglect, or depression; as, classical learning revived in the fifteenth century.,
R as in Revive (v. i.) To recover its natural or metallic state, as a metal.,
R as in Revive (v. i.) To restore, or bring again to life; to reanimate.,
R as in Revive (v. i.) To raise from coma, languor, depression, or discouragement; to bring into action after a suspension.,
R as in Revive (v. i.) Hence, to recover from a state of neglect or disuse; as, to revive letters or learning.,
R as in Revive (v. i.) To renew in the mind or memory; to bring to recollection; to recall attention to; to reawaken.,
R as in Revive (v. i.) To restore or reduce to its natural or metallic state; as, to revive a metal after calcination.,
R as in Revivement (n.) Revival.,
R as in Reviver (n.) One who, or that which, revives.,
R as in Revivificate (v. t.) To revive; to recall or restore to life.,
R as in Revivification (n.) Renewal of life; restoration of life; the act of recalling, or the state of being recalled, to life.,
R as in Revivification (n.) The reduction of a metal from a state of combination to its metallic state.,
R as in Revivify (v. t.) To cause to revive.,
R as in Reviving (a. & n.) Returning or restoring to life or vigor; reanimating.,
R as in Reviviscence (n.) Alt. of Reviviscency,
R as in Reviviscency (n.) The act of reviving, or the state of being revived; renewal of life.,
R as in Reviviscent (a.) Able or disposed to revive; reviving.,
R as in Revivor (n.) Revival of a suit which is abated by the death or marriage of any of the parties, -- done by a bill of revivor.,
R as in Revocability (n.) The quality of being revocable; as, the revocability of a law.,
R as in Revocable (a.) Capable of being revoked; as, a revocable edict or grant; a revocable covenant.,
R as in Revocate (v. t.) To recall; to call back.,
R as in Revocation (n.) The act of calling back, or the state of being recalled; recall.,
R as in Revocation (n.) The act by which one, having the right, annuls an act done, a power or authority given, or a license, gift, or benefit conferred; repeal; reversal; as, the revocation of an edict, a power, a will, or a license.,
R as in Revocatory (a.) Of or pertaining to revocation; tending to, or involving, a revocation; revoking; recalling.,
R as in Revoice (v. t.) To refurnish with a voice; to refit, as an organ pipe, so as to restore its tone.,
R as in Revoked (imp. & p. p.) of Revoke,
R as in Revoking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Revoke,
R as in Revoke (v. t.) To call or bring back; to recall.,
R as in Revoke (v. t.) Hence, to annul, by recalling or taking back; to repeal; to rescind; to cancel; to reverse, as anything granted by a special act; as, , to revoke a will, a license, a grant, a permission, a law, or the like.,
R as in Revoke (v. t.) To hold back; to repress; to restrain.,
R as in Revoke (v. t.) To draw back; to withdraw.,
R as in Revoke (v. t.) To call back to mind; to recollect.,
R as in Revoke (v. i.) To fail to follow suit when holding a card of the suit led, in violation of the rule of the game; to renege.,
R as in Revoke (n.) The act of revoking.,
R as in Revokement (n.) Revocation.,
R as in Revoker (n.) One who revokes.,
R as in Revokingly (adv.) By way of revocation.,
R as in Revolted (imp. & p. p.) of Revolt,
R as in Revolting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Revolt,
R as in Revolt (n.) To turn away; to abandon or reject something; specifically, to turn away, or shrink, with abhorrence.,
R as in Revolt (n.) Hence, to be faithless; to desert one party or leader for another; especially, to renounce allegiance or subjection; to rise against a government; to rebel.,
R as in Revolt (n.) To be disgusted, shocked, or grossly offended; hence, to feel nausea; -- with at; as, the stomach revolts at such food; his nature revolts at cruelty.,
R as in Revolt (v. t.) To cause to turn back; to roll or drive back; to put to flight.,
R as in Revolt (v. t.) To do violence to; to cause to turn away or shrink with abhorrence; to shock; as, to revolt the feelings.,
R as in Revolt (n.) The act of revolting; an uprising against legitimate authority; especially, a renunciation of allegiance and subjection to a government; rebellion; as, the revolt of a province of the Roman empire.,
R as in Revolt (n.) A revolter.,
R as in Revolter (n.) One who revolts.,
R as in Revolting (a.) Causing abhorrence mixed with disgust; exciting extreme repugnance; loathsome; as, revolting cruelty.,
R as in Revoluble (a.) Capable of revolving; rotatory; revolving.,
R as in Revolute (a.) Rolled backward or downward.,
R as in Revolution (n.) The act of revolving, or turning round on an axis or a center; the motion of a body round a fixed point or line; rotation; as, the revolution of a wheel, of a top, of the earth on its axis, etc.,
R as in Revolution (n.) Return to a point before occupied, or to a point relatively the same; a rolling back; return; as, revolution in an ellipse or spiral.,
R as in Revolution (n.) The space measured by the regular return of a revolving body; the period made by the regular recurrence of a measure of time, or by a succession of similar events.,
R as in Revolution (n.) The motion of any body, as a planet or satellite, in a curved line or orbit, until it returns to the same point again, or to a point relatively the same; -- designated as the annual, anomalistic, nodical, sidereal, or tropical revolution, according as the point of return or completion has a fixed relation to the year, the anomaly, the nodes, the stars, or the tropics; as, the revolution of the earth about the sun; the revolution of the moon about the earth.,
R as in Revolution (n.) The motion of a point, line, or surface about a point or line as its center or axis, in such a manner that a moving point generates a curve, a moving line a surface (called a surface of revolution), and a moving surface a solid (called a solid of revolution); as, the revolution of a right-angled triangle about one of its sides generates a cone; the revolution of a semicircle about the diameter generates a sphere.,
R as in Revolution (n.) A total or radical change; as, a revolution in one's circumstances or way of living.,
R as in Revolution (n.) A fundamental change in political organization, or in a government or constitution; the overthrow or renunciation of one government, and the substitution of another, by the governed.,
R as in Revolutionary (a.) Of or pertaining to a revolution in government; tending to, or promoting, revolution; as, revolutionary war; revolutionary measures; revolutionary agitators.,
R as in Revolutionary (n.) A revolutionist.,
R as in Revolutioner (n.) One who is engaged in effecting a revolution; a revolutionist.,
R as in Revolutionism (n.) The state of being in revolution; revolutionary doctrines or principles.,
R as in Revolutionist (n.) One engaged in effecting a change of government; a favorer of revolution.,
R as in Revolutioniezed (imp. & p. p.) of Revolutionize,
R as in Revolutionizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Revolutionize,
R as in Revolutionize (v. t.) To change completely, as by a revolution; as, to revolutionize a government.,
R as in Revolutive (a.) Inclined to revolve things in the mind; meditative.,
R as in Revolvable (a.) That may be revolved.,
R as in Revolved (imp. & p. p.) of Revolve,
R as in Revolving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Revolve,
R as in Revolve (v. i.) To turn or roll round on, or as on, an axis, like a wheel; to rotate, -- which is the more specific word in this sense.,
R as in Revolve (v. i.) To move in a curved path round a center; as, the planets revolve round the sun.,
R as in Revolve (v. i.) To pass in cycles; as, the centuries revolve.,
R as in Revolve (v. i.) To return; to pass.,
R as in Revolve (v. t.) To cause to turn, as on an axis.,
R as in Revolve (v. t.) Hence, to turn over and over in the mind; to reflect repeatedly upon; to consider all aspects of.,
R as in Revolvement (n.) Act of revolving.,
R as in Revolvency (n.) The act or state of revolving; revolution.,
R as in Revolver (n.) One who, or that which, revolves; specifically, a firearm ( commonly a pistol) with several chambers or barrels so arranged as to revolve on an axis, and be discharged in succession by the same lock; a repeater.,
R as in Revolving (a.) Making a revolution or revolutions; rotating; -- used also figuratively of time, seasons, etc., depending on the revolution of the earth.,
R as in Revulse (v. t.) To pull back with force.,
R as in Revulsion (n.) A strong pulling or drawing back; withdrawal.,
R as in Revulsion (n.) A sudden reaction; a sudden and complete change; -- applied to the feelings.,
R as in Revulsion (n.) The act of turning or diverting any disease from one part of the body to another. It resembles derivation, but is usually applied to a more active form of counter irritation.,
R as in Revulsive (a.) Causing, or tending to, revulsion.,
R as in Revulsive (n.) That which causes revulsion; specifically (Med.), a revulsive remedy or agent.,
R as in Rew (n.) A row.,
R as in Rewake (v. t. & i.) To wake again.,
R as in Rewarded (imp. & p. p.) of Reward,
R as in Rewarding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Reward,
R as in Reward (v. t.) To give in return, whether good or evil; -- commonly in a good sense; to requite; to recompense; to repay; to compensate.,
R as in Reward (n.) Regard; respect; consideration.,
R as in Reward (n.) That which is given in return for good or evil done or received; esp., that which is offered or given in return for some service or attainment, as for excellence in studies, for the return of something lost, etc.; recompense; requital.,
R as in Reward (n.) Hence, the fruit of one's labor or works.,
R as in Reward (n.) Compensation or remuneration for services; a sum of money paid or taken for doing, or forbearing to do, some act.,
R as in Rewardable (a.) Worthy of reward.,
R as in Rewarder (n.) One who rewards.,
R as in Rewardful (a.) Yielding reward.,
R as in Rewardless (a.) Having, or affording, no reward.,
R as in Rewe (v. t. & i.) To rue.,
R as in Rewel bone () An obsolete phrase of disputed meaning, -- perhaps, smooth or polished bone.,
R as in Rewet (n.) A gunlock.,
R as in Rewful (a.) Rueful.,
R as in Rewin (v. t.) To win again, or win back.,
R as in Rewle (n. & v.) Rule.,
R as in Rewme (n.) Realm.,
R as in Reword (v. t.) To repeat in the same words; to reecho.,
R as in Reword (v. t.) To alter the wording of; to restate in other words; as, to reword an idea or a passage.,
R as in Rewrite (v. t.) To write again.,
R as in Rewth (n.) Ruth.,
R as in Reges (pl. ) of Rex,
R as in Rex (n.) A king.,
R as in Reyn (n.) Rain or rein.,
R as in Reynard (n.) An appelation applied after the manner of a proper name to the fox. Same as Renard.,
R as in Reyse (v. t.) To raise.,
R as in Reyse (v. i.) To go on a military expedition.,
R as in Rhabarbarate (a.) Impregnated or tinctured with rhubarb.,
R as in Rhabarbarin (n.) Alt. of Rhabarbarine,
R as in Rhabarbarine (n.) Chrysophanic acid.,
R as in Rhabdite (n.) A minute smooth rodlike or fusiform structure found in the tissues of many Turbellaria.,
R as in Rhabdite (n.) One of the hard parts forming the ovipositor of insects.,
R as in Rhabdocoela (n. pl.) A suborder of Turbellaria including those that have a simple cylindrical, or saclike, stomach, without an intestine.,
R as in Rhabdocoelous (a.) Of or pertaining to the Rhabdocoela.,
R as in Rhabdoidal (a.) See Sagittal.,
R as in Rhabdolith (n.) A minute calcareous rodlike structure found both at the surface and the bottom of the ocean; -- supposed by some to be a calcareous alga.,
R as in Rhabdology (n.) Same as Rabdology.,
R as in Rhabdom (n.) One of numerous minute rodlike structures formed of two or more cells situated behind the retinulae in the compound eyes of insects, etc. See Illust. under Ommatidium.,
R as in Rhabdomancy (n.) Same as Rabdomancy.,
R as in Rhabdomere (n.) One of the several parts composing a rhabdom.,
R as in Rhabdophora (n. pl.) An extinct division of Hydrozoa which includes the graptolities.,
R as in Rhabdopleura (n.) A genus of marine Bryozoa in which the tubular cells have a centralchitinous axis and the tentacles are borne on a bilobed lophophore. It is the type of the order Pterobranchia, or Podostomata,
R as in Rhabdosphere (n.) A minute sphere composed of rhabdoliths.,
R as in Rhachialgia (n.) See Rachialgia.,
R as in Rhachidian (a.) Of or pertaining to the rhachis; as, the rhachidian teeth of a mollusk.,
R as in Rhachiglossa (n. pl.) A division of marine gastropods having a retractile proboscis and three longitudinal rows of teeth on the radula. It includes many of the large ornamental shells, as the miters, murices, olives, purpuras, volutes, and whelks. See Illust. in Append.,
R as in Rhachilla (n.) A branch of inflorescence; the zigzag axis on which the florets are arranged in the spikelets of grasses.,
R as in Rhachiodont (a.) Having gular teeth formed by a peculiar modification of the inferior spines of some of the vertebrae, as certain South African snakes (Dasypeltis) which swallow birds' eggs and use these gular teeth to crush them.,
R as in Rhachises (pl. ) of Rhachis,
R as in Rhachides (pl. ) of Rhachis,
R as in Rhachis (n.) The spine.,
R as in Rhachis (n.) The continued stem or midrib of a pinnately compound leaf, as in a rose leaf or a fern.,
R as in Rhachis (n.) The principal axis in a raceme, spike, panicle, or corymb.,
R as in Rhachis (n.) The shaft of a feather. The rhachis of the after-shaft, or plumule, is called the hyporhachis.,
R as in Rhachis (n.) The central cord in the stem of a crinoid.,
R as in Rhachis (n.) The median part of the radula of a mollusk.,
R as in Rhachis (n.) A central cord of the ovary of nematodes.,
R as in Rhachitis (n.) See Rachitis.,
R as in Rhadamanthine (a.) Of or pertaining to Rhadamanthus; rigorously just; as, a Rhadamanthine judgment.,
R as in Rhadamanthus (n.) One of the three judges of the infernal regions; figuratively, a strictly just judge.,
R as in Rh/tian (a & n.) Rhetain.,
R as in Rh/tic (a.) Pertaining to, or of the same horizon as, certain Mesozoic strata of the Rhetian Alps. These strata are regarded as closing the Triassic period. See the Chart of Geology.,
R as in Rh/tizite (n.) A variety of the mineral cyanite.,
R as in Rhamadan (n.) See Ramadan.,
R as in Rhamnaceous (a.) Of or pertaining to a natural order of shrubs and trees (Rhamnaceae, or Rhamneae) of which the buckthorn (Rhamnus) is the type. It includes also the New Jersey tea, the supple-jack, and one of the plants called lotus (Zizyphus).,
R as in Rhamnus (n.) A genus of shrubs and small trees; buckthorn. The California Rhamnus Purshianus and the European R. catharticus are used in medicine. The latter is used for hedges.,
R as in Rhamphorhynchus (n.) A genus of pterodactyls in which the elongated tail supported a leathery expansion at the tip.,
R as in Rhamphothecae (pl. ) of Rhamphotheca,
R as in Rhamphotheca (n.) The horny covering of the bill of birds.,
R as in Rhaphe (n.) The continuation of the seed stalk along the side of an anatropous ovule or seed, forming a ridge or seam.,
R as in Rhaphides (n. pl.) Minute transparent, often needle-shaped, crystals found in the tissues of plants.,
R as in Rhaponticine (n.) Chrysophanic acid.,
R as in Rhapsode (n.) A rhapsodist.,
R as in Rhapsoder (n.) A rhapsodist.,
R as in Rhapsodic (a.) Alt. of Rhapsodic,
R as in Rhapsodic (a.) Of or pertaining to rhapsody; consisting of rhapsody; hence, confused; unconnected.,
R as in Rhapsodist (n.) Anciently, one who recited or composed a rhapsody; especially, one whose profession was to recite the verses of Hormer and other epic poets.,
R as in Rhapsodist (n.) Hence, one who recites or sings poems for a livelihood; one who makes and repeats verses extempore.,
R as in Rhapsodist (n.) One who writes or speaks disconnectedly and with great excitement or affectation of feeling.,
R as in Rhapsodized (imp. & p. p.) of Rhapsodize,
R as in Rhapsodizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rhapsodize,
R as in Rhapsodize (v. t.) To utter as a rhapsody, or in the manner of a rhapsody,
R as in Rhapsodize (v. i.) To utter rhapsodies.,
R as in Rhapsodomancy (n.) Divination by means of verses.,
R as in Rhapsodies (pl. ) of Rhapsody,
R as in Rhapsody (n.) A recitation or song of a rhapsodist; a portion of an epic poem adapted for recitation, or usually recited, at one time; hence, a division of the Iliad or the Odyssey; -- called also a book.,
R as in Rhapsody (n.) A disconnected series of sentences or statements composed under excitement, and without dependence or natural connection; rambling composition.,
R as in Rhapsody (n.) A composition irregular in form, like an improvisation; as, Liszt's "Hungarian Rhapsodies.",
R as in Rhatany (n.) Alt. of Rhatanhy,
R as in Rhatanhy (n.) The powerfully astringent root of a half-shrubby Peruvian plant (Krameria triandra). It is used in medicine and to color port wine.,
R as in Rhea (n.) The ramie or grass-cloth plant. See Grass-cloth plant, under Grass.,
R as in Rhea (n.) Any one of three species of large South American ostrichlike birds of the genera Rhea and Pterocnemia. Called also the American ostrich.,
R as in Rheae (n. pl.) A suborder of struthious birds including the rheas.,
R as in Rheeboc (n.) The peele.,
R as in Rheic (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, an acid (commonly called chrysophanic acid) found in rhubarb (Rheum).,
R as in Rhein (n.) Chrysophanic acid.,
R as in Rheinberry (n.) One of the berries or drupes of the European buckthorn; also, the buckthorn itself.,
R as in Rhematic (a.) Having a verb for its base; derived from a verb; as, rhematic adjectives.,
R as in Rhematic (n.) The doctrine of propositions or sentences.,
R as in Rhemish (a.) Of or pertaining to Rheimis, or Reima, in France.,
R as in Rhenish (a.) Of or pertaining to the river Rhine; as, Rhenish wine.,
R as in Rhenish (n.) Rhine wine.,
R as in Rheochord (n.) A metallic wire used for regulating the resistance of a circuit, or varying the strength of an electric current, by inserting a greater or less length of it in the circuit.,
R as in Rheometer (n.) An instrument for measuring currents, especially the force or intensity of electrical currents; a galvanometer.,
R as in Rheometer (n.) An instrument for measuring the velocity of the blood current in the arteries.,
R as in Rheometric (a.) Of or pertaining to a rheometer or rheometry.,
R as in Rheometry (n.) The measurement of the force or intensity of currents.,
R as in Rheometry (n.) The calculus; fluxions.,
R as in Rheomotor (n.) Any apparatus by which an electrical current is originated.,
R as in Rheophore (n.) A connecting wire of an electric or voltaic apparatus, traversed by a current.,
R as in Rheophore (n.) One of the poles of a voltaic battery; an electrode.,
R as in Rheoscope (n.) An instrument for detecting the presence or movement of currents, as of electricity.,
R as in Rheostat (n.) A contrivance for adjusting or regulating the strength of electrical currents, operating usually by the intercalation of resistance which can be varied at will.,
R as in Rheotome (n.) An instrument which periodically or otherwise interrupts an electric current.,
R as in Rheotrope (n.) An instrument for reversing the direction of an electric current.,
R as in Rhesus (n.) A monkey; the bhunder.,
R as in Rhetian (a.) Pertaining to the ancient Rhaeti, or Rhaetians, or to Rhaetia, their country; as, the Rhetian Alps, now the country of Tyrol and the Grisons.,
R as in Rhetic (a.) Same as Rhaetic.,
R as in Rhetizite (n.) Same as Rhaetizite.,
R as in Rhetor (n.) A rhetorician.,
R as in Rhetoric (n.) The art of composition; especially, elegant composition in prose.,
R as in Rhetoric (n.) Oratory; the art of speaking with propriety, elegance, and force.,
R as in Rhetoric (n.) Hence, artificial eloquence; fine language or declamation without conviction or earnest feeling.,
R as in Rhetoric (n.) Fig. : The power of persuasion or attraction; that which allures or charms.,
R as in Rhetorical (a.) Of or pertaining to rhetoric; according to, or exhibiting, rhetoric; oratorical; as, the rhetorical art; a rhetorical treatise; a rhetorical flourish.,
R as in Rhetoricate (v. i.) To play the orator.,
R as in Rhetorication (n.) Rhetorical amplification.,
R as in Rhetorician (n.) One well versed in the rules and principles of rhetoric.,
R as in Rhetorician (n.) A teacher of rhetoric.,
R as in Rhetorician (n.) An orator; specifically, an artificial orator without genuine eloquence; a declaimer.,
R as in Rhetorician (a.) Suitable to a master of rhetoric.,
R as in Rhetorized (imp. & p. p.) of Rhetorize,
R as in Rhetorizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rhetorize,
R as in Rhetorize (v. i.) To play the orator.,
R as in Rhetorize (v. t.) To represent by a figure of rhetoric, or by personification.,
R as in Rheum (n.) A genus of plants. See Rhubarb.,
R as in Rheum (n.) A serous or mucous discharge, especially one from the eves or nose.,
R as in Rheumatic (a.) Derived from, or having the character of, rheum; rheumic.,
R as in Rheumatic (a.) Of or pertaining to rheumatism; as, rheumatic pains or affections; affected with rheumatism; as, a rheumatic old man; causing rheumatism; as, a rheumatic day.,
R as in Rheumatic (n.) One affected with rheumatism.,
R as in Rheumatism (n.) A general disease characterized by painful, often multiple, local inflammations, usually affecting the joints and muscles, but also extending sometimes to the deeper organs, as the heart.,
R as in Rheumatismal (a.) Of or pertaining to rheumatism.,
R as in Rheumatismoid (a.) Of or resembling rheum or rheumatism.,
R as in Rheumic (a.) Pertaining to, or characterized by, rheum.,
R as in Rheumides (n. pl.) The class of skin disease developed by the dartrous diathesis. See under Dartrous.,
R as in Rheumy (a.) Of or pertaining to rheum; abounding in, or causing, rheum; affected with rheum.,
R as in Rhigolene (n.) A mixture of volatile hydrocarbons intermediate between gsolene and cymogene. It is obtained in the purification of crude petroleum, and is used as a refregerant.,
R as in Rhime (n.) See Rhyme.,
R as in Rhinal (a.) Og or pertaining to the nose or olfactory organs.,
R as in Rhinaster (n.) The borele.,
R as in Rhine (n.) A water course; a ditch.,
R as in Rhinencephalic (a.) Of or pertaining to the rhinencephalon.,
R as in Rhinencephala (pl. ) of Rhinencephalon,
R as in Rhinencephalon (n.) The division of the brain in front of the prosencephalon, consisting of the two olfactory lobes from which the olfactory nerves arise.,
R as in Rhinestone (n.) A colorless stone of high luster, made of paste. It is much used as an inexpensive ornament.,
R as in Rhinitis (n.) Infllammation of the nose; esp., inflammation of the mucous membrane of the nostrils.,
R as in Rhino (n.) Gold and silver, or money.,
R as in Rhino- () A combining form from Greek //, ///, the nose, as in rhinolith, rhinology.,
R as in Rhinocerial (a.) Alt. of Rhinocerical,
R as in Rhinocerical (a.) Of or pertaining to the rhinoceros; resembling the rhinoceros, or his horn.,
R as in Rhinoceros (n.) Any pachyderm belonging to the genera Rhinoceros, Atelodus, and several allied genera of the family Rhinocerotidae, of which several living, and many extinct, species are known. They are large and powerful, and usually have either one or two stout conical median horns on the snout.,
R as in Rhinocerote (n.) A rhinoceros.,
R as in Rhinocerotic (a.) Of or pertaining to the rhinoceros.,
R as in Rhinolite (n.) Alt. of Rhinolith,
R as in Rhinolith (n.) A concretion formed within the cavities of the nose.,
R as in Rhinological (a.) Of or pertaining to rhinology.,
R as in Rhinologist (n.) One skilled in rhinology.,
R as in Rhinology (n.) The science which treats of the nose, and its diseases.,
R as in Rhinolophid (n.) Any species of the genus Rhinilophus, or family Rhinolophidae, having a horseshoe-shaped nasal crest; a horseshoe bat.,
R as in Rhinolophine (a.) Like or pertaining to the rhinolophids, or horseshoe bats.,
R as in Rhinophore (n.) One of the two tentacle-like organs on the back of the head or neck of a nudibranch or tectibranch mollusk. They are usually retractile, and often transversely furrowed or plicate, and are regarded as olfactory organs. Called also dorsal tentacles. See Illust. under Pygobranchia, and Opisthobranchia.,
R as in Rhinoplastic (a.) Of or pertaining to rhinoplasty; as, a rhinoplastic operation.,
R as in Rhinoplasty (n.) Plastic surgery of the nose to correct deformity or to replace lost tissue. Tissue may be transplanted from the patient's cheek, forehead, arm, etc., or even from another person.,
R as in Rhinopome (n.) Any old-world bat of the genus Rhinopoma. The rhinopomes have a long tail extending beyond the web, and inhabit caves and tombs.,
R as in Rhinoscleroma (n.) A rare disease of the skin, characterized by the development of very hard, more or less flattened, prominences, appearing first upon the nose and subsequently upon the neighboring parts, esp. the lips, palate, and throat.,
R as in Rhinoscope (n.) A small mirror for use in rhinoscopy.,
R as in Rhinoscopic (a.) Of or pertaining to rhinoscopy.,
R as in Rhinoscopy (n.) The examination or study of the soft palate, posterior nares, etc., by means of a laryngoscopic mirror introduced into the pharynx.,
R as in Rhinothecae (pl. ) of Rhinotheca,
R as in Rhinotheca (n.) The sheath of the upper mandible of a bird.,
R as in Rhipidoglossa (n. pl.) A division of gastropod mollusks having a large number of long, divergent, hooklike, lingual teeth in each transverse row. It includes the scutibranchs. See Illustration in Appendix.,
R as in Rhipipter (n.) One of the Rhipiptera, a group of insects having wings which fold like a fan; a strepsipter.,
R as in Rhipipteran (n.) Same as Rhipipter.,
R as in Rhizanthous (a.) Producing flowers from a rootstock, or apparently from a root.,
R as in Rhizine (n.) A rootlike filament or hair growing from the stems of mosses or on lichens; a rhizoid.,
R as in Rhizocarpous (a.) Having perennial rootstocks or bulbs, but annual flowering stems; -- said of all perennial herbs.,
R as in Rhizocephala (n. pl.) A division of Pectostraca including saclike parasites of Crustacea. They adhere by rootlike extensions of the head. See Illusration in Appendix.,
R as in Rhizodont (n.) A reptile whose teeth are rooted in sockets, as the crocodile.,
R as in Rhizogan (a.) Prodicing roots.,
R as in Rhizogen (n.) One of a proposed class of flowering plants growning on the roots of other plants and destitute of green foliage.,
R as in Rhizoid (n.) A rootlike appendage.,
R as in Rhizomata (pl. ) of Rhizoma,
R as in Rhizoma (n.) SAme as Rhizome.,
R as in Rhizomatous (a.) Having the nature or habit of a rhizome or rootstock.,
R as in Rhizome (n.) A rootstock. See Rootstock.,
R as in Rhizophaga (n. pl.) A division of marsupials. The wombat is the type.,
R as in Rhizophagous (a.) Feeding on roots; root-eating.,
R as in Rhizophora (n.) A genus of trees including the mangrove. See Mangrove.,
R as in Rhizophorous (a.) Bearing roots.,
R as in Rhizopod (n.) One of the Rhizopoda.,
R as in Rhizopoda (n. pl.) An extensive class of Protozoa, including those which have pseudopodia, by means of which they move about and take their food. The principal groups are Lobosa (or Am/bea), Helizoa, Radiolaria, and Foraminifera (or Reticularia). See Protozoa.,
R as in Rhizopodous (a.) Of or pertaining to the rhizopods.,
R as in Rhizostomata (n. pl.) A suborder of Medusae which includes very large species without marginal tentacles, but having large mouth lobes closely united at the edges. See Illust. in Appendix.,
R as in Rhizostome (n.) One of the Rhizostomata.,
R as in Rhizotaxis (n.) The arrangement of the roots of plants.,
R as in Rhob (n.) See 1st Rob.,
R as in Rhodammonium (a.) Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, rhodium and ammonia; -- said of certain complex compounds.,
R as in Rhodanate (n.) A salt of rhodanic acid; a sulphocyanate.,
R as in Rhodanic (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, an acid (commonly called sulphocyanic acid) which frms a red color with ferric salts.,
R as in Rhodeoretin (n.) Same as Convolvuln.,
R as in Rhodian (a.) Of or pertaining to Rhodes, an island of the Mediterranean.,
R as in Rhodian (n.) A native or inhabitant of Rhodes.,
R as in Rhodic (a.) Of or pertaining to rhodium; containing rhodium.,
R as in Rhodium (n.) A rare element of the light platinum group. It is found in platinum ores, and obtained free as a white inert metal which it is very difficult to fuse. Symbol Rh. Atomic weight 104.1. Specific gravity 12.,
R as in Rhodizonic (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, a colorless crystalline substance (called rhodizonic acid, and carboxylic acid) obtained from potassium carboxide and from certain quinones. It forms brilliant red, yellow, and purple salts.,
R as in Rhodochrosite (n.) Manganese carbonate, a rose-red mineral sometimes occuring crystallized, but generally massive with rhombohedral cleavage like calcite; -- called also dialogite.,
R as in Rhodocrinite (n.) A rose encrinite.,
R as in Rhododendron (n.) A genus of shrubs or small trees, often having handsome evergreen leaves, and remarkable for the beauty of their flowers; rosebay.,
R as in Rhodomontade (n.) See Rodomontade.,
R as in Rhodomontader (n.) See Rodomontador.,
R as in Rhodonite (n.) Manganese spar, or silicate of manganese, a mineral occuring crystallised and in rose-red masses. It is often used as an ornamental stone.,
R as in Rhodophane (n.) The red pigment contained in the inner segments of the cones of the retina in animals. See Chromophane.,
R as in Rhodopsin (n.) The visual purple. See under Visual.,
R as in Rhodosperm (n.) Any seaweed with red spores.,
R as in Rhomb (n.) An equilateral parallelogram, or quadrilateral figure whose sides are equal and the opposite sides parallel. The angles may be unequal, two being obtuse and two acute, as in the cut, or the angles may be equal, in which case it is usually called a square.,
R as in Rhomb (n.) A rhombohedron.,
R as in Rhombic (a.) Shaped like a rhomb.,
R as in Rhombic (a.) Same as Orthorhombic.,
R as in Rhomboganoid (n.) A ganoid fish having rhombic enameled scales; one of the Rhomboganoidei.,
R as in Rhomboganoidei (n. pl.) Same as Ginglymodi.,
R as in Rhombogene (n.) A dicyemid which produces infusorialike embryos; -- opposed to nematogene. See Dicyemata.,
R as in Rhombohedral (a.) Related to the rhombohedron; presenting the form of a rhombohedron, or a form derivable from a rhombohedron; relating to a system of forms including the rhombohedron and scalenohedron.,
R as in Rhombohedric (a.) Rhombohedral.,
R as in Rhombohedron (n.) A solid contained by six rhomboids; a parallelopiped.,
R as in Rhomboid (n.) An oblique-angled parallelogram like a rhomb, but having only the opposite sides equal, the length and with being different.,
R as in Rhomboid (a.) Same as Rhomboidal.,
R as in Rhomboidal (a.) Having, or approaching, the shape of a rhomboid.,
R as in Rhomboides (n.) A rhomboid.,
R as in Rhomboid-ovate (a.) Between rhomboid and ovate, or oval, in shape.,
R as in Rhomb spar () A variety of dolomite.,
R as in Rhombus (n.) Same as Rhomb, 1.,
R as in Rhonchal (a.) Rhonchial.,
R as in Rhonchial (a.) Of or pertaining to a rhonchus; produced by rhonchi.,
R as in Rhonchisonant (a.) Making a snorting noise; snorting.,
R as in Rhonchi (pl. ) of Rhonchus,
R as in Rhonchus (n.) An adventitious whistling or snoring sound heard on auscultation of the chest when the air channels are partially obstructed. By some writers the term rhonchus is used as equivalent to rale in its widest sense. See Rale.,
R as in Rhopalic (a.) Applied to a line or verse in which each successive word has one more syllable than the preceding.,
R as in Rhopalia (pl. ) of Rhopalium,
R as in Rhopalium (n.) One of the marginal sensory bodies of medusae belonging to the Discophora.,
R as in Rhopalocera (n. pl.) A division of Lepidoptera including all the butterflies. They differ from other Lepidoptera in having club-shaped antennae.,
R as in Rhotacism (n.) An oversounding, or a misuse, of the letter r; specifically (Phylol.), the tendency, exhibited in the Indo-European languages, to change s to r, as wese to were.,
R as in Rhubarb (n.) The name of several large perennial herbs of the genus Rheum and order Polygonaceae.,
R as in Rhubarb (n.) The large and fleshy leafstalks of Rheum Rhaponticum and other species of the same genus. They are pleasantly acid, and are used in cookery. Called also pieplant.,
R as in Rhubarb (n.) The root of several species of Rheum, used much as a cathartic medicine.,
R as in Rhubarby (a.) Like rhubarb.,
R as in Rhumb (n.) A line which crosses successive meridians at a constant angle; -- called also rhumb line, and loxodromic curve. See Loxodromic.,
R as in Rhus (n.) A genus of shrubs and small treets. See Sumac.,
R as in Rhusma (n.) A mixtire of caustic lime and orpiment, or tersulphide of arsenic, -- used in the depilation of hides.,
R as in Rhyme (n.) An expression of thought in numbers, measure, or verse; a composition in verse; a rhymed tale; poetry; harmony of language.,
R as in Rhyme (n.) Correspondence of sound in the terminating words or syllables of two or more verses, one succeeding another immediately or at no great distance. The words or syllables so used must not begin with the same consonant, or if one begins with a vowel the other must begin with a consonant. The vowel sounds and accents must be the same, as also the sounds of the final consonants if there be any.,
R as in Rhyme (n.) Verses, usually two, having this correspondence with each other; a couplet; a poem containing rhymes.,
R as in Rhyme (n.) A word answering in sound to another word.,
R as in Rhymed (imp. & p. p.) of Rhyme,
R as in Rhyming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rhyme,
R as in Rhyme (n.) To make rhymes, or verses.,
R as in Rhyme (n.) To accord in rhyme or sound.,
R as in Rhyme (v. t.) To put into rhyme.,
R as in Rhyme (v. t.) To influence by rhyme.,
R as in Rhymeless (a.) Destitute of rhyme.,
R as in Rhymer (n.) One who makes rhymes; a versifier; -- generally in contempt; a poor poet; a poetaster.,
R as in Rhymery (n.) The art or habit of making rhymes; rhyming; -- in contempt.,
R as in Rhymester (n.) A rhymer; a maker of poor poetry.,
R as in Rhymic (a.) Pertaining to rhyme.,
R as in Rhymist (n.) A rhymer; a rhymester.,
R as in Rhynchobdellea (n. pl.) A suborder of leeches including those that have a protractile proboscis, without jaws. Clepsine is the type.,
R as in Rhynchocephala (n. pl.) An order of reptiles having biconcave vertebrae, immovable quadrate bones, and many other peculiar osteological characters. Hatteria is the only living genus, but numerous fossil genera are known, some of which are among the earliest of reptiles. See Hatteria. Called also Rhynchocephalia.,
R as in Rhynchocoela (n. pl.) Same as Nemertina.,
R as in Rhyncholite (n.) A fossil cephalopod beak.,
R as in Rhynchonella (n.) A genus of brachiopods of which some species are still living, while many are found fossil.,
R as in Rhynchophora (n. pl.) A group of Coleoptera having a snoutlike head; the snout beetles, curculios, or weevils.,
R as in Rhynchophore (n.) One of the Rhynchophora.,
R as in Rhynchota (n. pl.) Same as Hemiptera.,
R as in Rhyolite (n.) A quartzose trachyte, an igneous rock often showing a fluidal structure.,
R as in Rhyparography (n.) In ancient art, the painting of genre or still-life pictures.,
R as in Rhysimeter (n.) An instrument, acting on the principle of Pitot's tube, for measuring the velocity of a fluid current, the speed of a ship, etc.,
R as in Rhythm (n.) In the widest sense, a dividing into short portions by a regular succession of motions, impulses, sounds, accents, etc., producing an agreeable effect, as in music poetry, the dance, or the like.,
R as in Rhythm (n.) Movement in musical time, with periodical recurrence of accent; the measured beat or pulse which marks the character and expression of the music; symmetry of movement and accent.,
R as in Rhythm (n.) A division of lines into short portions by a regular succession of arses and theses, or percussions and remissions of voice on words or syllables.,
R as in Rhythm (n.) The harmonious flow of vocal sounds.,
R as in Rhythmer (n.) One who writes in rhythm, esp. in poetic rhythm or meter.,
R as in Rhythmic (a.) Alt. of Rhythmical,
R as in Rhythmical (a.) Pertaining to, or of the nature of, rhythm,
R as in Rhythmically (adv.) In a rhythmical manner.,
R as in Rhythmics (n.) The department of musical science which treats of the length of sounds.,
R as in Rhythming (a.) Writing rhythm; verse making.,
R as in Rhythmless (a.) Being without rhythm.,
R as in Rhythmometer (n.) An instrument for marking time in musical movements. See Metronome.,
R as in Rhythmus (n.) Rhythm.,
R as in Rhytina (n.) See Rytina.,
R as in Rial (n.) A Spanish coin. See Real.,
R as in Rial (a.) Royal.,
R as in Rial (n.) A gold coin formerly current in England, of the value of ten shillings sterling in the reign of Henry VI., and of fifteen shillings in the reign of Elizabeth.,
R as in Riant (a.) Laughing; laughable; exciting gayety; gay; merry; delightful to the view, as a landscape.,
R as in Rib (n.) One of the curved bones attached to the vertebral column and supporting the lateral walls of the thorax.,
R as in Rib (n.) That which resembles a rib in form or use.,
R as in Rib (n.) One of the timbers, or bars of iron or steel, that branch outward and upward from the keel, to support the skin or planking, and give shape and strength to the vessel.,
R as in Rib (n.) A ridge, fin, or wing, as on a plate, cylinder, beam, etc., to strengthen or stiffen it.,
R as in Rib (n.) One of the rods on which the cover of an umbrella is extended.,
R as in Rib (n.) A prominent line or ridge, as in cloth.,
R as in Rib (n.) A longitudinal strip of metal uniting the barrels of a double-barreled gun.,
R as in Rib (n.) The chief nerve, or one of the chief nerves, of a leaf.,
R as in Rib (n.) Any longitudinal ridge in a plant.,
R as in Rib (n.) In Gothic vaulting, one of the primary members of the vault. These are strong arches, meeting and crossing one another, dividing the whole space into triangles, which are then filled by vaulted construction of lighter material. Hence, an imitation of one of these in wood, plaster, or the like.,
R as in Rib (n.) A projecting mold, or group of moldings, forming with others a pattern, as on a ceiling, ornamental door, or the like.,
R as in Rib (n.) Solid coal on the side of a gallery; solid ore in a vein.,
R as in Rib (n.) An elongated pillar of ore or coal left as a support.,
R as in Rib (n.) A wife; -- in allusion to Eve, as made out of Adam's rib.,
R as in Ribbed (imp. & p. p.) of Rib,
R as in Ribbing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rib,
R as in Rib (v. t.) To furnish with ribs; to form with rising lines and channels; as, to rib cloth.,
R as in Rib (v. t.) To inclose, as with ribs, and protect; to shut in.,
R as in Ribald (n./) A low, vulgar, brutal, foul-mouthed wretch; a lewd fellow.,
R as in Ribald (a.) Low; base; mean; filthy; obscene.,
R as in Ribaldish (a.) Like a ribald.,
R as in Ribaldrous (a.) Of a ribald quality.,
R as in Ribaldry (n.) The talk of a ribald; low, vulgar language; indecency; obscenity; lewdness; -- now chiefly applied to indecent language, but formerly, as by Chaucer, also to indecent acts or conduct.,
R as in Riban (n.) See Ribbon.,
R as in Riband (n.) See Ribbon.,
R as in Riband (n.) See Rib-band.,
R as in Ribanded (a.) Ribboned.,
R as in Ribaud (n.) A ribald.,
R as in Ribaudequin (n.) An engine of war used in the Middle Ages, consisting of a protected elevated staging on wheels, and armed in front with pikes. It was (after the 14th century) furnished with small cannon.,
R as in Ribaudequin (n.) A huge bow fixed on the wall of a fortified town for casting javelins.,
R as in Ribaudred (a.) Alt. of Ribaudrous,
R as in Ribaudrous (a.) Filthy; obscene; ribald.,
R as in Ribaudry (n.) Ribaldry.,
R as in Ribaudy (n.) Ribaldry.,
R as in Ribauld (n.) A ribald.,
R as in Ribband (n.) A ribbon.,
R as in Ribband (n.) A long, narrow strip of timber bent and bolted longitudinally to the ribs of a vessel, to hold them in position, and give rigidity to the framework.,
R as in Ribbed (a.) Furnished or formed with ribs; as, a ribbed cylinder; ribbed cloth.,
R as in Ribbed (a.) Intercalated with slate; -- said of a seam of coal.,
R as in Ribbing (n.) An assemblage or arrangement of ribs, as the timberwork for the support of an arch or coved ceiling, the veins in the leaves of some plants, ridges in the fabric of cloth, or the like.,
R as in Ribbon (n.) A fillet or narrow woven fabric, commonly of silk, used for trimming some part of a woman's attire, for badges, and other decorative purposes.,
R as in Ribbon (n.) A narrow strip or shred; as, a steel or magnesium ribbon; sails torn to ribbons.,
R as in Ribbon (n.) Same as Rib-band.,
R as in Ribbon (n.) Driving reins.,
R as in Ribbon (n.) A bearing similar to the bend, but only one eighth as wide.,
R as in Ribbon (n.) A silver.,
R as in Ribboned (imp. & p. p.) of Ribbon,
R as in Ribboning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ribbon,
R as in Ribbon (v. t.) To adorn with, or as with, ribbons; to mark with stripes resembling ribbons.,
R as in Ribbonism (n.) The principles and practices of the Ribbonmen. See Ribbon Society, under Ribbon.,
R as in -men (pl. ) of Ribbonman,
R as in Ribbonman (n.) A member of the Ribbon Society. See Ribbon Society, under Ribbon.,
R as in Ribbonwood (n.) A malvaceous tree (Hoheria populnea) of New Zealand, the bark of which is used for cordage.,
R as in Ribes (n.) A genus of shrubs including gooseberries and currants of many kinds.,
R as in Ribibe (n.) A sort of stringed instrument; a rebec.,
R as in Ribibe (n.) An old woman; -- in contempt.,
R as in Ribibe (n.) A bawd; a prostitute.,
R as in Ribible (n.) A small threestringed viol; a rebec.,
R as in Ribless (a.) Having no ribs.,
R as in Ribroast (v. t.) To beat soundly.,
R as in Ribwort (n.) A species of plantain (Plantago lanceolata) with long, narrow, ribbed leaves; -- called also rib grass, ripple grass, ribwort plantain.,
R as in -ric () A suffix signifying dominion, jurisdiction; as, bishopric, the district over which a bishop exercises authority.,
R as in Rice (n.) A well-known cereal grass (Oryza sativa) and its seed. This plant is extensively cultivated in warm climates, and the grain forms a large portion of the food of the inhabitants. In America it grows chiefly on low, moist land, which can be overflowed.,
R as in Ricebird (n.) The Java sparrow.,
R as in Ricebird (n.) The bobolink.,
R as in Rice-shell (n.) Any one of numerous species of small white polished marine shells of the genus Olivella.,
R as in Rich (superl.) Having an abundance of material possessions; possessed of a large amount of property; well supplied with land, goods, or money; wealthy; opulent; affluent; -- opposed to poor.,
R as in Rich (superl.) Hence, in general, well supplied; abounding; abundant; copious; bountiful; as, a rich treasury; a rich entertainment; a rich crop.,
R as in Rich (superl.) Yielding large returns; productive or fertile; fruitful; as, rich soil or land; a rich mine.,
R as in Rich (superl.) Composed of valuable or costly materials or ingredients; procured at great outlay; highly valued; precious; sumptuous; costly; as, a rich dress; rich silk or fur; rich presents.,
R as in Rich (superl.) Abounding in agreeable or nutritive qualities; -- especially applied to articles of food or drink which are high-seasoned or abound in oleaginous ingredients, or are sweet, luscious, and high-flavored; as, a rich dish; rich cream or soup; rich pastry; rich wine or fruit.,
R as in Rich (superl.) Not faint or delicate; vivid; as, a rich color.,
R as in Rich (superl.) Full of sweet and harmonius sounds; as, a rich voice; rich music.,
R as in Rich (superl.) Abounding in beauty; gorgeous; as, a rich landscape; rich scenery.,
R as in Rich (superl.) Abounding in humor; exciting amusement; entertaining; as, the scene was a rich one; a rich incident or character.,
R as in Rich (v. t.) To enrich.,
R as in Riches (a.) That which makes one rich; an abundance of land, goods, money, or other property; wealth; opulence; affluence.,
R as in Riches (a.) That which appears rich, sumptuous, precious, or the like.,
R as in Richesse (n.) Wealth; riches. See the Note under Riches.,
R as in Richly (adv.) In a rich manner.,
R as in Richness (n.) The quality or state of being rich (in any sense of the adjective).,
R as in Richweed (n.) An herb (Pilea pumila) of the Nettle family, having a smooth, juicy, pellucid stem; -- called also clearweed.,
R as in Ricinelaidic (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, an isomeric modification of ricinoleic acid obtained as a white crystalline solid.,
R as in Ricinelaidin (n.) The glycerin salt of ricinelaidic acid, obtained as a white crystalline waxy substance by treating castor oil with nitrous acid.,
R as in Ricinic (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, castor oil; formerly, designating an acid now called ricinoleic acid.,
R as in Ricinine (n.) A bitter white crystalline alkaloid extracted from the seeds of the castor-oil plant.,
R as in Ricinoleate (n.) A salt of ricinoleic acid; -- formerly called palmate.,
R as in Ricinoleic (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, a fatty acid analogous to oleic acid, obtained from castor oil as an oily substance, C/H/O/ with a harsh taste. Formerly written ricinolic.,
R as in Ricinolein (n.) The glycerin salt of ricinoleic acid, occuring as a characteristic constituent of castor oil; -- formerly called palmin.,
R as in Ricinolic (a.) Ricinoleic.,
R as in Ricinus (n.) A genus of plants of the Spurge family, containing but one species (R. communis), the castor-oil plant. The fruit is three-celled, and contains three large seeds from which castor oil iss expressed. See Palma Christi.,
R as in Rick (n.) A stack or pile, as of grain, straw, or hay, in the open air, usually protected from wet with thatching.,
R as in Rick (v. t.) To heap up in ricks, as hay, etc.,
R as in Ricker (n.) A stout pole for use in making a rick, or for a spar to a boat.,
R as in Ricketish (a.) Rickety.,
R as in Rickets (n. pl.) A disease which affects children, and which is characterized by a bulky head, crooked spine and limbs, depressed ribs, enlarged and spongy articular epiphyses, tumid abdomen, and short stature, together with clear and often premature mental faculties. The essential cause of the disease appears to be the nondeposition of earthy salts in the osteoid tissues. Children afflicted with this malady stand and walk unsteadily. Called also rachitis.,
R as in Rickety (a.) Affected with rickets.,
R as in Rickety (a.) Feeble in the joints; imperfect; weak; shaky.,
R as in Rickrack (n.) A kind of openwork edging made of serpentine braid.,
R as in Rickstand (n.) A flooring or framework on which a rick is made.,
R as in Ricochet (n.) A rebound or skipping, as of a ball along the ground when a gun is fired at a low angle of elevation, or of a fiat stone thrown along the surface of water.,
R as in Ricochetted (imp. & p. p.) of Ricochet,
R as in Ricochetting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ricochet,
R as in Ricochet (v. t.) To operate upon by ricochet firing. See Ricochet, n.,
R as in Ricochet (v. i.) To skip with a rebound or rebounds, as a flat stone on the surface of water, or a cannon ball on the ground. See Ricochet, n.,
R as in Rictal (a.) Of or pertaining to the rictus; as, rictal bristles.,
R as in Ricture (n.) A gaping.,
R as in Rictus (n.) The gape of the mouth, as of birds; -- often resricted to the corners of the mouth.,
R as in Rid () imp. & p. p. of Ride, v. i.,
R as in Rid (imp. & p. p.) of Rid,
R as in Ridded () of Rid,
R as in Ridding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rid,
R as in Rid (v. t.) To save; to rescue; to deliver; -- with out of.,
R as in Rid (v. t.) To free; to clear; to disencumber; -- followed by of.,
R as in Rid (v. t.) To drive away; to remove by effort or violence; to make away with; to destroy.,
R as in Rid (v. t.) To get over; to dispose of; to dispatch; to finish.,
R as in Ridable (a.) Suitable for riding; as, a ridable horse; a ridable road.,
R as in Riddance (n.) The act of ridding or freeing; deliverance; a cleaning up or out.,
R as in Riddance (n.) The state of being rid or free; freedom; escape.,
R as in Ridden () p. p. of Ride.,
R as in Ridder (n.) One who, or that which, rids.,
R as in Riddle (n.) A sieve with coarse meshes, usually of wire, for separating coarser materials from finer, as chaff from grain, cinders from ashes, or gravel from sand.,
R as in Riddle (n.) A board having a row of pins, set zigzag, between which wire is drawn to straighten it.,
R as in Riddled (imp. & p. p.) of Riddle,
R as in Riddling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Riddle,
R as in Riddle (v. t.) To separate, as grain from the chaff, with a riddle; to pass through a riddle; as, riddle wheat; to riddle coal or gravel.,
R as in Riddle (v. t.) To perforate so as to make like a riddle; to make many holes in; as, a house riddled with shot.,
R as in Riddle (n.) Something proposed to be solved by guessing or conjecture; a puzzling question; an ambiguous proposition; an enigma; hence, anything ambiguous or puzzling.,
R as in Riddle (v. t.) To explain; to solve; to unriddle.,
R as in Riddle (v. i.) To speak ambiguously or enigmatically.,
R as in Riddler (n.) One who riddles (grain, sand, etc.).,
R as in Riddler (n.) One who speaks in, or propounds, riddles.,
R as in Riddling (a.) Speaking in a riddle or riddles; containing a riddle.,
R as in Rode (imp.) of Ride,
R as in Rid () of Ride,
R as in Ridden (p. p.) of Ride,
R as in Rid () of Ride,
R as in Riding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ride,
R as in Ride (v. i.) To be carried on the back of an animal, as a horse.,
R as in Ride (v. i.) To be borne in a carriage; as, to ride in a coach, in a car, and the like. See Synonym, below.,
R as in Ride (v. i.) To be borne or in a fluid; to float; to lie.,
R as in Ride (v. i.) To be supported in motion; to rest.,
R as in Ride (v. i.) To manage a horse, as an equestrian.,
R as in Ride (v. i.) To support a rider, as a horse; to move under the saddle; as, a horse rides easy or hard, slow or fast.,
R as in Ride (v. t.) To sit on, so as to be carried; as, to ride a horse; to ride a bicycle.,
R as in Ride (v. t.) To manage insolently at will; to domineer over.,
R as in Ride (v. t.) To convey, as by riding; to make or do by riding.,
R as in Ride (v. t.) To overlap (each other); -- said of bones or fractured fragments.,
R as in Ride (n.) The act of riding; an excursion on horseback or in a vehicle.,
R as in Ride (n.) A saddle horse.,
R as in Ride (n.) A road or avenue cut in a wood, or through grounds, to be used as a place for riding; a riding.,
R as in Rideau (n.) A small mound of earth; ground slightly elevated; a small ridge.,
R as in Riden () imp. pl. & p. p. of Ride.,
R as in Rident (a.) Laughing.,
R as in Rider (n.) One who, or that which, rides.,
R as in Rider (n.) Formerly, an agent who went out with samples of goods to obtain orders; a commercial traveler.,
R as in Rider (n.) One who breaks or manages a horse.,
R as in Rider (n.) An addition or amendment to a manuscript or other document, which is attached on a separate piece of paper; in legislative practice, an additional clause annexed to a bill while in course of passage; something extra or burdensome that is imposed.,
R as in Rider (n.) A problem of more than usual difficulty added to another on an examination paper.,
R as in Rider (n.) A Dutch gold coin having the figure of a man on horseback stamped upon it.,
R as in Rider (n.) Rock material in a vein of ore, dividing it.,
R as in Rider (n.) An interior rib occasionally fixed in a ship's hold, reaching from the keelson to the beams of the lower deck, to strengthen her frame.,
R as in Rider (n.) The second tier of casks in a vessel's hold.,
R as in Rider (n.) A small forked weight which straddles the beam of a balance, along which it can be moved in the manner of the weight on a steelyard.,
R as in Rider (n.) A robber.,
R as in Riderless (a.) Having no rider; as, a riderless horse.,
R as in Ridge (n.) The back, or top of the back; a crest.,
R as in Ridge (n.) A range of hills or mountains, or the upper part of such a range; any extended elevation between valleys.,
R as in Ridge (n.) A raised line or strip, as of ground thrown up by a plow or left between furrows or ditches, or as on the surface of metal, cloth, or bone, etc.,
R as in Ridge (n.) The intersection of two surface forming a salient angle, especially the angle at the top between the opposite slopes or sides of a roof or a vault.,
R as in Ridge (n.) The highest portion of the glacis proceeding from the salient angle of the covered way.,
R as in Ridged (imp. & p. p.) of Ridge,
R as in Ridging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ridge,
R as in Ridge (v. t.) To form a ridge of; to furnish with a ridge or ridges; to make into a ridge or ridges.,
R as in Ridge (v. t.) To form into ridges with the plow, as land.,
R as in Ridge (v. t.) To wrinkle.,
R as in Ridgeband (n.) The part of a harness which passes over the saddle, and supports the shafts of a cart; -- called also ridgerope, and ridger.,
R as in Ridgebone (n.) The backbone.,
R as in Ridgel (n.) Same as Ridgelling.,
R as in Ridgelet (n.) A little ridge.,
R as in Ridgeling (n.) A half-castrated male animal.,
R as in Ridgepiece (n.) Alt. of Ridgeplate,
R as in Ridgeplate (n.) See Ridgepole.,
R as in Ridgepole (n.) The timber forming the ridge of a roof, into which the rafters are secured.,
R as in Ridgerope (n.) See Life line (a), under Life.,
R as in Ridgingly (adv.) So as to form ridges.,
R as in Ridgy (a.) Having a ridge or ridges; rising in a ridge.,
R as in Ridicle (n.) Ridicule.,
R as in Ridicule (n.) An object of sport or laughter; a laughingstock; a laughing matter.,
R as in Ridicule (n.) Remarks concerning a subject or a person designed to excite laughter with a degree of contempt; wit of that species which provokes contemptuous laughter; disparagement by making a person an object of laughter; banter; -- a term lighter than derision.,
R as in Ridicule (n.) Quality of being ridiculous; ridiculousness.,
R as in Ridiculed (imp. & p. p.) of Ridicule,
R as in Ridiculing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ridicule,
R as in Ridicule (v. t.) To laugh at mockingly or disparagingly; to awaken ridicule toward or respecting.,
R as in Ridicule (a.) Ridiculous.,
R as in Ridiculer (n.) One who ridicules.,
R as in Ridiculize (v. t.) To make ridiculous; to ridicule.,
R as in Ridiculosity (n.) The quality or state of being ridiculous; ridiculousness; also, something ridiculous.,
R as in Ridiculous (a.) Fitted to excite ridicule; absurd and laughable; unworthy of serious consideration; as, a ridiculous dress or behavior.,
R as in Ridiculous (a.) Involving or expressing ridicule.,
R as in Riding (n.) One of the three jurisdictions into which the county of York, in England, is divided; -- formerly under the government of a reeve. They are called the North, the East, and the West, Riding.,
R as in Riding (a.) Employed to travel; traveling; as, a riding clerk.,
R as in Riding (a.) Used for riding on; as, a riding horse.,
R as in Riding (a.) Used for riding, or when riding; devoted to riding; as, a riding whip; a riding habit; a riding day.,
R as in Riding (n.) The act or state of one who rides.,
R as in Riding (n.) A festival procession.,
R as in Riding (n.) Same as Ride, n., 3.,
R as in Riding (n.) A district in charge of an excise officer.,
R as in Ridotto (n.) A favorite Italian public entertainment, consisting of music and dancing, -- held generally on fast eves.,
R as in Ridotto (v. i.) To hold ridottos.,
R as in Rie (n.) See Rye.,
R as in Rief (n.) Robbery.,
R as in Rietboc (n.) The reedbuck, a South African antelope (Cervicapra arundinacea); -- so called from its frequenting dry places covered with high grass or reeds. Its color is yellowish brown. Called also inghalla, and rietbok.,
R as in Rife (a.) Prevailing; prevalent; abounding.,
R as in Rife (a.) Having power; active; nimble.,
R as in Riffle (n.) A trough or sluice having cleats, grooves, or steps across the bottom for holding quicksilver and catching particles of gold when auriferous earth is washed; also, one of the cleats, grooves, or steps in such a trough. Also called ripple.,
R as in Riffler (n.) A curved file used in carving wool and marble.,
R as in Riffraff (n.) Sweepings; refuse; the lowest order of society.,
R as in Rifled (imp. & p. p.) of Rifle,
R as in Rifling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rifle,
R as in Rifle (v. t.) To seize and bear away by force; to snatch away; to carry off.,
R as in Rifle (v. t.) To strip; to rob; to pillage.,
R as in Rifle (v. t.) To raffle.,
R as in Rifle (v. i.) To raffle.,
R as in Rifle (v. i.) To commit robbery.,
R as in Rifle (n.) A gun, the inside of whose barrel is grooved with spiral channels, thus giving the ball a rotary motion and insuring greater accuracy of fire. As a military firearm it has superseded the musket.,
R as in Rifle (n.) A body of soldiers armed with rifles.,
R as in Rifle (n.) A strip of wood covered with emery or a similar material, used for sharpening scythes.,
R as in Rifle (v. t.) To grove; to channel; especially, to groove internally with spiral channels; as, to rifle a gun barrel or a cannon.,
R as in Rifle (v. t.) To whet with a rifle. See Rifle, n., 3.,
R as in Riflebird (n.) Any one of several species of beautiful birds of Australia and New Guinea, of the genera Ptiloris and Craspidophora, allied to the paradise birds.,
R as in Rifleman (pl. ) of Rifleman,
R as in Rifleman (n.) A soldier armed with a rifle.,
R as in Rifler (n.) One who rifles; a robber.,
R as in Rifling (n.) The act or process of making the grooves in a rifled cannon or gun barrel.,
R as in Rifling (n.) The system of grooves in a rifled gun barrel or cannon.,
R as in Rift () p. p. of Rive.,
R as in Rift (n.) An opening made by riving or splitting; a cleft; a fissure.,
R as in Rift (n.) A shallow place in a stream; a ford.,
R as in Rifted (imp. & p. p.) of Rift,
R as in Rifting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rift,
R as in Rift (v. t.) To cleave; to rive; to split; as, to rift an oak or a rock; to rift the clouds.,
R as in Rift (v. i.) To burst open; to split.,
R as in Rift (v. i.) To belch.,
R as in Rifter (n.) A rafter.,
R as in Rig (n.) A ridge.,
R as in Rigged (imp. & p. p.) of Rig,
R as in Rigging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rig,
R as in Rig (v. t.) To furnish with apparatus or gear; to fit with tackling.,
R as in Rig (v. t.) To dress; to equip; to clothe, especially in an odd or fanciful manner; -- commonly followed by out.,
R as in Rig (n.) The peculiar fitting in shape, number, and arrangement of sails and masts, by which different types of vessels are distinguished; as, schooner rig, ship rig, etc. See Illustration in Appendix.,
R as in Rig (n.) Dress; esp., odd or fanciful clothing.,
R as in Rig (n.) A romp; a wanton; one given to unbecoming conduct.,
R as in Rig (n.) A sportive or unbecoming trick; a frolic.,
R as in Rig (n.) A blast of wind.,
R as in Rig (v. i.) To play the wanton; to act in an unbecoming manner; to play tricks.,
R as in Rig (v. t.) To make free with; hence, to steal; to pilfer.,
R as in Rigadoon (n.) A gay, lively dance for one couple, -- said to have been borrowed from Provence in France.,
R as in Riga fir () A species of pine (Pinus sylvestris), and its wood, which affords a valuable timber; -- called also Scotch pine, and red / yellow deal. It grows in all parts of Europe, in the Caucasus, and in Siberia.,
R as in Rigarion (n.) See Irrigation.,
R as in Rigel (n.) A fixed star of the first magnitude in the left foot of the constellation Orion.,
R as in Rigescent (a.) Growing stiff or numb.,
R as in Rigger (n.) One who rigs or dresses; one whose occupation is to fit the rigging of a ship.,
R as in Rigger (n.) A cylindrical pulley or drum in machinery.,
R as in Rigging (n.) DRess; tackle; especially (Naut.), the ropes, chains, etc., that support the masts and spars of a vessel, and serve as purchases for adjusting the sails, etc. See Illustr. of Ship and Sails.,
R as in Riggish (a.) Like a rig or wanton.,
R as in Riggle (v. i.) See Wriggle.,
R as in Riggle (n.) The European lance fish.,
R as in Right (a.) Straight; direct; not crooked; as, a right line.,
R as in Right (a.) Upright; erect from a base; having an upright axis; not oblique; as, right ascension; a right pyramid or cone.,
R as in Right (a.) Conformed to the constitution of man and the will of God, or to justice and equity; not deviating from the true and just; according with truth and duty; just; true.,
R as in Right (a.) Fit; suitable; proper; correct; becoming; as, the right man in the right place; the right way from London to Oxford.,
R as in Right (a.) Characterized by reality or genuineness; real; actual; not spurious.,
R as in Right (a.) According with truth; passing a true judgment; conforming to fact or intent; not mistaken or wrong; not erroneous; correct; as, this is the right faith.,
R as in Right (a.) Most favorable or convenient; fortunate.,
R as in Right (a.) Of or pertaining to that side of the body in man on which the muscular action is usually stronger than on the other side; -- opposed to left when used in reference to a part of the body; as, the right side, hand, arm. Also applied to the corresponding side of the lower animals.,
R as in Right (a.) Well placed, disposed, or adjusted; orderly; well regulated; correctly done.,
R as in Right (a.) Designed to be placed or worn outward; as, the right side of a piece of cloth.,
R as in Right (adv.) In a right manner.,
R as in Right (adv.) In a right or straight line; directly; hence; straightway; immediately; next; as, he stood right before me; it went right to the mark; he came right out; he followed right after the guide.,
R as in Right (adv.) Exactly; just.,
R as in Right (adv.) According to the law or will of God; conforming to the standard of truth and justice; righteously; as, to live right; to judge right.,
R as in Right (adv.) According to any rule of art; correctly.,
R as in Right (adv.) According to fact or truth; actually; truly; really; correctly; exactly; as, to tell a story right.,
R as in Right (adv.) In a great degree; very; wholly; unqualifiedly; extremely; highly; as, right humble; right noble; right valiant.,
R as in Right (a.) That which is right or correct.,
R as in Right (a.) The straight course; adherence to duty; obedience to lawful authority, divine or human; freedom from guilt, -- the opposite of moral wrong.,
R as in Right (a.) A true statement; freedom from error of falsehood; adherence to truth or fact.,
R as in Right (a.) A just judgment or action; that which is true or proper; justice; uprightness; integrity.,
R as in Right (a.) That to which one has a just claim.,
R as in Right (a.) That which one has a natural claim to exact.,
R as in Right (a.) That which one has a legal or social claim to do or to exact; legal power; authority; as, a sheriff has a right to arrest a criminal.,
R as in Right (a.) That which justly belongs to one; that which one has a claim to possess or own; the interest or share which anyone has in a piece of property; title; claim; interest; ownership.,
R as in Right (a.) Privilege or immunity granted by authority.,
R as in Right (a.) The right side; the side opposite to the left.,
R as in Right (a.) In some legislative bodies of Europe (as in France), those members collectively who are conservatives or monarchists. See Center, 5.,
R as in Right (a.) The outward or most finished surface, as of a piece of cloth, a carpet, etc.,
R as in Righted (imp. & p. p.) of Right,
R as in Righting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Right,
R as in Right (a.) To bring or restore to the proper or natural position; to set upright; to make right or straight (that which has been wrong or crooked); to correct.,
R as in Right (a.) To do justice to; to relieve from wrong; to restore rights to; to assert or regain the rights of; as, to right the oppressed; to right one's self; also, to vindicate.,
R as in Right (v. i.) To recover the proper or natural condition or position; to become upright.,
R as in Right (v. i.) Hence, to regain an upright position, as a ship or boat, after careening.,
R as in Right-about (n.) A turning directly about by the right, so as to face in the opposite direction; also, the quarter directly opposite; as, to turn to the right-about.,
R as in Right-angled (a.) Containing a right angle or right angles; as, a right-angled triangle.,
R as in Righten (v. t.) To do justice to.,
R as in Righteous (a.) Doing, or according with, that which is right; yielding to all their due; just; equitable; especially, free from wrong, guilt, or sin; holy; as, a righteous man or act; a righteous retribution.,
R as in Righteoused (a.) Made righteous.,
R as in Righteously (adv.) In a righteous manner; as, to judge righteously.,
R as in Righteousness (n.) The quality or state of being righteous; holiness; purity; uprightness; rectitude.,
R as in Righteousness (n.) A righteous act, or righteous quality.,
R as in Righteousness (n.) The act or conduct of one who is righteous.,
R as in Righteousness (n.) The state of being right with God; justification; the work of Christ, which is the ground of justification.,
R as in Righter (n.) One who sets right; one who does justice or redresses wrong.,
R as in Rightful (a.) Righteous; upright; just; good; -- said of persons.,
R as in Rightful (a.) Consonant to justice; just; as, a rightful cause.,
R as in Rightful (a.) Having the right or just claim according to established laws; being or holding by right; as, the rightful heir to a throne or an estate; a rightful king.,
R as in Rightful (a.) Belonging, held, or possessed by right, or by just claim; as, a rightful inheritance; rightful authority.,
R as in Rightfully (adv.) According to right or justice.,
R as in Rightfulness (n.) The quality or state of being rightful; accordance with right and justice.,
R as in Rightfulness (n.) Moral rectitude; righteousness.,
R as in Right-hand (a.) Situated or being on the right; nearer the right hand than the left; as, the right-hand side, room, or road.,
R as in Right-hand (a.) Chiefly relied on; almost indispensable.,
R as in Right-handed (a.) Using the right hand habitually, or more easily than the left.,
R as in Right-handed (a.) Having the same direction or course as the movement of the hands of a watch seen in front; -- said of the motion of a revolving object looked at from a given direction.,
R as in Right-handed (a.) Having the whorls rising from left to right; dextral; -- said of spiral shells. See Illust. of Scalaria.,
R as in Right-handedness (n.) The state or quality of being right-handed; hence, skill; dexterity.,
R as in Right-hearted (a.) Having a right heart or disposition.,
R as in Rightless (a.) Destitute of right.,
R as in Right-lined (a.) Formed by right lines; rectilineal; as, a right-lined angle.,
R as in Rightly (adv.) Straightly; directly; in front.,
R as in Rightly (adv.) According to justice; according to the divine will or moral rectitude; uprightly; as, duty rightly performed.,
R as in Rightly (adv.) Properly; fitly; suitably; appropriately.,
R as in Rightly (adv.) According to truth or fact; correctly; not erroneously; exactly.,
R as in Right-minded (a.) Having a right or honest mind.,
R as in Rightness (n.) Straightness; as, the rightness of a line.,
R as in Rightness (n.) The quality or state of being right; right relation.,
R as in Right-running (a.) Straight; direct.,
R as in Rightward (adv.) Toward the right.,
R as in Right whale () The bowhead, Arctic, or Greenland whale (Balaena mysticetus), from whose mouth the best whalebone is obtained.,
R as in Right whale () Any other whale that produces valuable whalebone, as the Atlantic, or Biscay, right whale (Balaena cisarctica), and the Pacific right whale (B. Sieboldii); a bone whale.,
R as in Rightwise (a.) Righteous.,
R as in Rightwise (v. t.) To make righteous.,
R as in Rightwisely (adv.) Righteously.,
R as in Rightwiseness (n.) Righteousness.,
R as in Rigid (a.) Firm; stiff; unyielding; not pliant; not flexible.,
R as in Rigid (a.) Hence, not lax or indulgent; severe; inflexible; strict; as, a rigid father or master; rigid discipline; rigid criticism; a rigid sentence.,
R as in Rigidity (n.) The quality or state of being rigid; want of pliability; the quality of resisting change of form; the amount of resistance with which a body opposes change of form; -- opposed to flexibility, ductility, malleability, and softness.,
R as in Rigidity (n.) Stiffness of appearance or manner; want of ease or elegance.,
R as in Rigidity (n.) Severity; rigor.,
R as in Rigidly (v.) In a rigid manner; stiffly.,
R as in Rigidness (n.) The quality or state of being rigid.,
R as in Rigidulous (a.) Somewhat rigid or stiff; as, a rigidulous bristle.,
R as in Riglet (n.) See Reglet.,
R as in Rigmarole (n.) A succession of confused or nonsensical statements; foolish talk; nonsense.,
R as in Rigmarole (a.) Consisting of rigmarole; frovolous; nonsensical; foolish.,
R as in Rigol (n.) A circle; hence, a diadem.,
R as in Rigoll (n.) A musical instrument formerly in use, consisting of several sticks bound together, but separated by beads, and played with a stick with a ball at its end.,
R as in Rigor (n.) Rigidity; stiffness.,
R as in Rigor (n.) A sense of chilliness, with contraction of the skin; a convulsive shuddering or tremor, as in the chill preceding a fever.,
R as in Rigor (n.) The becoming stiff or rigid; the state of being rigid; rigidity; stiffness; hardness.,
R as in Rigor (n.) See 1st Rigor, 2.,
R as in Rigor (n.) Severity of climate or season; inclemency; as, the rigor of the storm; the rigors of winter.,
R as in Rigor (n.) Stiffness of opinion or temper; rugged sternness; hardness; relentless severity; hard-heartedness; cruelty.,
R as in Rigor (n.) Exactness without allowance, deviation, or indulgence; strictness; as, the rigor of criticism; to execute a law with rigor; to enforce moral duties with rigor; -- opposed to lenity.,
R as in Rigor (n.) Severity of life; austerity; voluntary submission to pain, abstinence, or mortification.,
R as in Rigor (n.) Violence; force; fury.,
R as in Rigorism (n.) Rigidity in principle or practice; strictness; -- opposed to laxity.,
R as in Rigorism (n.) Severity, as of style, or the like.,
R as in Rigorist (n.) One who is rigorous; -- sometimes applied to an extreme Jansenist.,
R as in Rigorous (a.) Manifesting, exercising, or favoring rigor; allowing no abatement or mitigation; scrupulously accurate; exact; strict; severe; relentless; as, a rigorous officer of justice; a rigorous execution of law; a rigorous definition or demonstration.,
R as in Rigorous (a.) Severe; intense; inclement; as, a rigorous winter.,
R as in Rigorous (a.) Violent.,
R as in Rigsdaler (n.) A Danish coin worth about fifty-four cents. It was the former unit of value in Denmark.,
R as in Rig-Veda () See Veda.,
R as in Riksdaler (n.) A Swedish coin worth about twenty-seven cents. It was formerly the unit of value in Sweden.,
R as in Riled (imp. & p. p.) of Rile,
R as in Riling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rile,
R as in Rile (v. t.) To render turbid or muddy; to stir up; to roil.,
R as in Rile (v. t.) To stir up in feelings; to make angry; to vex.,
R as in Rilievo (n.) Same as Relief, n., 5.,
R as in Rill (n.) A very small brook; a streamlet.,
R as in Rill (n.) See Rille.,
R as in Rill (v. i.) To run a small stream.,
R as in Rille (n.) One of certain narrow, crooked valleys seen, by aid of the telescope, on the surface of the moon.,
R as in Rillet (n.) A little rill.,
R as in Rily (a.) Roily.,
R as in Rim (n.) The border, edge, or margin of a thing, usually of something circular or curving; as, the rim of a kettle or basin.,
R as in Rim (n.) The lower part of the abdomen.,
R as in Rimmed (imp. & p. p.) of Rim,
R as in Rimming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rim,
R as in Rim (v. t.) To furnish with a rim; to border.,
R as in Rimae (pl. ) of Rima,
R as in Rima (n.) A narrow and elongated aperture; a cleft; a fissure.,
R as in Rimau dahan () The clouded tiger cat (Felis marmorata) of Southern Asia and the East Indies.,
R as in Rimbase (n.) A short cylinder connecting a trunnion with the body of a cannon. See Illust. of Cannon.,
R as in Rime (n.) A rent or long aperture; a chink; a fissure; a crack.,
R as in Rime (n.) White frost; hoarfrost; congealed dew or vapor.,
R as in Rimed (imp. & p. p.) of Rime,
R as in Riming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rime,
R as in Rime (v. i.) To freeze or congeal into hoarfrost.,
R as in Rime (n.) A step or round of a ladder; a rung.,
R as in Rime (n.) Rhyme. See Rhyme.,
R as in Rime (v. i. & t.) To rhyme. See Rhyme.,
R as in Rimer (n.) A rhymer; a versifier.,
R as in Rimer (n.) A tool for shaping the rimes of a ladder.,
R as in Rimey (v. t.) To compose in rhyme; to versify.,
R as in Rimmer (n.) An implement for cutting, trimming, or ornamenting the rim of anything, as the edges of pies, etc.; also, a reamer.,
R as in Rimose (a.) Full of rimes, fissures, or chinks.,
R as in Rimose (a.) Having long and nearly parallel clefts or chinks, like those in the bark of trees.,
R as in Rimosely (adv.) In a rimose manner.,
R as in Rimosity (n.) State of being rimose.,
R as in Rimous (a.) Rimose.,
R as in Rimple (n.) A fold or wrinkle. See Rumple.,
R as in Rimpled (imp. & p. p.) of Rimple,
R as in Rimpling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rimple,
R as in Rimple (v. t. & i.) To rumple; to wrinkle.,
R as in Rimy (a.) Abounding with rime; frosty.,
R as in Rind (n.) The external covering or coat, as of flesh, fruit, trees, etc.; skin; hide; bark; peel; shell.,
R as in Rind (v. t.) To remove the rind of; to bark.,
R as in Rinderpest (n.) A highly contagious distemper or murrain, affecting neat cattle, and less commonly sheep and goats; -- called also cattle plague, Russian cattle plague, and steppe murrain.,
R as in Rindle (n.) A small water course or gutter.,
R as in Rindless (a.) Destitute of a rind.,
R as in Rindy (a.) Having a rind or skin.,
R as in Rine (n.) See Rind.,
R as in Rined (a.) Having a rind,
R as in Rinforzando (a.) Increasing; strengthening; -- a direction indicating a sudden increase of force (abbreviated rf., rfz.) Cf. Forzando, and Sforzando.,
R as in Rang (imp.) of Ring,
R as in Rung () of Ring,
R as in Rung (p. p.) of Ring,
R as in Ringing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ring,
R as in Ring (v. t.) To cause to sound, especially by striking, as a metallic body; as, to ring a bell.,
R as in Ring (v. t.) To make (a sound), as by ringing a bell; to sound.,
R as in Ring (v. t.) To repeat often, loudly, or earnestly.,
R as in Ring (v. i.) To sound, as a bell or other sonorous body, particularly a metallic one.,
R as in Ring (v. i.) To practice making music with bells.,
R as in Ring (v. i.) To sound loud; to resound; to be filled with a ringing or reverberating sound.,
R as in Ring (v. i.) To continue to sound or vibrate; to resound.,
R as in Ring (v. i.) To be filled with report or talk; as, the whole town rings with his fame.,
R as in Ring (n.) A sound; especially, the sound of vibrating metals; as, the ring of a bell.,
R as in Ring (n.) Any loud sound; the sound of numerous voices; a sound continued, repeated, or reverberated.,
R as in Ring (n.) A chime, or set of bells harmonically tuned.,
R as in Ring (n.) A circle, or a circular line, or anything in the form of a circular line or hoop.,
R as in Ring (n.) Specifically, a circular ornament of gold or other precious material worn on the finger, or attached to the ear, the nose, or some other part of the person; as, a wedding ring.,
R as in Ring (n.) A circular area in which races are or run or other sports are performed; an arena.,
R as in Ring (n.) An inclosed space in which pugilists fight; hence, figuratively, prize fighting.,
R as in Ring (n.) A circular group of persons.,
R as in Ring (n.) The plane figure included between the circumferences of two concentric circles.,
R as in Ring (n.) The solid generated by the revolution of a circle, or other figure, about an exterior straight line (as an axis) lying in the same plane as the circle or other figure.,
R as in Ring (n.) An instrument, formerly used for taking the sun's altitude, consisting of a brass ring suspended by a swivel, with a hole at one side through which a solar ray entering indicated the altitude on the graduated inner surface opposite.,
R as in Ring (n.) An elastic band partly or wholly encircling the spore cases of ferns. See Illust. of Sporangium.,
R as in Ring (n.) A clique; an exclusive combination of persons for a selfish purpose, as to control the market, distribute offices, obtain contracts, etc.,
R as in Ringed (imp. & p. p.) of Ring,
R as in Ringing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ring,
R as in Ring (v. t.) To surround with a ring, or as with a ring; to encircle.,
R as in Ring (v. t.) To make a ring around by cutting away the bark; to girdle; as, to ring branches or roots.,
R as in Ring (v. t.) To fit with a ring or with rings, as the fingers, or a swine's snout.,
R as in Ring (v. i.) To rise in the air spirally.,
R as in Ringbill (n.) The ring-necked scaup duck; -- called also ring-billed blackhead. See Scaup.,
R as in Ringbird (n.) The reed bunting. It has a collar of white feathers. Called also ring bunting.,
R as in Ringbolt (n.) An eyebolt having a ring through the eye.,
R as in Ringbone (n.) A morbid growth or deposit of bony matter between or on the small pastern and the great pastern bones.,
R as in Ringdove (n.) A European wild pigeon (Columba palumbus) having a white crescent on each side of the neck, whence the name. Called also wood pigeon, and cushat.,
R as in Ringed (a.) Encircled or marked with, or as with, a ring or rings.,
R as in Ringed (a.) Wearning a wedding ring; hence, lawfully wedded.,
R as in Ringent (a.) Having the lips widely separated and gaping like an open mouth; as a ringent bilabiate corolla.,
R as in Ringer (n.) One who, or that which, rings; especially, one who rings chimes on bells.,
R as in Ringer (n.) A crowbar.,
R as in Ringer (n.) A horse that is not entitled to take part in a race, but is fraudulently got into it.,
R as in Ringhead (n.) An instrument used for stretching woolen cloth.,
R as in Ringing () a & n. from Ring, v.,
R as in Ringingly (adv.) In a ringing manner.,
R as in Ringleader (n.) The leader of a circle of dancers; hence, the leader of a number of persons acting together; the leader of a herd of animals.,
R as in Ringleader (n.) Opprobriously, a leader of a body of men engaged in the violation of law or in an illegal enterprise, as rioters, mutineers, or the like.,
R as in Ringlestone (n.) The ringed dotterel, or ring plover.,
R as in Ringlet (n.) A small ring; a small circle; specifically, a fairy ring.,
R as in Ringlet (n.) A curl; especially, a curl of hair.,
R as in Ringmen (pl. ) of Ringman,
R as in Ringman (n.) The ring finger.,
R as in Ringmaster (n.) One in charge of the performances (as of horses) within the ring in a circus.,
R as in Ringneck (n.) Any one of several species of small plovers of the genus Aegialitis, having a ring around the neck. The ring is black in summer, but becomes brown or gray in winter. The semipalmated plover (Ae. semipalmata) and the piping plover (Ae. meloda) are common North American species. Called also ring plover, and ring-necked plover.,
R as in Ringneck (n.) The ring-necked duck.,
R as in Ring-necked (a.) Having a well defined ring of color around the neck.,
R as in Ringsail (n.) See Ringtail, 2.,
R as in Ringstraked (a.) Ring-streaked.,
R as in Ring-streaked (a.) Having circular streaks or lines on the body; as, ring-streaked goats.,
R as in Ringtail (n.) A bird having a distinct band of color across the tail, as the hen harrier.,
R as in Ringtail (n.) A light sail set abaft and beyong the leech of a boom-and-gaff sail; -- called also ringsail.,
R as in Ring-tailed (a.) Having the tail crossed by conspicuous bands of color.,
R as in Ringtoss (n.) A game in which the object is to toss a ring so that it will catch upon an upright stick.,
R as in Ringworm (n.) A contagious affection of the skin due to the presence of a vegetable parasite, and forming ring-shaped discolored patches covered with vesicles or powdery scales. It occurs either on the body, the face, or the scalp. Different varieties are distinguished as Tinea circinata, Tinea tonsurans, etc., but all are caused by the same parasite (a species of Trichophyton).,
R as in Rink (n.) The smooth and level extent of ice marked off for the game of curling.,
R as in Rink (n.) An artificial sheet of ice, generally under cover, used for skating; also, a floor prepared for skating on with roller skates, or a building with such a floor.,
R as in Rinker (n.) One who skates at a rink.,
R as in Rinking (n.) Skating in a rink.,
R as in Rinsed (imp. & p. p.) of Rinse,
R as in Rinsing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rinse,
R as in Rinse (v. t.) To wash lightly; to cleanse with a second or repeated application of water after washing.,
R as in Rinse (v. t.) To cleancse by the introduction of water; -- applied especially to hollow vessels; as, to rinse a bottle.,
R as in Rinse (n.) The act of rinsing.,
R as in Rinser (n.) One who, or that which, rinses.,
R as in Riot (n.) Wanton or unrestrained behavior; uproar; tumult.,
R as in Riot (n.) Excessive and exxpensive feasting; wild and loose festivity; revelry.,
R as in Riot (n.) The tumultuous disturbance of the public peace by an unlawful assembly of three or more persons in the execution of some private object.,
R as in Rioted (imp. & p. p.) of Riot,
R as in Rioting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Riot,
R as in Riot (v. i.) To engage in riot; to act in an unrestrained or wanton manner; to indulge in excess of luxury, feasting, or the like; to revel; to run riot; to go to excess.,
R as in Riot (v. i.) To disturb the peace; to raise an uproar or sedition. See Riot, n., 3.,
R as in Riot (v. t.) To spend or pass in riot.,
R as in Rioter (n.) One who riots; a reveler; a roisterer.,
R as in Rioter (n.) One who engages in a riot. See Riot, n., 3.,
R as in Riotise (n.) Excess; tumult; revelry.,
R as in Riotour (n.) A rioter.,
R as in Riotous (a.) Involving, or engaging in, riot; wanton; unrestrained; luxurious.,
R as in Riotous (a.) Partaking of the nature of an unlawful assembly or its acts; seditious.,
R as in Riotry (n.) The act or practice of rioting; riot.,
R as in Rip (n.) A wicker fish basket.,
R as in Ripped (imp. & p. p.) of Rip,
R as in Ripping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rip,
R as in Rip (v. t.) To divide or separate the parts of, by cutting or tearing; to tear or cut open or off; to tear off or out by violence; as, to rip a garment by cutting the stitches; to rip off the skin of a beast; to rip up a floor; -- commonly used with up, open, off.,
R as in Rip (v. t.) To get by, or as by, cutting or tearing.,
R as in Rip (v. t.) To tear up for search or disclosure, or for alteration; to search to the bottom; to discover; to disclose; -- usually with up.,
R as in Rip (v. t.) To saw (wood) lengthwise of the grain or fiber.,
R as in Rip (n.) A rent made by ripping, esp. by a seam giving way; a tear; a place torn; laceration.,
R as in Rip (n.) A term applied to a mean, worthless thing or person, as to a scamp, a debauchee, or a prostitute, or a worn-out horse.,
R as in Rip (n.) A body of water made rough by the meeting of opposing tides or currents.,
R as in Riparian (a.) Of or pertaining to the bank of a river; as, riparian rights.,
R as in Riparious (a.) Growing along the banks of rivers; riparian.,
R as in Ripe (n.) The bank of a river.,
R as in Ripe (superl.) Ready for reaping or gathering; having attained perfection; mature; -- said of fruits, seeds, etc.; as, ripe grain.,
R as in Ripe (superl.) Advanced to the state of fitness for use; mellow; as, ripe cheese; ripe wine.,
R as in Ripe (superl.) Having attained its full development; mature; perfected; consummate.,
R as in Ripe (superl.) Maturated or suppurated; ready to discharge; -- said of sores, tumors, etc.,
R as in Ripe (superl.) Ready for action or effect; prepared.,
R as in Ripe (superl.) Like ripened fruit in ruddiness and plumpness.,
R as in Ripe (superl.) Intoxicated.,
R as in Ripe (v. i.) To ripen; to grow ripe.,
R as in Ripe (v. t.) To mature; to ripen.,
R as in Ripely (adv.) Maturely; at the fit time.,
R as in Ripened (imp. & p. p.) of Ripen,
R as in Ripening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ripen,
R as in Ripen (v. i.) To grow ripe; to become mature, as grain, fruit, flowers, and the like; as, grapes ripen in the sun.,
R as in Ripen (v. i.) To approach or come to perfection.,
R as in Ripen (v. t.) To cause to mature; to make ripe; as, the warm days ripened the corn.,
R as in Ripen (v. t.) To mature; to fit or prepare; to bring to perfection; as, to ripen the judgment.,
R as in Ripeness (n.) The state or quality of being ripe; maturity;; completeness; perfection; as, the ripeness of grain; ripeness of manhood; ripeness of judgment.,
R as in Ripidolite (n.) A translucent mineral of a green color and micaceous structure, belonging to the chlorite group; a hydrous silicate of alumina, magnesia, and iron; -- called also clinochlore.,
R as in Ripienist (n.) A player in the ripieno portion of an orchestra. See Ripieno.,
R as in Ripieno (a.) Filling up; supplementary; supernumerary; -- a term applied to those instruments which only swell the mass or tutti of an orchestra, but are not obbligato.,
R as in Ripler (n.) Alt. of Ripper,
R as in Ripper (n.) One who brings fish from the seacoast to markets in inland towns.,
R as in Ripost (n.) In fencing, a return thrust after a parry.,
R as in Ripost (n.) A quick and sharp refort; a repartee.,
R as in Ripper (n.) One who, or that which, rips; a ripping tool.,
R as in Ripper (n.) A tool for trimming the edges of roofing slates.,
R as in Ripper (n.) Anything huge, extreme, startling, etc.,
R as in Ripple (v.) An implement, with teeth like those of a comb, for removing the seeds and seed vessels from flax, broom corn, etc.,
R as in Ripple (v. t.) To remove the seeds from (the stalks of flax, etc.), by means of a ripple.,
R as in Ripple (v. t.) Hence, to scratch or tear.,
R as in Rippled (imp. & p. p.) of Ripple,
R as in Rippling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ripple,
R as in Ripple (v. i.) To become fretted or dimpled on the surface, as water when agitated or running over a rough bottom; to be covered with small waves or undulations, as a field of grain.,
R as in Ripple (v. i.) To make a sound as of water running gently over a rough bottom, or the breaking of ripples on the shore.,
R as in Ripple (v. t.) To fret or dimple, as the surface of running water; to cover with small waves or undulations; as, the breeze rippled the lake.,
R as in Ripple (n.) The fretting or dimpling of the surface, as of running water; little curling waves.,
R as in Ripple (n.) A little wave or undulation; a sound such as is made by little waves; as, a ripple of laughter.,
R as in Ripple (n.) a small wave on the surface of water or other liquids for which the driving force is not gravity, but surface tension.,
R as in Ripple (n.) the residual AC component in the DC current output from a rectifier, expressed as a percentage of the steady component of the current.,
R as in Ripple-marked (a.) Having ripple marks.,
R as in Ripplet (n.) A small ripple.,
R as in Ripplingly (adv.) In a rippling manner.,
R as in Ripply (a.) Having ripples; as, ripply water; hence, resembling the sound of rippling water; as, ripply laughter; a ripply cove.,
R as in Riprap (n.) A foundation or sustaining wall of stones thrown together without order, as in deep water or on a soft bottom.,
R as in Riprapped (imp. & p. p.) of Riprap,
R as in Riprapping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Riprap,
R as in Riprap (v. t.) To form a riprap in or upon.,
R as in Ripsaw (v. t.) A handsaw with coarse teeth which have but a slight set, used for cutting wood in the direction of the fiber; -- called also ripping saw.,
R as in Riptowel (n.) A gratuity given to tenants after they had reaped their lord's corn.,
R as in Ris (n.) A bough or branch; a twig.,
R as in Rose (imp.) of Rise,
R as in Risen (p. p.) of Rise,
R as in Rising (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rise,
R as in Rise (v.) To move from a lower position to a higher; to ascend; to mount up. Specifically: -- (a) To go upward by walking, climbing, flying, or any other voluntary motion; as, a bird rises in the air; a fish rises to the bait.,
R as in Rise (v.) To ascend or float in a fluid, as gases or vapors in air, cork in water, and the like.,
R as in Rise (v.) To move upward under the influence of a projecting force; as, a bullet rises in the air.,
R as in Rise (v.) To grow upward; to attain a certain height; as, this elm rises to the height of seventy feet.,
R as in Rise (v.) To reach a higher level by increase of quantity or bulk; to swell; as, a river rises in its bed; the mercury rises in the thermometer.,
R as in Rise (v.) To become erect; to assume an upright position; as, to rise from a chair or from a fall.,
R as in Rise (v.) To leave one's bed; to arise; as, to rise early.,
R as in Rise (v.) To tower up; to be heaved up; as, the Alps rise far above the sea.,
R as in Rise (v.) To slope upward; as, a path, a line, or surface rises in this direction.,
R as in Rise (v.) To retire; to give up a siege.,
R as in Rise (v.) To swell or puff up in the process of fermentation; to become light, as dough, and the like.,
R as in Rise (v.) To have the aspect or the effect of rising.,
R as in Rise (v.) To appear above the horizont, as the sun, moon, stars, and the like.,
R as in Rise (v.) To become apparent; to emerge into sight; to come forth; to appear; as, an eruption rises on the skin; the land rises to view to one sailing toward the shore.,
R as in Rise (v.) To become perceptible to other senses than sight; as, a noise rose on the air; odor rises from the flower.,
R as in Rise (v.) To have a beginning; to proceed; to originate; as, rivers rise in lakes or springs.,
R as in Rise (v.) To increase in size, force, or value; to proceed toward a climax.,
R as in Rise (v.) To increase in power or fury; -- said of wind or a storm, and hence, of passion.,
R as in Rise (v.) To become of higher value; to increase in price.,
R as in Rise (v.) To become larger; to swell; -- said of a boil, tumor, and the like.,
R as in Rise (v.) To increase in intensity; -- said of heat.,
R as in Rise (v.) To become louder, or higher in pitch, as the voice.,
R as in Rise (v.) To increase in amount; to enlarge; as, his expenses rose beyond his expectations.,
R as in Rise (v.) In various figurative senses.,
R as in Rise (v.) To become excited, opposed, or hostile; to go to war; to take up arms; to rebel.,
R as in Rise (v.) To attain to a better social position; to be promoted; to excel; to succeed.,
R as in Rise (v.) To become more and more dignified or forcible; to increase in interest or power; -- said of style, thought, or discourse; as, to rise in force of expression; to rise in eloquence; a story rises in interest.,
R as in Rise (v.) To come to mind; to be suggested; to occur.,
R as in Rise (v.) To come; to offer itself.,
R as in Rise (v.) To ascend from the grave; to come to life.,
R as in Rise (v.) To terminate an official sitting; to adjourn; as, the committee rose after agreeing to the report.,
R as in Rise (v.) To ascend on a musical scale; to take a higher pith; as, to rise a tone or semitone.,
R as in Rise (v.) To be lifted, or to admit of being lifted, from the imposing stone without dropping any of the type; -- said of a form.,
R as in Rise (n.) The act of rising, or the state of being risen.,
R as in Rise (n.) The distance through which anything rises; as, the rise of the thermometer was ten degrees; the rise of the river was six feet; the rise of an arch or of a step.,
R as in Rise (n.) Land which is somewhat higher than the rest; as, the house stood on a rise of land.,
R as in Rise (n.) Spring; source; origin; as, the rise of a stream.,
R as in Rise (n.) Appearance above the horizon; as, the rise of the sun or of a planet.,
R as in Rise (n.) Increase; advance; augmentation, as of price, value, rank, property, fame, and the like.,
R as in Rise (n.) Increase of sound; a swelling of the voice.,
R as in Rise (n.) Elevation or ascent of the voice; upward change of key; as, a rise of a tone or semitone.,
R as in Rise (n.) The spring of a fish to seize food (as a fly) near the surface of the water.,
R as in Risen () p. p. & a. from Rise.,
R as in Risen (p. p. & a.) Obs. imp. pl. of Rise.,
R as in Riser (n.) One who rises; as, an early riser.,
R as in Riser (n.) The upright piece of a step, from tread to tread.,
R as in Riser (n.) Any small upright face, as of a seat, platform, veranda, or the like.,
R as in Riser (n.) A shaft excavated from below upward.,
R as in Riser (n.) A feed head. See under Feed, n.,
R as in Rish (n.) A rush (the plant).,
R as in Risibility (n.) The quality of being risible; as, risibility is peculiar to the human species.,
R as in Risible (a.) Having the faculty or power of laughing; disposed to laugh.,
R as in Risible (a.) Exciting laughter; worthy to be laughed at; amusing.,
R as in Risible (a.) Used in, or expressing, laughter; as, risible muscles.,
R as in Rising (a.) Attaining a higher place; taking, or moving in, an upward direction; appearing above the horizon; ascending; as, the rising moon.,
R as in Rising (a.) Increasing in wealth, power, or distinction; as, a rising state; a rising character.,
R as in Rising (a.) Growing; advancing to adult years and to the state of active life; as, the rising generation.,
R as in Rising (prep.) More than; exceeding; upwards of; as, a horse rising six years of age.,
R as in Rising (n.) The act of one who, or that which, rises (in any sense).,
R as in Rising (n.) That which rises; a tumor; a boil.,
R as in Risk (n.) Hazard; danger; peril; exposure to loss, injury, or destruction.,
R as in Risk (n.) Hazard of loss; liabillity to loss in property.,
R as in Risked (imp. & p. p.) of Risk,
R as in Risking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Risk,
R as in Risk (n.) To expose to risk, hazard, or peril; to venture; as, to risk goods on board of a ship; to risk one's person in battle; to risk one's fame by a publication.,
R as in Risk (n.) To incur the risk or danger of; as, to risk a battle.,
R as in Risker (n.) One who risks or hazards.,
R as in Riskful (a.) Risky.,
R as in Risky (a.) Attended with risk or danger; hazardous.,
R as in Risorial (a.) Pertaining to, or producing, laughter; as, the risorial muscles.,
R as in Risotto (n.) A kind of pottage.,
R as in Risse () imp. of Rise.,
R as in Rissoid (n.) Any one of very numerous species of small spiral gastropods of the genus Rissoa, or family Rissoidae, found both in fresh and salt water.,
R as in Rissole (n.) A small ball of rich minced meat or fish, covered with pastry and fried.,
R as in Rist () 3d pers. sing. pres. of Rise, contracted from riseth.,
R as in Rit () 3d pers. sing. pres. of Ride, contracted from rideth.,
R as in Ritardando (a.) Retarding; -- a direction for slower time; rallentado.,
R as in Rite (n.) The act of performing divine or solemn service, as established by law, precept, or custom; a formal act of religion or other solemn duty; a solemn observance; a ceremony; as, the rites of freemasonry.,
R as in Ritenuto (a.) Held back; holding back; ritardando.,
R as in Ritornelle (n.) Alt. of Ritornello,
R as in Ritornello (n.) A short return or repetition; a concluding symphony to an air, often consisting of the burden of the song.,
R as in Ritornello (n.) A short intermediate symphony, or instrumental passage, in the course of a vocal piece; an interlude.,
R as in Ritratto (n.) A picture.,
R as in Ritual (a.) Of or pertaining to rites or ritual; as, ritual service or sacrifices; the ritual law.,
R as in Ritual (n.) A prescribed form of performing divine service in a particular church or communion; as, the Jewish ritual.,
R as in Ritual (n.) Hence, the code of ceremonies observed by an organization; as, the ritual of the freemasons.,
R as in Ritual (n.) A book containing the rites to be observed.,
R as in Ritualism (n.) A system founded upon a ritual or prescribed form of religious worship; adherence to, or observance of, a ritual.,
R as in Ritualism (n.) Specifically :(a) The principles and practices of those in the Church of England, who in the development of the Oxford movement, so-called, have insisted upon a return to the use in church services of the symbolic ornaments (altar cloths, encharistic vestments, candles, etc.) that were sanctioned in the second year of Edward VI., and never, as they maintain, forbidden by competennt authority, although generally disused. Schaff-Herzog Encyc. (b) Also, the principles and practices of those in the Protestant Episcopal Church who sympathize with this party in the Church of England.,
R as in Ritualist (n.) One skilled un, or attached to, a ritual; one who advocates or practices ritualism.,
R as in Ritualistic (a.) Pertaining to, or in accordance with, a ritual; adhering to ritualism.,
R as in Ritually (adv.) By rites, or by a particular rite.,
R as in Rivage (n.) A bank, shore, or coast.,
R as in Rivage (n.) A duty paid to the crown for the passage of vessels on certain rivers.,
R as in Rival (n.) A person having a common right or privilege with another; a partner.,
R as in Rival (n.) One who is in pursuit of the same object as another; one striving to reach or obtain something which another is attempting to obtain, and which one only can posses; a competitor; as, rivals in love; rivals for a crown.,
R as in Rival (a.) Having the same pretensions or claims; standing in competition for superiority; as, rival lovers; rival claims or pretensions.,
R as in Rivaled (imp. & p. p.) of Rival,
R as in Rivalled () of Rival,
R as in Rivaling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rival,
R as in Rivalling () of Rival,
R as in Rival (v. t.) To stand in competition with; to strive to gain some object in opposition to; as, to rival one in love.,
R as in Rival (v. t.) To strive to equal or exel; to emulate.,
R as in Rival (v. i.) To be in rivalry.,
R as in Rivaless (n.) A female rival.,
R as in Rivality (n.) Rivalry; competition.,
R as in Rivality (n.) Equality, as of right or rank.,
R as in Rivalries (pl. ) of Rivalry,
R as in Rivalry (n.) The act of rivaling, or the state of being a rival; a competition.,
R as in Rivalship (n.) Rivalry.,
R as in Rived (imp.) of Rive,
R as in Rived (p. p.) of Rive,
R as in Riven () of Rive,
R as in Riving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rive,
R as in Rive (v. t.) To rend asunder by force; to split; to cleave; as, to rive timber for rails or shingles.,
R as in Rive (v. i.) To be split or rent asunder.,
R as in Rive (n.) A place torn; a rent; a rift.,
R as in Riveled (imp. & p. p.) of Rivel,
R as in Riveling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rivel,
R as in Rivel (v. t.) To contract into wrinkles; to shrivel; to shrink; as, riveled fruit; riveled flowers.,
R as in Rivel (n.) A wrinkle; a rimple.,
R as in Riven () p. p. & a. from Rive.,
R as in River (n.) One who rives or splits.,
R as in River (n.) A large stream of water flowing in a bed or channel and emptying into the ocean, a sea, a lake, or another stream; a stream larger than a rivulet or brook.,
R as in River (n.) Fig.: A large stream; copious flow; abundance; as, rivers of blood; rivers of oil.,
R as in River (v. i.) To hawk by the side of a river; to fly hawks at river fowl.,
R as in Rivered (a.) Supplied with rivers; as, a well rivered country.,
R as in Riveret (n.) A rivulet.,
R as in Riverhood (n.) The quality or state of being a river.,
R as in Riverling (n.) A rivulet.,
R as in Riverside (n.) The side or bank of a river.,
R as in Rivery (a.) Having rivers; as, a rivery country.,
R as in Rivet (n.) A metallic pin with a head, used for uniting two plates or pieces of material together, by passing it through them and then beating or pressing down the point so that it shall spread out and form a second head; a pin or bolt headed or clinched at both ends.,
R as in Riveted (imp. & p. p.) of Rivet,
R as in Riveting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rivet,
R as in Rivet (v. t.) To fasten with a rivet, or with rivets; as, to rivet two pieces of iron.,
R as in Rivet (v. t.) To spread out the end or point of, as of a metallic pin, rod, or bolt, by beating or pressing, so as to form a sort of head.,
R as in Rivet (v. t.) Hence, to fasten firmly; to make firm, strong, or immovable; as, to rivet friendship or affection.,
R as in Riveter (n.) One who rivets.,
R as in Riveting (n.) The act of joining with rivets; the act of spreading out and clinching the end, as of a rivet, by beating or pressing.,
R as in Riveting (n.) The whole set of rivets, collectively.,
R as in Rivose (a.) Marked with sinuate and irregular furrows.,
R as in Rivulet (n.) A small stream or brook; a streamlet.,
R as in Rixation (n.) A brawl or quarrel.,
R as in Rixatrix (n.) A scolding or quarrelsome woman; a scold.,
R as in Rixdaler (n.) A Dutch silver coin, worth about $1.00.,
R as in Rix-dollar (n.) A name given to several different silver coins of Denmark, Holland, Sweden,, NOrway, etc., varying in value from about 30 cents to $1.10; also, a British coin worth about 36 cents, used in Ceylon and at the Cape of Good Hope. See Rigsdaler, Riksdaler, and Rixdaler.,
R as in Rizzar (v. t.) To dry in the sun; as, rizzared haddock.,
R as in Roach (n.) A cockroach.,
R as in Roach (n.) A European fresh-water fish of the Carp family (Leuciscus rutilus). It is silver-white, with a greenish back.,
R as in Roach (n.) An American chub (Semotilus bullaris); the fallfish.,
R as in Roach (n.) The redfin, or shiner.,
R as in Roach (n.) A convex curve or arch cut in the edge of a sail to prevent chafing, or to secure a better fit.,
R as in Roach (v. t.) To cause to arch.,
R as in Roach (v. t.) To cut off, as a horse's mane, so that the part left shall stand upright.,
R as in Roach-backed (a.) Having a back like that of roach; -- said of a horse whose back a convex instead of a concave curve.,
R as in Road (n.) A journey, or stage of a journey.,
R as in Road (n.) An inroad; an invasion; a raid.,
R as in Road (n.) A place where one may ride; an open way or public passage for vehicles, persons, and animals; a track for travel, forming a means of communication between one city, town, or place, and another.,
R as in Road (n.) A place where ships may ride at anchor at some distance from the shore; a roadstead; -- often in the plural; as, Hampton Roads.,
R as in Roadbed (n.) In railroads, the bed or foundation on which the superstructure (ties, rails, etc.) rests; in common roads, the whole material laid in place and ready for travel.,
R as in Roadless (a.) Destitute of roads.,
R as in Roadmaker (n.) One who makes roads.,
R as in Roadside (n.) Land adjoining a road or highway; the part of a road or highway that borders the traveled part. Also used ajectively.,
R as in Roadstead (n.) An anchorage off shore. Same as Road, 4.,
R as in Roadster (n.) A clumsy vessel that works its way from one anchorage to another by means of the tides.,
R as in Roadster (n.) A horse that is accustomed to traveling on the high road, or is suitable for use on ordinary roads.,
R as in Roadster (n.) A bicycle or tricycle adapted for common roads rather than for the racing track.,
R as in Roadster (n.) One who drives much; a coach driver.,
R as in Roadster (n.) A hunter who keeps to the roads instead of following the hounds across country.,
R as in Roadway (n.) A road; especially, the part traveled by carriages.,
R as in Roamed (imp. & p. p.) of Roam,
R as in Roaming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Roam,
R as in Roam (v. i.) To go from place to place without any certain purpose or direction; to rove; to wander.,
R as in Roam (v. t.) To range or wander over.,
R as in Roam (n.) The act of roaming; a wandering; a ramble; as, he began his roam o'er hill amd dale.,
R as in Roamer (n.) One who roams; a wanderer.,
R as in Roan (a.) Having a bay, chestnut, brown, or black color, with gray or white thickly interspersed; -- said of a horse.,
R as in Roan (a.) Made of the leather called roan; as, roan binding.,
R as in Roan (n.) The color of a roan horse; a roan color.,
R as in Roan (n.) A roan horse.,
R as in Roan (n.) A kind of leather used for slippers, bookbinding, etc., made from sheepskin, tanned with sumac and colored to imitate ungrained morocco.,
R as in Roared (imp. & p. p.) of Roar,
R as in Roaring (p. pr. & vvb. n.) of Roar,
R as in Roar (v. i.) To cry with a full, loud, continued sound.,
R as in Roar (v. i.) To bellow, or utter a deep, loud cry, as a lion or other beast.,
R as in Roar (v. i.) To cry loudly, as in pain, distress, or anger.,
R as in Roar (v. i.) To make a loud, confused sound, as winds, waves, passing vehicles, a crowd of persons when shouting together, or the like.,
R as in Roar (v. i.) To be boisterous; to be disorderly.,
R as in Roar (v. i.) To laugh out loudly and continuously; as, the hearers roared at his jokes.,
R as in Roar (v. i.) To make a loud noise in breathing, as horses having a certain disease. See Roaring, 2.,
R as in Roar (v. t.) To cry aloud; to proclaim loudly.,
R as in Roar (n.) The sound of roaring.,
R as in Roar (n.) The deep, loud cry of a wild beast; as, the roar of a lion.,
R as in Roar (n.) The cry of one in pain, distress, anger, or the like.,
R as in Roar (n.) A loud, continuous, and confused sound; as, the roar of a cannon, of the wind, or the waves; the roar of ocean.,
R as in Roar (n.) A boisterous outcry or shouting, as in mirth.,
R as in Roarer (n.) One who, or that which, roars.,
R as in Roarer (n.) A riotous fellow; a roaring boy.,
R as in Roarer (n.) A horse subject to roaring. See Roaring, 2.,
R as in Roarer (n.) The barn owl.,
R as in Roaring (n.) A loud, deep, prolonged sound, as of a large beast, or of a person in distress, anger, mirth, etc., or of a noisy congregation.,
R as in Roaring (n.) An affection of the windpipe of a horse, causing a loud, peculiar noise in breathing under exertion; the making of the noise so caused. See Roar, v. i., 5.,
R as in Roaringly (adv.) In a roaring manner.,
R as in Roasted (imp. & p. p.) of Roast,
R as in Roasting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Roast,
R as in Roast (v. t.) To cook by exposure to radiant heat before a fire; as, to roast meat on a spit, or in an oven open toward the fire and having reflecting surfaces within; also, to cook in a close oven.,
R as in Roast (v. t.) To cook by surrounding with hot embers, ashes, sand, etc.; as, to roast a potato in ashes.,
R as in Roast (v. t.) To dry and parch by exposure to heat; as, to roast coffee; to roast chestnuts, or peanuts.,
R as in Roast (v. t.) Hence, to heat to excess; to heat violently; to burn.,
R as in Roast (v. t.) To dissipate by heat the volatile parts of, as ores.,
R as in Roast (v. t.) To banter severely.,
R as in Roast (v. i.) To cook meat, fish, etc., by heat, as before the fire or in an oven.,
R as in Roast (v. i.) To undergo the process of being roasted.,
R as in Roast (n.) That which is roasted; a piece of meat which has been roasted, or is suitable for being roasted.,
R as in Roast (a.) Roasted; as, roast beef.,
R as in Roaster (n.) One who roasts meat.,
R as in Roaster (n.) A contrivance for roasting.,
R as in Roaster (n.) A pig, or other article of food fit for roasting.,
R as in Roasting () a. & n., from Roast, v.,
R as in Rob (n.) The inspissated juice of ripe fruit, obtained by evaporation of the juice over a fire till it acquires the consistence of a sirup. It is sometimes mixed with honey or sugar.,
R as in Robbed (imp. & p. p.) of Rob,
R as in Robbing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rob,
R as in Rob (v. t.) To take (something) away from by force; to strip by stealing; to plunder; to pillage; to steal from.,
R as in Rob (v. t.) To take the property of (any one) from his person, or in his presence, feloniously, and against his will, by violence or by putting him in fear.,
R as in Rob (v. t.) To deprive of, or withhold from, unjustly or injuriously; to defraud; as, to rob one of his rest, or of his good name; a tree robs the plants near it of sunlight.,
R as in Rob (v. i.) To take that which belongs to another, without right or permission, esp. by violence.,
R as in Roband (n.) See Roperand.,
R as in Robber (n.) One who robs; in law, one who feloniously takes goods or money from the person of another by violence or by putting him in fear.,
R as in Robberies (pl. ) of Robbery,
R as in Robbery (n.) The act or practice of robbing; theft.,
R as in Robbery (n.) The crime of robbing. See Rob, v. t., 2.,
R as in Robbin (n.) A kind of package in which pepper and other dry commodities are sometimes exported from the East Indies. The robbin of rice in Malabar weighs about 84 pounds.,
R as in Robbin (n.) See Ropeband.,
R as in Robe (v. t.) An outer garment; a dress of a rich, flowing, and elegant style or make; hence, a dress of state, rank, office, or the like.,
R as in Robe (v. t.) A skin of an animal, especially, a skin of the bison, dressed with the fur on, and used as a wrap.,
R as in Robed (imp. & p. p.) of Robe,
R as in Robing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Robe,
R as in Robe (v. t.) To invest with a robe or robes; to dress; to array; as, fields robed with green.,
R as in Robe-de-chambre (n.) A dressing gown, or morning gown.,
R as in -men (pl. ) of Robertsman,
R as in Roberdsman (n.) Alt. of Robertsman,
R as in Robertsman (n.) A bold, stout robber, or night thief; -- said to be so called from Robin Hood.,
R as in Robert (n.) See Herb Robert, under Herb.,
R as in Robin (n.) A small European singing bird (Erythacus rubecula), having a reddish breast; -- called also robin redbreast, robinet, and ruddock.,
R as in Robin (n.) An American singing bird (Merula migratoria), having the breast chestnut, or dull red. The upper parts are olive-gray, the head and tail blackish. Called also robin redbreast, and migratory thrush.,
R as in Robin (n.) Any one of several species of Australian warblers of the genera Petroica, Melanadrays, and allied genera; as, the scarlet-breasted robin (Petroica mullticolor).,
R as in Robin (n.) Any one of several Asiatic birds; as, the Indian robins. See Indian robin, below.,
R as in Robinet (n.) The chaffinch; -- called also roberd.,
R as in Robinet (n.) The European robin.,
R as in Robinet (n.) A military engine formerly used for throwing darts and stones.,
R as in Robing (n.) The act of putting on a robe.,
R as in Robin Goodfellow () A celebrated fairy; Puck. See Puck.,
R as in Robinia (n.) A genus of leguminous trees including the common locust of North America (Robinia Pseudocacia).,
R as in Roborant (a.) Strengthening.,
R as in Roborant (n.) A strengthening medicine; a tonic.,
R as in Roborate (v. t.) To give strength or support to; to confirm.,
R as in Roboration (n.) The act of strengthening.,
R as in Roborean (a.) Alt. of Roboreous,
R as in Roboreous (a.) Made of oak.,
R as in Robust (a.) Evincing strength; indicating vigorous health; strong; sinewy; muscular; vigorous; sound; as, a robust body; robust youth; robust health.,
R as in Robust (a.) Violent; rough; rude.,
R as in Robust (a.) Requiring strength or vigor; as, robust employment.,
R as in Robustious (a.) Robust.,
R as in Robustly (adv.) In a robust manner.,
R as in Robustness (n.) The quality or state of being robust.,
R as in Roc (n.) A monstrous bird of Arabian mythology.,
R as in Rocambole (n.) A name of Allium Scorodoprasum and A. Ascalonium, two kinds of garlic, the latter of which is also called shallot.,
R as in Roccellic (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, a dibasic acid of the oxalic series found in archil (Roccella tinctoria, etc.), and other lichens, and extracted as a white crystalline substance C17H32O4.,
R as in Roccellin (n.) A red dyestuff, used as a substitute for cochineal, archil, etc. It consists of the sodium salt of a complex azo derivative of naphtol.,
R as in Roche (n.) Rock.,
R as in Roche alum () A kind of alum occuring in small fragments; -- so called from Rocca, in Syria, whence alum is said to have been obtained; -- also called rock alum.,
R as in Rochelime (n.) Lime in the lump after it is burned; quicklime.,
R as in Rochelle (n.) A seaport town in France.,
R as in Roche moutonnee () See Sheepback.,
R as in Rochet (n.) A linen garment resembling the surplise, but with narrower sleeves, also without sleeves, worn by bishops, and by some other ecclesiastical dignitaries, in certain religious ceremonies.,
R as in Rochet (n.) A frock or outer garment worn in the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries.,
R as in Rochet (n.) The red gurnard, or gurnet. See Gurnard.,
R as in Roching cask () A tank in which alum is crystallized from a solution.,
R as in Rock (n.) See Roc.,
R as in Rock (n.) A distaff used in spinning; the staff or frame about which flax is arranged, and from which the thread is drawn in spinning.,
R as in Rock (n.) A large concreted mass of stony material; a large fixed stone or crag. See Stone.,
R as in Rock (n.) Any natural deposit forming a part of the earth's crust, whether consolidated or not, including sand, earth, clay, etc., when in natural beds.,
R as in Rock (n.) That which resembles a rock in firmness; a defense; a support; a refuge.,
R as in Rock (n.) Fig.: Anything which causes a disaster or wreck resembling the wreck of a vessel upon a rock.,
R as in Rock (n.) The striped bass. See under Bass.,
R as in Rocked (imp. & p. p.) of Rock,
R as in Rocking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rock,
R as in Rock (v. t.) To cause to sway backward and forward, as a body resting on a support beneath; as, to rock a cradle or chair; to cause to vibrate; to cause to reel or totter.,
R as in Rock (v. t.) To move as in a cradle; hence, to put to sleep by rocking; to still; to quiet.,
R as in Rock (v. i.) To move or be moved backward and forward; to be violently agitated; to reel; to totter.,
R as in Rock (v. i.) To roll or saway backward and forward upon a support; as, to rock in a rocking-chair.,
R as in Rockaway () Formerly, a light, low, four-wheeled carriage, with standing top, open at the sides, but having waterproof curtains which could be let down when occasion required; now, a somewhat similar, but heavier, carriage, inclosed, except in front, and having a door at each side.,
R as in Rockelay (n.) Alt. of Rocklay,
R as in Rocklay (n.) See Rokelay.,
R as in Rocker (n.) One who rocks; specifically, one who rocks a cradle.,
R as in Rocker (n.) One of the curving pieces of wood or metal on which a cradle, chair, etc., rocks.,
R as in Rocker (n.) Any implement or machine working with a rocking motion, as a trough mounted on rockers for separating gold dust from gravel, etc., by agitation in water.,
R as in Rocker (n.) A play horse on rockers; a rocking-horse.,
R as in Rocker (n.) A chair mounted on rockers; a rocking-chair.,
R as in Rocker (n.) A skate with a curved blade, somewhat resembling in shape the rocker of a cradle.,
R as in Rocker (n.) Same as Rock shaft.,
R as in Rockered (a.) Shaped like a rocker; curved; as, a rockered keel.,
R as in Rockery (n.) A mound formed of fragments of rock, earth, etc., and set with plants.,
R as in Rocket (n.) A cruciferous plant (Eruca sativa) sometimes eaten in Europe as a salad.,
R as in Rocket (n.) Damewort.,
R as in Rocket (n.) Rocket larkspur. See below.,
R as in Rocket (n.) An artificial firework consisting of a cylindrical case of paper or metal filled with a composition of combustible ingredients, as niter, charcoal, and sulphur, and fastened to a guiding stick. The rocket is projected through the air by the force arising from the expansion of the gases liberated by combustion of the composition. Rockets are used as projectiles for various purposes, for signals, and also for pyrotechnic display.,
R as in Rocket (n.) A blunt lance head used in the joust.,
R as in Rocketed (imp. & p. p.) of Rocket,
R as in Rocketing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rocket,
R as in Rocket (v. i.) To rise straight up; said of birds; usually in the present participle or as an adjective.,
R as in Rocketer (n.) A bird, especially a pheasant, which, being flushed, rises straight in the air like a rocket.,
R as in Rockfish (n.) Any one of several California scorpaenoid food fishes of the genus Sebastichthys, as the red rockfish (S. ruber). They are among the most important of California market fishes. Called also rock cod, and garrupa.,
R as in Rockfish (n.) The striped bass. See Bass.,
R as in Rockfish (n.) Any one of several species of Florida and Bermuda groupers of the genus Epinephelus.,
R as in Rockfish (n.) An American fresh-water darter; the log perch.,
R as in Rockiness (n.) The state or quality of being rocky.,
R as in Rocking (a.) Having a swaying, rolling, or back-and-forth movement; used for rocking.,
R as in Rocking-chair (n.) A chair mounted on rockers, in which one may rock.,
R as in Rocking-horse (n.) The figure of a horse, mounted upon rockers, for children to ride.,
R as in Rocking-stone (n.) A stone, often of great size and weight, resting upon another stone, and so exactly poised that it can be rocked, or slightly moved, with but little force.,
R as in Rockless (a.) Being without rocks.,
R as in Rockling (n.) Any species of small marine fishes of the genera Onos and Rhinonemus (formerly Motella), allied to the cod. They have three or four barbels.,
R as in Rockrose (n.) A name given to any species of the genus Helianthemum, low shrubs or herbs with yellow flowers, especially the European H. vulgare and the American frostweed, H. Canadense.,
R as in Rock shaft () A shaft that oscillates on its journals, instead of revolving, -- usually carrying levers by means of which it receives and communicates reciprocating motion, as in the valve gear of some steam engines; -- called also rocker, rocking shaft, and way shaft.,
R as in Rock staff (v. i.) An oscillating bar in a machine, as the lever of the bellows of a forge.,
R as in Rocksucker (n.) A lamprey.,
R as in Rockweed (n.) Any coarse seaweed growing on sea-washed rocks, especially Fucus.,
R as in Rockwood (n.) Ligniform asbestus; also, fossil wood.,
R as in Rockwork (n.) Stonework in which the surface is left broken and rough.,
R as in Rockwork (n.) A rockery.,
R as in Rocky (a.) Full of, or abounding in, rocks; consisting of rocks; as, a rocky mountain; a rocky shore.,
R as in Rocky (a.) Like a rock; as, the rocky orb of a shield.,
R as in Rocky (a.) Fig.: Not easily impressed or affected; hard; unfeeling; obdurate; as, a rocky bosom.,
R as in Rocoa (n.) The orange-colored pulp covering the seeds of the tropical plant Bixa Orellana, from which annotto is prepared. See Annoto.,
R as in Rococo (n.) A florid style of ornamentation which prevailed in Europe in the latter part of the eighteenth century.,
R as in Rococo (a.) Of or pertaining to the style called rococo; like rococo; florid; fantastic.,
R as in Rod (n.) A straight and slender stick; a wand; hence, any slender bar, as of wood or metal (applied to various purposes).,
R as in Rod (n.) An instrument of punishment or correction; figuratively, chastisement.,
R as in Rod (n.) A kind of sceptor, or badge of office; hence, figuratively, power; authority; tyranny; oppression.,
R as in Rod (n.) A support for a fishing line; a fish pole.,
R as in Rod (n.) A member used in tension, as for sustaining a suspended weight, or in tension and compression, as for transmitting reciprocating motion, etc.; a connecting bar.,
R as in Rod (n.) An instrument for measuring.,
R as in Rod (n.) A measure of length containing sixteen and a half feet; -- called also perch, and pole.,
R as in Roddy (a.) Full of rods or twigs.,
R as in Roddy (a.) Ruddy.,
R as in Rode (n.) Redness; complexion.,
R as in Rode () imp. of Ride.,
R as in Rode (n.) See Rood, the cross.,
R as in Rodent (v. t.) Gnawing; biting; corroding; (Med.) applied to a destructive variety of cancer or ulcer.,
R as in Rodent (v. t.) Gnawing.,
R as in Rodent (v. t.) Of or pertaining to the Rodentia.,
R as in Rodent (n.) One of the Rodentia.,
R as in Rodentia (a.) An order of mammals having two (rarely four) large incisor teeth in each jaw, distant from the molar teeth. The rats, squirrels, rabbits, marmots, and beavers belong to this order.,
R as in Rodeo (n.) A round-up. See Round-up.,
R as in Rodge (n.) The gadwall.,
R as in Rodomel (n.) Juice of roses mixed with honey.,
R as in Rodomont (n.) A vain or blustering boaster; a braggart; a braggadocio.,
R as in Rodomont (a.) Bragging; vainly boasting.,
R as in Rodomontade (n.) Vain boasting; empty bluster or vaunting; rant.,
R as in Rodomontade (v. i.) To boast; to brag; to bluster; to rant.,
R as in Rodomontadist (n.) One who boasts.,
R as in Rodomontado (n.) Rodomontade.,
R as in Rodomontador (n.) A rodomontadist.,
R as in Rodsmen (pl. ) of Rodsman,
R as in Rodsman (n.) One who carries and holds a leveling staff, or rod, in a surveying party.,
R as in Rody (a.) Ruddy.,
R as in Roe (n.) A roebuck. See Roebuck.,
R as in Roe (n.) The female of any species of deer.,
R as in Roe (n.) The ova or spawn of fishes and amphibians, especially when still inclosed in the ovarian membranes. Sometimes applied, loosely, to the sperm and the testes of the male.,
R as in Roe (n.) A mottled appearance of light and shade in wood, especially in mahogany.,
R as in Roebuck (n.) A small European and Asiatic deer (Capreolus capraea) having erect, cylindrical, branched antlers, forked at the summit. This, the smallest European deer, is very nimble and graceful. It always prefers a mountainous country, or high grounds.,
R as in Roed (a.) Filled with roe.,
R as in Roedeer (n.) The roebuck.,
R as in Roestone (n.) Same as Oolite.,
R as in Rogation (n.) The demand, by the consuls or tribunes, of a law to be passed by the people; a proposed law or decree.,
R as in Rogation (n.) Litany; supplication.,
R as in Rogatory (a.) Seeking information; authorized to examine witnesses or ascertain facts; as, a rogatory commission.,
R as in Rogue (n.) A vagrant; an idle, sturdy beggar; a vagabond; a tramp.,
R as in Rogue (n.) A deliberately dishonest person; a knave; a cheat.,
R as in Rogue (n.) One who is pleasantly mischievous or frolicsome; hence, often used as a term of endearment.,
R as in Rogue (n.) An elephant that has separated from a herd and roams about alone, in which state it is very savage.,
R as in Rogue (n.) A worthless plant occuring among seedlings of some choice variety.,
R as in Rogue (v. i.) To wander; to play the vagabond; to play knavish tricks.,
R as in Rogue (v. t.) To give the name or designation of rogue to; to decry.,
R as in Rogue (v. t.) To destroy (plants that do not come up to a required standard).,
R as in Roguery (n.) The life of a vargant.,
R as in Roguery (n.) The practices of a rogue; knavish tricks; cheating; fraud; dishonest practices.,
R as in Roguery (n.) Arch tricks; mischievousness.,
R as in Rogueship (n.) The quality or state of being a rogue.,
R as in Roguish (a.) Vagrant.,
R as in Roguish (a.) Resembling, or characteristic of, a rogue; knavish.,
R as in Roguish (a.) Pleasantly mischievous; waggish; arch.,
R as in Roguy (a.) Roguish.,
R as in Rohob (n.) An inspissated juice. See Rob.,
R as in Roial (a.) Royal.,
R as in Roiled (imp. & p. p.) of Roil,
R as in Roiling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Roil,
R as in Roil (v.) To render turbid by stirring up the dregs or sediment of; as, to roil wine, cider, etc. , in casks or bottles; to roil a spring.,
R as in Roil (v.) To disturb, as the temper; to ruffle the temper of; to rouse the passion of resentment in; to perplex.,
R as in Roil (v. i.) To wander; to roam.,
R as in Roil (v. i.) To romp.,
R as in Roily (a.) Turbid; as, roily water.,
R as in Roin (v. t.) See Royne.,
R as in Roin (n.) A scab; a scurf, or scurfy spot.,
R as in Roinish (a.) See Roynish.,
R as in Roint (interj.) See Aroint.,
R as in Roist (v. i.) See Roister.,
R as in Roister (v. i.) To bluster; to swagger; to bully; to be bold, noisy, vaunting, or turbulent.,
R as in Roister (n.) See Roisterer.,
R as in Roisterer (n.) A blustering, turbulent fellow.,
R as in Roisterly (a.) Blustering; violent.,
R as in Roisterly (adv.) In a roistering manner.,
R as in Rokambole (n.) See Rocambole.,
R as in Roke (n.) Mist; smoke; damp,
R as in Roke (n.) A vein of ore.,
R as in Rokeage (n.) Alt. of Rokee,
R as in Rokee (n.) Parched Indian corn, pounded up and mixed with sugar; -- called also yokeage.,
R as in Rokelay (n.) A short cloak.,
R as in Roky (a.) Misty; foggy; cloudy.,
R as in Role (n.) A part, or character, performed by an actor in a drama; hence, a part of function taken or assumed by any one; as, he has now taken the role of philanthropist.,
R as in Rolled (imp. & p. p.) of Roll,
R as in Rolling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Roll,
R as in Roll (n.) To cause to revolve by turning over and over; to move by turning on an axis; to impel forward by causing to turn over and over on a supporting surface; as, to roll a wheel, a ball, or a barrel.,
R as in Roll (n.) To wrap round on itself; to form into a spherical or cylindrical body by causing to turn over and over; as, to roll a sheet of paper; to roll parchment; to roll clay or putty into a ball.,
R as in Roll (n.) To bind or involve by winding, as in a bandage; to inwrap; -- often with up; as, to roll up a parcel.,
R as in Roll (n.) To drive or impel forward with an easy motion, as of rolling; as, a river rolls its waters to the ocean.,
R as in Roll (n.) To utter copiously, esp. with sounding words; to utter with a deep sound; -- often with forth, or out; as, to roll forth some one's praises; to roll out sentences.,
R as in Roll (n.) To press or level with a roller; to spread or form with a roll, roller, or rollers; as, to roll a field; to roll paste; to roll steel rails, etc.,
R as in Roll (n.) To move, or cause to be moved, upon, or by means of, rollers or small wheels.,
R as in Roll (n.) To beat with rapid, continuous strokes, as a drum; to sound a roll upon.,
R as in Roll (n.) To apply (one line or surface) to another without slipping; to bring all the parts of (one line or surface) into successive contact with another, in suck manner that at every instant the parts that have been in contact are equal.,
R as in Roll (n.) To turn over in one's mind; to revolve.,
R as in Roll (v. i.) To move, as a curved object may, along a surface by rotation without sliding; to revolve upon an axis; to turn over and over; as, a ball or wheel rolls on the earth; a body rolls on an inclined plane.,
R as in Roll (v. i.) To move on wheels; as, the carriage rolls along the street.,
R as in Roll (v. i.) To be wound or formed into a cylinder or ball; as, the cloth rolls unevenly; the snow rolls well.,
R as in Roll (v. i.) To fall or tumble; -- with over; as, a stream rolls over a precipice.,
R as in Roll (v. i.) To perform a periodical revolution; to move onward as with a revolution; as, the rolling year; ages roll away.,
R as in Roll (v. i.) To turn; to move circularly.,
R as in Roll (v. i.) To move, as waves or billows, with alternate swell and depression.,
R as in Roll (v. i.) To incline first to one side, then to the other; to rock; as, there is a great difference in ships about rolling; in a general semse, to be tossed about.,
R as in Roll (v. i.) To turn over, or from side to side, while lying down; to wallow; as, a horse rolls.,
R as in Roll (v. i.) To spread under a roller or rolling-pin; as, the paste rolls well.,
R as in Roll (v. i.) To beat a drum with strokes so rapid that they can scarcely be distinguished by the ear.,
R as in Roll (v. i.) To make a loud or heavy rumbling noise; as, the thunder rolls.,
R as in Roll (v.) The act of rolling, or state of being rolled; as, the roll of a ball; the roll of waves.,
R as in Roll (v.) That which rolls; a roller.,
R as in Roll (v.) A heavy cylinder used to break clods.,
R as in Roll (v.) One of a set of revolving cylinders, or rollers, between which metal is pressed, formed, or smoothed, as in a rolling mill; as, to pass rails through the rolls.,
R as in Roll (v.) That which is rolled up; as, a roll of fat, of wool, paper, cloth, etc.,
R as in Roll (v.) A document written on a piece of parchment, paper, or other materials which may be rolled up; a scroll.,
R as in Roll (v.) Hence, an official or public document; a register; a record; also, a catalogue; a list.,
R as in Roll (v.) A quantity of cloth wound into a cylindrical form; as, a roll of carpeting; a roll of ribbon.,
R as in Roll (v.) A cylindrical twist of tobacco.,
R as in Roll (v.) A kind of shortened raised biscuit or bread, often rolled or doubled upon itself.,
R as in Roll (v.) The oscillating movement of a vessel from side to side, in sea way, as distinguished from the alternate rise and fall of bow and stern called pitching.,
R as in Roll (v.) A heavy, reverberatory sound; as, the roll of cannon, or of thunder.,
R as in Roll (v.) The uniform beating of a drum with strokes so rapid as scarcely to be distinguished by the ear.,
R as in Roll (v.) Part; office; duty; role.,
R as in Rollable (a.) Capable of being rolled.,
R as in Roller (n.) One who, or that which, rolls; especially, a cylinder, sometimes grooved, of wood, stone, metal, etc., used in husbandry and the arts.,
R as in Roller (n.) A bandage; a fillet; properly, a long and broad bandage used in surgery.,
R as in Roller (n.) One of series of long, heavy waves which roll in upon a coast, sometimes in calm weather.,
R as in Roller (n.) A long, belt-formed towel, to be suspended on a rolling cylinder; -- called also roller towel.,
R as in Roller (n.) A cylinder coated with a composition made principally of glue and molassess, with which forms of type are inked previously to taking an impression from them.,
R as in Roller (n.) A long cylinder on which something is rolled up; as, the roller of a man.,
R as in Roller (n.) A small wheel, as of a caster, a roller skate, etc.,
R as in Roller (n.) ANy insect whose larva rolls up leaves; a leaf roller. see Tortrix.,
R as in Roller (n.) Any one of numerous species of Old World picarian birds of the family Coraciadae. The name alludes to their habit of suddenly turning over or "tumbling" in flight.,
R as in Roller (n.) Any species of small ground snakes of the family Tortricidae.,
R as in Rolley (n.) A small wagon used for the underground work of a mine.,
R as in Rollicked (imp. & p. p.) of Rollic,
R as in Rollicking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rollic,
R as in Rollic (v. i.) To move or play in a careless, swaggering manner, with a frolicsome air; to frolic; to sport; commonly in the form rollicking.,
R as in Rolling (a.) Rotating on an axis, or moving along a surface by rotation; turning over and over as if on an axis or a pivot; as, a rolling wheel or ball.,
R as in Rolling (a.) Moving on wheels or rollers, or as if on wheels or rollers; as, a rolling chair.,
R as in Rolling (a.) Having gradual, rounded undulations of surface; as, a rolling country; rolling land.,
R as in Rolling-pin (n.) A cylindrical piece of wood or other material, with which paste or dough may be rolled out and reduced to a proper thickness.,
R as in Rollway (n.) A place prepared for rolling logs into a stream.,
R as in Rolly-poly (n.) A kind of pudding made of paste spread with fruit, rolled into a cylindrical form, and boiled or steamed.,
R as in Rolly-poly (a.) Shaped like a rolly-poly; short and stout.,
R as in Rolly-pooly (n.) A game in which a ball, rolling into a certain place, wins.,
R as in Roly-poly (n. & a.) Rolly-poly.,
R as in Romage (n. & v.) See Rummage.,
R as in Romaic (a.) Of or relating to modern Greece, and especially to its language.,
R as in Romaic (n.) The modern Greek language, now usually called by the Greeks Hellenic or Neo-Hellenic.,
R as in Roman (a.) Of or pertaining to Rome, or the Roman people; like or characteristic of Rome, the Roman people, or things done by Romans; as, Roman fortitude; a Roman aqueduct; Roman art.,
R as in Roman (a.) Of or pertaining to the Roman Catholic religion; professing that religion.,
R as in Roman (a.) Upright; erect; -- said of the letters or kind of type ordinarily used, as distinguished from Italic characters.,
R as in Roman (a.) Expressed in letters, not in figures, as I., IV., i., iv., etc.; -- said of numerals, as distinguished from the Arabic numerals, 1, 4, etc.,
R as in Roman (n.) A native, or permanent resident, of Rome; a citizen of Rome, or one upon whom certain rights and privileges of a Roman citizen were conferred.,
R as in Roman (n.) Roman type, letters, or print, collectively; -- in distinction from Italics.,
R as in Romance (n.) A species of fictitious writing, originally composed in meter in the Romance dialects, and afterward in prose, such as the tales of the court of Arthur, and of Amadis of Gaul; hence, any fictitious and wonderful tale; a sort of novel, especially one which treats of surprising adventures usually befalling a hero or a heroine; a tale of extravagant adventures, of love, and the like.,
R as in Romance (n.) An adventure, or series of extraordinary events, resembling those narrated in romances; as, his courtship, or his life, was a romance.,
R as in Romance (n.) A dreamy, imaginative habit of mind; a disposition to ignore what is real; as, a girl full of romance.,
R as in Romance (n.) The languages, or rather the several dialects, which were originally forms of popular or vulgar Latin, and have now developed into Italian. Spanish, French, etc. (called the Romanic languages).,
R as in Romance (n.) A short lyric tale set to music; a song or short instrumental piece in ballad style; a romanza.,
R as in Romance (a.) Of or pertaining to the language or dialects known as Romance.,
R as in Romanced (imp. & p. p.) of Romance,
R as in Romancing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Romance,
R as in Romance (v. i.) To write or tell romances; to indulge in extravagant stories.,
R as in Romancer (n.) One who romances.,
R as in Romancist (n.) A romancer.,
R as in Romancy (a.) Romantic.,
R as in Romanesque (a.) Somewhat resembling the Roman; -- applied sometimes to the debased style of the later Roman empire, but esp. to the more developed architecture prevailing from the 8th century to the 12th.,
R as in Romanesque (a.) Of or pertaining to romance or fable; fanciful.,
R as in Romanesque (n.) Romanesque style.,
R as in Romanic (n.) Of or pertaining to Rome or its people.,
R as in Romanic (n.) Of or pertaining to any or all of the various languages which, during the Middle Ages, sprung out of the old Roman, or popular form of Latin, as the Italian, Spanish, Portuguese, French, Provencal, etc.,
R as in Romanic (n.) Related to the Roman people by descent; -- said especially of races and nations speaking any of the Romanic tongues.,
R as in Romanish (a.) Pertaining to Romanism.,
R as in Romanism (n.) The tenets of the Church of Rome; the Roman Catholic religion.,
R as in Romanist (n.) One who adheres to Romanism.,
R as in Romanized (imp. & p. p.) of Romanize,
R as in Romanizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Romanize,
R as in Romanize (v. t.) To Latinize; to fill with Latin words or idioms.,
R as in Romanize (v. t.) To convert to the Roman Catholic religion.,
R as in Romanize (v. i.) To use Latin words and idioms.,
R as in Romanize (v. i.) To conform to Roman Catholic opinions, customs, or modes of speech.,
R as in Romanizer (n.) One who Romanizes.,
R as in Romansch (n.) The language of the Grisons in Switzerland, a corruption of the Latin.,
R as in Romant (n.) A romaunt.,
R as in Romantic (a.) Of or pertaining to romance; involving or resembling romance; hence, fanciful; marvelous; extravagant; unreal; as, a romantic tale; a romantic notion; a romantic undertaking.,
R as in Romantic (a.) Entertaining ideas and expectations suited to a romance; as, a romantic person; a romantic mind.,
R as in Romantic (a.) Of or pertaining to the style of the Christian and popular literature of the Middle Ages, as opposed to the classical antique; of the nature of, or appropriate to, that style; as, the romantic school of poets.,
R as in Romantic (a.) Characterized by strangeness or variety; suggestive of adventure; suited to romance; wild; picturesque; -- applied to scenery; as, a romantic landscape.,
R as in Romantical (a.) Romantic.,
R as in Romanticaly (adv.) In a romantic manner.,
R as in Romanticism (n.) A fondness for romantic characteristics or peculiarities; specifically, in modern literature, an aiming at romantic effects; -- applied to the productions of a school of writers who sought to revive certain medi/val forms and methods in opposition to the so-called classical style.,
R as in Romanticist (n.) One who advocates romanticism in modern literature.,
R as in Romanticly (adv.) Romantically.,
R as in Romanticness (n.) The state or quality of being romantic; widness; fancifulness.,
R as in Romany (n.) A gypsy.,
R as in Romany (n.) The language spoken among themselves by the gypsies.,
R as in Romanza (n.) See Romance, 5.,
R as in Romaunt (n.) A romantic story in verse; as, the "Romaunt of the Rose.",
R as in Romble (v.& n.) Rumble.,
R as in Rombowline (n.) Old, condemned canvas, rope, etc., unfit for use except in chafing gear.,
R as in Romeine (n.) Alt. of Romeite,
R as in Romeite (n.) A mineral of a hyacinth or honey-yellow color, occuring in square octahedrons. It is an antimonate of calcium.,
R as in Romekin (n.) A drinking cup.,
R as in Rome penny () Alt. of Rome scot,
R as in Rome scot () See Peter pence, under Peter.,
R as in Romeward (adv.) Toward Rome, or toward the Roman Catholic Church.,
R as in Romeward (a.) Tending or directed toward Rome, or toward the Roman Catholic Church.,
R as in Romic (n.) A method of notation for all spoken sounds, proposed by Mr. Sweet; -- so called because it is based on the common Roman-letter alphabet. It is like the palaeotype of Mr. Ellis in the general plan, but simpler.,
R as in Romish (a.) Belonging or relating to Rome, or to the Roman Catholic Church; -- frequently used in a disparaging sense; as, the Romish church; the Romish religion, ritual, or ceremonies.,
R as in Romist (n.) A Roman Catholic.,
R as in Romped (imp. & p. p.) of Romp,
R as in Romping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Romp,
R as in Romp (v. i.) To play rudely and boisterously; to leap and frisk about in play.,
R as in Romp (n.) A girl who indulges in boisterous play.,
R as in Romp (n.) Rude, boisterous play or frolic; rough sport.,
R as in Romping (a.) Inclined to romp; indulging in romps.,
R as in Rompingly (adv.) In a romping manner.,
R as in Rompish (a.) Given to rude play; inclined to romp.,
R as in Rompu (a.) Broken, as an ordinary; cut off, or broken at the top, as a chevron, a bend, or the like.,
R as in Roncador (n.) Any one of several species of California sciaenoid food fishes, especially Roncador Stearnsi, which is an excellent market fish, and the red roncador (Corvina, / Johnius, saturna).,
R as in Ronchil (n.) An American marine food fish (Bathymaster signatus) of the North Pacific coast, allied to the tilefish.,
R as in Ronco (n.) See Croaker, n., 2. (a).,
R as in Rondache (n.) A circular shield carried by foot soldiers.,
R as in Ronde (n.) A kind of script in which the heavy strokes are nearly upright, giving the characters when taken together a round look.,
R as in Rondeau (n.) A species of lyric poetry so composed as to contain a refrain or repetition which recurs according to a fixed law, and a limited number of rhymes recurring also by rule.,
R as in Rondeau (n.) See Rondo, 1.,
R as in Rondel (n.) A small round tower erected at the foot of a bastion.,
R as in Rondel (n.) Same as Rondeau.,
R as in Rondel (n.) Specifically, a particular form of rondeau containing fourteen lines in two rhymes, the refrain being a repetition of the first and second lines as the seventh and eighth, and again as the thirteenth and fourteenth.,
R as in Rondeletia (n.) A tropical genus of rubiaceous shrubs which often have brilliant flowers.,
R as in Rondle (n.) A rondeau.,
R as in Rondle (n.) A round mass, plate, or disk; especially (Metal.), the crust or scale which forms upon the surface of molten metal in the crucible.,
R as in Rondo (n.) A composition, vocal or instrumental, commonly of a lively, cheerful character, in which the first strain recurs after each of the other strains.,
R as in Rondo (n.) See Rondeau, 1.,
R as in Rondure (n.) A round; a circle.,
R as in Rondure (n.) Roundness; plumpness.,
R as in Rong () imp. & p. p. of Ring.,
R as in Rong (n.) Rung (of a ladder).,
R as in Rongeur (n.) An instrument for removing small rough portions of bone.,
R as in Ronion (n.) Alt. of Ronyon,
R as in Ronyon (n.) A mangy or scabby creature.,
R as in Ronne () obs. imp. pl.,
R as in Ronnen () obs. p. p. of Renne, to run.,
R as in Ront (n.) A runt.,
R as in Rood (n.) A representation in sculpture or in painting of the cross with Christ hanging on it.,
R as in Rood (n.) A measure of five and a half yards in length; a rod; a perch; a pole.,
R as in Rood (n.) The fourth part of an acre, or forty square rods.,
R as in Roodebok (n.) The pallah.,
R as in Roody (a.) Rank in growth.,
R as in Roof (n.) The cover of any building, including the roofing (see Roofing) and all the materials and construction necessary to carry and maintain the same upon the walls or other uprights. In the case of a building with vaulted ceilings protected by an outer roof, some writers call the vault the roof, and the outer protection the roof mask. It is better, however, to consider the vault as the ceiling only, in cases where it has farther covering.,
R as in Roof (n.) That which resembles, or corresponds to, the covering or the ceiling of a house; as, the roof of a cavern; the roof of the mouth.,
R as in Roof (n.) The surface or bed of rock immediately overlying a bed of coal or a flat vein.,
R as in Roofed (imp. & p. p.) of Roof,
R as in Roofing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Roof,
R as in Roof (v. t.) To cover with a roof.,
R as in Roof (v. t.) To inclose in a house; figuratively, to shelter.,
R as in Roofer (n.) One who puts on roofs.,
R as in Roofing (n.) The act of covering with a roof.,
R as in Roofing (n.) The materials of which a roof is composed; materials for a roof.,
R as in Roofing (n.) Hence, the roof itself; figuratively, shelter.,
R as in Roofing (n.) The wedging, as of a horse or car, against the top of an underground passage.,
R as in Roofless (a.) Having no roof; as, a roofless house.,
R as in Roofless (a.) Having no house or home; shelterless; homeless.,
R as in Rooflet (n.) A small roof, covering, or shelter.,
R as in Rooftree (n.) The beam in the angle of a roof; hence, the roof itself.,
R as in Roofy (a.) Having roofs.,
R as in Rook (n.) Mist; fog. See Roke.,
R as in Rook (v. i.) To squat; to ruck.,
R as in Rook (n.) One of the four pieces placed on the corner squares of the board; a castle.,
R as in Rook (n.) A European bird (Corvus frugilegus) resembling the crow, but smaller. It is black, with purple and violet reflections. The base of the beak and the region around it are covered with a rough, scabrous skin, which in old birds is whitish. It is gregarious in its habits. The name is also applied to related Asiatic species.,
R as in Rook (n.) A trickish, rapacious fellow; a cheat; a sharper.,
R as in Rooked (imp. & p. p.) of Rook,
R as in Rooking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rook,
R as in Rook (v. t. & i.) To cheat; to defraud by cheating.,
R as in Rookeries (pl. ) of Rookery,
R as in Rookery (n.) The breeding place of a colony of rooks; also, the birds themselves.,
R as in Rookery (n.) A breeding place of other gregarious birds, as of herons, penguins, etc.,
R as in Rookery (n.) The breeding ground of seals, esp. of the fur seals.,
R as in Rookery (n.) A dilapidated building with many rooms and occupants; a cluster of dilapidated or mean buildings.,
R as in Rookery (n.) A brothel.,
R as in Rooky (a.) Misty; gloomy.,
R as in Room (n.) Unobstructed spase; space which may be occupied by or devoted to any object; compass; extent of place, great or small; as, there is not room for a house; the table takes up too much room.,
R as in Room (n.) A particular portion of space appropriated for occupancy; a place to sit, stand, or lie; a seat.,
R as in Room (n.) Especially, space in a building or ship inclosed or set apart by a partition; an apartment or chamber.,
R as in Room (n.) Place or position in society; office; rank; post; station; also, a place or station once belonging to, or occupied by, another, and vacated.,
R as in Room (n.) Possibility of admission; ability to admit; opportunity to act; fit occasion; as, to leave room for hope.,
R as in Roomed (imp. & p. p.) of Room,
R as in Rooming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Room,
R as in Room (v. i.) To occupy a room or rooms; to lodge; as, they arranged to room together.,
R as in Room (a.) Spacious; roomy.,
R as in Roomage (n.) Space; place; room.,
R as in Roomer (n.) A lodger.,
R as in Roomer (a.) At a greater distance; farther off.,
R as in Roomful (a.) Abounding with room or rooms; roomy.,
R as in Roomfuls (pl. ) of Roomful,
R as in Roomful (n.) As much or many as a room will hold; as, a roomful of men.,
R as in Roomily (adv.) Spaciously.,
R as in Roominess (n.) The quality or state of being roomy; spaciousness; as, the roominess of a hall.,
R as in Roomless (a.) Being without room or rooms.,
R as in Roommate (n.) One of twe or more occupying the same room or rooms; one who shares the occupancy of a room or rooms; a chum.,
R as in Roomsome (a.) Roomy.,
R as in Roomth (n.) Room; space.,
R as in Roomthy (a.) Roomy; spacious.,
R as in Roomy (a.) Having ample room; spacious; large; as, a roomy mansion; a roomy deck.,
R as in Roon (a. & n.) Vermilion red; red.,
R as in Roop (n.) See Roup.,
R as in Roorback (n.) Alt. of Roorbach,
R as in Roorbach (n.) A defamatory forgery or falsehood published for purposes of political intrigue.,
R as in Roosa oil () The East Indian name for grass oil. See under Grass.,
R as in Roost (n.) Roast.,
R as in Roost (v. t.) See Roust, v. t.,
R as in Roost (n.) The pole or other support on which fowls rest at night; a perch.,
R as in Roost (n.) A collection of fowls roosting together.,
R as in Roosted (imp. & p. p.) of Roost,
R as in Roosting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Roost,
R as in Roost (v. i.) To sit, rest, or sleep, as fowls on a pole, limb of a tree, etc.; to perch.,
R as in Roost (v. i.) Fig.; To lodge; to rest; to sleep.,
R as in Roostcock (n.) The male of the domestic fowl; a cock.,
R as in Rooster (n.) The male of the domestic fowl; a cock.,
R as in Root (v. i.) To turn up the earth with the snout, as swine.,
R as in Root (v. i.) Hence, to seek for favor or advancement by low arts or groveling servility; to fawn servilely.,
R as in Root (v. t.) To turn up or to dig out with the snout; as, the swine roots the earth.,
R as in Root (n.) The underground portion of a plant, whether a true root or a tuber, a bulb or rootstock, as in the potato, the onion, or the sweet flag.,
R as in Root (n.) The descending, and commonly branching, axis of a plant, increasing in length by growth at its extremity only, not divided into joints, leafless and without buds, and having for its offices to fix the plant in the earth, to supply it with moisture and soluble matters, and sometimes to serve as a reservoir of nutriment for future growth. A true root, however, may never reach the ground, but may be attached to a wall, etc., as in the ivy, or may hang loosely in the air, as in some epiphytic orchids.,
R as in Root (n.) An edible or esculent root, especially of such plants as produce a single root, as the beet, carrot, etc.; as, the root crop.,
R as in Root (n.) That which resembles a root in position or function, esp. as a source of nourishment or support; that from which anything proceeds as if by growth or development; as, the root of a tooth, a nail, a cancer, and the like.,
R as in Root (n.) An ancestor or progenitor; and hence, an early race; a stem.,
R as in Root (n.) A primitive form of speech; one of the earliest terms employed in language; a word from which other words are formed; a radix, or radical.,
R as in Root (n.) The cause or occasion by which anything is brought about; the source.,
R as in Root (n.) That factor of a quantity which when multiplied into itself will produce that quantity; thus, 3 is a root of 9, because 3 multiplied into itself produces 9; 3 is the cube root of 27.,
R as in Root (n.) The fundamental tone of any chord; the tone from whose harmonics, or overtones, a chord is composed.,
R as in Root (n.) The lowest place, position, or part.,
R as in Root (n.) The time which to reckon in making calculations.,
R as in Rooted (imp. & p. p.) of Root,
R as in Rooting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Root,
R as in Root (v. i.) To fix the root; to enter the earth, as roots; to take root and begin to grow.,
R as in Root (v. i.) To be firmly fixed; to be established.,
R as in Root (v. t.) To plant and fix deeply in the earth, or as in the earth; to implant firmly; hence, to make deep or radical; to establish; -- used chiefly in the participle; as, rooted trees or forests; rooted dislike.,
R as in Root (v. t.) To tear up by the root; to eradicate; to extirpate; -- with up, out, or away.,
R as in Rootcap (n.) A mass of parenchymatous cells which covers and protects the growing cells at the end of a root; a pileorhiza.,
R as in Rooted (a.) Having taken root; firmly implanted; fixed in the heart.,
R as in Rooter (n.) One who, or that which, roots; one that tears up by the roots.,
R as in Rootery (n.) A pile of roots, set with plants, mosses, etc., and used as an ornamental object in gardening.,
R as in Rootless (a.) Destitute of roots.,
R as in Rootlet (n.) A radicle; a little root.,
R as in Rootstock (n.) A perennial underground stem, producing leafly s/ems or flower stems from year to year; a rhizome.,
R as in Rooty (a.) Full of roots; as, rooty ground.,
R as in Ropalic (a.) See Rhopalic.,
R as in Rope (n.) A large, stout cord, usually one not less than an inch in circumference, made of strands twisted or braided together. It differs from cord, line, and string, only in its size. See Cordage.,
R as in Rope (n.) A row or string consisting of a number of things united, as by braiding, twining, etc.; as, a rope of onions.,
R as in Rope (n.) The small intestines; as, the ropes of birds.,
R as in Roped (imp. & p. p.) of Rope,
R as in Roping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rope,
R as in Rope (v. i.) To be formed into rope; to draw out or extend into a filament or thread, as by means of any glutinous or adhesive quality.,
R as in Rope (v. t.) To bind, fasten, or tie with a rope or cord; as, to rope a bale of goods.,
R as in Rope (v. t.) To connect or fasten together, as a party of mountain climbers, with a rope.,
R as in Rope (v. t.) To partition, separate, or divide off, by means of a rope, so as to include or exclude something; as, to rope in, or rope off, a plot of ground; to rope out a crowd.,
R as in Rope (v. t.) To lasso (a steer, horse).,
R as in Rope (v. t.) To draw, as with a rope; to entice; to inveigle; to decoy; as, to rope in customers or voters.,
R as in Rope (v. t.) To prevent from winning (as a horse), by pulling or curbing.,
R as in Ropeband (n.) A small piece of spun yarn or marline, used to fasten the head of the sail to the spar.,
R as in Ropedancer (n.) One who dances, walks, or performs acrobatic feats, on a rope extended through the air at some height.,
R as in Roper (n.) A maker of ropes.,
R as in Roper (n.) One who ropes goods; a packer.,
R as in Roper (n.) One fit to be hanged.,
R as in Ropery (n.) A place where ropes are made.,
R as in Ropery (n.) Tricks deserving the halter; roguery.,
R as in Rope's-end (v. t.) To punish with a rope's end.,
R as in Ropewalk (a.) A long, covered walk, or a low, level building, where ropes are manufactured.,
R as in Ropewalker (n.) A ropedancer.,
R as in Rope-yarn (n.) the yarn or thread of any stuff of which the strands of a rope are made.,
R as in Ropily (adv.) In a ropy manner; in a viscous or glutinous manner.,
R as in Ropiness (n.) Quality of being ropy; viscosity.,
R as in Ropish (a.) Somewhat ropy.,
R as in Ropy (a.) capable of being drawn into a thread, as a glutinous substance; stringy; viscous; tenacious; glutinous; as ropy sirup; ropy lees.,
R as in Roquelaure (n.) A cloak reaching about to, or just below, the knees, worn in the 18th century.,
R as in Roquet (v. t.) To hit, as another's ball, with one's own ball.,
R as in Roquet (v. i.) To hit another's ball with one's own.,
R as in Roral (a.) Of or pertaining to dew; consisting of dew; dewy.,
R as in Roration (n.) A falling of dew.,
R as in Roric (a.) Of or pertaining to dew; resembling dew; dewy.,
R as in Rorid (a.) Dewy; bedewed.,
R as in Roriferous (a.) generating or producing dew.,
R as in Rorifluent (a.) Flowing with dew.,
R as in Rorqual (n.) A very large North Atlantic whalebone whale (Physalus antiquorum, or Balaenoptera physalus). It has a dorsal fin, and strong longitudinal folds on the throat and belly. Called also razorback.,
R as in Rorulent (a.) Full of, or abounding in, dew.,
R as in Rorulent (a.) Having the surface appearing as if dusty, or covered with fine dew.,
R as in Rory (a.) Dewy.,
R as in Rosaceous (a.) Of or pertaining to a natural order of plants (Rosaceae) of which the rose is the type. It includes also the plums and cherries, meadowsweet, brambles, the strawberry, the hawthorn, applies, pears, service trees, and quinces.,
R as in Rosaceous (a.) Like a rose in shape or appearance; as, a rosaceous corolla.,
R as in Rosaceous (a.) Of a pure purpish pink color.,
R as in Rosacic (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, an acid (called also lithic acid) found in certain red precipitates of urine. See Uric.,
R as in Rosalgar (n.) realgar.,
R as in Rosalia (n.) A form of melody in which a phrase or passage is successively repeated, each time a step or half step higher; a melodic sequence.,
R as in Rosaniline (n.) A complex nitrogenous base, C20H21N3O, obtained by oxidizing a mixture of aniline and toluidine, as a colorless crystalline substance which forms red salts. These salts are essential components of many of the socalled aniline dyes, as fuchsine, aniline red, etc. By extension, any one of the series of substances derived from, or related to, rosaniline proper.,
R as in Rosarian (n.) A cultivator of roses.,
R as in Rosaries (pl. ) of Rosary,
R as in Rosary (n.) A bed of roses, or place where roses grow.,
R as in Rosary (n.) A series of prayers (see Note below) arranged to be recited in order, on beads; also, a string of beads by which the prayers are counted.,
R as in Rosary (n.) A chapelet; a garland; a series or collection, as of beautiful thoughts or of literary selections.,
R as in Rosary (n.) A coin bearing the figure of a rose, fraudulently circulated in Ireland in the 13th century for a penny.,
R as in Roscid (a.) Containing, or consisting of, dew; dewy.,
R as in Roscoelite (n.) A green micaceous mineral occurring in minute scales. It is essentially a silicate of aluminia and potash containing vanadium.,
R as in Rose () imp. of Rise.,
R as in Rose (n.) A flower and shrub of any species of the genus Rosa, of which there are many species, mostly found in the morthern hemispere,
R as in Rose (n.) A knot of ribbon formed like a rose; a rose knot; a rosette, esp. one worn on a shoe.,
R as in Rose (n.) A rose window. See Rose window, below.,
R as in Rose (n.) A perforated nozzle, as of a pipe, spout, etc., for delivering water in fine jets; a rosehead; also, a strainer at the foot of a pump.,
R as in Rose (n.) The erysipelas.,
R as in Rose (n.) The card of the mariner's compass; also, a circular card with radiating lines, used in other instruments.,
R as in Rose (n.) The color of a rose; rose-red; pink.,
R as in Rose (n.) A diamond. See Rose diamond, below.,
R as in Rose (v. t.) To render rose-colored; to redden; to flush.,
R as in Rose (v. t.) To perfume, as with roses.,
R as in Roseal (a.) resembling a rose in smell or color.,
R as in Roseate (a.) Full of roses; rosy; as, roseate bowers.,
R as in Roseate (a.) resembling a rose in color or fragrance; esp., tinged with rose color; blooming; as, roseate beauty; her roseate lips.,
R as in Rosebay (n.) the oleander.,
R as in Rosebay (n.) Any shrub of the genus Rhododendron.,
R as in Rosebay (n.) An herb (Epilobium spicatum) with showy purple flowers, common in Europe and North America; -- called also great willow herb.,
R as in Rosebud (n.) The flower of a rose before it opens, or when but partially open.,
R as in Rosebush (n.) The bush or shrub which bears roses.,
R as in Rose-colored (a.) Having the color of a pink rose; rose-pink; of a delicate pink color.,
R as in Rose-colored (a.) Uncommonly beautiful; hence, extravagantly fine or pleasing; alluring; as, rose-colored anticipations.,
R as in Rose-cut (a.) Cut flat on the reverse, and with a convex face formed of triangular facets in rows; -- said of diamonds and other precious stones. See Rose diamond, under Rose. Cf. Brilliant, n.,
R as in Rosedrop (n.) A lozenge having a rose flavor.,
R as in Rosedrop (n.) A kind of earring.,
R as in Rosedrop (n.) A ruddy eruption upon the nose caused by drinking ardent spirits; a grog blossom.,
R as in Rosefinch (n.) Any one of numerous species of Asiatic finches of the genera Carpodacus, and Propasser, and allied genera, in which the male is more or less colored with rose red.,
R as in Rosefish (n.) A large marine scorpaenoid food fish (Sebastes marinus) found on the northern coasts of Europe and America. called also red perch, hemdurgan, Norway haddok, and also, erroneously, snapper, bream, and bergylt.,
R as in Rosehead (n.) See Rose, n., 4.,
R as in Rosehead (n.) A many-sided pyramidal head upon a nail; also a nail with such a head.,
R as in Roseine (n.) See Magenta.,
R as in Roselite (n.) A hydrous arsenite of cobalt, occuring in small red crystals, allied to erythrite.,
R as in Rosella (n.) A beautiful Australian parrakeet (Platycercus eximius) often kept as a cage bird. The head and back of the neck are scarlet, the throat is white, the back dark green varied with lighter green, and the breast yellow.,
R as in Roselle (n.) a malvaceous plant (Hibiscus Sabdariffa) cultivated in the east and West Indies for its fleshy calyxes, which are used for making tarts and jelly and an acid drink.,
R as in Rosemaloes (n.) The liquid storax of the East Indian Liquidambar orientalis.,
R as in Rosemary (n.) A labiate shrub (Rosmarinus officinalis) with narrow grayish leaves, growing native in the southern part of France, Spain, and Italy, also in Asia Minor and in China. It has a fragrant smell, and a warm, pungent, bitterish taste. It is used in cookery, perfumery, etc., and is an emblem of fidelity or constancy.,
R as in Rosen (a.) Consisting of roses; rosy.,
R as in Rosenmuller's organ () The parovarium.,
R as in Roseo- () A prefix (also used adjectively) signifying rose-red; specifically used to designate certain rose-red compounds (called roseo-cobaltic compounds) of cobalt with ammonia. Cf. Luteo-.,
R as in Roseola (n.) A rose-colored efflorescence upon the skin, occurring in circumscribed patches of little or no elevation and often alternately fading and reviving; also, an acute specific disease which is characterized by an eruption of this character; -- called also rose rash.,
R as in Rose-pink (a.) Having a pink color like that of the rose, or like the pigment called rose pink. See Rose pink, under Rose.,
R as in Rose-pink (a.) Disposed to clothe everything with roseate hues; hence, sentimental.,
R as in Roser (n.) A rosier; a rosebush.,
R as in Rose-red (a.) Red as a rose; specifically (Zool.), of a pure purplish red color.,
R as in Rose-rial (n.) A name of several English gold coins struck in different reigns and having having different values; a rose noble.,
R as in Roseroot (n.) A fleshy-leaved herb (Rhodiola rosea); rosewort; -- so called because the roots have the odor of roses.,
R as in Rosery (n.) A place where roses are cultivated; a nursery of roses. See Rosary, 1.,
R as in Roset (n.) A red color used by painters.,
R as in Ro-setta stone () A stone found at Rosetta, in Egypt, bearing a trilingual inscription, by aid of which, with other inscriptions, a key was obtained to the hieroglyphics of ancient Egypt.,
R as in Rosetta wood () An east Indian wood of a reddish orange color, handsomely veined with darker marks. It is occasionally used for cabinetwork.,
R as in Rosette (n.) An imitation of a rose by means of ribbon or other material, -- used as an ornament or a badge.,
R as in Rosette (n.) An ornament in the form of a rose or roundel, -much used in decoration.,
R as in Rosette (n.) A red color. See Roset.,
R as in Rosette (n.) A rose burner. See under Rose.,
R as in Rosette (n.) Any structure having a flowerlike form; especially, the group of five broad ambulacra on the upper side of the spatangoid and clypeastroid sea urchins. See Illust. of Spicule, and Sand dollar, under Sand.,
R as in Rosette (n.) A flowerlike color marking; as, the rosettes on the leopard.,
R as in Rose water () Water tinctured with roses by distillation.,
R as in Rose-water (a.) Having the odor of rose water; hence, affectedly nice or delicate; sentimental.,
R as in Rosewood (n.) A valuable cabinet wood of a dark red color, streaked and variegated with black, obtained from several tropical leguminous trees of the genera Dalbergia and Machaerium. The finest kind is from Brazil, and is said to be from the Dalbergia nigra.,
R as in Roseworm (n.) The larva of any one of several species of lepidopterous insects which feed upon the leaves, buds, or blossoms of the rose, especially Cacaecia rosaceana, which rolls up the leaves for a nest, and devours both the leaves and buds.,
R as in Rosewort (n.) Roseroot.,
R as in Rosewort (n.) Any plant nearly related to the rose.,
R as in Rosicrucian (n.) One who, in the 17th century and the early part of the 18th, claimed to belong to a secret society of philosophers deeply versed in the secrets of nature, -- the alleged society having existed, it was stated, several hundred years.,
R as in Rosicrucian (a.) Of or pertaining to the Rosicrucians, or their arts.,
R as in Rosied (a.) Decorated with roses, or with the color of roses.,
R as in Rosier (n.) A rosebush; roses, collectively.,
R as in Rosily (adv.) In a rosy manner.,
R as in Rosin (n.) The hard, amber-colored resin left after distilling off the volatile oil of turpentine; colophony.,
R as in Rosin (v. t.) To rub with rosin, as musicians rub the bow of a violin.,
R as in Rosiness (n.) The quality of being rosy.,
R as in Rosinweed (n.) The compass plant. See under Compass.,
R as in Rosinweed (n.) A name given in California to various composite plants which secrete resins or have a resinous smell.,
R as in Rosiny (a.) like rosin, or having its qualities.,
R as in Rosland (n.) heathy land; land full of heather; moorish or watery land.,
R as in Rosmarine (n.) Dew from the sea; sea dew.,
R as in Rosmarine (n.) Rosemary.,
R as in Rosmarine (n.) A fabulous sea animal which was reported to climb by means of its teeth to the tops of rocks to feed upon the dew.,
R as in Rosolic (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, a complex red dyestuff (called rosolic acid) which is analogous to rosaniline and aurin. It is produced by oxidizing a mixture of phenol and cresol, as a dark red amorphous mass, C20H16O3, which forms weak salts with bases, and stable ones with acids. Called also methyl aurin, and, formerly, corallin.,
R as in Ross (n.) The rough, scaly matter on the surface of the bark of trees.,
R as in Ross (v. t.) To divest of the ross, or rough, scaly surface; as, to ross bark.,
R as in Rossel (n.) Light land; rosland.,
R as in Rossel current () A portion of the southern equatorial current flowing westward from the Fiji Islands to New Guinea.,
R as in Rosselly (a.) Loose; light.,
R as in Rost (n.) See Roust.,
R as in Rostel (n.) same as Rostellum.,
R as in Rostellar (a.) Pertaining to a rostellum.,
R as in Rostellate (a.) Having a rostellum, or small beak; terminating in a beak.,
R as in Rostelliform (a.) Having the form of a rostellum, or small beak.,
R as in Rostella (pl. ) of Rostellum,
R as in Rostellum (n.) A small beaklike process or extension of some part; a small rostrum; as, the rostellum of the stigma of violets, or of the operculum of many mosses; the rostellum on the head of a tapeworm.,
R as in Roster (n.) A register or roll showing the order in which officers, enlisted men, companies, or regiments are called on to serve.,
R as in Rostra (n. pl.) See Rostrum, 2.,
R as in Rostral (a.) Of or pertaining to the beak or snout of an animal, or the beak of a ship; resembling a rostrum, esp., the rostra at Rome, or their decorations.,
R as in Rostrate (a.) Alt. of Rostrated,
R as in Rostrated (a.) Having a process resembling the beak of a bird; beaked; rostellate.,
R as in Rostrated (a.) Furnished or adorned with beaks; as, rostrated galleys.,
R as in Rostrifera (n. pl.) A division of pectinibranchiate gastropods, having the head prolonged into a snout which is not retractile.,
R as in Rostriform (a.) Having the form of a beak.,
R as in Rostrula (pl. ) of Rostrulum,
R as in Rostrulum (n.) A little rostrum, or beak, as of an insect.,
R as in Rostra (pl. ) of Rostrum,
R as in Rostrums (pl. ) of Rostrum,
R as in Rostrum (n.) The beak or head of a ship.,
R as in Rostrum (n.) The Beaks; the stage or platform in the forum where orations, pleadings, funeral harangues, etc., were delivered; -- so called because after the Latin war, it was adorned with the beaks of captured vessels; later, applied also to other platforms erected in Rome for the use of public orators.,
R as in Rostrum (n.) Hence, a stage for public speaking; the pulpit or platform occupied by an orator or public speaker.,
R as in Rostrum (n.) Any beaklike prolongation, esp. of the head of an animal, as the beak of birds.,
R as in Rostrum (n.) The beak, or sucking mouth parts, of Hemiptera.,
R as in Rostrum (n.) The snout of a gastropod mollusk. See Illust. of Littorina.,
R as in Rostrum (n.) The anterior, often spinelike, prolongation of the carapace of a crustacean, as in the lobster and the prawn.,
R as in Rostrum (n.) Same as Rostellum.,
R as in Rostrum (n.) The pipe to convey the distilling liquor into its receiver in the common alembic.,
R as in Rostrum (n.) A pair of forceps of various kinds, having a beaklike form.,
R as in Rosulate (a.) Arranged in little roselike clusters; -- said of leaves and bracts.,
R as in Rosy (superl.) Resembling a rose in color, form, or qualities; blooming; red; blushing; also, adorned with roses.,
R as in Rotted (imp. & p. p.) of Rot,
R as in Rotting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rot,
R as in Rot (v. i.) To undergo a process common to organic substances by which they lose the cohesion of their parts and pass through certain chemical changes, giving off usually in some stages of the process more or less offensive odors; to become decomposed by a natural process; to putrefy; to decay.,
R as in Rot (v. i.) Figuratively: To perish slowly; to decay; to die; to become corrupt.,
R as in Rot (v. t.) To make putrid; to cause to be wholly or partially decomposed by natural processes; as, to rot vegetable fiber.,
R as in Rot (v. t.) To expose, as flax, to a process of maceration, etc., for the purpose of separating the fiber; to ret.,
R as in Rot (n.) Process of rotting; decay; putrefaction.,
R as in Rot (n.) A disease or decay in fruits, leaves, or wood, supposed to be caused by minute fungi. See Bitter rot, Black rot, etc., below.,
R as in Rot (n.) A fatal distemper which attacks sheep and sometimes other animals. It is due to the presence of a parasitic worm in the liver or gall bladder. See 1st Fluke, 2.,
R as in Rota (n.) An ecclesiastical court of Rome, called also Rota Romana, that takes cognizance of suits by appeal. It consists of twelve members.,
R as in Rota (n.) A short-lived political club established in 1659 by J.Harrington to inculcate the democratic doctrine of election of the principal officers of the state by ballot, and the annual retirement of a portion of Parliament.,
R as in Rota (n.) A species of zither, played like a guitar, used in the Middle Ages in church music; -- written also rotta.,
R as in Rotacism (n.) See Rhotacism.,
R as in Rotal (a.) Relating to wheels or to rotary motion; rotary.,
R as in Rotalite (n.) Any fossil foraminifer of the genus Rotalia, abundant in the chalk formation. See Illust. under Rhizopod.,
R as in Rotary (a.) Turning, as a wheel on its axis; pertaining to, or resembling, the motion of a wheel on its axis; rotatory; as, rotary motion.,
R as in Rotascope (n.) Same as Gyroscope, 1.,
R as in Rotate (a.) Having the parts spreading out like a wheel; wheel-shaped; as, a rotate spicule or scale; a rotate corolla, i.e., a monopetalous corolla with a flattish border, and no tube or a very short one.,
R as in Rotated (imp. & p. p.) of Rotate,
R as in Rotating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rotate,
R as in Rotate (v. i.) To turn, as a wheel, round an axis; to revolve.,
R as in Rotate (v. i.) To perform any act, function, or operation in turn, to hold office in turn; as, to rotate in office.,
R as in Rotate (v. i.) To cause to turn round or revolve, as a wheel around an axle.,
R as in Rotate (v. i.) To cause to succeed in turn; esp., to cause to succeed some one, or to be succeeded by some one, in office.,
R as in Rotated (a.) Turned round, as a wheel; also, wheel-shaped; rotate.,
R as in Rotation (n.) The act of turning, as a wheel or a solid body on its axis, as distinguished from the progressive motion of a revolving round another body or a distant point; thus, the daily turning of the earth on its axis is a rotation; its annual motion round the sun is a revolution.,
R as in Rotation (n.) Any return or succesion in a series.,
R as in Rotation (a.) Pertaining to, or resulting from, rotation; of the nature of, or characterized by, rotation; as, rotational velocity.,
R as in Rotative (a.) turning, as a wheel; rotary; rotational.,
R as in Rotator (n.) that which gives a rotary or rolling motion, as a muscle which partially rotates or turns some part on its axis.,
R as in Rotator (n.) A revolving reverberatory furnace.,
R as in Rotatoria (n. pl.) Same as Rotifera.,
R as in Rotatory (a.) Turning as on an axis; rotary.,
R as in Rotatory (a.) Going in a circle; following in rotation or succession; as, rotatory assembles.,
R as in Rotatory (a.) Producing rotation of the plane of polarization; as, the rotatory power of bodies on light. See the Note under polarization.,
R as in Rotatory (n.) A rotifer.,
R as in Rotche (n.) A very small arctic sea bird (Mergulus alle, or Alle alle) common on both coasts of the Atlantic in winter; -- called also little auk, dovekie, rotch, rotchie, and sea dove.,
R as in Rotchet (n.) The European red gurnard (Trigla pini).,
R as in Rote (n.) A root.,
R as in Rote (n.) A kind of guitar, the notes of which were produced by a small wheel or wheel-like arrangement; an instrument similar to the hurdy-gurdy.,
R as in Rote (n.) The noise produced by the surf of the sea dashing upon the shore. See Rut.,
R as in Rote (n.) A frequent repetition of forms of speech without attention to the meaning; mere repetition; as, to learn rules by rote.,
R as in Roted (imp. & p. p.) of Rote,
R as in Roting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rote,
R as in Rote (v. t.) To learn or repeat by rote.,
R as in Rote (v. i.) To go out by rotation or succession; to rotate.,
R as in Rotella (n.) Any one of numerous species of small, polished, brightcolored gastropods of the genus Rotella, native of tropical seas.,
R as in Rotgut (n.) Bad small beer.,
R as in Rotgut (n.) Any bad spirituous liquor, especially when adulterated so as to be very deleterious.,
R as in Rother (a.) Bovine.,
R as in Rother (n.) A bovine beast.,
R as in Rother (n.) A rudder.,
R as in Rotifer (n.) One of the Rotifera. See Illust. in Appendix.,
R as in Rotifera (n.) An order of minute worms which usually have one or two groups of vibrating cilia on the head, which, when in motion, often give an appearance of rapidly revolving wheels. The species are very numerous in fresh waters, and are very diversified in form and habits.,
R as in Rotiform (a.) Wheel-shaped; as, rotiform appendages.,
R as in Rotiform (a.) Same as Rotate.,
R as in Rotta (n.) See Rota.,
R as in Rotten (a.) Having rotted; putrid; decayed; as, a rotten apple; rotten meat.,
R as in Rotten (a.) Offensive to the smell; fetid; disgusting.,
R as in Rotten (a.) Not firm or trusty; unsound; defective; treacherous; unsafe; as, a rotten plank, bone, stone.,
R as in Rotula (n.) The patella, or kneepan.,
R as in Rotular (a.) Of or pertaining to the rotula, or kneepan.,
R as in Rotund (a.) Round; circular; spherical.,
R as in Rotund (a.) Hence, complete; entire.,
R as in Rotund (a.) Orbicular, or nearly so.,
R as in Rotund (n.) A rotunda.,
R as in Rotunda (a.) A round building; especially, one that is round both on the outside and inside, like the Pantheon at Rome. Less properly, but very commonly, used for a large round room; as, the rotunda of the Capitol at Washington.,
R as in Rotundate (a.) Rounded; especially, rounded at the end or ends, or at the corners.,
R as in Rotundifolious (a.) Having round leaves.,
R as in Rotundity (n.) The state or quality of being rotu/; roundness; sphericity; circularity.,
R as in Rotundity (n.) Hence, completeness; entirety; roundness.,
R as in Rotundness (n.) Roundness; rotundity.,
R as in Rotundo (n.) See Rotunda.,
R as in Roturer (n.) A roturier.,
R as in Roturier (n.) A person who is not of noble birth; specif., a freeman who during the prevalence of feudalism held allodial land.,
R as in Roty (v. t.) To make rotten.,
R as in Rouble (n.) A coin. See Ruble.,
R as in Rouche (n.) See Ruche.,
R as in Roue (n.) One devoted to a life of sensual pleasure; a debauchee; a rake.,
R as in Rouet (n.) A small wheel formerly fixed to the pan of firelocks for discharging them.,
R as in Rouge (a.) red.,
R as in Rouge (n.) A red amorphous powder consisting of ferric oxide. It is used in polishing glass, metal, or gems, and as a cosmetic, etc. Called also crocus, jeweler's rouge, etc.,
R as in Rouge (n.) A cosmetic used for giving a red color to the cheeks or lips. The best is prepared from the dried flowers of the safflower, but it is often made from carmine.,
R as in Rouged (imp. & p. p.) of Rouge,
R as in Rouging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rouge,
R as in Rouge (v. i.) To paint the face or cheeks with rouge.,
R as in Rouge (v. t.) To tint with rouge; as, to rouge the face or the cheeks.,
R as in Rougecroix (n.) One of the four pursuivants of the English college of arms.,
R as in Rouge dragon (n.) One of the four pursuivants of the English college of arms.,
R as in Rough (n.) Having inequalities, small ridges, or points, on the surface; not smooth or plain; as, a rough board; a rough stone; rough cloth.,
R as in Rough (n.) Not level; having a broken surface; uneven; -- said of a piece of land, or of a road.,
R as in Rough (n.) Not polished; uncut; -- said of a gem; as, a rough diamond.,
R as in Rough (n.) Tossed in waves; boisterous; high; -- said of a sea or other piece of water.,
R as in Rough (n.) Marked by coarseness; shaggy; ragged; disordered; -- said of dress, appearance, or the like; as, a rough coat.,
R as in Rough (n.) Hence, figuratively, lacking refinement, gentleness, or polish.,
R as in Rough (n.) Not courteous or kind; harsh; rude; uncivil; as, a rough temper.,
R as in Rough (n.) Marked by severity or violence; harsh; hard; as, rough measures or actions.,
R as in Rough (n.) Loud and hoarse; offensive to the ear; harsh; grating; -- said of sound, voice, and the like; as, a rough tone; rough numbers.,
R as in Rough (n.) Austere; harsh to the taste; as, rough wine.,
R as in Rough (n.) Tempestuous; boisterous; stormy; as, rough weather; a rough day.,
R as in Rough (n.) Hastily or carelessly done; wanting finish; incomplete; as, a rough estimate; a rough draught.,
R as in Rough (n.) Produced offhand.,
R as in Rough (n.) Boisterous weather.,
R as in Rough (n.) A rude fellow; a coarse bully; a rowdy.,
R as in Rough (adv.) In a rough manner; rudely; roughly.,
R as in Rough (v. t.) To render rough; to roughen.,
R as in Rough (v. t.) To break in, as a horse, especially for military purposes.,
R as in Rough (v. t.) To cut or make in a hasty, rough manner; -- with out; as, to rough out a carving, a sketch.,
R as in Roughcast (v. t.) To form in its first rudiments, without revision, correction, or polish.,
R as in Roughcast (v. t.) To mold without nicety or elegance; to form with asperities and inequalities.,
R as in Roughcast (v. t.) To plaster with a mixture of lime and shells or pebbles; as, to roughcast a building.,
R as in Roughcast (n.) A rude model; the rudimentary, unfinished form of a thing.,
R as in Roughcast (n.) A kind of plastering made of lime, with a mixture of shells or pebbles, used for covering buildings.,
R as in Roughcaster (n.) One who roughcasts.,
R as in Roughdraw (v. t.) To draw or delineate rapidly and by way of a first sketch.,
R as in Roughdry (v. t.) in laundry work, to dry without smoothing or ironing.,
R as in Roughened (imp. & p. p.) of Roughen,
R as in Roughening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Roughen,
R as in Roughen (v. t.) To make rough.,
R as in Roughen (v. i.) To grow or become rough.,
R as in Rough-footed (a.) Feather-footed; as, a rough-footed dove.,
R as in Rough-grained (a.) Having a rough grain or fiber; hence, figuratively, having coarse traits of character; not polished; brisque.,
R as in Roughhead (n.) The redfin.,
R as in Roughhew (v. t.) To hew coarsely, without smoothing; as, to roughhew timber.,
R as in Roughhew (v. t.) To give the first form or shape to; to form rudely; to shape approximately and rudely; to roughcast.,
R as in Roughhewer (n.) One who roughhews.,
R as in Roughhewn (a.) Hewn coarsely without smoothing; unfinished; not polished.,
R as in Roughhewn (a.) Of coarse manners; rude; uncultivated; rough-grained.,
R as in Roughing-in (n.) The first coat of plaster laid on brick; also, the process of applying it.,
R as in Roughings (n. pl.) Rowen.,
R as in Roughish (a.) Somewhat rough.,
R as in Roughleg (n.) Any one of several species of large hawks of the genus Archibuteo, having the legs feathered to the toes. Called also rough-legged hawk, and rough-legged buzzard.,
R as in Rough-legged (a.) Having the legs covered with feathers; -- said of a bird.,
R as in Roughly (adv.) In a rough manner; unevenly; harshly; rudely; severely; austerely.,
R as in Roughness (n.) The quality or state of being rough.,
R as in Roughrider (n.) One who breaks horses; especially (Mil.), a noncommissioned officer in the British cavalry, whose duty is to assist the riding master.,
R as in Roughscuff (n.) A rough, coarse fellow; collectively, the lowest class of the people; the rabble; the riffraff.,
R as in Roughsetter (n.) A mason who builds rough stonework.,
R as in Roughshod (a.) Shod with shoes armed with points or calks; as, a roughshod horse.,
R as in Roughstrings (n. pl.) Pieces of undressed timber put under the steps of a wooden stair for their support.,
R as in Rought () imp. of Reach.,
R as in Rought () imp. of Reck, to care.,
R as in Roughtail (n.) Any species of small ground snakes of the family Uropeltidae; -- so called from their rough tails.,
R as in Roughwork (v. t.) To work over coarsely, without regard to nicety, smoothness, or finish.,
R as in Roughwrought (a.) Wrought in a rough, unfinished way; worked over coarsely.,
R as in Rouk (v. i.) See 5th Ruck, and Roke.,
R as in Roulade (n.) A smoothly running passage of short notes (as semiquavers, or sixteenths) uniformly grouped, sung upon one long syllable, as in Handel's oratorios.,
R as in Rouleaux (pl. ) of Rouleau,
R as in Rouleaus (pl. ) of Rouleau,
R as in Rouleau (n.) A little roll; a roll of coins put up in paper, or something resembling such a roll.,
R as in Roulette (n.) A game of chance, in which a small ball is made to move round rapidly on a circle divided off into numbered red and black spaces, the one on which it stops indicating the result of a variety of wagers permitted by the game.,
R as in Roulette (n.) A small toothed wheel used by engravers to roll over a plate in order to order to produce rows of dots.,
R as in Roulette (n.) A similar wheel used to roughen the surface of a plate, as in making alterations in a mezzotint.,
R as in Roulette (n.) the curve traced by any point in the plane of a given curve when the latter rolls, without sliding, over another fixed curve. See Cycloid, and Epycycloid.,
R as in Rouly-pouly (n.) See Rolly-pooly.,
R as in Roun (v. i. & t.) Alt. of Rown,
R as in Rown (v. i. & t.) To whisper.,
R as in Rounce (n.) The handle by which the bed of a hand press, holding the form of type, etc., is run in under the platen and out again; -- sometimes applied to the whole apparatus by which the form is moved under the platen.,
R as in Rounceval (a.) Large; strong; -- from the gigantic bones shown at Roncesvalles, and alleged to be those of old heroes.,
R as in Rounceval (n.) A giant; anything large; a kind of pea called also marrowfat.,
R as in Rouncy (n.) A common hackney horse; a nag.,
R as in Round (v. i. & t.) To whisper.,
R as in Round (a.) Having every portion of the surface or of the circumference equally distant from the center; spherical; circular; having a form approaching a spherical or a circular shape; orbicular; globular; as, a round ball.,
R as in Round (a.) Having the form of a cylinder; cylindrical; as, the barrel of a musket is round.,
R as in Round (a.) Having a curved outline or form; especially, one like the arc of a circle or an ellipse, or a portion of the surface of a sphere; rotund; bulging; protuberant; not angular or pointed; as, a round arch; round hills.,
R as in Round (a.) Full; complete; not broken; not fractional; approximately in even units, tens, hundreds, thousands, etc.; -- said of numbers.,
R as in Round (a.) Not inconsiderable; large; hence, generous; free; as, a round price.,
R as in Round (a.) Uttered or emitted with a full tone; as, a round voice; a round note.,
R as in Round (a.) Modified, as a vowel, by contraction of the lip opening, making the opening more or less round in shape; rounded; labialized; labial. See Guide to Pronunciation, / 11.,
R as in Round (a.) Outspoken; plain and direct; unreserved; unqualified; not mincing; as, a round answer; a round oath.,
R as in Round (a.) Full and smoothly expanded; not defective or abrupt; finished; polished; -- said of style, or of authors with reference to their style.,
R as in Round (a.) Complete and consistent; fair; just; -- applied to conduct.,
R as in Round (n.) Anything round, as a circle, a globe, a ring. "The golden round" [the crown].,
R as in Round (n.) A series of changes or events ending where it began; a series of like events recurring in continuance; a cycle; a periodical revolution; as, the round of the seasons; a round of pleasures.,
R as in Round (n.) A course of action or conduct performed by a number of persons in turn, or one after another, as if seated in a circle.,
R as in Round (n.) A series of duties or tasks which must be performed in turn, and then repeated.,
R as in Round (n.) A circular dance.,
R as in Round (n.) That which goes round a whole circle or company; as, a round of applause.,
R as in Round (n.) Rotation, as in office; succession.,
R as in Round (n.) The step of a ladder; a rundle or rung; also, a crosspiece which joins and braces the legs of a chair.,
R as in Round (n.) A course ending where it began; a circuit; a beat; especially, one freguently or regulary traversed; also, the act of traversing a circuit; as, a watchman's round; the rounds of the postman.,
R as in Round (n.) A walk performed by a guard or an officer round the rampart of a garrison, or among sentinels, to see that the sentinels are faithful and all things safe; also, the guard or officer, with his attendants, who performs this duty; -- usually in the plural.,
R as in Round (n.) A general discharge of firearms by a body of troops in which each soldier fires once.,
R as in Round (n.) Ammunition for discharging a piece or pieces once; as, twenty rounds of ammunition were given out.,
R as in Round (n.) A short vocal piece, resembling a catch in which three or four voices follow each other round in a species of canon in the unison.,
R as in Round (n.) The time during which prize fighters or boxers are in actual contest without an intermission, as prescribed by their rules; a bout.,
R as in Round (n.) A brewer's vessel in which the fermentation is concluded, the yeast escaping through the bunghole.,
R as in Round (n.) A vessel filled, as for drinking.,
R as in Round (n.) An assembly; a group; a circle; as, a round of politicians.,
R as in Round (n.) See Roundtop.,
R as in Round (n.) Same as Round of beef, below.,
R as in Round (adv.) On all sides; around.,
R as in Round (adv.) Circularly; in a circular form or manner; by revolving or reversing one's position; as, to turn one's head round; a wheel turns round.,
R as in Round (adv.) In circumference; as, a ball is ten inches round.,
R as in Round (adv.) From one side or party to another; as to come or turn round, -- that is, to change sides or opinions.,
R as in Round (adv.) By or in a circuit; by a course longer than the direct course; back to the starting point.,
R as in Round (adv.) Through a circle, as of friends or houses.,
R as in Round (adv.) Roundly; fully; vigorously.,
R as in Round (prep.) On every side of, so as to encompass or encircle; around; about; as, the people atood round him; to go round the city; to wind a cable round a windlass.,
R as in Rounded (imp. & p. p.) of Round,
R as in Rounding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Round,
R as in Round (v. t.) To make circular, spherical, or cylindrical; to give a round or convex figure to; as, to round a silver coin; to round the edges of anything.,
R as in Round (v. t.) To surround; to encircle; to encompass.,
R as in Round (v. t.) To bring to fullness or completeness; to complete; hence, to bring to a fit conclusion.,
R as in Round (v. t.) To go round wholly or in part; to go about (a corner or point); as, to round a corner; to round Cape Horn.,
R as in Round (v. t.) To make full, smooth, and flowing; as, to round periods in writing.,
R as in Round (v. i.) To grow round or full; hence, to attain to fullness, completeness, or perfection.,
R as in Round (v. i.) To go round, as a guard.,
R as in Round (v. i.) To go or turn round; to wheel about.,
R as in Roundabout (a.) Circuitous; going round; indirect; as, roundabout speech.,
R as in Roundabout (a.) Encircling; enveloping; comprehensive.,
R as in Roundabout (n.) A horizontal wheel or frame, commonly with wooden horses, etc., on which children ride; a merry-go-round.,
R as in Roundabout (n.) A dance performed in a circle.,
R as in Roundabout (n.) A short, close jacket worn by boys, sailors, etc.,
R as in Roundabout (n.) A state or scene of constant change, or of recurring labor and vicissitude.,
R as in Roundaboutness (n.) The quality of being roundabout; circuitousness.,
R as in Round-arm (a.) Applied to the method delivering the ball in bowling, by swinging the arm horizontally.,
R as in Round-backed (a.) Having a round back or shoulders; round-shouldered.,
R as in Rounded (a.) Modified by contraction of the lip opening; labialized; labial. See Guide to Pronunciation, / 11.,
R as in Roundel (a.) A rondelay.,
R as in Roundel (a.) Anything having a round form; a round figure; a circle.,
R as in Roundel (a.) A small circular shield, sometimes not more than a foot in diameter, used by soldiers in the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries.,
R as in Roundel (a.) A circular spot; a sharge in the form of a small circle.,
R as in Roundel (a.) A bastion of a circular form.,
R as in Roundelay (n.) See Rondeau, and Rondel.,
R as in Roundelay (n.) A tune in which a simple strain is often repeated; a simple rural strain which is short and lively.,
R as in Roundelay (n.) A dance in a circle.,
R as in Roundelay (n.) Anything having a round form; a roundel.,
R as in Rounder (n.) One who rounds; one who comes about frequently or regularly.,
R as in Rounder (n.) A tool for making an edge or surface round.,
R as in Rounder (n.) An English game somewhat resembling baseball; also, another English game resembling the game of fives, but played with a football.,
R as in Roundfish (n.) Any ordinary market fish, exclusive of flounders, sole, halibut, and other flatfishes.,
R as in Roundfish (n.) A lake whitefish (Coregonus quadrilateralis), less compressed than the common species. It is very abundant in British America and Alaska.,
R as in Roundhead (n.) A nickname for a Puritan. See Roundheads, the, in the Dictionary of Noted Names in Fiction.,
R as in Roundheaded (a.) Having a round head or top.,
R as in Roundhouse (n.) A constable's prison; a lockup, watch-house, or station house.,
R as in Roundhouse (n.) A cabin or apartament on the after part of the quarter-deck, having the poop for its roof; -- sometimes called the coach.,
R as in Roundhouse (n.) A privy near the bow of the vessel.,
R as in Roundhouse (n.) A house for locomotive engines, built circularly around a turntable.,
R as in Rounding (a.) Round or nearly round; becoming round; roundish.,
R as in Rounding (n.) Small rope, or strands of rope, or spun yarn, wound round a rope to keep it from chafing; -- called also service.,
R as in Rounding (n.) Modifying a speech sound by contraction of the lip opening; labializing; labialization. See Guide to Pronunciation, / 11.,
R as in Roundish (a.) Somewhat round; as, a roundish seed; a roundish figure.,
R as in Roundlet (n.) A little circle.,
R as in Roundly (adv.) In a round form or manner.,
R as in Roundly (adv.) Openly; boldly; peremptorily; plumply.,
R as in Roundly (adv.) Briskly; with speed.,
R as in Roundly (adv.) Completely; vigorously; in earnest.,
R as in Roundly (adv.) Without regard to detail; in gross; comprehensively; generally; as, to give numbers roundly.,
R as in Roundness (n.) The quality or state of being round in shape; as, the roundness of the globe, of the orb of the sun, of a ball, of a bowl, a column, etc.,
R as in Roundness (n.) Fullness; smoothness of flow; as, the roundness of a period; the roundness of a note; roundness of tone.,
R as in Roundness (n.) Openess; plainess; boldness; positiveness; as, the roundness of an assertion.,
R as in Roundridge (v. t.) To form into round ridges by plowing.,
R as in Round-shouldered (a.) Having the shoulders stooping or projecting; round-backed.,
R as in Roundsmen (pl. ) of Roundsman,
R as in Roundsman (n.) A patrolman; also, a policeman who acts as an inspector over the rounds of the patrolmen.,
R as in Roundtop (n.) A top; a platform at a masthead; -- so called because formerly round in shape.,
R as in Round-up (n.) The act of collecting or gathering together scattered cattle by riding around them and driving them in.,
R as in Roundure (n.) Roundness; a round or circle.,
R as in Roundworm (n.) A nematoid worm.,
R as in Roundy (a.) Round.,
R as in Roup (v. i. & t.) To cry or shout; hence, to sell by auction.,
R as in Roup (n.) An outcry; hence, a sale of gods by auction.,
R as in Roup (n.) A disease in poultry. See Pip.,
R as in Rousant (a.) Rising; -- applied to a bird in the attitude of rising; also, sometmes, to a bird in profile with wings addorsed.,
R as in Rouse (v. i. & t.) To pull or haul strongly and all together, as upon a rope, without the assistance of mechanical appliances.,
R as in Rouse (n.) A bumper in honor of a toast or health.,
R as in Rouse (n.) A carousal; a festival; a drinking frolic.,
R as in Roused (imp. & p. p.) of Rouse,
R as in Rousing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rouse,
R as in Rouse (v.) To cause to start from a covert or lurking place; as, to rouse a deer or other animal of the chase.,
R as in Rouse (v.) To wake from sleep or repose; as, to rouse one early or suddenly.,
R as in Rouse (v.) To excite to lively thought or action from a state of idleness, languor, stupidity, or indifference; as, to rouse the faculties, passions, or emotions.,
R as in Rouse (v.) To put in motion; to stir up; to agitate.,
R as in Rouse (v.) To raise; to make erect.,
R as in Rouse (v. i.) To get or start up; to rise.,
R as in Rouse (v. i.) To awake from sleep or repose.,
R as in Rouse (v. i.) To be exited to thought or action from a state of indolence or inattention.,
R as in Rouser (n.) One who, or that which, rouses.,
R as in Rouser (n.) Something very exciting or great.,
R as in Rouser (n.) A stirrer in a copper for boiling wort.,
R as in Rousing (a.) Having power to awaken or excite; exciting.,
R as in Rousing (a.) Very great; violent; astounding; as, a rousing fire; a rousing lie.,
R as in Rousingly (adv.) In a rousing manner.,
R as in Roussette (n.) A fruit bat, especially the large species (Pieropus vulgaris) inhabiting the islands of the Indian ocean. It measures about a yard across the expanded wings.,
R as in Roussette (n.) Any small shark of the genus Scyllium; -- called also dogfish. See Dogfish.,
R as in Roust (v. t.) To rouse; to disturb; as, to roust one out.,
R as in Roust (n.) A strong tide or current, especially in a narrow channel.,
R as in Roustabout (n.) A laborer, especially a deck hand, on a river steamboat, who moves the cargo, loads and unloads wood, and the like; in an opprobrious sense, a shiftless vagrant who lives by chance jobs.,
R as in Rout (v. i.) To roar; to bellow; to snort; to snore loudly.,
R as in Rout (n.) A bellowing; a shouting; noise; clamor; uproar; disturbance; tumult.,
R as in Rout (v. t.) To scoop out with a gouge or other tool; to furrow.,
R as in Rout (v. i.) To search or root in the ground, as a swine.,
R as in Rout (n.) A troop; a throng; a company; an assembly; especially, a traveling company or throng.,
R as in Rout (n.) A disorderly and tumultuous crowd; a mob; hence, the rabble; the herd of common people.,
R as in Rout (n.) The state of being disorganized and thrown into confusion; -- said especially of an army defeated, broken in pieces, and put to flight in disorder or panic; also, the act of defeating and breaking up an army; as, the rout of the enemy was complete.,
R as in Rout (n.) A disturbance of the peace by persons assembled together with intent to do a thing which, if executed, would make them rioters, and actually making a motion toward the executing thereof.,
R as in Rout (n.) A fashionable assembly, or large evening party.,
R as in Routed (imp. & p. p.) of Rout,
R as in Routing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rout,
R as in Rout (v. t.) To break the ranks of, as troops, and put them to flight in disorder; to put to rout.,
R as in Rout (v. i.) To assemble in a crowd, whether orderly or disorderly; to collect in company.,
R as in Route (n.) The course or way which is traveled or passed, or is to be passed; a passing; a course; a road or path; a march.,
R as in Router (n.) A plane made like a spokeshave, for working the inside edges of circular sashes.,
R as in Router (n.) A plane with a hooked tool protruding far below the sole, for smoothing the bottom of a cavity.,
R as in Routhe (n.) Ruth; sorrow.,
R as in Routinary (a.) Involving, or pertaining to, routine; ordinary; customary.,
R as in Routine (n.) A round of business, amusement, or pleasure, daily or frequently pursued; especially, a course of business or offical duties regularly or frequently returning.,
R as in Routine (n.) Any regular course of action or procedure rigidly adhered to by the mere force of habit.,
R as in Routinism (n.) the practice of doing things with undiscriminating, mechanical regularity.,
R as in Routinist (n.) One who habituated to a routine.,
R as in Routish (a.) Uproarious; riotous.,
R as in Routously (adv.) With that violation of law called a rout. See 5th Rout, 4.,
R as in Roux (n.) A thickening, made of flour, for soups and gravies.,
R as in Rove (v. t.) To draw through an eye or aperture.,
R as in Rove (v. t.) To draw out into flakes; to card, as wool.,
R as in Rove (v. t.) To twist slightly; to bring together, as slivers of wool or cotton, and twist slightly before spinning.,
R as in Rove (n.) A copper washer upon which the end of a nail is clinched in boat building.,
R as in Rove (n.) A roll or sliver of wool or cotton drawn out and slighty twisted, preparatory to further process; a roving.,
R as in Roved (imp. & p. p.) of Rove,
R as in Roving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rove,
R as in Rove (v. i.) To practice robbery on the seas; to wander about on the seas in piracy.,
R as in Rove (v. i.) Hence, to wander; to ramble; to rauge; to go, move, or pass without certain direction in any manner, by sailing, walking, riding, flying, or otherwise.,
R as in Rove (v. i.) To shoot at rovers; hence, to shoot at an angle of elevation, not at point-blank (rovers usually being beyond the point-blank range).,
R as in Rove (v. t.) To wander over or through.,
R as in Rove (v. t.) To plow into ridges by turning the earth of two furrows together.,
R as in Rove (n.) The act of wandering; a ramble.,
R as in Rover (v. i.) One who practices robbery on the seas; a pirate.,
R as in Rover (v. i.) One who wanders about by sea or land; a wanderer; a rambler.,
R as in Rover (v. i.) Hence, a fickle, inconstant person.,
R as in Rover (v. i.) A ball which has passed through all the hoops and would go out if it hit the stake but is continued in play; also, the player of such a ball.,
R as in Rover (v. i.) Casual marks at uncertain distances.,
R as in Rover (v. i.) A sort of arrow.,
R as in Roving (n.) The operatin of forming the rove, or slightly twisted sliver or roll of wool or cotton, by means of a machine for the purpose, called a roving frame, or roving machine.,
R as in Roving (n.) A roll or sliver of wool or cotton drawn out and slightly twisted; a rove. See 2d Rove, 2.,
R as in Roving (n.) The act of one who roves or wanders.,
R as in Rovingly (adv.) In a wandering manner.,
R as in Rovingness (n.) The state of roving.,
R as in Row (a. & adv.) Rough; stern; angry.,
R as in Row (n.) A noisy, turbulent quarrel or disturbance; a brawl.,
R as in Row (n.) A series of persons or things arranged in a continued line; a line; a rank; a file; as, a row of trees; a row of houses or columns.,
R as in Rowed (imp. & p. p.) of Row,
R as in Rowing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Row,
R as in Row (v. t.) To propel with oars, as a boat or vessel, along the surface of water; as, to row a boat.,
R as in Row (v. t.) To transport in a boat propelled with oars; as, to row the captain ashore in his barge.,
R as in Row (v. i.) To use the oar; as, to row well.,
R as in Row (v. i.) To be moved by oars; as, the boat rows easily.,
R as in Row (n.) The act of rowing; excursion in a rowboat.,
R as in Rowable (a.) That may be rowed, or rowed upon.,
R as in Rowan (n.) Rowan tree.,
R as in Rowan tree () A european tree (Pyrus aucuparia) related to the apple, but with pinnate leaves and flat corymbs of small white flowers followed by little bright red berries. Called also roan tree, and mountain ash. The name is also applied to two American trees of similar habit (Pyrus Americana, and P. sambucifolia).,
R as in Rowboat (n.) A boat designed to be propelled by oars instead of sails.,
R as in Rowdies (pl. ) of Rowdy,
R as in Rowdy (n.) One who engages in rows, or noisy quarrels; a ruffianly fellow.,
R as in Rowdydow (n.) Hubbub; uproar.,
R as in Rowdydowdy (a.) Uproarious.,
R as in Rowdyish (a.) Resembling a rowdy in temper or conduct; characteristic of a rowdy.,
R as in Rowdyism (n.) the conduct of a rowdy.,
R as in Rowed (a.) Formed into a row, or rows; having a row, or rows; as, a twelve-rowed ear of corn.,
R as in Rowel (n.) The little wheel of a spur, with sharp points.,
R as in Rowel (n.) A little flat ring or wheel on horses' bits.,
R as in Rowel (n.) A roll of hair, silk, etc., passed through the flesh of horses, answering to a seton in human surgery.,
R as in Roweled (imp. & p. p.) of Rowel,
R as in Rowelled () of Rowel,
R as in Roweling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rowel,
R as in Rowelling () of Rowel,
R as in Rowel (v. t.) To insert a rowel, or roll of hair or silk, into (as the flesh of a horse).,
R as in Rowel bone () See rewel bone.,
R as in Rowen (n.) A stubble field left unplowed till late in the autumn, that it may be cropped by cattle.,
R as in Rowen (n.) The second growth of grass in a season; aftermath.,
R as in Rower (n.) One who rows with an oar.,
R as in Rowett (n.) See Rowen.,
R as in Rowlock (n.) A contrivance or arrangement serving as a fulcrum for an oar in rowing. It consists sometimes of a notch in the gunwale of a boat, sometimes of a pair of pins between which the oar rests on the edge of the gunwale, sometimes of a single pin passing through the oar, or of a metal fork or stirrup pivoted in the gunwale and suporting the oar.,
R as in Rown (v. i. & t.) see Roun.,
R as in Rowport (n.) An opening in the side of small vessels of war, near the surface of the water, to facilitate rowing in calm weather.,
R as in Roxburgh (n.) A style of bookbinding in which the back is plain leather, the sides paper or cloth, the top gilt-edged, but the front and bottom left uncut.,
R as in Roy (n.) A king.,
R as in Roy (a.) Royal.,
R as in Royal (a.) Kingly; pertaining to the crown or the sovereign; suitable for a king or queen; regal; as, royal power or prerogative; royal domains; the royal family; royal state.,
R as in Royal (a.) Noble; generous; magnificent; princely.,
R as in Royal (a.) Under the patronage of royality; holding a charter granted by the sovereign; as, the Royal Academy of Arts; the Royal Society.,
R as in Royal (n.) Printing and writing papers of particular sizes. See under paper, n.,
R as in Royal (n.) A small sail immediately above the topgallant sail.,
R as in Royal (n.) One of the upper or distal branches of an antler, as the third and fourth tynes of the antlers of a stag.,
R as in Royal (n.) A small mortar.,
R as in Royal (n.) One of the soldiers of the first regiment of foot of the British army, formerly called the Royals, and supposed to be the oldest regular corps in Europe; -- now called the Royal Scots.,
R as in Royal (n.) An old English coin. See Rial.,
R as in Royalet (n.) A petty or powerless king.,
R as in Royalism (n.) the principles or conduct of royalists.,
R as in Royalist (n.) An adherent of a king (as of Charles I. in England, or of the Bourbons in france); one attached to monarchical government.,
R as in Royalization (n.) The act of making loyal to a king.,
R as in Royalize (v. t.) to make royal.,
R as in Royally (adv.) In a royal or kingly manner; like a king; as becomes a king.,
R as in Royalties (pl. ) of Royalty,
R as in Royalty (n.) The state of being royal; the condition or quality of a royal person; kingship; kingly office; sovereignty.,
R as in Royalty (n.) The person of a king or sovereign; majesty; as, in the presence of royalty.,
R as in Royalty (n.) An emblem of royalty; -- usually in the plural, meaning regalia.,
R as in Royalty (n.) Kingliness; spirit of regal authority.,
R as in Royalty (n.) Domain; province; sphere.,
R as in Royalty (n.) That which is due to a sovereign, as a seigniorage on gold and silver coined at the mint, metals taken from mines, etc.; the tax exacted in lieu of such share; imperiality.,
R as in Royalty (n.) A share of the product or profit (as of a mine, forest, etc.), reserved by the owner for permitting another to use the property.,
R as in Royalty (n.) Hence (Com.), a duty paid by a manufacturer to the owner of a patent or a copyright at a certain rate for each article manufactured; or, a percentage paid to the owner of an article by one who hires the use of it.,
R as in Royne (v. t.) To bite; to gnaw.,
R as in Roynish (a.) Mangy; scabby; hence, mean; paltry; troublesome.,
R as in Royster (n.) Alt. of Roysterer,
R as in Roysterer (n.) same as Roister, Roisterer.,
R as in Royston crow () See Hooded crow, under Hooded.,
R as in Roytelet (n.) A little king.,
R as in Roytish (a.) Wild; irregular.,
R as in Rubbed (imp. & p. p.) of Rub,
R as in Rubbing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rub,
R as in Rub (v. t.) To subject (a body) to the action of something moving over its surface with pressure and friction, especially to the action of something moving back and forth; as, to rub the flesh with the hand; to rub wood with sandpaper.,
R as in Rub (v. t.) To move over the surface of (a body) with pressure and friction; to graze; to chafe; as, the boat rubs the ground.,
R as in Rub (v. t.) To cause (a body) to move with pressure and friction along a surface; as, to rub the hand over the body.,
R as in Rub (v. t.) To spread a substance thinly over; to smear.,
R as in Rub (v. t.) To scour; to burnish; to polish; to brighten; to cleanse; -- often with up or over; as, to rub up silver.,
R as in Rub (v. t.) To hinder; to cross; to thwart.,
R as in Rub (v. i.) To move along the surface of a body with pressure; to grate; as, a wheel rubs against the gatepost.,
R as in Rub (v. i.) To fret; to chafe; as, to rub upon a sore.,
R as in Rub (v. i.) To move or pass with difficulty; as, to rub through woods, as huntsmen; to rub through the world.,
R as in Rub (n.) The act of rubbing; friction.,
R as in Rub (n.) That which rubs; that which tends to hinder or obstruct motion or progress; hindrance; obstruction, an impediment; especially, a difficulty or obstruction hard to overcome; a pinch.,
R as in Rub (n.) Inequality of surface, as of the ground in the game of bowls; unevenness.,
R as in Rub (n.) Something grating to the feelings; sarcasm; joke; as, a hard rub.,
R as in Rub (n.) Imperfection; failing; fault.,
R as in Rub (n.) A chance.,
R as in Rub (n.) A stone, commonly flat, used to sharpen cutting tools; a whetstone; -- called also rubstone.,
R as in Ruba-dub (n.) The sound of a drum when continuously beaten; hence, a clamorous, repeated sound; a clatter.,
R as in Rubato (a.) Robbed; borrowed.,
R as in Rubbage (n.) Rubbish.,
R as in Rubber (n.) One who, or that which, rubs.,
R as in Rubber (n.) An instrument or thing used in rubbing, polishing, or cleaning.,
R as in Rubber (n.) A coarse file, or the rough part of a file.,
R as in Rubber (n.) A whetstone; a rubstone.,
R as in Rubber (n.) An eraser, usually made of caoutchouc.,
R as in Rubber (n.) The cushion of an electrical machine.,
R as in Rubber (n.) One who performs massage, especially in a Turkish bath.,
R as in Rubber (n.) Something that chafes or annoys; hence, something that grates on the feelings; a sarcasm; a rub.,
R as in Rubber (n.) In some games, as whist, the odd game, as the third or the fifth, when there is a tie between the players; as, to play the rubber; also, a contest determined by the winning of two out of three games; as, to play a rubber of whist.,
R as in Rubber (n.) India rubber; caoutchouc.,
R as in Rubber (n.) An overshoe made of India rubber.,
R as in Rubbidge (n.) Rubbish.,
R as in Rubbing () a. & n. from Rub, v.,
R as in Rubbish (n.) Waste or rejected matter; anything worthless; valueless stuff; trash; especially, fragments of building materials or fallen buildings; ruins; debris.,
R as in Rubbish (a.) Of or pertaining to rubbish; of the quality of rubbish; trashy.,
R as in Rubble (n.) Water-worn or rough broken stones; broken bricks, etc., used in coarse masonry, or to fill up between the facing courses of walls.,
R as in Rubble (n.) Rough stone as it comes from the quarry; also, a quarryman's term for the upper fragmentary and decomposed portion of a mass of stone; brash.,
R as in Rubble (n.) A mass or stratum of fragments or rock lying under the alluvium, and derived from the neighboring rock.,
R as in Rubble (n.) The whole of the bran of wheat before it is sorted into pollard, bran, etc.,
R as in Rubblestone (n.) See Rubble, 1 and 2.,
R as in Rubblework (n.) Masonry constructed of unsquared stones that are irregular in size and shape.,
R as in Rubbly (a.) Relating to, or containing, rubble.,
R as in Rubedinous (a.) Reddish.,
R as in Rubefacient (a.) Making red.,
R as in Rubefacient (n.) An external application which produces redness of the skin.,
R as in Rubefaction (n.) The act or process of making red.,
R as in Rubelet (n.) A little ruby.,
R as in Rubella (n.) An acute specific disease with a dusky red cutaneous eruption resembling that of measles, but unattended by catarrhal symptoms; -- called also German measles.,
R as in Rubelle (n.) A red color used in enameling.,
R as in Rubellite (n.) A variety of tourmaline varying in color from a pale rose to a deep ruby, and containing lithium.,
R as in Rubeola (n.) the measles.,
R as in Rubeola (n.) Rubella.,
R as in Ruberythrinic (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, an acid extracted from madder root. It is a yellow crystalline substance from which alizarin is obtained.,
R as in Rubescence (n.) The quality or state of being rubescent; a reddening; a flush.,
R as in Rubescent (a.) Growing or becoming red; tending to redness.,
R as in Rubiaceous (a.) Of or pertaining to a very large natural order of plants (Rubiaceae) named after the madder (Rubia tinctoria), and including about three hundred and seventy genera and over four thousand species. Among them are the coffee tree, the trees yielding peruvian bark and quinine, the madder, the quaker ladies, and the trees bearing the edible fruits called genipap and Sierre Leone peach, besides many plants noted for the beauty or the fragrance of their blossoms.,
R as in Rubiacin (n.) A substance found in madder root, and probably identical with ruberythrinic acid.,
R as in Rubian (n.) One of several color-producing glycosides found in madder root.,
R as in Rubianic (a.) pertaining to, or derived from, rubian; specifically, designating an acid called also ruberythrinic acid.,
R as in Ru bible (n.) A ribble.,
R as in Rubican (a.) Colored a prevailing red, bay, or black, with flecks of white or gray especially on the flanks; -- said of horses.,
R as in Rubicelle (n.) A variety of ruby of a yellowish red color, from Brazil.,
R as in Rubicon (n.) A small river which separated Italy from Cisalpine Gaul, the province alloted to Julius Caesar.,
R as in Rubicund (a.) Inclining to redness; ruddy; red.,
R as in Rubicundity (n.) The quality or state of being rubicund; ruddiness.,
R as in Rubidic (a.) Of or pertaining to rubidium; containing rubidium.,
R as in Rubidine (n.) A nitrogenous base homologous with pyridine, obtained from coal tar as an oily liquid, C11H17N; also, any one of the group od metameric compounds of which rubidine is the type.,
R as in Rubidium (n.) A rare metallic element. It occurs quite widely, but in small quantities, and always combined. It is isolated as a soft yellowish white metal, analogous to potassium in most of its properties. Symbol Rb. Atomic weight, 85.2.,
R as in Rubific (a.) Making red; as, rubific rays.,
R as in Rubification (n.) The act of making red.,
R as in Rubiform (a.) Having the nature or quality of red; as, the rubiform rays of the sun.,
R as in Rubify (v. t.) To redden.,
R as in Rubiginose (a.) Alt. of Rubiginous,
R as in Rubiginous (a.) Having the appearance or color of iron rust; rusty-looking.,
R as in Rubigo (n.) same as Rust, n., 2.,
R as in Rubin (n.) A ruby.,
R as in Rubious (a.) Red; ruddy.,
R as in Rubiretin (n.) One of the red dye products extracted from madder root, and probably identical with ruberythrinic acid.,
R as in Ruble (n.) The unit of monetary value in Russia. It is divided into 100 copecks, and in the gold coin of the realm (as in the five and ten ruble pieces) is worth about 77 cents. The silver ruble is a coin worth about 60 cents.,
R as in Rubric (n.) That part of any work in the early manuscripts and typography which was colored red, to distinguish it from other portions.,
R as in Rubric (n.) A titlepage, or part of it, especially that giving the date and place of printing; also, the initial letters, etc., when printed in red.,
R as in Rubric (n.) The title of a statute; -- so called as being anciently written in red letters.,
R as in Rubric (n.) The directions and rules for the conduct of service, formerly written or printed in red; hence, also, an ecclesiastical or episcopal injunction; -- usually in the plural.,
R as in Rubric (n.) Hence, that which is established or settled, as by authority; a thing definitely settled or fixed.,
R as in Rubric (v. t.) To adorn ith red; to redden; to rubricate.,
R as in Rubric (a.) Alt. of Rubrical,
R as in Rubrical (a.) Colored in, or marked with, red; placed in rubrics.,
R as in Rubrical (a.) Of or pertaining to the rubric or rubrics.,
R as in Rubricate (n.) Marked with red.,
R as in Rubricate (v. t.) To mark or distinguished with red; to arrange as in a rubric; to establish in a settled and unchangeable form.,
R as in Rubrician (n.) Alt. of Rubricist,
R as in Rubricist (n.) One skilled in, or tenaciously adhering to, the rubric or rubrics.,
R as in Rubricity (n.) Redness.,
R as in Rubstone (n.) A stone for scouring or rubbing; a whetstone; a rub.,
R as in Rubus (n.) A genus of rosaceous plants, including the raspberry and blackberry.,
R as in Rubies (pl. ) of Ruby,
R as in Ruby (n.) A precious stone of a carmine red color, sometimes verging to violet, or intermediate between carmine and hyacinth red. It is a red crystallized variety of corundum.,
R as in Ruby (n.) The color of a ruby; carmine red; a red tint.,
R as in Ruby (n.) That which has the color of the ruby, as red wine. Hence, a red blain or carbuncle.,
R as in Ruby (n.) See Agate, n., 2.,
R as in Ruby (n.) Any species of South American humming birds of the genus Clytolaema. The males have a ruby-colored throat or breast.,
R as in Ruby (a.) Ruby-colored; red; as, ruby lips.,
R as in Rubied (imp. & p. p.) of Ruby,
R as in Rubying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ruby,
R as in Ruby (v. t.) To make red; to redden.,
R as in Rubytail (n.) A European gold wasp (Chrysis ignita) which has the under side of the abdomen bright red, and the other parts deep bluish green with a metallic luster. The larva is parasitic in the nests of other wasps and of bees.,
R as in Ruby-tailed (a.) Having the tail, or lower part of the body, bright red.,
R as in Rubythroat (n.) Any one of numerous species of humming birds belonging to Trochilus, Calypte, Stellula, and allies, in which the male has on the throat a brilliant patch of red feathers having metallic reflections; esp., the common humming bird of the Eastern United States (Trochilus colubris).,
R as in Rubywood (n.) red sandalwood. See under Sandalwood.,
R as in Rucervine (a.) Of, like, or pertaining to, a deer of the genus Rucervus, which includes the swamp deer of India.,
R as in Ruche (n.) A plaited, quilled, or goffered strip of lace, net, ribbon, or other material, -- used in place of collars or cuffs, and as a trimming for women's dresses and bonnets.,
R as in Ruche (n.) A pile of arched tiles, used to catch and retain oyster spawn.,
R as in Ruching (n.) A ruche, or ruches collectively.,
R as in Ruck (n.) A roc.,
R as in Rucked (imp. & p. p.) of Ruck,
R as in Rucking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ruck,
R as in Ruck (v. t. & i.) To draw into wrinkles or unsightly folds; to crease; as, to ruck up a carpet.,
R as in Ruck (v. t.) A wrinkle or crease in a piece of cloth, or in needlework.,
R as in Ruck (v. i.) To cower; to huddle together; to squat; to sit, as a hen on eggs.,
R as in Ruck (n.) A heap; a rick.,
R as in Ruck (n.) The common sort, whether persons or things; as, the ruck in a horse race.,
R as in Ructation (n.) The act of belching wind.,
R as in Ruction (n.) An uproar; a quarrel; a noisy outbreak.,
R as in Rud (n.) Redness; blush.,
R as in Rud (n.) Ruddle; red ocher.,
R as in Rud (n.) The rudd.,
R as in Rud (v. t.) To make red.,
R as in Rudd (n.) A fresh-water European fish of the Carp family (Leuciscus erythrophthalmus). It is about the size and shape of the roach, but it has the dorsal fin farther back, a stouter body, and red irises. Called also redeye, roud, finscale, and shallow. A blue variety is called azurine, or blue roach.,
R as in Rudder (n.) A riddle or sieve.,
R as in Rudder (n.) The mechanical appliance by means of which a vessel is guided or steered when in motion. It is a broad and flat blade made of wood or iron, with a long shank, and is fastened in an upright position, usually by one edge, to the sternpost of the vessel in such a way that it can be turned from side to side in the water by means of a tiller, wheel, or other attachment.,
R as in Rudder (n.) Fig.: That which resembles a rudder as a guide or governor; that which guides or governs the course.,
R as in Rudderhead (n.) The upper end of the rudderpost, to which the tiller is attached.,
R as in Rudderhole (n.) The hole in the deck through which the rudderpost passes.,
R as in Rudderless (a.) Without a rudder.,
R as in Rudderpost (n.) The shank of a rudder, having the blade at one end and the attachments for operating it at the other.,
R as in Rudderstock (n.) The main part or blade of the rudder, which is connected by hinges, or the like, with the sternpost of a vessel.,
R as in Ruddied (a.) Made ruddy or red.,
R as in Ruddily (adv.) In a ruddy manner.,
R as in Ruddiness (n.) The quality or state of being ruddy; as, the ruddiness of the cheeks or the sky.,
R as in Ruddle (v. t.) To raddle or twist.,
R as in Ruddle (n.) A riddle or sieve.,
R as in Ruddle (n.) A species of red earth colored by iron sesquioxide; red ocher.,
R as in Ruddle (v. t.) To mark with ruddle; to raddle; to rouge.,
R as in Ruddock (n.) The European robin.,
R as in Ruddock (n.) A piece of gold money; -- probably because the gold of coins was often reddened by copper alloy. Called also red ruddock, and golden ruddock.,
R as in Ruddy (n.) Of a red color; red, or reddish; as, a ruddy sky; a ruddy flame.,
R as in Ruddy (n.) Of a lively flesh color, or the color of the human skin in high health; as, ruddy cheeks or lips.,
R as in Ruddy (v. t.) To make ruddy.,
R as in Rude (superl.) Characterized by roughness; umpolished; raw; lacking delicacy or refinement; coarse.,
R as in Rude (superl.) Unformed by taste or skill; not nicely finished; not smoothed or polished; -- said especially of material things; as, rude workmanship.,
R as in Rude (superl.) Of untaught manners; unpolished; of low rank; uncivil; clownish; ignorant; raw; unskillful; -- said of persons, or of conduct, skill, and the like.,
R as in Rude (superl.) Violent; tumultuous; boisterous; inclement; harsh; severe; -- said of the weather, of storms, and the like; as, the rude winter.,
R as in Rude (superl.) Barbarous; fierce; bloody; impetuous; -- said of war, conflict, and the like; as, the rude shock of armies.,
R as in Rude (superl.) Not finished or complete; inelegant; lacking chasteness or elegance; not in good taste; unsatisfactory in mode of treatment; -- said of literature, language, style, and the like.,
R as in Rudenture (n.) Cabling. See Cabling.,
R as in Ruderary (a.) Of or pertaining to rubbish..,
R as in Rudesby (n.) An uncivil, turbulent fellow.,
R as in Rudesheimer (n.) A German wine made near Rudesheim, on the Rhine.,
R as in Rudiment (n.) That which is unformed or undeveloped; the principle which lies at the bottom of any development; an unfinished beginning.,
R as in Rudiment (n.) Hence, an element or first principle of any art or science; a beginning of any knowledge; a first step.,
R as in Rudiment (n.) An imperfect organ or part, or one which is never developed.,
R as in Rudiment (v. t.) To furnish with first principles or rules; to insrtuct in the rudiments.,
R as in Rudimental (a.) Rudimentary.,
R as in Rudimentary (a.) Of or pertaining to rudiments; consisting in first principles; elementary; initial; as, rudimental essays.,
R as in Rudimentary (a.) Very imperfectly developed; in an early stage of development; embryonic.,
R as in Rudish (a.) Somewhat rude.,
R as in Rudistes (n. pl.) An extinct order or suborder of bivalve mollusks characteristic of the Cretaceous period; -- called also Rudista. See Illust. under Hippurite.,
R as in Rudity (n.) Rudeness; ignorance.,
R as in Rudmasday (n.) Either of the feasts of the Holy Cross, occuring on May 3 and September 14, annually.,
R as in Rudolphine (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, a set of astronomical tables computed by Kepler, and founded on the observations of Tycho Brahe; -- so named from Rudolph II., emperor of Germany.,
R as in Rue (n.) A perennial suffrutescent plant (Ruta graveolens), having a strong, heavy odor and a bitter taste; herb of grace. It is used in medicine.,
R as in Rue (n.) Fig.: Bitterness; disappointment; grief; regret.,
R as in Rued (imp. & p. p.) of Rue,
R as in Ruing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rue,
R as in Rue (v. t.) To lament; to regret extremely; to grieve for or over.,
R as in Rue (v. t.) To cause to grieve; to afflict.,
R as in Rue (v. t.) To repent of, and withdraw from, as a bargain; to get released from.,
R as in Rue (v. i.) To have compassion.,
R as in Rue (v. i.) To feel sorrow and regret; to repent.,
R as in Rue (v. t.) Sorrow; repetance.,
R as in Rueful (a.) Causing one to rue or lament; woeful; mournful; sorrowful.,
R as in Rueful (a.) Expressing sorrow.,
R as in Ruell bone () See rewel bone.,
R as in Ruelle (n.) A private circle or assembly at a private house; a circle.,
R as in Rufescent (a.) Reddish; tinged with red.,
R as in Ruff (n.) A game similar to whist, and the predecessor of it.,
R as in Ruff (n.) The act of trumping, especially when one has no card of the suit led.,
R as in Ruff (v. i. & t.) To trump.,
R as in Ruff (n.) A muslin or linen collar plaited, crimped, or fluted, worn formerly by both sexes, now only by women and children.,
R as in Ruff (n.) Something formed with plaits or flutings, like the collar of this name.,
R as in Ruff (n.) An exhibition of pride or haughtiness.,
R as in Ruff (n.) Wanton or tumultuous procedure or conduct.,
R as in Ruff (n.) A low, vibrating beat of a drum, not so loud as a roll; a ruffle.,
R as in Ruff (n.) A collar on a shaft ot other piece to prevent endwise motion. See Illust. of Collar.,
R as in Ruff (n.) A set of lengthened or otherwise modified feathers round, or on, the neck of a bird.,
R as in Ruff (n.) A limicoline bird of Europe and Asia (Pavoncella, / Philommachus, pugnax) allied to the sandpipers. The males during the breeding season have a large ruff of erectile feathers, variable in their colors, on the neck, and yellowish naked tubercles on the face. They are polygamous, and are noted for their pugnacity in the breeding season. The female is called reeve, or rheeve.,
R as in Ruff (n.) A variety of the domestic pigeon, having a ruff of its neck.,
R as in Ruffed (imp. & p. p.) of Ruff,
R as in Ruffing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ruff,
R as in Ruff (v. t.) To ruffle; to disorder.,
R as in Ruff (v. t.) To beat with the ruff or ruffle, as a drum.,
R as in Ruff (v. t.) To hit, as the prey, without fixing it.,
R as in Ruff (n.) Alt. of Ruffe,
R as in Ruffe (n.) A small freshwater European perch (Acerina vulgaris); -- called also pope, blacktail, and stone, / striped, perch.,
R as in Ruffed (a.) Furnished with a ruff.,
R as in Ruffian (n.) A pimp; a pander; also, a paramour.,
R as in Ruffian (n.) A boisterous, cruel, brutal fellow; a desperate fellow ready for murderous or cruel deeds; a cutthroat.,
R as in Ruffian (a.) brutal; cruel; savagely boisterous; murderous; as, ruffian rage.,
R as in Ruffian (v. i.) To play the ruffian; to rage; to raise tumult.,
R as in Ruffianage (n.) Ruffians, collectively; a body of ruffians.,
R as in Ruffianish (a.) Having the qualities or manners of a ruffian; ruffianly.,
R as in Ruffianlike (a.) Ruffianly.,
R as in Ruffianly (a.) Like a ruffian; bold in crimes; characteristic of a ruffian; violent; brutal.,
R as in Ruffianous (a.) Ruffianly.,
R as in Ruffin (a.) Disordered.,
R as in Ruffled (imp. & p. p.) of Ruffle,
R as in Ruffling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ruffle,
R as in Ruffle (v. t.) To make into a ruff; to draw or contract into puckers, plaits, or folds; to wrinkle.,
R as in Ruffle (v. t.) To furnish with ruffles; as, to ruffle a shirt.,
R as in Ruffle (v. t.) To oughen or disturb the surface of; to make uneven by agitation or commotion.,
R as in Ruffle (v. t.) To erect in a ruff, as feathers.,
R as in Ruffle (v. t.) To beat with the ruff or ruffle, as a drum.,
R as in Ruffle (v. t.) To discompose; to agitate; to disturb.,
R as in Ruffle (v. t.) To throw into disorder or confusion.,
R as in Ruffle (v. t.) To throw together in a disorderly manner.,
R as in Ruffle (v. i.) To grow rough, boisterous, or turbulent.,
R as in Ruffle (v. i.) To become disordered; to play loosely; to flutter.,
R as in Ruffle (v. i.) To be rough; to jar; to be in contention; hence, to put on airs; to swagger.,
R as in Ruffle (v. t. & i.) That which is ruffled; specifically, a strip of lace, cambric, or other fine cloth, plaited or gathered on one edge or in the middle, and used as a trimming; a frill.,
R as in Ruffle (v. t. & i.) A state of being ruffled or disturbed; disturbance; agitation; commotion; as, to put the mind in a ruffle.,
R as in Ruffle (v. t. & i.) A low, vibrating beat of a drum, not so loud as a roll; -- called also ruff.,
R as in Ruffle (v. t. & i.) The connected series of large egg capsules, or oothecae, of any one of several species of American marine gastropods of the genus Fulgur. See Ootheca.,
R as in Ruffleless (a.) Having no ruffle.,
R as in Rufflement (n.) The act of ruffling.,
R as in Ruffler (n.) One who ruffles; a swaggerer; a bully; a ruffian.,
R as in Ruffler (n.) That which ruffles; specifically, a sewing machine attachment for making ruffles.,
R as in Rufigallic (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, an acid which is obtained from gallic acid as a brown or red crystalline substance, and is related to rufiopin and anthracene.,
R as in Rufiopin (n.) A yellowish red crystalline substance related to anthracene, and obtained from opianic acid.,
R as in Rufol (n.) A phenol derivative of anthracene obtained as a white crystalline substance, which on oxidation produces a red dyestuff related to anthraquinone.,
R as in Rufous (a.) Reddish; of a yellowish red or brownish red color; tawny.,
R as in Ruft (n.) Eructation; belching.,
R as in Rufterhood (n.) A kind of hood for a hawk.,
R as in Rug (a.) A kind of coarse, heavy frieze, formerly used for garments.,
R as in Rug (a.) A piece of thick, nappy fabric, commonly made of wool, -- used for various purposes, as for covering and ornamenting part of a bare floor, for hanging in a doorway as a potiere, for protecting a portion of carpet, for a wrap to protect the legs from cold, etc.,
R as in Rug (a.) A rough, woolly, or shaggy dog.,
R as in Rug (v. t.) To pull roughly or hastily; to plunder; to spoil; to tear.,
R as in Rugae (pl. ) of Ruga,
R as in Ruga (n.) A wrinkle; a fold; as, the rugae of the stomach.,
R as in Rugate (a.) Having alternate ridges and depressions; wrinkled.,
R as in Rugged (n.) Full of asperities on the surface; broken into sharp or irregular points, or otherwise uneven; not smooth; rough; as, a rugged mountain; a rugged road.,
R as in Rugged (n.) Not neat or regular; uneven.,
R as in Rugged (n.) Rough with bristles or hair; shaggy.,
R as in Rugged (n.) Harsh; hard; crabbed; austere; -- said of temper, character, and the like, or of persons.,
R as in Rugged (n.) Stormy; turbulent; tempestuous; rude.,
R as in Rugged (n.) Rough to the ear; harsh; grating; -- said of sound, style, and the like.,
R as in Rugged (n.) Sour; surly; frowning; wrinkled; -- said of looks, etc.,
R as in Rugged (n.) Violent; rude; boisterrous; -- said of conduct, manners, etc.,
R as in Rugged (n.) Vigorous; robust; hardy; -- said of health, physique, etc.,
R as in Rugging (n.) A coarse kind of woolen cloth, used for wrapping, blanketing, etc.,
R as in Rug-gowned (a.) Wearing a coarse gown or shaggy garment made of rug.,
R as in Ruggy (a.) Rugged; rough.,
R as in Rug-headed (a.) Having shaggy hair; shock-headed.,
R as in Rugin (n.) A nappy cloth.,
R as in Rugine (n.) An instrument for scraping the periosteum from bones; a raspatory.,
R as in Rugine (v. t.) To scrape or rasp, as a bone; to scale.,
R as in Rugosa (n. pl.) An extinct tribe of fossil corals, including numerous species, many of them of large size. They are characteristic of the Paleozoic formations. The radiating septs, when present, are usually in multiples of four. See Cyathophylloid.,
R as in Rugose (a.) Wrinkled; full of wrinkles; specifically (Bot.), having the veinlets sunken and the spaces between them elevated, as the leaves of the sage and horehound.,
R as in Rugosity (n.) The quality or state of being rugose.,
R as in Rugous (a.) Wrinkled; rugose.,
R as in Rugulose (a.) Somewhat rugose.,
R as in Ruhmkorff's coil () See Induction coil, under Induction.,
R as in Ruin (n.) The act of falling or tumbling down; fall.,
R as in Ruin (n.) Such a change of anything as destroys it, or entirely defeats its object, or unfits it for use; destruction; overthrow; as, the ruin of a ship or an army; the ruin of a constitution or a government; the ruin of health or hopes.,
R as in Ruin (n.) That which is fallen down and become worthless from injury or decay; as, his mind is a ruin; especially, in the plural, the remains of a destroyed, dilapidated, or desolate house, fortress, city, or the like.,
R as in Ruin (n.) The state of being dcayed, or of having become ruined or worthless; as, to be in ruins; to go to ruin.,
R as in Ruin (n.) That which promotes injury, decay, or destruction.,
R as in Ruined (imp. & p. p.) of Ruin,
R as in Ruining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ruin,
R as in Ruin (n.) To bring to ruin; to cause to fall to pieces and decay; to make to perish; to bring to destruction; to bring to poverty or bankruptcy; to impair seriously; to damage essentially; to overthrow.,
R as in Ruin (v. i.) To fall to ruins; to go to ruin; to become decayed or dilapidated; to perish.,
R as in Ruinable (a.) Capable of being ruined.,
R as in Ruinate (v. t.) To demolish; to subvert; to destroy; to reduce to poverty; to ruin.,
R as in Ruinate (v. t.) To cause to fall; to cast down.,
R as in Ruinate (v. i.) To fall; to tumble.,
R as in Ruinate (a.) Involved in ruin; ruined.,
R as in Ruination (n.) The act of ruining, or the state of being ruined.,
R as in Ruiner (n.) One who, or that which, ruins.,
R as in Ruiniform (a.) Having the appearance of ruins, or of the ruins of houses; -- said of certain minerals.,
R as in Ruinous (a.) Causing, or tending to cause, ruin; destructive; baneful; pernicious; as, a ruinous project.,
R as in Ruinous (a.) Characterized by ruin; ruined; dilapidated; as, an edifice, bridge, or wall in a ruinous state.,
R as in Ruinous (a.) Composed of, or consisting in, ruins.,
R as in Rukh (n.) The roc.,
R as in Rukh (n.) A large bird, supposed by some to be the same as the extinct Epiornis of Madagascar.,
R as in Rulable (a.) That may be ruled; subject to rule; accordant or conformable to rule.,
R as in Rule (a.) That which is prescribed or laid down as a guide for conduct or action; a governing direction for a specific purpose; an authoritative enactment; a regulation; a prescription; a precept; as, the rules of various societies; the rules governing a school; a rule of etiquette or propriety; the rules of cricket.,
R as in Rule (a.) Uniform or established course of things.,
R as in Rule (a.) Systematic method or practice; as, my ule is to rise at six o'clock.,
R as in Rule (a.) Ordibary course of procedure; usual way; comon state or condition of things; as, it is a rule to which there are many exeptions.,
R as in Rule (a.) Conduct in general; behavior.,
R as in Rule (a.) The act of ruling; administration of law; government; empire; authority; control.,
R as in Rule (a.) An order regulating the practice of the courts, or an order made between parties to an action or a suit.,
R as in Rule (a.) A determinate method prescribed for performing any operation and producing a certain result; as, a rule for extracting the cube root.,
R as in Rule (a.) A general principle concerning the formation or use of words, or a concise statement thereof; thus, it is a rule in England, that s or es , added to a noun in the singular number, forms the plural of that noun; but "man" forms its plural "men", and is an exception to the rule.,
R as in Rule (a.) A straight strip of wood, metal, or the like, which serves as a guide in drawing a straight line; a ruler.,
R as in Rule (a.) A measuring instrument consisting of a graduated bar of wood, ivory, metal, or the like, which is usually marked so as to show inches and fractions of an inch, and jointed so that it may be folded compactly.,
R as in Rule (a.) A thin plate of metal (usually brass) of the same height as the type, and used for printing lines, as between columns on the same page, or in tabular work.,
R as in Rule (a.) A composing rule. See under Conposing.,
R as in Ruled (imp. & p. p.) of Rule,
R as in Ruling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rule,
R as in Rule (n.) To control the will and actions of; to exercise authority or dominion over; to govern; to manage.,
R as in Rule (n.) To control or direct by influence, counsel, or persuasion; to guide; -- used chiefly in the passive.,
R as in Rule (n.) To establish or settle by, or as by, a rule; to fix by universal or general consent, or by common practice.,
R as in Rule (n.) To require or command by rule; to give as a direction or order of court.,
R as in Rule (n.) To mark with lines made with a pen, pencil, etc., guided by a rule or ruler; to print or mark with lines by means of a rule or other contrivance effecting a similar result; as, to rule a sheet of paper of a blank book.,
R as in Rule (v. i.) To have power or command; to exercise supreme authority; -- often followed by over.,
R as in Rule (v. i.) To lay down and settle a rule or order of court; to decide an incidental point; to enter a rule.,
R as in Rule (v. i.) To keep within a (certain) range for a time; to be in general, or as a rule; as, prices ruled lower yesterday than the day before.,
R as in Ruleless (a.) Destitute of rule; lawless.,
R as in Rule-monger (n.) A stickler for rules; a slave of rules,
R as in Ruler (n.) One who rules; one who exercises sway or authority; a governor.,
R as in Ruler (n.) A straight or curved strip of wood, metal, etc., with a smooth edge, used for guiding a pen or pencil in drawing lines. Cf. Rule, n., 7 (a).,
R as in Ruling (a.) Predominant; chief; reigning; controlling; as, a ruling passion; a ruling sovereign.,
R as in Ruling (a.) Used in marking or engraving lines; as, a ruling machine or pen.,
R as in Ruling (n.) The act of one who rules; ruled lines.,
R as in Ruling (n.) A decision or rule of a judge or a court, especially an oral decision, as in excluding evidence.,
R as in Rulingly (adv.) In a ruling manner; so as to rule.,
R as in Rullichies (n. pl.) Chopped meat stuffed into small bags of tripe. They are cut in slices and fried.,
R as in Ruly (a.) Orderly; easily restrained; -- opposed to unruly.,
R as in Rum (n.) A kind of intoxicating liquor distilled from cane juice, or from the scummings of the boiled juice, or from treacle or molasses, or from the lees of former distillations. Also, sometimes used colloquially as a generic or a collective name for intoxicating liquor.,
R as in Rum (a.) Old-fashioned; queer; odd; as, a rum idea; a rum fellow.,
R as in Rum (n.) A queer or odd person or thing; a country parson.,
R as in Rumble (v. i.) To make a low, heavy, continued sound; as, the thunder rumbles at a distance.,
R as in Rumble (v. i.) To murmur; to ripple.,
R as in Rumble (n.) A noisy report; rumor.,
R as in Rumble (n.) A low, heavy, continuous sound like that made by heavy wagons or the reverberation of thunder; a confused noise; as, the rumble of a railroad train.,
R as in Rumble (n.) A seat for servants, behind the body of a carriage.,
R as in Rumble (n.) A rotating cask or box in which small articles are smoothed or polished by friction against each other.,
R as in Rumble (v. t.) To cause to pass through a rumble, or shaking machine. See Rumble, n., 4.,
R as in Rumbler (n.) One who, or that which, rumbles.,
R as in Rumbling () a. & n. from Rumble, v. i.,
R as in Rumblingly (adv.) In a rumbling manner.,
R as in Rumbo (n.) Grog.,
R as in Rumbowline (n.) Same as Rombowline.,
R as in Rumen (n.) The first stomach of ruminants; the paunch; the fardingbag. See Illust. below.,
R as in Rumen (n.) The cud of a ruminant.,
R as in Rumicin (n.) A yellow crystalline substance found in the root of yellow dock (Rumex crispus) and identical with chrysophanic acid.,
R as in Ruminal (a.) Ruminant; ruminating.,
R as in Ruminant (a.) Chewing the cud; characterized by chewing again what has been swallowed; of or pertaining to the Ruminantia.,
R as in Ruminant (n.) A ruminant animal; one of the Ruminantia.,
R as in Ruminantia (n. pl.) A division of Artiodactyla having four stomachs. This division includes the camels, deer, antelopes, goats, sheep, neat cattle, and allies.,
R as in Ruminantly (adv.) In a ruminant manner; by ruminating, or chewing the cud.,
R as in Ruminated (imp. & p. p.) of Ruminate,
R as in Ruminating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ruminate,
R as in Ruminate (v. i.) To chew the cud; to chew again what has been slightly chewed and swallowed.,
R as in Ruminate (v. i.) To think again and again; to muse; to meditate; to ponder; to reflect.,
R as in Ruminate (v. t.) To chew over again.,
R as in Ruminate (v. t.) To meditate or ponder over; to muse on.,
R as in Ruminate (a.) Alt. of Ruminated,
R as in Ruminated (a.) Having a hard albumen penetrated by irregular channels filled with softer matter, as the nutmeg and the seeds of the North American papaw.,
R as in Rumination (n.) The act or process of ruminating, or chewing the cud; the habit of chewing the cud.,
R as in Rumination (n.) The state of being disposed to ruminate or ponder; deliberate meditation or reflection.,
R as in Rumination (n.) The regurgitation of food from the stomach after it has been swallowed, -- occasionally observed as a morbid phenomenon in man.,
R as in Ruminative (a.) Inclined to, or engaged in, rumination or meditation.,
R as in Ruminator (n.) One who ruminates or muses; a meditator.,
R as in Rumkin (n.) A popular or jocular name for a drinking vessel.,
R as in Rummage (n.) A place or room for the stowage of cargo in a ship; also, the act of stowing cargo; the pulling and moving about of packages incident to close stowage; -- formerly written romage.,
R as in Rummage (n.) A searching carefully by looking into every corner, and by turning things over.,
R as in Rummaged (imp. & p. p.) of Rummage,
R as in Rummaging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rummage,
R as in Rummage (v. t.) To make room in, as a ship, for the cargo; to move about, as packages, ballast, so as to permit close stowage; to stow closely; to pack; -- formerly written roomage, and romage.,
R as in Rummage (v. t.) To search or examine thoroughly by looking into every corner, and turning over or removing goods or other things; to examine, as a book, carefully, turning over leaf after leaf.,
R as in Rummage (v. i.) To search a place narrowly.,
R as in Rummager (n.) One who rummages.,
R as in Rummager (n.) A person on shipboard whose business was to take charge of stowing the cargo; -- formerly written roomager, and romager.,
R as in Rummer (n.) A large and tall glass, or drinking cup.,
R as in Rummy (a.) Of or pertaining to rum; characteristic of rum; as a rummy flavor.,
R as in Rummies (pl. ) of Rummy,
R as in Rummy (n.) One who drinks rum; an habitually intemperate person.,
R as in Rummy (a.) Strange; odd.,
R as in Rumney (n.) A sort of Spanish wine.,
R as in Rumor (n.) A flying or popular report; the common talk; hence, public fame; notoriety.,
R as in Rumor (n.) A current story passing from one person to another, without any known authority for its truth; -- in this sense often personified.,
R as in Rumor (n.) A prolonged, indistinct noise.,
R as in Rumored (imp. & p. p.) of Rumor,
R as in Rumoring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rumor,
R as in Rumor (v. t.) To report by rumor; to tell.,
R as in Rumorer (n.) A teller of news; especially, one who spreads false reports.,
R as in Rumorous (a.) Of or pertaining to a rumor; of the nature of rumors.,
R as in Rumorous (a.) Famous; notorious.,
R as in Rumorous (a.) Murmuring.,
R as in Rump (n.) The end of the backbone of an animal, with the parts adjacent; the buttock or buttocks.,
R as in Rump (n.) Among butchers, the piece of beef between the sirloin and the aitchbone piece. See Illust. of Beef.,
R as in Rump (n.) The hind or tail end; a fag-end; a remnant.,
R as in Rumper (n.) A member or a supporter of the Rump Parliament.,
R as in Rump-fed (a.) A Shakespearean word of uncertain meaning. Perhaps "fattened in the rump, pampered.",
R as in Rumpled (imp. & p. p.) of Rumple,
R as in Rumpling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rumple,
R as in Rumple (v. t. & i.) To make uneven; to form into irregular inequalities; to wrinkle; to crumple; as, to rumple an apron or a cravat.,
R as in Rumple (n.) A fold or plait; a wrinkle.,
R as in Rumpled (a.) Wrinkled; crumpled.,
R as in Rumpless (a.) Destitute of a rump.,
R as in Rumply (a.) Rumpled.,
R as in Rumpus (n.) A disturbance; noise and confusion; a quarrel.,
R as in Rumseller (n.) One who sells rum; one who deals in intoxicating liquors; especially, one who sells spirituous beverages at retail.,
R as in Ran (imp.) of Run,
R as in Run () of Run,
R as in Run (p. p.) of Run,
R as in Running (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Run,
R as in Run (a.) To move, proceed, advance, pass, go, come, etc., swiftly, smoothly, or with quick action; -- said of things animate or inanimate. Hence, to flow, glide, or roll onward, as a stream, a snake, a wagon, etc.; to move by quicker action than in walking, as a person, a horse, a dog.,
R as in Run (a.) To go swiftly; to pass at a swift pace; to hasten.,
R as in Run (a.) To flee, as from fear or danger.,
R as in Run (a.) To steal off; to depart secretly.,
R as in Run (a.) To contend in a race; hence, to enter into a contest; to become a candidate; as, to run for Congress.,
R as in Run (a.) To pass from one state or condition to another; to come into a certain condition; -- often with in or into; as, to run into evil practices; to run in debt.,
R as in Run (a.) To exert continuous activity; to proceed; as, to run through life; to run in a circle.,
R as in Run (a.) To pass or go quickly in thought or conversation; as, to run from one subject to another.,
R as in Run (a.) To discuss; to continue to think or speak about something; -- with on.,
R as in Run (a.) To make numerous drafts or demands for payment, as upon a bank; -- with on.,
R as in Run (a.) To creep, as serpents.,
R as in Run (a.) To flow, as a liquid; to ascend or descend; to course; as, rivers run to the sea; sap runs up in the spring; her blood ran cold.,
R as in Run (a.) To proceed along a surface; to extend; to spread.,
R as in Run (a.) To become fluid; to melt; to fuse.,
R as in Run (a.) To turn, as a wheel; to revolve on an axis or pivot; as, a wheel runs swiftly round.,
R as in Run (a.) To travel; to make progress; to be moved by mechanical means; to go; as, the steamboat runs regularly to Albany; the train runs to Chicago.,
R as in Run (a.) To extend; to reach; as, the road runs from Philadelphia to New York; the memory of man runneth not to the contrary.,
R as in Run (a.) To go back and forth from place to place; to ply; as, the stage runs between the hotel and the station.,
R as in Run (a.) To make progress; to proceed; to pass.,
R as in Run (a.) To continue in operation; to be kept in action or motion; as, this engine runs night and day; the mill runs six days in the week.,
R as in Run (a.) To have a course or direction; as, a line runs east and west.,
R as in Run (a.) To be in form thus, as a combination of words.,
R as in Run (a.) To be popularly known; to be generally received.,
R as in Run (a.) To have growth or development; as, boys and girls run up rapidly.,
R as in Run (a.) To tend, as to an effect or consequence; to incline.,
R as in Run (a.) To spread and blend together; to unite; as, colors run in washing.,
R as in Run (a.) To have a legal course; to be attached; to continue in force, effect, or operation; to follow; to go in company; as, certain covenants run with the land.,
R as in Run (a.) To continue without falling due; to hold good; as, a note has thirty days to run.,
R as in Run (a.) To discharge pus or other matter; as, an ulcer runs.,
R as in Run (a.) To be played on the stage a number of successive days or nights; as, the piece ran for six months.,
R as in Run (a.) To sail before the wind, in distinction from reaching or sailing closehauled; -- said of vessels.,
R as in Run (a.) Specifically, of a horse: To move rapidly in a gait in which each leg acts in turn as a propeller and a supporter, and in which for an instant all the limbs are gathered in the air under the body.,
R as in Run (a.) To move rapidly by springing steps so that there is an instant in each step when neither foot touches the ground; -- so distinguished from walking in athletic competition.,
R as in Run (v. t.) To cause to run (in the various senses of Run, v. i.); as, to run a horse; to run a stage; to run a machine; to run a rope through a block.,
R as in Run (v. i.) To pursue in thought; to carry in contemplation.,
R as in Run (v. i.) To cause to enter; to thrust; as, to run a sword into or through the body; to run a nail into the foot.,
R as in Run (v. i.) To drive or force; to cause, or permit, to be driven.,
R as in Run (v. i.) To fuse; to shape; to mold; to cast; as, to run bullets, and the like.,
R as in Run (v. i.) To cause to be drawn; to mark out; to indicate; to determine; as, to run a line.,
R as in Run (v. i.) To cause to pass, or evade, offical restrictions; to smuggle; -- said of contraband or dutiable goods.,
R as in Run (v. i.) To go through or accomplish by running; as, to run a race; to run a certain career.,
R as in Run (v. i.) To cause to stand as a candidate for office; to support for office; as, to run some one for Congress.,
R as in Run (v. i.) To encounter or incur, as a danger or risk; as, to run the risk of losing one's life. See To run the chances, below.,
R as in Run (v. i.) To put at hazard; to venture; to risk.,
R as in Run (v. i.) To discharge; to emit; to give forth copiously; to be bathed with; as, the pipe or faucet runs hot water.,
R as in Run (v. i.) To be charged with, or to contain much of, while flowing; as, the rivers ran blood.,
R as in Run (v. i.) To conduct; to manage; to carry on; as, to run a factory or a hotel.,
R as in Run (v. i.) To tease with sarcasms and ridicule.,
R as in Run (v. i.) To sew, as a seam, by passing the needle through material in a continuous line, generally taking a series of stitches on the needle at the same time.,
R as in Run (v. i.) To migrate or move in schools; -- said of fish; esp., to ascend a river in order to spawn.,
R as in Run (n.) The act of running; as, a long run; a good run; a quick run; to go on the run.,
R as in Run (n.) A small stream; a brook; a creek.,
R as in Run (n.) That which runs or flows in the course of a certain operation, or during a certain time; as, a run of must in wine making; the first run of sap in a maple orchard.,
R as in Run (n.) A course; a series; that which continues in a certain course or series; as, a run of good or bad luck.,
R as in Run (n.) State of being current; currency; popularity.,
R as in Run (n.) Continued repetition on the stage; -- said of a play; as, to have a run of a hundred successive nights.,
R as in Run (n.) A continuing urgent demand; especially, a pressure on a bank or treasury for payment of its notes.,
R as in Run (n.) A range or extent of ground for feeding stock; as, a sheep run.,
R as in Run (n.) The aftermost part of a vessel's hull where it narrows toward the stern, under the quarter.,
R as in Run (n.) The distance sailed by a ship; as, a good run; a run of fifty miles.,
R as in Run (n.) A voyage; as, a run to China.,
R as in Run (n.) A pleasure excursion; a trip.,
R as in Run (n.) The horizontal distance to which a drift may be carried, either by license of the proprietor of a mine or by the nature of the formation; also, the direction which a vein of ore or other substance takes.,
R as in Run (n.) A roulade, or series of running tones.,
R as in Run (n.) The greatest degree of swiftness in marching. It is executed upon the same principles as the double-quick, but with greater speed.,
R as in Run (n.) The act of migrating, or ascending a river to spawn; -- said of fish; also, an assemblage or school of fishes which migrate, or ascend a river for the purpose of spawning.,
R as in Run (n.) In baseball, a complete circuit of the bases made by a player, which enables him to score one; in cricket, a passing from one wicket to the other, by which one point is scored; as, a player made three runs; the side went out with two hundred runs.,
R as in Run (n.) A pair or set of millstones.,
R as in Run (a.) Melted, or made from molten material; cast in a mold; as, run butter; run iron or lead.,
R as in Run (a.) Smuggled; as, run goods.,
R as in Runagate (n.) A fugitive; a vagabond; an apostate; a renegade. See Renegade.,
R as in Runaway (n.) One who, or that which, flees from danger, duty, restraint, etc.; a fugitive.,
R as in Runaway (n.) The act of running away, esp. of a horse or teams; as, there was a runaway yesterday.,
R as in Runaway (a.) Running away; fleeing from danger, duty, restraint, etc.; as, runaway soldiers; a runaway horse.,
R as in Runaway (a.) Accomplished by running away or elopement, or during flight; as, a runaway marriage.,
R as in Runaway (a.) Won by a long lead; as, a runaway victory.,
R as in Runaway (a.) Very successful; accomplishing success quickly; as, a runaway bestseller.,
R as in Runcation (n.) A weeding.,
R as in Runch (n.) The wild radish.,
R as in Runcinate (a.) Pinnately cut with the lobes pointing downwards, as the leaf of the dandelion.,
R as in Rundel (n.) A moat with water in it; also, a small stream; a runlet.,
R as in Rundel (n.) A circle.,
R as in Rundle (n.) A round; a step of a ladder; a rung.,
R as in Rundle (n.) A ball.,
R as in Rundle (n.) Something which rotates about an axis, as a wheel, or the drum of a capstan.,
R as in Rundle (n.) One of the pins or trundles of a lantern wheel.,
R as in Rundlet (n.) A small barrel of no certain dimensions. It may contain from 3 to 20 gallons, but it usually holds about 14/ gallons.,
R as in Rune (n.) A letter, or character, belonging to the written language of the ancient Norsemen, or Scandinavians; in a wider sense, applied to the letters of the ancient nations of Northern Europe in general.,
R as in Rune (n.) Old Norse poetry expressed in runes.,
R as in Runer (n.) A bard, or learned man, among the ancient Goths.,
R as in Rung () imp. & p. p. of Ring.,
R as in Rung (n.) A floor timber in a ship.,
R as in Rung (n.) One of the rounds of a ladder.,
R as in Rung (n.) One of the stakes of a cart; a spar; a heavy staff.,
R as in Rung (n.) One of the radial handles projecting from the rim of a steering wheel; also, one of the pins or trundles of a lantern wheel.,
R as in Runghead (n.) The upper end of a floor timber in a ship.,
R as in Runic (a.) Of or pertaining to a rune, to runes, or to the Norsemen; as, runic verses; runic letters; runic names; runic rhyme.,
R as in Runlet (n.) A little run or stream; a streamlet; a brook.,
R as in Runlet (n.) Same as Rundlet.,
R as in Runnel (n.) A rivulet or small brook.,
R as in Runner (n.) One who, or that which, runs; a racer.,
R as in Runner (n.) A detective.,
R as in Runner (n.) A messenger.,
R as in Runner (n.) A smuggler.,
R as in Runner (n.) One employed to solicit patronage, as for a steamboat, hotel, shop, etc.,
R as in Runner (n.) A slender trailing branch which takes root at the joints or end and there forms new plants, as in the strawberry and the common cinquefoil.,
R as in Runner (n.) The rotating stone of a set of millstones.,
R as in Runner (n.) A rope rove through a block and used to increase the mechanical power of a tackle.,
R as in Runner (n.) One of the pieces on which a sled or sleigh slides; also the part or blade of a skate which slides on the ice.,
R as in Runner (n.) A horizontal channel in a mold, through which the metal flows to the cavity formed by the pattern; also, the waste metal left in such a channel.,
R as in Runner (n.) A trough or channel for leading molten metal from a furnace to a ladle, mold, or pig bed.,
R as in Runner (n.) The movable piece to which the ribs of an umbrella are attached.,
R as in Runner (n.) A food fish (Elagatis pinnulatus) of Florida and the West Indies; -- called also skipjack, shoemaker, and yellowtail. The name alludes to its rapid successive leaps from the water.,
R as in Runner (n.) Any cursorial bird.,
R as in Runner (n.) A movable slab or rubber used in grinding or polishing a surface of stone.,
R as in Runner (n.) A tool on which lenses are fastened in a group, for polishing or grinding.,
R as in Runnet (n.) See Rennet.,
R as in Running (a.) Moving or advancing by running.,
R as in Running (a.) Having a running gait; not a trotter or pacer.,
R as in Running (a.) trained and kept for running races; as, a running horse.,
R as in Running (a.) Successive; one following the other without break or intervention; -- said of periods of time; as, to be away two days running; to sow land two years running.,
R as in Running (a.) Flowing; easy; cursive; as, a running hand.,
R as in Running (a.) Continuous; keeping along step by step; as, he stated the facts with a running explanation.,
R as in Running (a.) Extending by a slender climbing or trailing stem; as, a running vine.,
R as in Running (a.) Discharging pus; as, a running sore.,
R as in Running (n.) The act of one who, or of that which runs; as, the running was slow.,
R as in Running (n.) That which runs or flows; the quantity of a liquid which flows in a certain time or during a certain operation; as, the first running of a still.,
R as in Running (n.) The discharge from an ulcer or other sore.,
R as in Runningly (adv.) In a running manner.,
R as in Runnion (n.) See Ronion.,
R as in Runology (n.) The science of runes.,
R as in Runround (n.) A felon or whitlow.,
R as in Runt (a.) Any animal which is unusually small, as compared with others of its kind; -- applied particularly to domestic animals.,
R as in Runt (a.) A variety of domestic pigeon, related to the barb and carrier.,
R as in Runt (a.) A dwarf; also, a mean, despicable, boorish person; -- used opprobriously.,
R as in Runt (a.) The dead stump of a tree; also, the stem of a plant.,
R as in Runty (a.) Like a runt; diminutive; mean.,
R as in Runway (n.) The channel of a stream.,
R as in Runway (n.) The beaten path made by deer or other animals in passing to and from their feeding grounds.,
R as in Rupee (n.) A silver coin, and money of account, in the East Indies.,
R as in Rupellary (n.) Rocky.,
R as in Rupert's drop () A kind of glass drop with a long tail, made by dropping melted glass into water. It is remarkable for bursting into fragments when the surface is scratched or the tail broken; -- so called from Prince Rupert, nephew of Charles I., by whom they were first brought to England. Called also Rupert's ball, and glass tear.,
R as in Rupia (n.) An eruption upon the skin, consisting of vesicles with inflamed base and filled with serous, purulent, or bloody fluid, which dries up, forming a blackish crust.,
R as in Rupial (a.) Of or pertaining to rupia.,
R as in Rupicola (n.) A genus of beautiful South American passerine birds, including the cock of the rock.,
R as in Rupicoline (a.) Rock-inhabiting.,
R as in Ruption (n.) A breaking or bursting open; breach; rupture.,
R as in Ruptuary (n.) One not of noble blood; a plebeian; a roturier.,
R as in Rupture (n.) The act of breaking apart, or separating; the state of being broken asunder; as, the rupture of the skin; the rupture of a vessel or fiber; the rupture of a lutestring.,
R as in Rupture (n.) Breach of peace or concord between individuals; open hostility or war between nations; interruption of friendly relations; as, the parties came to a rupture.,
R as in Rupture (n.) Hernia. See Hernia.,
R as in Rupture (n.) A bursting open, as of a steam boiler, in a less sudden manner than by explosion. See Explosion.,
R as in Ruptured (imp. & p. p.) of Rupture,
R as in Rupturing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rupture,
R as in Rupture (v. t.) To part by violence; to break; to burst; as, to rupture a blood vessel.,
R as in Rupture (v. t.) To produce a hernia in.,
R as in Rupture (v. i.) To suffer a breach or disruption.,
R as in Ruptured (a.) Having a rupture, or hernia.,
R as in Rupturewort (n.) Same as Burstwort.,
R as in Rupturewort (n.) A West Indian plant (Alternanthera polygonoides) somewhat resembling burstwort.,
R as in Rural (a.) Of or pertaining to the country, as distinguished from a city or town; living in the country; suitable for, or resembling, the country; rustic; as, rural scenes; a rural prospect.,
R as in Rural (a.) Of or pertaining to agriculture; as, rural economy.,
R as in Rurales (n. pl.) The gossamer-winged butterflies; a family of small butterflies, including the hairstreaks, violets, and theclas.,
R as in Ruralism (n.) The quality or state of being rural; ruralness.,
R as in Ruralism (n.) A rural idiom or expression.,
R as in Ruralist (n.) One who leads a rural life.,
R as in ties (pl. ) of Rurality,
R as in Rurality (n.) The quality or state of being rural.,
R as in Rurality (n.) A rural place.,
R as in Ruralized (imp. & p. p.) of Ruralize,
R as in Ruralizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ruralize,
R as in Ruralize (v. t.) To render rural; to give a rural appearance to.,
R as in Ruralize (v. i.) To become rural; to go into the country; to rusticate.,
R as in Rurally (adv.) In a rural manner; as in the country.,
R as in Ruralness (n.) The quality or state of being rural.,
R as in Ruricolist (n.) An inhabitant of the country.,
R as in Ruridecanal (a.) Of or pertaining to a rural dean; as, a ruridecanal district; the ruridecanal intellect.,
R as in Rurigenous (a.) Born in the country.,
R as in Ruse (n.) An artifice; trick; stratagem; wile; fraud; deceit.,
R as in Rush (n.) A name given to many aquatic or marsh-growing endogenous plants with soft, slender stems, as the species of Juncus and Scirpus.,
R as in Rush (n.) The merest trifle; a straw.,
R as in Rushed (imp. & p. p.) of Rush,
R as in Rushing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rush,
R as in Rush (v. i.) To move forward with impetuosity, violence, and tumultuous rapidity or haste; as, armies rush to battle; waters rush down a precipice.,
R as in Rush (v. i.) To enter into something with undue haste and eagerness, or without due deliberation and preparation; as, to rush business or speculation.,
R as in Rush (v. t.) To push or urge forward with impetuosity or violence; to hurry forward.,
R as in Rush (v. t.) To recite (a lesson) or pass (an examination) without an error.,
R as in Rush (n.) A moving forward with rapidity and force or eagerness; a violent motion or course; as, a rush of troops; a rush of winds; a rush of water.,
R as in Rush (n.) Great activity with pressure; as, a rush of business.,
R as in Rush (n.) A perfect recitation.,
R as in Rush (n.) A rusher; as, the center rush, whose place is in the center of the rush line; the end rush.,
R as in Rush (n.) The act of running with the ball.,
R as in Rush-bearing (n.) A kind of rural festival at the dedication of a church, when the parishioners brought rushes to strew the church.,
R as in Rushbuckler (n.) A bullying and violent person; a braggart; a swashbuckler.,
R as in Rushed (a.) Abounding or covered with rushes.,
R as in Rusher (n.) One who rushes.,
R as in Rusher (n.) One who strewed rushes on the floor at dances.,
R as in Rushiness (n.) The quality or state of abounding with rushes.,
R as in Rushingly (adv.) In a rushing manner.,
R as in Rushlight (n.) A rush candle, or its light; hence, a small, feeble light.,
R as in Rushlike (a.) Resembling a rush; weak.,
R as in Rushy (a.) Abounding with rushes.,
R as in Rushy (a.) Made of rushes.,
R as in Rusine (a.) Of, like, or pertaining to, a deer of the genus Rusa, which includes the sambur deer (Rusa Aristotelis) of India.,
R as in Rusk (n.) A kind of light, soft bread made with yeast and eggs, often toasted or crisped in an oven; or, a kind of sweetened biscuit.,
R as in Rusk (n.) A kind of light, hard cake or bread, as for stores.,
R as in Rusk (n.) Bread or cake which has been made brown and crisp, and afterwards grated, or pulverized in a mortar.,
R as in Rusma (n.) A depilatory made of orpiment and quicklime, and used by the Turks. See Rhusma.,
R as in Russ (n. sing. & pl.) A Russian, or the Russians.,
R as in Russ (n. sing. & pl.) The language of the Russians.,
R as in Russ (a.) Of or pertaining to the Russians.,
R as in Russet (a.) Of a reddish brown color, or (by some called) a red gray; of the color composed of blue, red, and yellow in equal strength, but unequal proportions, namely, two parts of red to one each of blue and yellow; also, of a yellowish brown color.,
R as in Russet (a.) Coarse; homespun; rustic.,
R as in Russet (n.) A russet color; a pigment of a russet color.,
R as in Russet (n.) Cloth or clothing of a russet color.,
R as in Russet (n.) A country dress; -- so called because often of a russet color.,
R as in Russet (n.) An apple, or a pear, of a russet color; as, the English russet, and the Roxbury russet.,
R as in Russeting (n.) See Russet, n., 2 and 4.,
R as in Russety (a.) Of a russet color; russet.,
R as in Russia (n.) A country of Europe and Asia.,
R as in Russian (a.) Of or pertaining to Russia, its inhabitants, or language.,
R as in Russian (n.) A native or inhabitant of Russia; the language of Russia.,
R as in Russianize (v. t.) To make Russian, or more or less like the Russians; as, to Russianize the Poles.,
R as in Russification (n.) The act or process of Russifying, or the state of being Russified.,
R as in Russify (v. t.) To Russianize; as, to Russify conquered tribes.,
R as in Russophile (n.) Alt. of Russophilist,
R as in Russophilist (n.) One who, not being a Russian, favors Russian policy and aggrandizement.,
R as in Russophobe () Alt. of Russophobist,
R as in Russophobist () One who dreads Russia or Russian influence.,
R as in Russophobia (n.) Morbid dread of Russia or of Russian influence.,
R as in Rust (n.) The reddish yellow coating formed on iron when exposed to moist air, consisting of ferric oxide or hydroxide; hence, by extension, any metallic film of corrosion.,
R as in Rust (n.) A minute mold or fungus forming reddish or rusty spots on the leaves and stems of cereal and other grasses (Trichobasis Rubigo-vera), now usually believed to be a form or condition of the corn mildew (Puccinia graminis). As rust, it has solitary reddish spores; as corn mildew, the spores are double and blackish.,
R as in Rust (n.) That which resembles rust in appearance or effects.,
R as in Rust (n.) A composition used in making a rust joint. See Rust joint, below.,
R as in Rust (n.) Foul matter arising from degeneration; as, rust on salted meat.,
R as in Rust (n.) Corrosive or injurious accretion or influence.,
R as in Rusted (imp. & p. p.) of Rust,
R as in Rusting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rust,
R as in Rust (v. i.) To contract rust; to be or become oxidized.,
R as in Rust (v. i.) To be affected with the parasitic fungus called rust; also, to acquire a rusty appearance, as plants.,
R as in Rust (v. i.) To degenerate in idleness; to become dull or impaired by inaction.,
R as in Rust (v. t.) To cause to contract rust; to corrode with rust; to affect with rust of any kind.,
R as in Rust (v. t.) To impair by time and inactivity.,
R as in Rustful (a.) Full of rust; resembling rust; causing rust; rusty.,
R as in Rustic (a.) Of or pertaining to the country; rural; as, the rustic gods of antiquity.,
R as in Rustic (a.) Rude; awkward; rough; unpolished; as, rustic manners.,
R as in Rustic (a.) Coarse; plain; simple; as, a rustic entertainment; rustic dress.,
R as in Rustic (a.) Simple; artless; unadorned; unaffected.,
R as in Rustic (n.) An inhabitant of the country, especially one who is rude, coarse, or dull; a clown.,
R as in Rustic (n.) A rural person having a natural simplicity of character or manners; an artless, unaffected person.,
R as in Rustical (a.) Rustic.,
R as in Rusticated (imp. & p. p.) of Rusticate,
R as in Rusticating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rusticate,
R as in Rusticate (v. i.) To go into or reside in the country; to ruralize.,
R as in Rusticate (v. t.) To require or compel to reside in the country; to banish or send away temporarily; to impose rustication on.,
R as in Rusticated (a.) Resembling rustic work. See Rustic work (a), under Rustic.,
R as in Rustication (n.) The act of rusticating, or the state of being rusticated; specifically, the punishment of a student for some offense, by compelling him to leave the institution for a time.,
R as in Rustication (n.) Rustic work.,
R as in Rusticity (n.) The quality or state of being rustic; rustic manners; rudeness; simplicity; artlessness.,
R as in Rusticly (adv.) In a rustic manner; rustically.,
R as in Rustily (adv.) In a rusty state.,
R as in Rustiness (n.) The quality or state of being rusty.,
R as in Rustled (imp. & p. p.) of Rustle,
R as in Rustling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rustle,
R as in Rustle (v. i.) To make a quick succession of small sounds, like the rubbing or moving of silk cloth or dry leaves.,
R as in Rustle (v. i.) To stir about energetically; to strive to succeed; to bustle about.,
R as in Rustle (v. t.) To cause to rustle; as, the wind rustles the leaves.,
R as in Rustle (n.) A quick succession or confusion of small sounds, like those made by shaking leaves or straw, by rubbing silk, or the like; a rustling.,
R as in Rustler (n.) One who, or that which, rustles.,
R as in Rustler (n.) A bovine animal that can care for itself in any circumstances; also, an alert, energetic, driving person.,
R as in Rustless (a.) Free from rust.,
R as in Rusty (superl.) Covered or affected with rust; as, a rusty knife or sword; rusty wheat.,
R as in Rusty (superl.) Impaired by inaction, disuse, or neglect.,
R as in Rusty (superl.) Discolored and rancid; reasty; as, rusty bacon.,
R as in Rusty (superl.) Surly; morose; crusty; sullen.,
R as in Rusty (superl.) Rust-colored; dark.,
R as in Rusty (superl.) Discolored; stained; not cleanly kept; filthy.,
R as in Rusty (superl.) Resembling, or covered with a substance resembling, rust; affected with rust; rubiginous.,
R as in Rut (n.) Sexual desire or oestrus of deer, cattle, and various other mammals; heat; also, the period during which the oestrus exists.,
R as in Rut (n.) Roaring, as of waves breaking upon the shore; rote. See Rote.,
R as in Rutted (imp. & p. p.) of Rut,
R as in Rutting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rut,
R as in Rut (v. i.) To have a strong sexual impulse at the reproductive period; -- said of deer, cattle, etc.,
R as in Rut (v. t.) To cover in copulation.,
R as in Rut (n.) A track worn by a wheel or by habitual passage of anything; a groove in which anything runs. Also used figuratively.,
R as in Rut (v. t.) To make a rut or ruts in; -- chiefly used as a past participle or a participial adj.; as, a rutted road.,
R as in Ruta-baga (n.) A kind of turnip commonly with a large and long or ovoid yellowish root; a Swedish turnip. See Turnip.,
R as in Rutaceous (a.) Of or pertaining to plants of a natural order (Rutaceae) of which the rue is the type, and which includes also the orange, lemon, dittany, and buchu.,
R as in Rutate (n.) A salt of rutic acid.,
R as in Ruth (v.) Sorrow for the misery of another; pity; tenderness.,
R as in Ruth (v.) That which causes pity or compassion; misery; distress; a pitiful sight.,
R as in Ruthenic (a.) Pertaining to, or containing, ruthenium; specifically, designating those compounds in which it has a higher valence as contrasted with ruthenious compounds.,
R as in Ruthenious (a.) Pertaining to, or containing, ruthenium; specifically, designating those compounds in which it has a lower valence as contrasted with ruthenic compounds.,
R as in Ruthenium (n.) A rare element of the light platinum group, found associated with platinum ores, and isolated as a hard, brittle steel-gray metal which is very infusible. Symbol Ru. Atomic weight 103.5. Specific gravity 12.26. See Platinum metals, under Platinum.,
R as in Ruthful (a.) Full of ruth,
R as in Ruthful (a.) Pitiful; tender.,
R as in Ruthful (a.) Full of sorrow; woeful.,
R as in Ruthful (a.) Causing sorrow.,
R as in Ruthless (a.) Having no ruth; cruel; pitiless.,
R as in Rutic (a.) Pertaining to, or obtained from, rue (Ruta); as, rutic acid, now commonly called capric acid.,
R as in Rutilant (a.) Having a reddish glow; shining.,
R as in Rutilate (v. i.) To shine; to emit rays of light.,
R as in Rutile (n.) A mineral usually of a reddish brown color, and brilliant metallic adamantine luster, occurring in tetragonal crystals. In composition it is titanium dioxide, like octahedrite and brookite.,
R as in Rutilian (n.) Any species of lamellicorn beetles belonging to Rutila and allied genera, as the spotted grapevine beetle (Pelidnota punctata).,
R as in Rutin (n.) A glucoside resembling, but distinct from, quercitrin. Rutin is found in the leaves of the rue (Ruta graveolens) and other plants, and obtained as a bitter yellow crystalline substance which yields quercitin on decomposition.,
R as in Rutinose. () A disaccharide present in glycosides.,
R as in Rutter (n.) A horseman or trooper.,
R as in Rutter (n.) That which ruts.,
R as in Rutterkin (n.) An old crafty fox or beguiler -- a word of contempt.,
R as in Ruttier (n.) A chart of a course, esp. at sea.,
R as in Ruttish (a.) Inclined to rut; lustful; libidinous; salacious.,
R as in Ruttle (n.) A rattling sound in the throat arising from difficulty of breathing; a rattle.,
R as in Rutty (a.) Ruttish; lustful.,
R as in Rutty (a.) Full of ruts; as, a rutty road.,
R as in Rutty (a.) Rooty.,
R as in Rutylene (n.) A liquid hydrocarbon, C10H18, of the acetylene series. It is produced artificially.,
R as in Ryal (a.) Royal.,
R as in Ryal (n.) See Rial, an old English coin.,
R as in Ryder (n.) A clause added to a document; a rider. See Rider.,
R as in Ryder (n.) A gold coin of Zealand [Netherlands] equal to 14 florins, about $ 5.60.,
R as in Rye (n.) A grain yielded by a hardy cereal grass (Secale cereale), closely allied to wheat; also, the plant itself. Rye constitutes a large portion of the breadstuff used by man.,
R as in Rye (n.) A disease in a hawk.,
R as in Rynd (n.) A piece of iron crossing the hole in the upper millstone by which the stone is supported on the spindle.,
R as in Ryot (n.) A peasant or cultivator of the soil.,
R as in Rypophagous (a.) Eating, or subsisting on, filth.,
R as in Rys (n.) A branch.,
R as in Rysh (n.) Rush, a plant.,
R as in Rysimeter (n.) See Rhysimeter.,
R as in Ryth (n.) A ford.,
R as in Rytina (n.) A genus of large edentulous sirenians, allied to the dugong and manatee, including but one species (R. Stelleri); -- called also Steller's sea cow.,
