T as in T () the twentieth letter of the English alphabet, is a nonvocal consonant. With the letter h it forms the digraph th, which has two distinct sounds, as in thin, then. See Guide to Pronunciation, //262-264, and also //153, 156, 169, 172, 176, 178-180.,
T as in Ta (v. t.) To take.,
T as in Taas (n.) A heap. See Tas.,
T as in Tab (n.) The flap or latchet of a shoe fastened with a string or a buckle.,
T as in Tab (n.) A tag. See Tag, 2.,
T as in Tab (n.) A loop for pulling or lifting something.,
T as in Tab (n.) A border of lace or other material, worn on the inner front edge of ladies' bonnets.,
T as in Tab (n.) A loose pendent part of a lady's garment; esp., one of a series of pendent squares forming an edge or border.,
T as in Tabacco (n.) Tobacco.,
T as in Tabanus (n.) A genus of blood sucking flies, including the horseflies.,
T as in Tabard (n.) A sort of tunic or mantle formerly worn for protection from the weather. When worn over the armor it was commonly emblazoned with the arms of the wearer, and from this the name was given to the garment adopted for heralds.,
T as in Tabarder (n.) One who wears a tabard.,
T as in Tabarder (n.) A scholar on the foundation of Queen's College, Oxford, England, whose original dress was a tabard.,
T as in Tabaret (n.) A stout silk having satin stripes, -- used for furniture.,
T as in Tabasheer (n.) A concretion in the joints of the bamboo, which consists largely or chiefly of pure silica. It is highly valued in the East Indies as a medicine for the cure of bilious vomitings, bloody flux, piles, and various other diseases.,
T as in Tabbinet (n.) A fabric like poplin, with a watered surface.,
T as in Tabbies (pl. ) of Tabby,
T as in Tabby (n.) A kind of waved silk, usually called watered silk, manufactured like taffeta, but thicker and stronger. The watering is given to it by calendering.,
T as in Tabby (n.) A mixture of lime with shells, gravel, or stones, in equal proportions, with an equal proportion of water. When dry, this becomes as hard as rock.,
T as in Tabby (n.) A brindled cat; hence, popularly, any cat.,
T as in Tabby (n.) An old maid or gossip.,
T as in Tabby (a.) Having a wavy or watered appearance; as, a tabby waistcoat.,
T as in Tabby (a.) Brindled; diversified in color; as, a tabby cat.,
T as in Tabbied (imp. & p. p.) of Tabby,
T as in Tabbying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tabby,
T as in Tabby (v. t.) To water; to cause to look wavy, by the process of calendering; to calender; as, to tabby silk, mohair, ribbon, etc.,
T as in Tabefaction (n.) A wasting away; a gradual losing of flesh by disease.,
T as in Tabefied (imp. & p. p.) of Tabefy,
T as in Tabefying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tabefy,
T as in Tabefy (v. t.) To cause to waste gradually, to emaciate.,
T as in Tabellion (n.) A secretary or notary under the Roman empire; also, a similar officer in France during the old monarchy.,
T as in Taber (v. i.) Same as Tabor.,
T as in Taberd (n.) See Tabard.,
T as in Tabernacle (n.) A slightly built or temporary habitation; especially, a tent.,
T as in Tabernacle (n.) A portable structure of wooden framework covered with curtains, which was carried through the wilderness in the Israelitish exodus, as a place of sacrifice and worship.,
T as in Tabernacle (n.) Hence, the Jewish temple; sometimes, any other place for worship.,
T as in Tabernacle (n.) Figuratively: The human body, as the temporary abode of the soul.,
T as in Tabernacle (n.) Any small cell, or like place, in which some holy or precious things was deposited or kept.,
T as in Tabernacle (n.) The ornamental receptacle for the pyx, or for the consecrated elements, whether a part of a building or movable.,
T as in Tabernacle (n.) A niche for the image of a saint, or for any sacred painting or sculpture.,
T as in Tabernacle (n.) Hence, a work of art of sacred subject, having a partially architectural character, as a solid frame resting on a bracket, or the like.,
T as in Tabernacle (n.) A tryptich for sacred imagery.,
T as in Tabernacle (n.) A seat or stall in a choir, with its canopy.,
T as in Tabernacle (n.) A boxlike step for a mast with the after side open, so that the mast can be lowered to pass under bridges, etc.,
T as in Tabernacled (imp. & p. p.) of Tabernacle,
T as in Tabernacling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tabernacle,
T as in Tabernacle (v. i.) To dwell or reside for a time; to be temporary housed.,
T as in Tabernacular (a.) Of or pertaining to a tabernacle, especially the Jewish tabernacle.,
T as in Tabernacular (a.) Formed in latticework; latticed.,
T as in Tabernacular (a.) Of or pertaining to huts or booths; hence, common; low.,
T as in Tabes (n.) Progressive emaciation of the body, accompained with hectic fever, with no well-marked logical symptoms.,
T as in Tabescent (a.) Withering, or wasting away.,
T as in Tabetic (a.) Of or pertaining to tabes; of the nature of tabes; affected with tabes; tabid.,
T as in Tabetic (n.) One affected with tabes.,
T as in Tabid (a.) Affected by tabes; tabetic.,
T as in Tabific (a.) Alt. of Tabifical,
T as in Tabifical (a.) Producing tabes; wasting; tabefying.,
T as in Tabinet (n.) See Tabbinet.,
T as in Tablature (n.) A painting on a wall or ceiling; a single piece comprehended in one view, and formed according to one design; hence, a picture in general.,
T as in Tablature (n.) An ancient mode of indicating musical sounds by letters and other signs instead of by notes.,
T as in Tablature (n.) Division into plates or tables with intervening spaces; as, the tablature of the cranial bones.,
T as in Table (n.) A smooth, flat surface, like the side of a board; a thin, flat, smooth piece of anything; a slab.,
T as in Table (n.) A thin, flat piece of wood, stone, metal, or other material, on which anything is cut, traced, written, or painted; a tablet,
T as in Table (n.) a memorandum book.,
T as in Table (n.) Any smooth, flat surface upon which an inscription, a drawing, or the like, may be produced.,
T as in Table (n.) Hence, in a great variety of applications: A condensed statement which may be comprehended by the eye in a single view; a methodical or systematic synopsis; the presentation of many items or particulars in one group; a scheme; a schedule.,
T as in Table (n.) A view of the contents of a work; a statement of the principal topics discussed; an index; a syllabus; a synopsis; as, a table of contents.,
T as in Table (n.) A list of substances and their properties; especially, a list of the elementary substances with their atomic weights, densities, symbols, etc.,
T as in Table (n.) Any collection and arrangement in a condensed form of many particulars or values, for ready reference, as of weights, measures, currency, specific gravities, etc.; also, a series of numbers following some law, and expressing particular values corresponding to certain other numbers on which they depend, and by means of which they are taken out for use in computations; as, tables of logarithms, sines, tangents, squares, cubes, etc.; annuity tables; interest tables; astronomical tables, etc.,
T as in Table (n.) The arrangement or disposition of the lines which appear on the inside of the hand.,
T as in Table (n.) An article of furniture, consisting of a flat slab, board, or the like, having a smooth surface, fixed horizontally on legs, and used for a great variety of purposes, as in eating, writing, or working.,
T as in Table (n.) Hence, food placed on a table to be partaken of; fare; entertainment; as, to set a good table.,
T as in Table (n.) The company assembled round a table.,
T as in Table (n.) One of the two, external and internal, layers of compact bone, separated by diploe, in the walls of the cranium.,
T as in Table (n.) A stringcourse which includes an offset; esp., a band of stone, or the like, set where an offset is required, so as to make it decorative. See Water table.,
T as in Table (n.) The board on the opposite sides of which backgammon and draughts are played.,
T as in Table (n.) One of the divisions of a backgammon board; as, to play into the right-hand table.,
T as in Table (n.) The games of backgammon and of draughts.,
T as in Table (n.) A circular plate of crown glass.,
T as in Table (n.) The upper flat surface of a diamond or other precious stone, the sides of which are cut in angles.,
T as in Table (n.) A plane surface, supposed to be transparent and perpendicular to the horizon; -- called also perspective plane.,
T as in Table (n.) The part of a machine tool on which the work rests and is fastened.,
T as in Tableed (imp. & p. p.) of Table,
T as in Tableing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Table,
T as in Table (v. t.) To form into a table or catalogue; to tabulate; as, to table fines.,
T as in Table (v. t.) To delineate, as on a table; to represent, as in a picture.,
T as in Table (v. t.) To supply with food; to feed.,
T as in Table (v. t.) To insert, as one piece of timber into another, by alternate scores or projections from the middle, to prevent slipping; to scarf.,
T as in Table (v. t.) To lay or place on a table, as money.,
T as in Table (v. t.) In parliamentary usage, to lay on the table; to postpone, by a formal vote, the consideration of (a bill, motion, or the like) till called for, or indefinitely.,
T as in Table (v. t.) To enter upon the docket; as, to table charges against some one.,
T as in Table (v. t.) To make board hems in the skirts and bottoms of (sails) in order to strengthen them in the part attached to the boltrope.,
T as in Table (v. i.) To live at the table of another; to board; to eat.,
T as in Tableaux (pl. ) of Tableau,
T as in Tableau (n.) A striking and vivid representation; a picture.,
T as in Tableau (n.) A representation of some scene by means of persons grouped in the proper manner, placed in appropriate postures, and remaining silent and motionless.,
T as in Tableaux vivants (pl. ) of Tableau vivant,
T as in Tableau vivant () Same as Tableau, n., 2.,
T as in Tablebook (n.) A tablet; a notebook.,
T as in Tablecloth (n.) A cloth for covering a table, especially one with which a table is covered before the dishes, etc., are set on for meals.,
T as in Tables d'hote (pl. ) of Table d'hote,
T as in Table d'hote () A common table for guests at a hotel; an ordinary.,
T as in Table-land (n.) A broad, level, elevated area of land; a plateau.,
T as in Tablemen (pl. ) of Tableman,
T as in Tableman (n.) A man at draughts; a piece used in playing games at tables. See Table, n., 10.,
T as in Tablement (n.) A table.,
T as in Tabler (n.) One who boards.,
T as in Tabler (n.) One who boards others for hire.,
T as in Tablespoon (n.) A spoon of the largest size commonly used at the table; -- distinguished from teaspoon, dessert spoon, etc.,
T as in Tablespoonfuls (pl. ) of Tablespoonful,
T as in Tablespoonful (n.) As much as a tablespoon will hold; enough to fill a tablespoon. It is usually reckoned as one half of a fluid ounce, or four fluid drams.,
T as in Tablet (n.) A small table or flat surface.,
T as in Tablet (n.) A flat piece of any material on which to write, paint, draw, or engrave; also, such a piece containing an inscription or a picture.,
T as in Tablet (n.) Hence, a small picture; a miniature.,
T as in Tablet (n.) A kind of pocket memorandum book.,
T as in Tablet (n.) A flattish cake or piece; as, tablets of arsenic were formerly worn as a preservative against the plague.,
T as in Tablet (n.) A solid kind of electuary or confection, commonly made of dry ingredients with sugar, and usually formed into little flat squares; -- called also lozenge, and troche, especially when of a round or rounded form.,
T as in Tableware (n.) Ware, or articles collectively, for table use.,
T as in Tabling (n.) A forming into tables; a setting down in order.,
T as in Tabling (n.) The letting of one timber into another by alternate scores or projections, as in shipbuilding.,
T as in Tabling (n.) A broad hem on the edge of a sail.,
T as in Tabling (n.) Board; support.,
T as in Tabling (n.) Act of playing at tables. See Table, n., 10.,
T as in Taboo (n.) A total prohibition of intercourse with, use of, or approach to, a given person or thing under pain of death, -- an interdict of religious origin and authority, formerly common in the islands of Polynesia; interdiction.,
T as in Tabooed (imp. & p. p.) of Taboo,
T as in Tabooing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Taboo,
T as in Taboo (v. t.) To put under taboo; to forbid, or to forbid the use of; to interdict approach to, or use of; as, to taboo the ground set apart as a sanctuary for criminals.,
T as in Tabor (n.) A small drum used as an accompaniment to a pipe or fife, both being played by the same person.,
T as in Tabored (imp. & p. p.) of Tabor,
T as in Taboring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tabor,
T as in Tabor (v. i.) To play on a tabor, or little drum.,
T as in Tabor (v. i.) To strike lightly and frequently.,
T as in Tabor (v. t.) To make (a sound) with a tabor.,
T as in Taborer (n.) One who plays on the tabor.,
T as in Taboret (n.) A small tabor.,
T as in Taborine (n.) A small, shallow drum; a tabor.,
T as in Taborite (n.) One of certain Bohemian reformers who suffered persecution in the fifteenth century; -- so called from Tabor, a hill or fortress where they encamped during a part of their struggles.,
T as in Tabour (n. & v.) See Tabor.,
T as in Tabouret (n.) Same as Taboret.,
T as in Tabouret (n.) A seat without arms or back, cushioned and stuffed: a high stool; -- so called from its resemblance to a drum.,
T as in Tabouret (n.) An embroidery frame.,
T as in Tabrere (n.) A taborer.,
T as in Tabret (n.) A taboret.,
T as in Tabu (n. & v.) See Taboo.,
T as in Tabulae (pl. ) of Tabula,
T as in Tabula (n.) A table; a tablet.,
T as in Tabula (n.) One of the transverse plants found in the calicles of certain corals and hydroids.,
T as in Tabular (a.) Having the form of, or pertaining to, a table (in any of the uses of the word).,
T as in Tabular (a.) Having a flat surface; as, a tabular rock.,
T as in Tabular (a.) Formed into a succession of flakes; laminated.,
T as in Tabular (a.) Set in squares.,
T as in Tabular (a.) Arranged in a schedule; as, tabular statistics.,
T as in Tabular (a.) Derived from, or computed by, the use of tables; as, tabular right ascension.,
T as in Tabularization (n.) The act of tabularizing, or the state of being tabularized; formation into tables; tabulation.,
T as in Tabularized (imp. & p. p.) of Tabularize,
T as in Tabularizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tabularize,
T as in Tabularize (v. t.) To tabulate.,
T as in Tabulata (n. pl.) An artificial group of stony corals including those which have transverse septa in the calicles. The genera Pocillopora and Favosites are examples.,
T as in Tabulated (imp. & p. p.) of Tabulate,
T as in Tabulating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tabulate,
T as in Tabulate (v. t.) To form into a table or tables; to reduce to tables or synopses.,
T as in Tabulate (v. t.) To shape with a flat surface.,
T as in Tabulation (n.) The act of forming into a table or tables; as, the tabulation of statistics.,
T as in Tac (n.) A kind of customary payment by a tenant; -- a word used in old records.,
T as in Tacamahac (n.) Alt. of Tacamahaca,
T as in Tacamahaca (n.) A bitter balsamic resin obtained from tropical American trees of the genus Elaphrium (E. tomentosum and E. Tacamahaca), and also from East Indian trees of the genus Calophyllum; also, the resinous exhudation of the balsam poplar.,
T as in Tacamahaca (n.) Any tree yielding tacamahac resin, especially, in North America, the balsam poplar, or balm of Gilead (Populus balsamifera).,
T as in Tacaud (n.) The bib, or whiting pout.,
T as in Tace (n.) The cross, or church, of St. Antony. See Illust. (6), under Cross, n.,
T as in Tace (n.) See Tasse.,
T as in Tacet (v.impers.) It is silent; -- a direction for a vocal or instrumental part to be silent during a whole movement.,
T as in Tache (n.) Something used for taking hold or holding; a catch; a loop; a button.,
T as in Tache (n.) A spot, stain, or blemish.,
T as in Tachhydrite (n.) A hydrous chloride of calcium and magnesium occurring in yellowish masses which rapidly deliquesce upon exposure. It is found in the salt mines at Stassfurt.,
T as in Tachinae (pl. ) of Tachina,
T as in Tachina (n.) Any one of numerous species of Diptera belonging to Tachina and allied genera. Their larvae are external parasites of other insects.,
T as in Tachometer (n.) An instrument for measuring the velocity, or indicating changes in the velocity, of a moving body or substance.,
T as in Tachometer (n.) An instrument for measuring the velocity of running water in a river or canal, consisting of a wheel with inclined vanes, which is turned by the current. The rotations of the wheel are recorded by clockwork.,
T as in Tachometer (n.) An instrument for showing at any moment the speed of a revolving shaft, consisting of a delicate revolving conical pendulum which is driven by the shaft, and the action of which by change of speed moves a pointer which indicates the speed on a graduated dial.,
T as in Tachometer (n.) An instrument for measuring the velocity of the blood; a haematachometer.,
T as in Tachydidaxy (n.) A short or rapid method of instructing.,
T as in Tachyglossa (n. pl.) A division of monotremes which comprises the spiny ant-eaters of Australia and New Guinea. See Illust. under Echidna.,
T as in Tachygraphic (a.) Alt. of Tachygraphical,
T as in Tachygraphical (a.) Of or pertaining to tachygraphy; written in shorthand.,
T as in Tachygraphy (n.) The art or practice of rapid writing; shorthand writing; stenography.,
T as in Tachylyte (n.) A vitreous form of basalt; -- so called because decomposable by acids and readily fusible.,
T as in Tacit (a.) Done or made in silence; implied, but not expressed; silent; as, tacit consent is consent by silence, or by not interposing an objection.,
T as in Taciturn (a.) Habitually silent; not given to converse; not apt to talk or speak.,
T as in Taciturnity (n.) Habilual silence, or reserve in speaking.,
T as in Tack (n.) A stain; a tache.,
T as in Tack (n.) A peculiar flavor or taint; as, a musty tack.,
T as in Tack (n.) A small, short, sharp-pointed nail, usually having a broad, flat head.,
T as in Tack (n.) That which is attached; a supplement; an appendix. See Tack, v. t., 3.,
T as in Tack (v. t.) A rope used to hold in place the foremost lower corners of the courses when the vessel is closehauled (see Illust. of Ship); also, a rope employed to pull the lower corner of a studding sail to the boom.,
T as in Tack (v. t.) The part of a sail to which the tack is usually fastened; the foremost lower corner of fore-and-aft sails, as of schooners (see Illust. of Sail).,
T as in Tack (v. t.) The direction of a vessel in regard to the trim of her sails; as, the starboard tack, or port tack; -- the former when she is closehauled with the wind on her starboard side; hence, the run of a vessel on one tack; also, a change of direction.,
T as in Tack (v. t.) A contract by which the use of a thing is set, or let, for hire; a lease.,
T as in Tack (v. t.) Confidence; reliance.,
T as in Tacked (imp. & p. p.) of Tack,
T as in Tacking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tack,
T as in Tack (v. t.) To fasten or attach.,
T as in Tack (v. t.) Especially, to attach or secure in a slight or hasty manner, as by stitching or nailing; as, to tack together the sheets of a book; to tack one piece of cloth to another; to tack on a board or shingle; to tack one piece of metal to another by drops of solder.,
T as in Tack (v. t.) In parliamentary usage, to add (a supplement) to a bill; to append; -- often with on or to.,
T as in Tack (v. t.) To change the direction of (a vessel) when sailing closehauled, by putting the helm alee and shifting the tacks and sails so that she will proceed to windward nearly at right angles to her former course.,
T as in Tack (v. i.) To change the direction of a vessel by shifting the position of the helm and sails; also (as said of a vessel), to have her direction changed through the shifting of the helm and sails. See Tack, v. t., 4.,
T as in Tacker (n.) One who tacks.,
T as in Tacket (n.) A small, broad-headed nail.,
T as in Tackey (a. & n.) See Tacky.,
T as in Tacking (n.) A union of securities given at different times, all of which must be redeemed before an intermediate purchaser can interpose his claim.,
T as in Tackle (n.) Apparatus for raising or lowering heavy weights, consisting of a rope and pulley blocks; sometimes, the rope and attachments, as distinct from the block.,
T as in Tackle (n.) Any instruments of action; an apparatus by which an object is moved or operated; gear; as, fishing tackle, hunting tackle; formerly, specifically, weapons.,
T as in Tackle (n.) The rigging and apparatus of a ship; also, any purchase where more than one block is used.,
T as in Tackled (imp. & p. p.) of Tackle,
T as in Tackling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tackle,
T as in Tackle (n.) To supply with tackle.,
T as in Tackle (n.) To fasten or attach, as with a tackle; to harness; as, to tackle a horse into a coach or wagon.,
T as in Tackle (n.) To seize; to lay hold of; to grapple; as, a wrestler tackles his antagonist; a dog tackles the game.,
T as in Tackle (n.) To begin to deal with; as, to tackle the problem.,
T as in Tackled (a.) Made of ropes tacked together.,
T as in Tackling (n.) Furniture of the masts and yards of a vessel, as cordage, sails, etc.,
T as in Tackling (n.) Instruments of action; as, fishing tackling.,
T as in Tackling (n.) The straps and fixures adjusted to an animal, by which he draws a carriage, or the like; harness.,
T as in Tacksmen (pl. ) of Tacksman,
T as in Tacksman (n.) One who holds a tack or lease from another; a tenant, or lessee.,
T as in Tacky (a.) Sticky; adhesive; raw; -- said of paint, varnish, etc., when not well dried.,
T as in Taconic (a.) Designating, or pertaining to, the series of rocks forming the Taconic mountains in Western New England. They were once supposed to be older than the Cambrian, but later proved to belong to the Lower Silurian and Cambrian.,
T as in Tact (n.) The sense of touch; feeling.,
T as in Tact (n.) The stroke in beating time.,
T as in Tact (n.) Sensitive mental touch; peculiar skill or faculty; nice perception or discernment; ready power of appreciating and doing what is required by circumstances.,
T as in Tactable (a.) Capable of being touched; tangible.,
T as in Tactic (a.) Alt. of Tactical,
T as in Tactical (a.) Of or pertaining to the art of military and naval tactics.,
T as in Tactic (n.) See Tactics.,
T as in Tactician (n.) One versed in tactics; hence, a skillful maneuverer; an adroit manager.,
T as in Tactics (n.) The science and art of disposing military and naval forces in order for battle, and performing military and naval evolutions. It is divided into grand tactics, or the tactics of battles, and elementary tactics, or the tactics of instruction.,
T as in Tactics (n.) Hence, any system or method of procedure.,
T as in Tactile (a.) Of or pertaining to the organs, or the sense, of touch; perceiving, or perceptible, by the touch; capable of being touched; as, tactile corpuscles; tactile sensations.,
T as in Tactility (n.) The quality or state of being tactile; perceptibility by touch; tangibleness.,
T as in Taction (n.) The act of touching; touch; contact; tangency.,
T as in Tactless (a.) Destitute of tact.,
T as in Tactual (a.) Of or pertaining to the sense, or the organs, of touch; derived from touch.,
T as in Tadpole (n.) The young aquatic larva of any amphibian. In this stage it breathes by means of external or internal gills, is at first destitute of legs, and has a finlike tail. Called also polliwig, polliwog, porwiggle, or purwiggy.,
T as in Tadpole (n.) The hooded merganser.,
T as in Taedium (n.) See Tedium.,
T as in Tael (n.) A denomination of money, in China, worth nearly six shillings sterling, or about a dollar and forty cents; also, a weight of one ounce and a third.,
T as in Taen () Alt. of Ta'en,
T as in Ta'en () p. p. of Ta, to take, or a contraction of Taken.,
T as in Taeniae (pl. ) of Taenia,
T as in Taenia (n.) A genus of intestinal worms which includes the common tapeworms of man. See Tapeworm.,
T as in Taenia (n.) A band; a structural line; -- applied to several bands and lines of nervous matter in the brain.,
T as in Taenia (n.) The fillet, or band, at the bottom of a Doric frieze, separating it from the architrave.,
T as in Taeniada (n. pl.) Same as Taenioidea.,
T as in Taeniata (n. pl.) A division of Ctenophora including those which have a long, ribbonlike body. The Venus's girdle is the most familiar example.,
T as in Taenidia (pl. ) of Taenidium,
T as in Taenidium (n.) The chitinous fiber forming the spiral thread of the tracheae of insects. See Illust. of Trachea.,
T as in Taenioglossa (n. pl.) An extensive division of gastropod mollusks in which the odontophore is long and narrow, and usually bears seven rows of teeth. It includes a large number of families both marine and fresh-water.,
T as in Taenioglossate (a.) Of or pertaining to the Taenioglossa.,
T as in Taenioid (a.) Ribbonlike; shaped like a ribbon.,
T as in Taenioid (a.) Like or pertaining to Taenia.,
T as in Taenioidea (n. pl.) The division of cestode worms which comprises the tapeworms. See Tapeworm.,
T as in Taeniolae (pl. ) of Taeniola,
T as in Taeniola (n.) One of the radial partitions which separate the internal cavities of certain medusae.,
T as in Taeniosomi (n. pl.) An order of fishes remarkable for their long and compressed form. The ribbon fishes are examples. See Ribbon fish, under Ribbon.,
T as in Tafferer (n.) See Taffrail.,
T as in Taffeta (n.) Alt. of Taffety,
T as in Taffety (n.) A fine, smooth stuff of silk, having usually the wavy luster called watering. The term has also been applied to different kinds of silk goods, from the 16th century to modern times.,
T as in Taffrail (n.) The upper part of a ship's stern, which is flat like a table on the top, and sometimes ornamented with carved work; the rail around a ship's stern.,
T as in Taffy (n.) A kind of candy made of molasses or brown sugar boiled down and poured out in shallow pans.,
T as in Taffy (n.) Flattery; soft phrases.,
T as in Tafia (n.) A variety of rum.,
T as in Tag (n.) Any slight appendage, as to an article of dress; something slight hanging loosely; specifically, a direction card, or label.,
T as in Tag (n.) A metallic binding, tube, or point, at the end of a string, or lace, to stiffen it.,
T as in Tag (n.) The end, or catchword, of an actor's speech; cue.,
T as in Tag (n.) Something mean and paltry; the rabble.,
T as in Tag (n.) A sheep of the first year.,
T as in Tag (n.) A sale of usually used items (such as furniture, clothing, household items or bric-a-brac), conducted by one or a small group of individuals, at a location which is not a normal retail establishment.,
T as in Tagged (imp. & p. p.) of Tag,
T as in Tagging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tag,
T as in Tag (v. t.) To fit with, or as with, a tag or tags.,
T as in Tag (v. t.) To join; to fasten; to attach.,
T as in Tag (v. t.) To follow closely after; esp., to follow and touch in the game of tag. See Tag, a play.,
T as in Tag (v. i.) To follow closely, as it were an appendage; -- often with after; as, to tag after a person.,
T as in Tag (v.) A child's play in which one runs after and touches another, and then runs away to avoid being touched.,
T as in Tagbelt (n.) Same as Tagsore.,
T as in Tagger (n.) One who, or that which, appends or joins one thing to another.,
T as in Tagger (n.) That which is pointed like a tag.,
T as in Tagger (n.) Sheets of tin or other plate which run below the gauge.,
T as in Tagger (n.) A device for removing taglocks from sheep.,
T as in Taglet (n.) A little tag.,
T as in Taglia (n.) A peculiar combination of pulleys.,
T as in Tagliacotain (a.) Of or pertaining to Tagliacozzi, a Venetian surgeon; as, the Tagliacotian operation, a method of rhinoplasty described by him.,
T as in Taglioni (n.) A kind of outer coat, or overcoat; -- said to be so named after a celebrated Italian family of professional dancers.,
T as in Taglock (n.) An entangled lock, as of hair or wool.,
T as in Tagnicate (n.) The white-lipped peccary.,
T as in Tag-rag (n. & a.) The lowest class of people; the rabble. Cf. Rag, tag, and bobtail, under Bobtail.,
T as in Tagsore (n.) Adhesion of the tail of a sheep to the wool from excoriation produced by contact with the feces; -- called also tagbelt.,
T as in Tagtail (n.) A worm which has its tail conspicuously colored.,
T as in Tagtail (n.) A person who attaches himself to another against the will of the latter; a hanger-on.,
T as in Taguan (n.) A large flying squirrel (Pteromys petuarista). Its body becomes two feet long, with a large bushy tail nearly as long.,
T as in Taguicati (n.) The white-lipped peccary.,
T as in Taha (n.) The African rufous-necked weaver bird (Hyphantornis texor).,
T as in Tahaleb (n.) A fox (Vulpes Niloticus) of Northern Africa.,
T as in Tahitian (a.) Of or pertaining to Tahiti, an island in the Pacific Ocean.,
T as in Tahitian (n.) A native inhabitant of Tahiti.,
T as in Tahr (n.) Same as Thar.,
T as in Tail (n.) Limitation; abridgment.,
T as in Tail (a.) Limited; abridged; reduced; curtailed; as, estate tail.,
T as in Tail (n.) The terminal, and usually flexible, posterior appendage of an animal.,
T as in Tail (n.) Any long, flexible terminal appendage; whatever resembles, in shape or position, the tail of an animal, as a catkin.,
T as in Tail (n.) Hence, the back, last, lower, or inferior part of anything, -- as opposed to the head, or the superior part.,
T as in Tail (n.) A train or company of attendants; a retinue.,
T as in Tail (n.) The side of a coin opposite to that which bears the head, effigy, or date; the reverse; -- rarely used except in the expression "heads or tails," employed when a coin is thrown up for the purpose of deciding some point by its fall.,
T as in Tail (n.) The distal tendon of a muscle.,
T as in Tail (n.) A downy or feathery appendage to certain achenes. It is formed of the permanent elongated style.,
T as in Tail (n.) A portion of an incision, at its beginning or end, which does not go through the whole thickness of the skin, and is more painful than a complete incision; -- called also tailing.,
T as in Tail (n.) One of the strips at the end of a bandage formed by splitting the bandage one or more times.,
T as in Tail (n.) A rope spliced to the strap of a block, by which it may be lashed to anything.,
T as in Tail (n.) The part of a note which runs perpendicularly upward or downward from the head; the stem.,
T as in Tail (n.) Same as Tailing, 4.,
T as in Tail (n.) The bottom or lower portion of a member or part, as a slate or tile.,
T as in Tail (n.) See Tailing, n., 5.,
T as in Tail (v. t.) To follow or hang to, like a tail; to be attached closely to, as that which can not be evaded.,
T as in Tail (v. t.) To pull or draw by the tail.,
T as in Tail (v. i.) To hold by the end; -- said of a timber when it rests upon a wall or other support; -- with in or into.,
T as in Tail (v. i.) To swing with the stern in a certain direction; -- said of a vessel at anchor; as, this vessel tails down stream.,
T as in Tailage (n.) See Tallage.,
T as in Tail-bay (n.) One of the joists which rest one end on the wall and the other on a girder; also, the space between a wall and the nearest girder of a floor. Cf. Case-bay.,
T as in Tail-bay (n.) The part of a canal lock below the lower gates.,
T as in Tailblock (n.) A block with a tail. See Tail, 9.,
T as in Tailboard (n.) The board at the rear end of a cart or wagon, which can be removed or let down, for convenience in loading or unloading.,
T as in Tailed (a.) Having a tail; having (such) a tail or (so many) tails; -- chiefly used in composition; as, bobtailed, longtailed, etc.,
T as in Tailing (n.) The part of a projecting stone or brick inserted in a wall.,
T as in Tailing (n.) Same as Tail, n., 8 (a).,
T as in Tailing (n.) Sexual intercourse.,
T as in Tailing (n.) The lighter parts of grain separated from the seed threshing and winnowing; chaff.,
T as in Tailing (n.) The refuse part of stamped ore, thrown behind the tail of the buddle or washing apparatus. It is dressed over again to secure whatever metal may exist in it. Called also tails.,
T as in Taille (n.) A tally; an account scored on a piece of wood.,
T as in Taille (n.) Any imposition levied by the king, or any other lord, upon his subjects.,
T as in Taille (n.) The French name for the tenor voice or part; also, for the tenor viol or viola.,
T as in Tailless (a.) Having no tail.,
T as in Taillie (n.) Same as Tailzie.,
T as in Tailor (n.) One whose occupation is to cut out and make men's garments; also, one who cuts out and makes ladies' outer garments.,
T as in Tailor (n.) The mattowacca; -- called also tailor herring.,
T as in Tailor (n.) The silversides.,
T as in Tailor (n.) The goldfish.,
T as in Tailored (imp. & p. p.) of Tailor,
T as in Tailoring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tailor,
T as in Tailor (v. i.) To practice making men's clothes; to follow the business of a tailor.,
T as in Tailoress (n.) A female tailor.,
T as in Tailoring (adv.) The business or the work of a tailor or a tailoress.,
T as in Tailpiece (n.) A piece at the end; an appendage.,
T as in Tailpiece (n.) One of the timbers which tail into a header, in floor framing. See Illust. of Header.,
T as in Tailpiece (n.) An ornament placed at the bottom of a short page to fill up the space, or at the end of a book.,
T as in Tailpiece (n.) A piece of ebony or other material attached to the lower end of a violin or similar instrument, to which the strings are fastened.,
T as in Tailpin (n.) The center in the spindle of a turning lathe.,
T as in Tailrace (n.) See Race, n., 6.,
T as in Tailrace (n.) The channel in which tailings, suspended in water, are conducted away.,
T as in Tailstock (n.) The sliding block or support, in a lathe, which carries the dead spindle, or adjustable center. The headstock supports the live spindle.,
T as in Tail-water (n.) Water in a tailrace.,
T as in Tailzie (n.) An entailment or deed whereby the legal course of succession is cut off, and an arbitrary one substituted.,
T as in Tain (n.) Thin tin plate; also, tin foil for mirrors.,
T as in Taint (n.) A thrust with a lance, which fails of its intended effect.,
T as in Taint (n.) An injury done to a lance in an encounter, without its being broken; also, a breaking of a lance in an encounter in a dishonorable or unscientific manner.,
T as in Tainted (imp. & p. p.) of Taint,
T as in Tainting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Taint,
T as in Taint (v. i.) To thrust ineffectually with a lance.,
T as in Taint (v. t.) To injure, as a lance, without breaking it; also, to break, as a lance, but usually in an unknightly or unscientific manner.,
T as in Taint (v. t.) To hit or touch lightly, in tilting.,
T as in Taint (v. t.) To imbue or impregnate with something extraneous, especially with something odious, noxious, or poisonous; hence, to corrupt; to infect; to poison; as, putrid substance taint the air.,
T as in Taint (v. t.) Fig.: To stain; to sully; to tarnish.,
T as in Taint (v. i.) To be infected or corrupted; to be touched with something corrupting.,
T as in Taint (v. i.) To be affected with incipient putrefaction; as, meat soon taints in warm weather.,
T as in Taint (n.) Tincture; hue; color; tinge.,
T as in Taint (n.) Infection; corruption; deprivation.,
T as in Taint (n.) A blemish on reputation; stain; spot; disgrace.,
T as in Taintless (a.) Free from taint or infection; pure.,
T as in Taintlessly (adv.) In a taintless manner.,
T as in Tainture (n.) Taint; tinge; difilement; stain; spot.,
T as in Taintworm (n.) A destructive parasitic worm or insect larva.,
T as in Taira (n.) Same as Tayra.,
T as in Tairn (n.) See Tarn.,
T as in Tait (n.) A small nocturnal and arboreal Australian marsupial (Tarsipes rostratus) about the size of a mouse. It has a long muzzle, a long tongue, and very few teeth, and feeds upon honey and insects. Called also noolbenger.,
T as in Tajacu (n.) Alt. of Tajassu,
T as in Tajassu (n.) The common, or collared, peccary.,
T as in Take (p. p.) Taken.,
T as in Took (imp.) of Take,
T as in Takend (p. p.) of Take,
T as in Taking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Take,
T as in Take (v. t.) In an active sense; To lay hold of; to seize with the hands, or otherwise; to grasp; to get into one's hold or possession; to procure; to seize and carry away; to convey.,
T as in Take (v. t.) To obtain possession of by force or artifice; to get the custody or control of; to reduce into subjection to one's power or will; to capture; to seize; to make prisoner; as, to take am army, a city, or a ship; also, to come upon or befall; to fasten on; to attack; to seize; -- said of a disease, misfortune, or the like.,
T as in Take (v. t.) To gain or secure the interest or affection of; to captivate; to engage; to interest; to charm.,
T as in Take (v. t.) To make selection of; to choose; also, to turn to; to have recourse to; as, to take the road to the right.,
T as in Take (v. t.) To employ; to use; to occupy; hence, to demand; to require; as, it takes so much cloth to make a coat.,
T as in Take (v. t.) To form a likeness of; to copy; to delineate; to picture; as, to take picture of a person.,
T as in Take (v. t.) To draw; to deduce; to derive.,
T as in Take (v. t.) To assume; to adopt; to acquire, as shape; to permit to one's self; to indulge or engage in; to yield to; to have or feel; to enjoy or experience, as rest, revenge, delight, shame; to form and adopt, as a resolution; -- used in general senses, limited by a following complement, in many idiomatic phrases; as, to take a resolution; I take the liberty to say.,
T as in Take (v. t.) To lead; to conduct; as, to take a child to church.,
T as in Take (v. t.) To carry; to convey; to deliver to another; to hand over; as, he took the book to the bindery.,
T as in Take (v. t.) To remove; to withdraw; to deduct; -- with from; as, to take the breath from one; to take two from four.,
T as in Take (v. t.) In a somewhat passive sense, to receive; to bear; to endure; to acknowledge; to accept.,
T as in Take (v. t.) To accept, as something offered; to receive; not to refuse or reject; to admit.,
T as in Take (v. t.) To receive as something to be eaten or dronk; to partake of; to swallow; as, to take food or wine.,
T as in Take (v. t.) Not to refuse or balk at; to undertake readily; to clear; as, to take a hedge or fence.,
T as in Take (v. t.) To bear without ill humor or resentment; to submit to; to tolerate; to endure; as, to take a joke; he will take an affront from no man.,
T as in Take (v. t.) To admit, as, something presented to the mind; not to dispute; to allow; to accept; to receive in thought; to entertain in opinion; to understand; to interpret; to regard or look upon; to consider; to suppose; as, to take a thing for granted; this I take to be man's motive; to take men for spies.,
T as in Take (v. t.) To accept the word or offer of; to receive and accept; to bear; to submit to; to enter into agreement with; -- used in general senses; as, to take a form or shape.,
T as in Take (v. i.) To take hold; to fix upon anything; to have the natural or intended effect; to accomplish a purpose; as, he was inoculated, but the virus did not take.,
T as in Take (v. i.) To please; to gain reception; to succeed.,
T as in Take (v. i.) To move or direct the course; to resort; to betake one's self; to proceed; to go; -- usually with to; as, the fox, being hard pressed, took to the hedge.,
T as in Take (v. i.) To admit of being pictured, as in a photograph; as, his face does not take well.,
T as in Take (n.) That which is taken; especially, the quantity of fish captured at one haul or catch.,
T as in Take (n.) The quantity or copy given to a compositor at one time.,
T as in Take-in (n.) Imposition; fraud.,
T as in Taken () p. p. of Take.,
T as in Take-off (n.) An imitation, especially in the way of caricature.,
T as in Taker (n.) One who takes or receives; one who catches or apprehends.,
T as in Take-up (n.) That which takes up or tightens; specifically, a device in a sewing machine for drawing up the slack thread as the needle rises, in completing a stitch.,
T as in Taking (a.) Apt to take; alluring; attracting.,
T as in Taking (a.) Infectious; contageous.,
T as in Taking (n.) The act of gaining possession; a seizing; seizure; apprehension.,
T as in Taking (n.) Agitation; excitement; distress of mind.,
T as in Taking (n.) Malign influence; infection.,
T as in Taking-off (n.) Removal; murder. See To take off (c), under Take, v. t.,
T as in Talapoin (n.) A small African monkey (Cercopithecus, / Miopithecus, talapoin) -- called also melarhine.,
T as in Talaria (n. pl.) Small wings or winged shoes represented as fastened to the ankles, -- chiefly used as an attribute of Mercury.,
T as in Talbot (n.) A sort of dog, noted for quick scent and eager pursuit of game.,
T as in Talbotype (n.) Same as Calotype.,
T as in Talc (n.) A soft mineral of a soapy feel and a greenish, whitish, or grayish color, usually occurring in foliated masses. It is hydrous silicate of magnesia. Steatite, or soapstone, is a compact granular variety.,
T as in Talcose (a.) Alt. of Talcous,
T as in Talcous (a.) Of or pertaining to talc; composed of, or resembling, talc.,
T as in Tale (n.) See Tael.,
T as in Tale (v. i.) That which is told; an oral relation or recital; any rehearsal of what has occured; narrative; discourse; statement; history; story.,
T as in Tale (v. i.) A number told or counted off; a reckoning by count; an enumeration; a count, in distinction from measure or weight; a number reckoned or stated.,
T as in Tale (v. i.) A count or declaration.,
T as in Tale (v. i.) To tell stories.,
T as in Talebearer (n.) One who officiously tells tales; one who impertinently or maliciously communicates intelligence, scandal, etc., and makes mischief.,
T as in Talebearing (a.) Telling tales officiously.,
T as in Talebearing (n.) The act of informing officiously; communication of sectrts, scandal, etc., maliciously.,
T as in Taled (n.) A kind of quadrangular piece of cloth put on by the Jews when repeating prayers in the synagogues.,
T as in Taleful (a.) Full of stories.,
T as in Talegalla (n.) A genus of Australian birds which includes the brush turkey. See Brush turkey.,
T as in Talent (v. t.) Among the ancient Greeks, a weight and a denomination of money equal to 60 minae or 6,000 drachmae. The Attic talent, as a weight, was about 57 lbs. avoirdupois; as a denomination of silver money, its value was ?243 15s. sterling, or about $1,180.,
T as in Talent (v. t.) Among the Hebrews, a weight and denomination of money. For silver it was equivalent to 3,000 shekels, and in weight was equal to about 93/ lbs. avoirdupois; as a denomination of silver, it has been variously estimated at from ?340 to ?396 sterling, or about $1,645 to $1,916. For gold it was equal to 10,000 gold shekels.,
T as in Talent (v. t.) Inclination; will; disposition; desire.,
T as in Talent (v. t.) Intellectual ability, natural or acquired; mental endowment or capacity; skill in accomplishing; a special gift, particularly in business, art, or the like; faculty; a use of the word probably originating in the Scripture parable of the talents (Matt. xxv. 14-30).,
T as in Talented (a.) Furnished with talents; possessing skill or talent; mentally gifted.,
T as in Tales (n.) Persons added to a jury, commonly from those in or about the courthouse, to make up any deficiency in the number of jurors regularly summoned, being like, or such as, the latter.,
T as in Tales (syntactically sing.) The writ by which such persons are summoned.,
T as in Talesmen (pl. ) of Talesman,
T as in Talesman (n.) A person called to make up a deficiency in the number of jurors when a tales is awarded.,
T as in Taleteller (n.) One who tells tales or stories, especially in a mischievous or officious manner; a talebearer; a telltale; a tattler.,
T as in Talewise (adv.) In a way of a tale or story.,
T as in Taliacotian (a.) See Tagliacotian.,
T as in Taliation (n.) Retaliation.,
T as in Talion (n.) Retaliation.,
T as in Talipes (n.) The deformity called clubfoot. See Clubfoot.,
T as in Talipot (n.) A beautiful tropical palm tree (Corypha umbraculifera), a native of Ceylon and the Malabar coast. It has a trunk sixty or seventy feet high, bearing a crown of gigantic fan-shaped leaves which are used as umbrellas and as fans in ceremonial processions, and, when cut into strips, as a substitute for writing paper.,
T as in Talismans (pl. ) of Talisman,
T as in Talisman (n.) A magical figure cut or engraved under certain superstitious observances of the configuration of the heavens, to which wonderful effects are ascribed; the seal, figure, character, or image, of a heavenly sign, constellation, or planet, engraved on a sympathetic stone, or on a metal corresponding to the star, in order to receive its influence.,
T as in Talisman (n.) Hence, something that produces extraordinary effects, esp. in averting or repelling evil; an amulet; a charm; as, a talisman to avert diseases.,
T as in Talismanic (a.) Alt. of Talismanical,
T as in Talismanical (a.) Of or pertaining to a talisman; having the properties of a talisman, or preservative against evils by occult influence; magical.,
T as in Talked (imp. & p. p.) of Talk,
T as in Talking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Talk,
T as in Talk (n.) To utter words; esp., to converse familiarly; to speak, as in familiar discourse, when two or more persons interchange thoughts.,
T as in Talk (n.) To confer; to reason; to consult.,
T as in Talk (n.) To prate; to speak impertinently.,
T as in Talk (v. t.) To speak freely; to use for conversing or communicating; as, to talk French.,
T as in Talk (v. t.) To deliver in talking; to speak; to utter; to make a subject of conversation; as, to talk nonsense; to talk politics.,
T as in Talk (v. t.) To consume or spend in talking; -- often followed by away; as, to talk away an evening.,
T as in Talk (v. t.) To cause to be or become by talking.,
T as in Talk (n.) The act of talking; especially, familiar converse; mutual discourse; that which is uttered, especially in familiar conversation, or the mutual converse of two or more.,
T as in Talk (n.) Report; rumor; as, to hear talk of war.,
T as in Talk (n.) Subject of discourse; as, his achievment is the talk of the town.,
T as in Talkative (a.) Given to much talking.,
T as in Talker (n.) One who talks; especially, one who is noted for his power of conversing readily or agreeably; a conversationist.,
T as in Talker (n.) A loquacious person, male or female; a prattler; a babbler; also, a boaster; a braggart; -- used in contempt or reproach.,
T as in Talking (a.) That talks; able to utter words; as, a talking parrot.,
T as in Talking (a.) Given to talk; loquacious.,
T as in Tall (superl.) High in stature; having a considerable, or an unusual, extension upward; long and comparatively slender; having the diameter or lateral extent small in proportion to the height; as, a tall person, tree, or mast.,
T as in Tall (superl.) Brave; bold; courageous.,
T as in Tall (superl.) Fine; splendid; excellent; also, extravagant; excessive.,
T as in Tallage (n.) Alt. of Talliage,
T as in Talliage (n.) A certain rate or tax paid by barons, knights, and inferior tenants, toward the public expenses.,
T as in Tallage (v. t.) To lay an impost upon; to cause to pay tallage.,
T as in Tallier (n.) One who keeps tally.,
T as in Tallness (n.) The quality or state of being tall; height of stature.,
T as in Tallow (n.) The suet or fat of animals of the sheep and ox kinds, separated from membranous and fibrous matter by melting.,
T as in Tallow (n.) The fat of some other animals, or the fat obtained from certain plants, or from other sources, resembling the fat of animals of the sheep and ox kinds.,
T as in Tallowed (imp. & p. p.) of Tallow,
T as in Tallowing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tallow,
T as in Tallow (v. t.) To grease or smear with tallow.,
T as in Tallow (v. t.) To cause to have a large quantity of tallow; to fatten; as, tallow sheep.,
T as in Tallower (n.) An animal which produces tallow.,
T as in Tallow-face (n.) One who has a sickly, pale complexion.,
T as in Tallow-faced (a.) Having a sickly complexion; pale.,
T as in Tallowing (n.) The act, or art, of causing animals to produce tallow; also, the property in animals of producing tallow.,
T as in Tallowish (a.) Having the qualities of tallow.,
T as in Tallowy (a.) Of the nature of tallow; resembling tallow; greasy.,
T as in Tallwood (n.) Firewood cut into billets of a certain length.,
T as in Tallies (pl. ) of Tally,
T as in Tally (n.) Originally, a piece of wood on which notches or scores were cut, as the marks of number; later, one of two books, sheets of paper, etc., on which corresponding accounts were kept.,
T as in Tally (n.) Hence, any account or score kept by notches or marks, whether on wood or paper, or in a book; especially, one kept in duplicate.,
T as in Tally (n.) One thing made to suit another; a match; a mate.,
T as in Tally (n.) A notch, mark, or score made on or in a tally; as, to make or earn a tally in a game.,
T as in Tally (n.) A tally shop. See Tally shop, below.,
T as in Tallied (imp. & p. p.) of Tally,
T as in Tallying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tally,
T as in Tally (n.) To score with correspondent notches; hence, to make to correspond; to cause to fit or suit.,
T as in Tally (n.) To check off, as parcels of freight going inboard or outboard.,
T as in Tally (v. i.) To be fitted; to suit; to correspond; to match.,
T as in Tally (v. i.) To make a tally; to score; as, to tally in a game.,
T as in Tally (a.) Stoutly; with spirit.,
T as in Tallyho (interj. & n.) The huntsman's cry to incite or urge on his hounds.,
T as in Tallyho (interj. & n.) A tallyho coach.,
T as in Tallymen (pl. ) of Tallyman,
T as in Tallyman (n.) One who keeps the tally, or marks the sticks.,
T as in Tallyman (n.) One who keeps a tally shop, or conducts his business as tally trade.,
T as in Talmas (pl. ) of Talma,
T as in Talma (n.) A kind of large cape, or short, full cloak, forming part of the dress of ladies.,
T as in Talma (n.) A similar garment worn formerly by gentlemen.,
T as in Talmud (n.) The body of the Jewish civil and canonical law not comprised in the Pentateuch.,
T as in Talmudic (a.) Alt. of Talmudical,
T as in Talmudical (a.) Of or pertaining to the Talmud; contained in the Talmud; as, Talmudic Greek; Talmudical phrases.,
T as in Talmudist (n.) One versed in the Talmud; one who adheres to the teachings of the Talmud.,
T as in Talmudistic (a.) Resembling the Talmud; Talmudic.,
T as in Talon (n.) The claw of a predaceous bird or animal, especially the claw of a bird of prey.,
T as in Talon (n.) One of certain small prominences on the hind part of the face of an elephant's tooth.,
T as in Talon (n.) A kind of molding, concave at the bottom and convex at the top; -- usually called an ogee.,
T as in Talon (n.) The shoulder of the bolt of a lock on which the key acts to shoot the bolt.,
T as in Talook (n.) Alt. of Taluk,
T as in Taluk (n.) A large estate; esp., one constituting a revenue district or dependency the native proprietor of which is responsible for the collection and payment of the public revenue due from it.,
T as in Talookdar (n.) Alt. of Talukdar,
T as in Talukdar (n.) A proprietor of a talook.,
T as in Talpa (n.) A genus of small insectivores including the common European mole.,
T as in Tali (pl. ) of Talus,
T as in Talus (n.) The astragalus.,
T as in Talus (n.) A variety of clubfoot (Talipes calcaneus). See the Note under Talipes.,
T as in Talus (n.) A slope; the inclination of the face of a work.,
T as in Talus (n.) A sloping heap of fragments of rock lying at the foot of a precipice.,
T as in Tamability (n.) The quality or state of being tamable; tamableness.,
T as in Tamable (a.) Capable of being tamed, subdued, or reclaimed from wildness or savage ferociousness.,
T as in Tamandu (n.) A small ant-eater (Tamandua tetradactyla) native of the tropical parts of South America.,
T as in Tamanoir (n.) The ant-bear.,
T as in Tamarack (n.) The American larch; also, the larch of Oregon and British Columbia (Larix occidentalis). See Hackmatack, and Larch.,
T as in Tamarack (n.) The black pine (Pinus Murrayana) of Alaska, California, etc. It is a small tree with fine-grained wood.,
T as in Tamaric (n.) A shrub or tree supposed to be the tamarisk, or perhaps some kind of heath.,
T as in Tamarin (n.) Any one of several species of small squirrel-like South American monkeys of the genus Midas, especially M. ursulus.,
T as in Tamarind (n.) A leguminous tree (Tamarindus Indica) cultivated both the Indies, and the other tropical countries, for the sake of its shade, and for its fruit. The trunk of the tree is lofty and large, with wide-spreading branches; the flowers are in racemes at the ends of the branches. The leaves are small and finely pinnated.,
T as in Tamarind (n.) One of the preserved seed pods of the tamarind, which contain an acid pulp, and are used medicinally and for preparing a pleasant drink.,
T as in Tamarisk (n.) Any shrub or tree of the genus Tamarix, the species of which are European and Asiatic. They have minute scalelike leaves, and small flowers in spikes. An Arabian species (T. mannifera) is the source of one kind of manna.,
T as in Tambac (n.) See Tombac.,
T as in Tambour (n.) A kind of small flat drum; a tambourine.,
T as in Tambour (n.) A small frame, commonly circular, and somewhat resembling a tambourine, used for stretching, and firmly holding, a portion of cloth that is to be embroidered; also, the embroidery done upon such a frame; -- called also, in the latter sense, tambour work.,
T as in Tambour (n.) Same as Drum, n., 2(d).,
T as in Tambour (n.) A work usually in the form of a redan, to inclose a space before a door or staircase, or at the gorge of a larger work. It is arranged like a stockade.,
T as in Tambour (n.) A shallow metallic cup or drum, with a thin elastic membrane supporting a writing lever. Two or more of these are connected by an India rubber tube, and used to transmit and register the movements of the pulse or of any pulsating artery.,
T as in Tamboured (imp. & p. p.) of Tambour,
T as in Tambouring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tambour,
T as in Tambour (v. t.) To embroider on a tambour.,
T as in Tambourin (n.) A tambourine.,
T as in Tambourin (n.) An old Provencal dance of a lively character, common on the stage.,
T as in Tambourine (n.) A small drum, especially a shallow drum with only one skin, played on with the hand, and having bells at the sides; a timbrel.,
T as in Tambreet (n.) The duck mole.,
T as in Tamburin (n.) See Tambourine.,
T as in Tame (v. t.) To broach or enter upon; to taste, as a liquor; to divide; to distribute; to deal out.,
T as in Tame (superl.) Reduced from a state of native wildness and shyness; accustomed to man; domesticated; domestic; as, a tame deer, a tame bird.,
T as in Tame (superl.) Crushed; subdued; depressed; spiritless.,
T as in Tame (superl.) Deficient in spirit or animation; spiritless; dull; flat; insipid; as, a tame poem; tame scenery.,
T as in Tamed (imp. & p. p.) of Tame,
T as in Taming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tame,
T as in Tame (a.) To reduce from a wild to a domestic state; to make gentle and familiar; to reclaim; to domesticate; as, to tame a wild beast.,
T as in Tame (a.) To subdue; to conquer; to repress; as, to tame the pride or passions of youth.,
T as in Tameable (a.) Tamable.,
T as in Tameless (a.) Incapable of being tamed; wild; untamed; untamable.,
T as in Tamely (adv.) In a tame manner.,
T as in Tameness (n.) The quality or state of being tame.,
T as in Tamer (n.) One who tames or subdues.,
T as in Tamias (n.) A genus of ground squirrels, including the chipmunk.,
T as in Tamil (a.) Of or pertaining to the Tamils, or to their language.,
T as in Tamil (n.) One of a Dravidian race of men native of Northern Ceylon and Southern India.,
T as in Tamil (n.) The Tamil language, the most important of the Dravidian languages. See Dravidian, a.,
T as in Tamilian (a. & n.) Tamil.,
T as in Tamine (n.) Alt. of Taminy,
T as in Taminy (n.) A kind of woolen cloth; tammy.,
T as in Tamis (n.) A sieve, or strainer, made of a kind of woolen cloth.,
T as in Tamis (n.) The cloth itself; tammy.,
T as in Tamkin (n.) A tampion.,
T as in Tammies (pl. ) of Tammy,
T as in Tammy (n.) A kind of woolen, or woolen and cotton, cloth, often highly glazed, -- used for curtains, sieves, strainers, etc.,
T as in Tammy (n.) A sieve, or strainer, made of this material; a tamis.,
T as in Tamped (imp. & p. p.) of Tamp,
T as in Tamping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tamp,
T as in Tamp (v. t.) In blasting, to plug up with clay, earth, dry sand, sod, or other material, as a hole bored in a rock, in order to prevent the force of the explosion from being misdirected.,
T as in Tamp (v. t.) To drive in or down by frequent gentle strokes; as, to tamp earth so as to make a smooth place.,
T as in Tampan (n.) A venomous South African tick.,
T as in Tampeon (n.) See Tampion.,
T as in Tamper (n.) One who tamps; specifically, one who prepares for blasting, by filling the hole in which the charge is placed.,
T as in Tamper (n.) An instrument used in tamping; a tamping iron.,
T as in Tampered (imp. & p. p.) of Tamper,
T as in Tampering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tamper,
T as in Tamper (v. i.) To meddle; to be busy; to try little experiments; as, to tamper with a disease.,
T as in Tamper (v. i.) To meddle so as to alter, injure, or vitiate a thing.,
T as in Tamper (v. i.) To deal unfairly; to practice secretly; to use bribery.,
T as in Tamperer (n.) One who tampers; one who deals unfairly.,
T as in Tampico fiber () Alt. of fibre,
T as in fibre () A tough vegetable fiber used as a substitute for bristles in making brushes. The piassava and the ixtle are both used under this name.,
T as in Tamping (n.) The act of one who tamps; specifically, the act of filling up a hole in a rock, or the branch of a mine, for the purpose of blasting the rock or exploding the mine.,
T as in Tamping (n.) The material used in tamping. See Tamp, v. t., 1.,
T as in Tampion (n.) A wooden stopper, or plug, as for a cannon or other piece of ordnance, when not in use.,
T as in Tampion (n.) A plug for upper end of an organ pipe.,
T as in Tampoe (n.) The edible fruit of an East Indian tree (Baccaurea Malayana) of the Spurge family. It somewhat resembles an apple.,
T as in Tampon (n.) A plug introduced into a natural or artificial cavity of the body in order to arrest hemorrhage, or for the application of medicine.,
T as in Tampon (v. t.) To plug with a tampon.,
T as in Tampoon (n.) The stopper of a barrel; a bung.,
T as in Tam-tam (n.) A kind of drum used in the East Indies and other Oriental countries; -- called also tom-tom.,
T as in Tam-tam (n.) A gong. See Gong, n., 1.,
T as in Tamul (a. & n.) Tamil.,
T as in Tan (n.) See Picul.,
T as in Tan (n.) The bark of the oak, and some other trees, bruised and broken by a mill, for tanning hides; -- so called both before and after it has been used. Called also tan bark.,
T as in Tan (n.) A yellowish-brown color, like that of tan.,
T as in Tan (n.) A brown color imparted to the skin by exposure to the sun; as, hands covered with tan.,
T as in Tan (a.) Of the color of tan; yellowish-brown.,
T as in Tanned (imp. & p. p.) of Tan,
T as in Tanning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tan,
T as in Tan (n.) To convert (the skin of an animal) into leather, as by usual process of steeping it in an infusion of oak or some other bark, whereby it is impregnated with tannin, or tannic acid (which exists in several species of bark), and is thus rendered firm, durable, and in some degree impervious to water.,
T as in Tan (n.) To make brown; to imbrown, as by exposure to the rays of the sun; as, to tan the skin.,
T as in Tan (v. i.) To get or become tanned.,
T as in Tana (n.) Same as Banxring.,
T as in Tanager (n.) Any one of numerous species of bright-colored singing birds belonging to Tanagra, Piranga, and allied genera. The scarlet tanager (Piranga erythromelas) and the summer redbird (Piranga rubra) are common species of the United States.,
T as in Tanagrine (a.) Of or pertaining to the tanagers.,
T as in Tanagroid (a.) Tanagrine.,
T as in Tanate (n.) An Asiatic wild dog (Canis procyonoides), native of Japan and adjacent countries. It has a short, bushy tail. Called also raccoon dog.,
T as in Tandem (adv. & a.) One after another; -- said especially of horses harnessed and driven one before another, instead of abreast.,
T as in Tandem (n.) A team of horses harnessed one before the other.,
T as in Tang (n.) A coarse blackish seaweed (Fuscus nodosus).,
T as in Tang (n.) A strong or offensive taste; especially, a taste of something extraneous to the thing itself; as, wine or cider has a tang of the cask.,
T as in Tang (n.) Fig.: A sharp, specific flavor or tinge. Cf. Tang a twang.,
T as in Tang (n.) A projecting part of an object by means of which it is secured to a handle, or to some other part; anything resembling a tongue in form or position.,
T as in Tang (n.) The part of a knife, fork, file, or other small instrument, which is inserted into the handle.,
T as in Tang (n.) The projecting part of the breech of a musket barrel, by which the barrel is secured to the stock.,
T as in Tang (n.) The part of a sword blade to which the handle is fastened.,
T as in Tang (n.) The tongue of a buckle.,
T as in Tang (n.) A sharp, twanging sound; an unpleasant tone; a twang.,
T as in Tanged (imp. & p. p.) of Tang,
T as in Tanging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tang,
T as in Tang (v. t.) To cause to ring or sound loudly; to ring.,
T as in Tang (v. i.) To make a ringing sound; to ring.,
T as in Tangalung (n.) An East Indian civet (Viverra tangalunga).,
T as in Tangence (n.) Tangency.,
T as in Tangency (n.) The quality or state of being tangent; a contact or touching.,
T as in Tangent (v. t.) A tangent line curve, or surface; specifically, that portion of the straight line tangent to a curve that is between the point of tangency and a given line, the given line being, for example, the axis of abscissas, or a radius of a circle produced. See Trigonometrical function, under Function.,
T as in Tangent (a.) Touching; touching at a single point,
T as in Tangent (a.) meeting a curve or surface at a point and having at that point the same direction as the curve or surface; -- said of a straight line, curve, or surface; as, a line tangent to a curve; a curve tangent to a surface; tangent surfaces.,
T as in Tangental (a.) Tangential.,
T as in Tangential (a.) Of or pertaining to a tangent; in the direction of a tangent.,
T as in Tangentially (adv.) In the direction of a tangent.,
T as in Tangerine (n.) A kind of orange, much like the mandarin, but of deeper color and higher flavor. It is said to have been produced in America from the mandarin.,
T as in Tangfish (n.) The common harbor seal.,
T as in Tanghinia (n.) The ordeal tree. See under Ordeal.,
T as in Tangibility (n.) The quality or state of being tangible.,
T as in Tangible (a.) Perceptible to the touch; tactile; palpable.,
T as in Tangible (a.) Capable of being possessed or realized; readily apprehensible by the mind; real; substantial; evident.,
T as in Tangled (imp. & p. p.) of Tangle,
T as in Tangling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tangle,
T as in Tangle (n.) To unite or knit together confusedly; to interweave or interlock, as threads, so as to make it difficult to unravel the knot; to entangle; to ravel.,
T as in Tangle (n.) To involve; to insnare; to entrap; as, to be tangled in lies.,
T as in Tangle (v. i.) To be entangled or united confusedly; to get in a tangle.,
T as in Tangle (n.) Any large blackish seaweed, especially the Laminaria saccharina. See Kelp.,
T as in Tangle (v.) A knot of threads, or other thing, united confusedly, or so interwoven as not to be easily disengaged; a snarl; as, hair or yarn in tangles; a tangle of vines and briers. Used also figuratively.,
T as in Tangle (v.) An instrument consisting essentially of an iron bar to which are attached swabs, or bundles of frayed rope, or other similar substances, -- used to capture starfishes, sea urchins, and other similar creatures living at the bottom of the sea.,
T as in Tanglefish (n.) The sea adder, or great pipefish of Europe.,
T as in Tanglingly (adv.) In a tangling manner.,
T as in Tangly (a.) Entangled; intricate.,
T as in Tangly (a.) Covered with tangle, or seaweed.,
T as in Tangram (n.) A Chinese toy made by cutting a square of thin wood, or other suitable material, into seven pieces, as shown in the cut, these pieces being capable of combination in various ways, so as to form a great number of different figures. It is now often used in primary schools as a means of instruction.,
T as in Tangue (n.) The tenrec.,
T as in Tangun (n.) A piebald variety of the horse, native of Thibet.,
T as in Tangwhaup (n.) The whimbrel.,
T as in Tanier (n.) An aroid plant (Caladium sagittaefolium), the leaves of which are boiled and eaten in the West Indies.,
T as in Tanist (n.) In Ireland, a lord or proprietor of a tract of land or of a castle, elected by a family, under the system of tanistry.,
T as in Tanistry (n.) In Ireland, a tenure of family lands by which the proprietor had only a life estate, to which he was admitted by election.,
T as in Tanite (n.) A firm composition of emery and a certain kind of cement, used for making grinding wheels, slabs, etc.,
T as in Tank (n.) A small Indian dry measure, averaging 240 grains in weight; also, a Bombay weight of 72 grains, for pearls.,
T as in Tank (n.) A large basin or cistern; an artificial receptacle for liquids.,
T as in Tanka (n.) A kind of boat used in Canton. It is about 25 feet long and is often rowed by women. Called also tankia.,
T as in Tankard (n.) A large drinking vessel, especially one with a cover.,
T as in Tankia (n.) See Tanka.,
T as in Tankling (n.) A tinkling.,
T as in Tanling (n.) One tanned by the sun.,
T as in Tannable (a.) That may be tanned.,
T as in Tannage (n.) A tanning; the act, operation, or result of tanning.,
T as in Tannate (n.) A salt of tannic acid.,
T as in Tanner (n.) One whose occupation is to tan hides, or convert them into leather by the use of tan.,
T as in Tanneries (pl. ) of Tannery,
T as in Tannery (n.) A place where the work of tanning is carried on.,
T as in Tannery (n.) The art or process of tanning.,
T as in Tannic (a.) Of or pertaining to tan; derived from, or resembling, tan; as, tannic acid.,
T as in Tannier (n.) See Tanier.,
T as in Tannin (n.) Same as Tannic acid, under Tannic.,
T as in Tanning (n.) The art or process of converting skins into leather. See Tan, v. t., 1.,
T as in Tanrec (n.) Same as Tenrec.,
T as in Tansy (n.) Any plant of the composite genus Tanacetum. The common tansy (T. vulgare) has finely divided leaves, a strong aromatic odor, and a very bitter taste. It is used for medicinal and culinary purposes.,
T as in Tansy (n.) A dish common in the seventeenth century, made of eggs, sugar, rose water, cream, and the juice of herbs, baked with butter in a shallow dish.,
T as in Tant (n.) A small scarlet arachnid.,
T as in Tantalate (n.) A salt of tantalic acid.,
T as in Tantalic (a.) Of or pertaining to tantalum; derived from, or containing, tantalum; specifically, designating any one of a series of acids analogous to nitric acid and the polyacid compounds of phosphorus.,
T as in Tantalism (n.) A punishment like that of Tantalus; a teasing or tormenting by the hope or near approach of good which is not attainable; tantalization.,
T as in Tantalite (n.) A heavy mineral of an iron-black color and submetallic luster. It is essentially a tantalate of iron.,
T as in Tantalization (n.) The act of tantalizing, or state of being tantalized.,
T as in Tantalized (imp. & p. p.) of Tantalize,
T as in Tantalizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tantalize,
T as in Tantalize (v. t.) To tease or torment by presenting some good to the view and exciting desire, but continually frustrating the expectations by keeping that good out of reach; to tease; to torment.,
T as in Tantalizer (n.) One who tantalizes.,
T as in Tantalizingly (adv.) In a tantalizing or teasing manner.,
T as in Tantalum (n.) A rare nonmetallic element found in certain minerals, as tantalite, samarskite, and fergusonite, and isolated as a dark powder which becomes steel-gray by burnishing. Symbol Ta. Atomic weight 182.0. Formerly called also tantalium.,
T as in Tantalus (n.) A Phrygian king who was punished in the lower world by being placed in the midst of a lake whose waters reached to his chin but receded whenever he attempted to allay his thirst, while over his head hung branches laden with choice fruit which likewise receded whenever he stretched out his hand to grasp them.,
T as in Tantalus (n.) A genus of wading birds comprising the wood ibises.,
T as in Tantamount (a.) Equivalent in value, signification, or effect.,
T as in Tantamount (v. i.) To be tantamount or equivalent; to amount.,
T as in Tantivy (adv.) Swiftly; speedily; rapidly; -- a fox-hunting term; as, to ride tantivy.,
T as in Tantivy (n.) A rapid, violent gallop; an impetuous rush.,
T as in Tantivy (v. i.) To go away in haste.,
T as in Tantrum (n.) A whim, or burst of ill-humor; an affected air.,
T as in Tanyard (n.) An inclosure where the tanning of leather is carried on; a tannery.,
T as in Tanystomata (n. pl.) A division of dipterous insects in which the proboscis is large and contains lancelike mandibles and maxillae. The horseflies and robber flies are examples.,
T as in Taoism (n.) One of the popular religions of China, sanctioned by the state.,
T as in Tapped (imp. & p. p.) of Tap,
T as in Tapping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tap,
T as in Tap (v. t.) To strike with a slight or gentle blow; to touch gently; to rap lightly; to pat; as, to tap one with the hand or a cane.,
T as in Tap (v. t.) To put a new sole or heel on; as, to tap shoes.,
T as in Tap (n.) A gentle or slight blow; a light rap; a pat.,
T as in Tap (n.) A piece of leather fastened upon the bottom of a boot or shoe in repairing or renewing the sole or heel.,
T as in Tap (n.) A signal, by drum or trumpet, for extinguishing all lights in soldiers' quarters and retiring to bed, -- usually given about a quarter of an hour after tattoo.,
T as in Tap (v. i.) To strike a gentle blow.,
T as in Tap (n.) A hole or pipe through which liquor is drawn.,
T as in Tap (n.) A plug or spile for stopping a hole pierced in a cask, or the like; a faucet.,
T as in Tap (n.) Liquor drawn through a tap; hence, a certain kind or quality of liquor; as, a liquor of the same tap.,
T as in Tap (n.) A place where liquor is drawn for drinking; a taproom; a bar.,
T as in Tap (n.) A tool for forming an internal screw, as in a nut, consisting of a hardened steel male screw grooved longitudinally so as to have cutting edges.,
T as in Tap (v. t.) To pierce so as to let out, or draw off, a fluid; as, to tap a cask, a tree, a tumor, etc.,
T as in Tap (v. t.) Hence, to draw from (anything) in any analogous way; as, to tap telegraph wires for the purpose of intercepting information; to tap the treasury.,
T as in Tap (v. t.) To draw, or cause to flow, by piercing.,
T as in Tap (v. t.) To form an internal screw in (anything) by means of a tool called a tap; as, to tap a nut.,
T as in Tapa (n.) A kind of cloth prepared by the Polynesians from the inner bark of the paper mulberry; -- sometimes called also kapa.,
T as in Tapayaxin (n.) A Mexican spinous lizard (Phrynosoma orbiculare) having a head somewhat like that of a toad; -- called also horned toad.,
T as in Tape (n.) A narrow fillet or band of cotton or linen; a narrow woven fabric used for strings and the like; as, curtains tied with tape.,
T as in Tape (n.) A tapeline; also, a metallic ribbon so marked as to serve as a tapeline; as, a steel tape.,
T as in Tapeline (n.) A painted tape, marked with linear dimensions, as inches, feet, etc., and often inclosed in a case, -- used for measuring.,
T as in Taper (n.) A small wax candle; a small lighted wax candle; hence, a small light.,
T as in Taper (n.) A tapering form; gradual diminution of thickness in an elongated object; as, the taper of a spire.,
T as in Taper (a.) Regularly narrowed toward the point; becoming small toward one end; conical; pyramidical; as, taper fingers.,
T as in Tapered (imp. & p. p.) of Taper,
T as in Tapering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Taper,
T as in Taper (v. i.) To become gradually smaller toward one end; as, a sugar loaf tapers toward one end.,
T as in Taper (v. t.) To make or cause to taper.,
T as in Tapered (a.) Lighted with a taper or tapers; as, a tapered choir.,
T as in Tapering (a.) Becoming gradually smaller toward one end.,
T as in Taperness (n.) The quality or state of being taper; tapering form; taper.,
T as in Tapestries (pl. ) of Tapestry,
T as in Tapestry (n.) A fabric, usually of worsted, worked upon a warp of linen or other thread by hand, the designs being usually more or less pictorial and the stuff employed for wall hangings and the like. The term is also applied to different kinds of embroidery.,
T as in Tapestried (imp. & p. p.) of Tapestry,
T as in Tapestrying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tapestry,
T as in Tapestry (v. t.) To adorn with tapestry, or as with tapestry.,
T as in Tapet (n.) Worked or figured stuff; tapestry.,
T as in Tapetis (pl. ) of Tapeti,
T as in Tapeti (n.) A small South American hare (Lepus Braziliensis).,
T as in Tapetum (n.) An area in the pigmented layer of the choroid coat of the eye in many animals, which has an iridescent or metallic luster and helps to make the eye visible in the dark. Sometimes applied to the whole layer of pigmented epithelium of the choroid.,
T as in Tapeworm (n.) Any one of numerous species of cestode worms belonging to Taenia and many allied genera. The body is long, flat, and composed of numerous segments or proglottids varying in shape, those toward the end of the body being much larger and longer than the anterior ones, and containing the fully developed sexual organs. The head is small, destitute of a mouth, but furnished with two or more suckers (which vary greatly in shape in different genera), and sometimes, also, with hooks for adhesion to the walls of the intestines of the animals in which they are parasitic. The larvae (see Cysticercus) live in the flesh of various creatures, and when swallowed by another animal of the right species develop into the mature tapeworm in its intestine. See Illustration in Appendix.,
T as in Taphouse (n.) A house where liquors are retailed.,
T as in Taphrenchyma (n.) Same as Bothrenchyma.,
T as in Tapinage (n.) A lurking or skulking.,
T as in Tapioca (n.) A coarsely granular substance obtained by heating, and thus partly changing, the moistened starch obtained from the roots of the cassava. It is much used in puddings and as a thickening for soups. See Cassava.,
T as in Tapir (n.) Any one of several species of large odd-toed ungulates belonging to Tapirus, Elasmognathus, and allied genera. They have a long prehensile upper lip, short ears, short and stout legs, a short, thick tail, and short, close hair. They have three toes on the hind feet, and four toes on the fore feet, but the outermost toe is of little use.,
T as in Tapiroid (a.) Allied to the tapir, or the Tapir family.,
T as in Tapis (n.) Tapestry; formerly, the cover of a council table.,
T as in Tapis (v. t.) To cover or work with figures like tapestry.,
T as in Tapiser (n.) A maker of tapestry; an upholsterer.,
T as in Tapish (v. i.) To lie close to the ground, so as to be concealed; to squat; to crouch; hence, to hide one's self.,
T as in Taplash (n.) Bad small beer; also, the refuse or dregs of liquor.,
T as in Taplings (n. pl.) The strong double leathers by which the two parts of a flail are united.,
T as in Tapoa tafa () A small carnivorous marsupial (Phascogale penicillata) having long, soft fur, and a very long tail with a tuft of long hairs at the end; -- called also brush-tailed phascogale.,
T as in Tappen (n.) An obstruction, or indigestible mass, found in the intestine of bears and other animals during hibernation.,
T as in Tapper (n.) The lesser spotted woodpecker (Dendrocopus minor); -- called also tapperer, tabberer, little wood pie, barred woodpecker, wood tapper, hickwall, and pump borer.,
T as in Tappester (n.) A female tapster.,
T as in Tappet (n.) A lever or projection moved by some other piece, as a cam, or intended to tap or touch something else, with a view to produce change or regulate motion.,
T as in Tappice (v. i.) Alt. of Tappis,
T as in Tappis (v. i.) See Tapish.,
T as in Tappit hen () A hen having a tuft of feathers on her head.,
T as in Tappit hen () A measuring pot holding one quart (according to some, three quarts); -- so called from a knob on the lid, thought to resemble a crested hen.,
T as in Taproom (n.) A room where liquors are kept on tap; a barroom.,
T as in Taproot (n.) The root of a plant which penetrates the earth directly downward to a considerable depth without dividing.,
T as in Tapster (n.) One whose business is to tap or draw ale or other liquor.,
T as in Taqua-nut (n.) A Central American name for the ivory nut.,
T as in Tar (n.) A sailor; a seaman.,
T as in Tar (n.) A thick, black, viscous liquid obtained by the distillation of wood, coal, etc., and having a varied composition according to the temperature and material employed in obtaining it.,
T as in Tarred (imp. & p. p.) of Tar,
T as in Tarring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tar,
T as in Tar (v. t.) To smear with tar, or as with tar; as, to tar ropes; to tar cloth.,
T as in Taranis (n.) A Celtic divinity, regarded as the evil principle, but confounded by the Romans with Jupiter.,
T as in Tarantass (n.) A low four-wheeled carriage used in Russia. The carriage box rests on two long, springy poles which run from the fore to the hind axletree. When snow falls, the wheels are taken off, and the body is mounted on a sledge.,
T as in Tarantella (n.) A rapid and delirious sort of Neapolitan dance in 6-8 time, which moves in whirling triplets; -- so called from a popular notion of its being a remedy against the poisonous bite of the tarantula. Some derive its name from Taranto in Apulia.,
T as in Tarantella (n.) Music suited to such a dance.,
T as in Tarantism (n.) A nervous affection producing melancholy, stupor, and an uncontrollable desire to dance. It was supposed to be produced by the bite of the tarantula, and considered to be incapable of cure except by protracted dancing to appropriate music.,
T as in Tarantulas (pl. ) of Tarantula,
T as in Tarantulae (pl. ) of Tarantula,
T as in Tarantula (n.) Any one of several species of large spiders, popularly supposed to be very venomous, especially the European species (Tarantula apuliae). The tarantulas of Texas and adjacent countries are large species of Mygale.,
T as in Tarantulated (a.) Bitten by a tarantula; affected with tarantism.,
T as in Tarbogan (n. & v.) See Toboggan.,
T as in Tarboosh (n.) A red cap worn by Turks and other Eastern nations, sometimes alone and sometimes swathed with linen or other stuff to make a turban. See Fez.,
T as in Tardation (n.) The act of retarding, or delaying; retardation.,
T as in Tardigrada (a.) A tribe of edentates comprising the sloths. They are noted for the slowness of their movements when on the ground. See Sloth, 3.,
T as in Tardigrada (a.) An order of minute aquatic arachnids; -- called also bear animalcules, sloth animalcules, and water bears.,
T as in Tardigrade (a.) Moving or stepping slowly; slow-paced.,
T as in Tardigrade (a.) Of or pertaining to the Tardigrada.,
T as in Tardigrade (n.) One of the Tardigrada.,
T as in Tardigradous (a.) Moving slowly; slow-paced.,
T as in Tardily (adv.) In a tardy manner; slowly.,
T as in Tardiness (n.) The quality or state of being tardy.,
T as in Tarditation (n.) Tardiness.,
T as in Tardity (n.) Slowness; tardiness.,
T as in Tardo (a.) Slow; -- a direction to perform a passage slowly.,
T as in Tardo (n.) A sloth.,
T as in Tardy (superl.) Moving with a slow pace or motion; slow; not swift.,
T as in Tardy (superl.) Not being inseason; late; dilatory; -- opposed to prompt; as, to be tardy in one's payments.,
T as in Tardy (superl.) Unwary; unready.,
T as in Tardy (superl.) Criminal; guilty.,
T as in Tardy (v. t.) To make tardy.,
T as in Tare (imp.) Tore.,
T as in Tare (n.) A weed that grows among wheat and other grain; -- alleged by modern naturalists to be the Lolium temulentum, or darnel.,
T as in Tare (n.) A name of several climbing or diffuse leguminous herbs of the genus Vicia; especially, the V. sativa, sometimes grown for fodder.,
T as in Tare (n.) Deficientcy in the weight or quantity of goods by reason of the weight of the cask, bag, or whatever contains the commodity, and is weighed with it; hence, the allowance or abatement of a certain weight or quantity which the seller makes to the buyer on account of the weight of such cask, bag, etc.,
T as in Tared (imp. & p. p.) of Tare,
T as in Taring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tare,
T as in Tare (v. t.) To ascertain or mark the tare of (goods).,
T as in Tared (a.) Weighed; determined; reduced to equal or standard weight; as, tared filter papers, used in weighing precipitates.,
T as in Tarente (n.) A harmless lizard of the Gecko family (Platydactylus Mauritianicus) found in Southern Europe and adjacent countries, especially among old walls and ruins.,
T as in Tarentism (n.) See Tarantism.,
T as in Tarentula (n.) See Tarantula.,
T as in Targe (n.) A shield or target.,
T as in Target (n.) A kind of small shield or buckler, used as a defensive weapon in war.,
T as in Target (n.) A butt or mark to shoot at, as for practice, or to test the accuracy of a firearm, or the force of a projectile.,
T as in Target (n.) The pattern or arrangement of a series of hits made by a marksman on a butt or mark; as, he made a good target.,
T as in Target (n.) The sliding crosspiece, or vane, on a leveling staff.,
T as in Target (n.) A conspicuous disk attached to a switch lever to show its position, or for use as a signal.,
T as in Targeted (a.) Furnished, armed, or protected, with a target.,
T as in Targeteer (n.) One who is armed with a target or shield.,
T as in Targums (pl. ) of Targum,
T as in Targumim (pl. ) of Targum,
T as in Targum (n.) A translation or paraphrase of some portion of the Old Testament Scriptures in the Chaldee or Aramaic language or dialect.,
T as in Targumist (n.) The writer of a Targum; one versed in the Targums.,
T as in Tariff (n.) A schedule, system, or scheme of duties imposed by the government of a country upon goods imported or exported; as, a revenue tariff; a protective tariff; Clay's compromise tariff. (U. S. 1833).,
T as in Tariff (n.) The duty, or rate of duty, so imposed; as, the tariff on wool; a tariff of two cents a pound.,
T as in Tariff (n.) Any schedule or system of rates, changes, etc.; as, a tariff of fees, or of railroad fares.,
T as in Tariffed (imp. & p. p.) of Tariff,
T as in Tariffing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tariff,
T as in Tariff (v. t.) To make a list of duties on, as goods.,
T as in Tarin (n.) The siskin.,
T as in Taring (n.) The common tern; -- called also tarret, and tarrock.,
T as in Tarlatan (n.) A kind of thin, transparent muslin, used for dresses.,
T as in Tarn (n.) A mountain lake or pool.,
T as in Tarnished (imp. & p. p.) of Tarnish,
T as in Tarnishing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tarnish,
T as in Tarnish (a.) To soil, or change the appearance of, especially by an alternation induced by the air, or by dust, or the like; to diminish, dull, or destroy the luster of; to sully; as, to tarnish a metal; to tarnish gilding; to tarnish the purity of color.,
T as in Tarnish (v. i.) To lose luster; to become dull; as, gilding will tarnish in a foul air.,
T as in Tarnish (n.) The quality or state of being tarnished; stain; soil; blemish.,
T as in Tarnish (n.) A thin film on the surface of a metal, usually due to a slight alteration of the original color; as, the steel tarnish in columbite.,
T as in Tarnisher (n.) One who, or that which, tarnishes.,
T as in Taro (n.) A name for several aroid plants (Colocasia antiquorum, var. esculenta, Colocasia macrorhiza, etc.), and their rootstocks. They have large ovate-sagittate leaves and large fleshy rootstocks, which are cooked and used for food in tropical countries.,
T as in Tarot (n.) A game of cards; -- called also taroc.,
T as in Tarpan (n.) A wild horse found in the region of the Caspian Sea.,
T as in Tarpaulin (n.) A piece of canvas covered with tar or a waterproof composition, used for covering the hatches of a ship, hammocks, boats, etc.,
T as in Tarpaulin (n.) A hat made of, or covered with, painted or tarred cloth, worn by sailors and others.,
T as in Tarpaulin (n.) Hence, a sailor; a seaman; a tar.,
T as in Tarpon (n.) Same as Tarpum.,
T as in Tarpum (n.) A very large marine fish (Megapolis Atlanticus) of the Southern United States and the West Indies. It often becomes six or more feet in length, and has large silvery scales. The scales are a staple article of trade, and are used in fancywork. Called also tarpon, sabalo, savanilla, silverfish, and jewfish.,
T as in Tarquinish (a.) Like a Tarquin, a king of ancient Rome; proud; haughty; overbearing.,
T as in Tarrace (n.) See Trass.,
T as in Tarragon (n.) A plant of the genus Artemisa (A. dracunculus), much used in France for flavoring vinegar.,
T as in Tarras (n.) See Trass.,
T as in Tarre (v.) To set on, as a dog; to incite.,
T as in Tarriance (n.) The act or time of tarrying; delay; lateness.,
T as in Tarrier (n.) One who, or that which, tarries.,
T as in Tarrier (n.) A kind of dig; a terrier.,
T as in Tarrock (n.) The young of the kittiwake gull before the first molt.,
T as in Tarrock (n.) The common guillemot.,
T as in Tarrock (n.) The common tern.,
T as in Tarry (n.) Consisting of, or covered with, tar; like tar.,
T as in Tarried (imp. & p. p.) of Tarry,
T as in Tarrying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tarry,
T as in Tarry (v. i.) To stay or remain behind; to wait.,
T as in Tarry (v. i.) To delay; to put off going or coming; to loiter.,
T as in Tarry (v. i.) To stay; to abide; to continue; to lodge.,
T as in Tarry (v. t.) To delay; to defer; to put off.,
T as in Tarry (v. t.) To wait for; to stay or stop for.,
T as in Tarry (n.) Stay; stop; delay.,
T as in Tarsal (a.) Of or pertaining to the tarsus (either of the foot or eye).,
T as in Tarsal (n.) A tarsal bone or cartilage; a tarsale.,
T as in Tarsal (n.) Same as Tercel.,
T as in Tarsalia (pl. ) of Tarsale,
T as in Tarsale (n.) One of the bones or cartilages of the tarsus; esp., one of the series articulating with the metatarsals.,
T as in Tarse (n.) The male falcon.,
T as in Tarse (n.) tarsus.,
T as in Tarsectomy (n.) The operation of excising one or more of the bones of the tarsus.,
T as in Tarsel (n.) A male hawk. See Tercel.,
T as in Tarsi (n.) pl. of Tarsus.,
T as in Tarsia (n.) Alt. of Tarsiatura,
T as in Tarsiatura (n.) A kind of mosaic in woodwork, much employed in Italy in the fifteenth century and later, in which scrolls and arabesques, and sometimes architectural scenes, landscapes, fruits, flowers, and the like, were produced by inlaying pieces of wood of different colors and shades into panels usually of walnut wood.,
T as in Tarsier (n.) See Tarsius.,
T as in Tarsius (n.) A genus of nocturnal lemurine mammals having very large eyes and ears, a long tail, and very long proximal tarsal bones; -- called also malmag, spectral lemur, podji, and tarsier.,
T as in Tarso- () A combining form used in anatomy to indicate connection with, or relation to, the tarsus; as, tarsometatarsus.,
T as in Tarsometatarsal (a.) Of or pertaining to both the tarsus and metatarsus; as, the tarsometatarsal articulations.,
T as in Tarsometatarsal (a.) Of or pertaining to the tarsometatarsus.,
T as in Tarsometatarsi (pl. ) of Tarsometatarsus,
T as in Tarsometatarsus (n.) The large bone next the foot in the leg of a bird. It is formed by the union of the distal part of the tarsus with the metatarsus.,
T as in Tarsorrhaphy (n.) An operation to diminish the size of the opening between eyelids when enlarged by surrounding cicatrices.,
T as in Tarsotomy (n.) The operation of cutting or removing the tarsal cartilages.,
T as in Tarsi (pl. ) of Tarsus,
T as in Tarsus (n.) The ankle; the bones or cartilages of the part of the foot between the metatarsus and the leg, consisting in man of seven short bones.,
T as in Tarsus (n.) A plate of dense connective tissue or cartilage in the eyelid of man and many animals; -- called also tarsal cartilage, and tarsal plate.,
T as in Tarsus (n.) The foot of an insect or a crustacean. It usually consists of form two to five joints.,
T as in Tart (v. t.) Sharp to the taste; acid; sour; as, a tart apple.,
T as in Tart (v. t.) Fig.: Sharp; keen; severe; as, a tart reply; tart language; a tart rebuke.,
T as in Tart (n.) A species of small open pie, or piece of pastry, containing jelly or conserve; a sort of fruit pie.,
T as in Tartan (n.) Woolen cloth, checkered or crossbarred with narrow bands of various colors, much worn in the Highlands of Scotland; hence, any pattern of tartan; also, other material of a similar pattern.,
T as in Tartan (n.) A small coasting vessel, used in the Mediterranean, having one mast carrying large leteen sail, and a bowsprit with staysail or jib.,
T as in Tartar (n.) A reddish crust or sediment in wine casks, consisting essentially of crude cream of tartar, and used in marking pure cream of tartar, tartaric acid, potassium carbonate, black flux, etc., and, in dyeing, as a mordant for woolen goods; -- called also argol, wine stone, etc.,
T as in Tartar (n.) A correction which often incrusts the teeth, consisting of salivary mucus, animal matter, and phosphate of lime.,
T as in Tartar (n.) A native or inhabitant of Tartary in Asia; a member of any one of numerous tribes, chiefly Moslem, of Turkish origin, inhabiting the Russian Europe; -- written also, more correctly but less usually, Tatar.,
T as in Tartar (n.) A person of a keen, irritable temper.,
T as in Tartar (a.) Of or pertaining to Tartary in Asia, or the Tartars.,
T as in Tartar (n.) See Tartarus.,
T as in Tartarated (a.) Tartrated.,
T as in Tartarean (a.) Alt. of Tartareous,
T as in Tartareous (a.) Of or pertaining to Tartarus; hellish.,
T as in Tartareous (a.) Consisting of tartar; of the nature of tartar.,
T as in Tartareous (a.) Having the surface rough and crumbling; as, many lichens are tartareous.,
T as in Tartarian (a.) Alt. of Tartaric,
T as in Tartaric (a.) Of or pertaining to Tartary in Asia, or the Tartars.,
T as in Tartarian (n.) The name of some kinds of cherries, as the Black Tartarian, or the White Tartarian.,
T as in Tartaric (a.) Of or pertaining to tartar; derived from, or resembling, tartar.,
T as in Tartarine (n.) Potassium carbonate, obtained by the incineration of tartar.,
T as in Tartarized (imp. & p. p.) of Tartarize,
T as in Tartarizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tartarize,
T as in Tartarize (v. t.) To impregnate with, or subject to the action of, tartar.,
T as in Tartarize (v. t.) To cause to resemble the Tartars and their civilization, as by conquest.,
T as in Tartarous (a.) Containing tartar; consisting of tartar, or partaking of its qualities; tartareous.,
T as in Tartarous (a.) Resembling, or characteristic of, a Tartar; ill-natured; irritable.,
T as in Tartarum (n.) See 1st Tartar.,
T as in Tartarus (n.) The infernal regions, described in the Iliad as situated as far below Hades as heaven is above the earth, and by later writers as the place of punishment for the spirits of the wicked. By the later poets, also, the name is often used synonymously with Hades, or the Lower World in general.,
T as in Tartary (n.) Tartarus.,
T as in Tartini's tones () See the Note under Tone.,
T as in Tartish (a.) Somewhat tart.,
T as in Tartlet (n.) A small tart.,
T as in Tartly (adv.) In a tart manner; with acidity.,
T as in Tartness (n.) The quality or state of being tart.,
T as in Tartralic (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, an acid obtained as a white amorphous deliquescent substance, C8H10O11; -- called also ditartaric, tartrilic, or tartrylic acid.,
T as in Tartramate (n.) A salt of tartramic acid.,
T as in Tartramic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid which is the primary acid amide derivative of tartaric acid.,
T as in Tartramide (n.) An acid amide derivative of tartaric acid, obtained as a white crystalline substance.,
T as in Tartrate (n.) A salt of tartaric acid.,
T as in Tartrated (a.) Containing, or derived from, tartar; combined with tartaric acid.,
T as in Tartrazine (n.) An artificial dyestuff obtained as an orange-yellow powder, and regarded as a phenyl hydrazine derivative of tartaric and sulphonic acids.,
T as in Tartrelic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, an anhydride, C4H4O5, of tartaric acid, obtained as a white crystalline deliquescent substance.,
T as in Tartro- () A combining form (also used adjectively) used in chemistry to denote the presence of tartar or of some of its compounds or derivatives.,
T as in Tartronate (n.) A salt of tartronic acid.,
T as in Tartronic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, an organic acid (called also hydroxy malonic acid) obtained, by reducing mesoxalic acid, as a white crystalline substance.,
T as in Tartronyl (n.) A hypothetical radical constituting the characteristic residue of tartronic acid and certain of its derivatives.,
T as in Tartrovinic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, a certain acid composed of tartaric acid in combination with ethyl, and now called ethyltartaric acid.,
T as in Tartuffe (n.) Alt. of Tartufe,
T as in Tartufe (n.) A hypocritical devotee. See the Dictionary of Noted Names in Fiction.,
T as in Tartuffish (a.) Alt. of Tartufish,
T as in Tartufish (a.) Like a tartuffe; precise; hypocritical.,
T as in Tarweed (n.) A name given to several resinous-glandular composite plants of California, esp. to the species of Grindelia, Hemizonia, and Madia.,
T as in Tas (n.) A heap.,
T as in Tas (v. t.) To tassel.,
T as in Tasco (n.) A kind of clay for making melting pots.,
T as in Tasimer (n.) An instrument for detecting or measuring minute extension or movements of solid bodies. It consists essentially of a small rod, disk, or button of carbon, forming part of an electrical circuit, the resistance of which, being varied by the changes of pressure produced by the movements of the object to be measured, causes variations in the strength of the current, which variations are indicated by a sensitive galvanometer. It is also used for measuring minute changes of temperature.,
T as in Task (v.) Labor or study imposed by another, often in a definite quantity or amount.,
T as in Task (v.) Business; employment; undertaking; labor.,
T as in Tasked (imp. & p. p.) of Task,
T as in Tasking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Task,
T as in Task (v. t.) To impose a task upon; to assign a definite amount of business, labor, or duty to.,
T as in Task (v. t.) To oppress with severe or excessive burdens; to tax.,
T as in Task (v. t.) To charge; to tax; as with a fault.,
T as in Tasker (n.) One who imposes a task.,
T as in Tasker (n.) One who performs a task, as a day-laborer.,
T as in Tasker (n.) A laborer who receives his wages in kind.,
T as in Taskmaster (n.) One who imposes a task, or burdens another with labor; one whose duty is to assign tasks; an overseer.,
T as in Taskwork (n.) Work done as a task; also, work done by the job; piecework.,
T as in Taslet (n.) A piece of armor formerly worn to guard the things; a tasse.,
T as in Tasmanian (a.) Of or pertaining to Tasmania, or Van Diemen's Land. -- n. A native or inhabitant of Tasmania; specifically (Ethnol.), in the plural, the race of men that formerly inhabited Tasmania, but is now extinct.,
T as in Tasse (n.) A piece of armor for the thighs, forming an appendage to the ancient corselet.,
T as in Tassel (n.) A male hawk. See Tercel.,
T as in Tassel (n.) A kind of bur used in dressing cloth; a teasel.,
T as in Tassel (n.) A pendent ornament, attached to the corners of cushions, to curtains, and the like, ending in a tuft of loose threads or cords.,
T as in Tassel (n.) The flower or head of some plants, esp. when pendent.,
T as in Tassel (n.) A narrow silk ribbon, or the like, sewed to a book to be put between the leaves.,
T as in Tassel (n.) A piece of board that is laid upon a wall as a sort of plate, to give a level surface to the ends of floor timbers; -- rarely used in the United States.,
T as in Tasseled (imp. & p. p.) of Tassel,
T as in Tasselled () of Tassel,
T as in Tasseling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tassel,
T as in Tasselling () of Tassel,
T as in Tassel (v. i.) To put forth a tassel or flower; as, maize tassels.,
T as in Tassel (v. t.) To adorn with tassels.,
T as in Tasset (n.) A defense for the front of the thigh, consisting of one or more iron plates hanging from the belt on the lower edge of the corselet.,
T as in Tastable (a.) Capable of worthy of being tasted; savory; relishing.,
T as in Tasted (imp. & p. p.) of Taste,
T as in Tasting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Taste,
T as in Taste (v. t.) To try by the touch; to handle; as, to taste a bow.,
T as in Taste (v. t.) To try by the touch of the tongue; to perceive the relish or flavor of (anything) by taking a small quantity into a mouth. Also used figuratively.,
T as in Taste (v. t.) To try by eating a little; to eat a small quantity of.,
T as in Taste (v. t.) To become acquainted with by actual trial; to essay; to experience; to undergo.,
T as in Taste (v. t.) To partake of; to participate in; -- usually with an implied sense of relish or pleasure.,
T as in Taste (v. i.) To try food with the mouth; to eat or drink a little only; to try the flavor of anything; as, to taste of each kind of wine.,
T as in Taste (v. i.) To have a smack; to excite a particular sensation, by which the specific quality or flavor is distinguished; to have a particular quality or character; as, this water tastes brackish; the milk tastes of garlic.,
T as in Taste (v. i.) To take sparingly.,
T as in Taste (v. i.) To have perception, experience, or enjoyment; to partake; as, to taste of nature's bounty.,
T as in Taste (n.) The act of tasting; gustation.,
T as in Taste (n.) A particular sensation excited by the application of a substance to the tongue; the quality or savor of any substance as perceived by means of the tongue; flavor; as, the taste of an orange or an apple; a bitter taste; an acid taste; a sweet taste.,
T as in Taste (n.) The one of the five senses by which certain properties of bodies (called their taste, savor, flavor) are ascertained by contact with the organs of taste.,
T as in Taste (n.) Intellectual relish; liking; fondness; -- formerly with of, now with for; as, he had no taste for study.,
T as in Taste (n.) The power of perceiving and relishing excellence in human performances; the faculty of discerning beauty, order, congruity, proportion, symmetry, or whatever constitutes excellence, particularly in the fine arts and belles-letters; critical judgment; discernment.,
T as in Taste (n.) Manner, with respect to what is pleasing, refined, or in accordance with good usage; style; as, music composed in good taste; an epitaph in bad taste.,
T as in Taste (n.) Essay; trial; experience; experiment.,
T as in Taste (n.) A small portion given as a specimen; a little piece tastted of eaten; a bit.,
T as in Taste (n.) A kind of narrow and thin silk ribbon.,
T as in Tasteful (a.) Having a high relish; savory.,
T as in Tasteful (a.) Having or exhibiting good taste; in accordance with good taste; tasty; as, a tasteful drapery.,
T as in Tasteless (a.) Having no taste; insipid; flat; as, tasteless fruit.,
T as in Tasteless (a.) Destitute of the sense of taste; or of good taste; as, a tasteless age.,
T as in Tasteless (a.) Not in accordance with good taste; as, a tasteless arrangement of drapery.,
T as in Taster (n.) One who tastes; especially, one who first tastes food or drink to ascertain its quality.,
T as in Taster (n.) That in which, or by which, anything is tasted, as, a dram cup, a cheese taster, or the like.,
T as in Taster (n.) One of a peculiar kind of zooids situated on the polyp-stem of certain Siphonophora. They somewhat resemble the feeding zooids, but are destitute of mouths. See Siphonophora.,
T as in Tastily (adv.) In a tasty manner.,
T as in Tasting (n.) The act of perceiving or tasting by the organs of taste; the faculty or sense by which we perceive or distinguish savors.,
T as in Tasto (n.) A key or thing touched to produce a tone.,
T as in Tasty (superl.) Having a good taste; -- applied to persons; as, a tasty woman. See Taste, n., 5.,
T as in Tasty (n.) Being in conformity to the principles of good taste; elegant; as, tasty furniture; a tasty dress.,
T as in Tat (n.) Gunny cloth made from the fiber of the Corchorus olitorius, or jute.,
T as in Tat (n.) A pony.,
T as in Tataupa (n.) A South American tinamou (Crypturus tataupa).,
T as in Tatch (n.) A spot or stain; also, a trick.,
T as in Tath (obs.) 3d pers. sing. pres. of Ta, to take.,
T as in Tath (n.) Dung, or droppings of cattle.,
T as in Tath (n.) The luxuriant grass growing about the droppings of cattle in a pasture.,
T as in Tath (v. t.) To manure (land) by pasturing cattle on it, or causing them to lie upon it.,
T as in Tatou (n.) The giant armadillo (Priodontes gigas) of tropical South America. It becomes nearly five feet long including the tail. It is noted for its burrowing powers, feeds largely upon dead animals, and sometimes invades human graves.,
T as in Tatouay (n.) An armadillo (Xenurus unicinctus), native of the tropical parts of South America. It has about thirteen movable bands composed of small, nearly square, scales. The head is long; the tail is round and tapered, and nearly destitute of scales; the claws of the fore feet are very large. Called also tatouary, and broad-banded armadillo.,
T as in Tatouhou (n.) The peba.,
T as in Tatt (v. t. & i.) To make (anything) by tatting; to work at tatting; as, tatted edging.,
T as in Tatta (n.) A bamboo frame or trellis hung at a door or window of a house, over which water is suffered to trickle, in order to moisten and cool the air as it enters.,
T as in Tatter (n.) One who makes tatting.,
T as in Tatter (n.) A rag, or a part torn and hanging; -- chiefly used in the plural.,
T as in Tattered (p. p.) of Tatter,
T as in Tatter (v. t.) To rend or tear into rags; -- used chiefly in the past participle as an adjective.,
T as in Tatterdemalion (n.) A ragged fellow; a ragamuffin.,
T as in Tatting (n.) A kind of lace made from common sewing thread, with a peculiar stitch.,
T as in Tattled (imp. & p. p.) of Tattle,
T as in Tattling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tattle,
T as in Tattle (v. i.) To prate; to talk idly; to use many words with little meaning; to chat.,
T as in Tattle (v. i.) To tell tales; to communicate secrets; to be a talebearer; as, a tattling girl.,
T as in Tattle (n.) Idle talk or chat; trifling talk; prate.,
T as in Tattler (n.) One who tattles; an idle talker; one who tells tales.,
T as in Tattler (n.) Any one of several species of large, long-legged sandpipers belonging to the genus Totanus.,
T as in Tattlery (n.) Idle talk or chat; tittle-tattle.,
T as in Tattling (a.) Given to idle talk; apt to tell tales.,
T as in Tattoo (n.) A beat of drum, or sound of a trumpet or bugle, at night, giving notice to soldiers to retreat, or to repair to their quarters in garrison, or to their tents in camp.,
T as in Tattooed (imp. & p. p.) of Tattoo,
T as in Tattooing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tattoo,
T as in Tattoo (v. t.) To color, as the flesh, by pricking in coloring matter, so as to form marks or figures which can not be washed out.,
T as in Tattoos (pl. ) of Tattoo,
T as in Tattoo (n.) An indelible mark or figure made by puncturing the skin and introducing some pigment into the punctures; -- a mode of ornamentation practiced by various barbarous races, both in ancient and modern times, and also by some among civilized nations, especially by sailors.,
T as in Tatu (n.) Same as Tatou.,
T as in Tatusiid (n.) Any armadillo of the family Tatusiidae, of which the peba and mule armadillo are examples. Also used adjectively.,
T as in Tau (n.) The common American toadfish; -- so called from a marking resembling the Greek letter tau (/).,
T as in Taught (a.) See Taut.,
T as in Taught () imp. & p. p. of Teach.,
T as in Taunt (a.) Very high or tall; as, a ship with taunt masts.,
T as in Taunted (imp. & p. p.) of Taunt,
T as in Taunting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Taunt,
T as in Taunt (v. t.) To reproach with severe or insulting words; to revile; to upbraid; to jeer at; to flout.,
T as in Taunt (n.) Upbraiding language; bitter or sarcastic reproach; insulting invective.,
T as in Taunter (n.) One who taunts.,
T as in Taunting () a. & n. from Taunt, v.,
T as in Tauntingly (adv.) In a taunting manner.,
T as in Tauntress (n.) A woman who taunts.,
T as in Taur (n.) The constellation Taurus.,
T as in Tauricornous (a.) Having horns like those of a bull.,
T as in Tauridor (n.) A bullfighter; a toreador.,
T as in Tauriform (a.) Having the form of a bull.,
T as in Taurine (a.) Of or pertaining to the genus Taurus, or cattle.,
T as in Taurine (n.) A body occurring in small quantity in the juices of muscle, in the lungs, and elsewhere, but especially in the bile, where it is found as a component part of taurocholic acid, from which it can be prepared by decomposition of the acid. It crystallizes in colorless, regular six-sided prisms, and is especially characterized by containing both nitrogen and sulphur, being chemically amido-isethionic acid, C2H7NSO3.,
T as in Taurocholate (n.) A salt of taurocholic acid; as, sodium taurocholate, which occurs in human bile.,
T as in Taurocholic (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, a conjugate acid (called taurocholic acid) composed of taurine and cholic acid, present abundantly in human bile and in that of carnivora. It is exceedingly deliquescent, and hence appears generally as a thick, gummy mass, easily soluble in water and alcohol. It has a bitter taste.,
T as in Taurocol (n.) Alt. of Taurocolla,
T as in Taurocolla (n.) Glue made from a bull's hide.,
T as in Tauromachian (a.) Of or pertaining to bullfights.,
T as in Tauromachian (n.) A bullfighter.,
T as in Tauromachy (n.) Bullfighting.,
T as in Taurus (n.) The Bull; the second in order of the twelve signs of the zodiac, which the sun enters about the 20th of April; -- marked thus [/] in almanacs.,
T as in Taurus (n.) A zodiacal constellation, containing the well-known clusters called the Pleiades and the Hyades, in the latter of which is situated the remarkably bright Aldebaran.,
T as in Taurus (n.) A genus of ruminants comprising the common domestic cattle.,
T as in Taurylic (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, an acid found of a urine of neat cattle, and probably identical with cresol.,
T as in Taut (a.) Tight; stretched; not slack; -- said esp. of a rope that is tightly strained.,
T as in Taut (a.) Snug; close; firm; secure.,
T as in Tautegorical (a.) Expressing the same thing with different words; -- opposed to allegorical.,
T as in Tautochrone (n.) A curved line, such that a heavy body, descending along it by the action of gravity, will always arrive at the lowest point in the same time, wherever in the curve it may begin to fall; as, an inverted cycloid with its base horizontal is a tautochrone.,
T as in Tautochronous (a.) Occupying the same time; pertaining to, or having the properties of, a tautochrone.,
T as in Tautog (n.) An edible labroid fish (Haitula onitis, or Tautoga onitis) of the Atlantic coast of the United States. When adult it is nearly black, more or less irregularly barred, with greenish gray. Called also blackfish, oyster fish, salt-water chub, and moll.,
T as in Tautologic (a.) Tautological.,
T as in Tautological (a.) Involving tautology; having the same signification; as, tautological expression.,
T as in Tautologist (n.) One who uses tautological words or phrases.,
T as in Tautologized (imp. & p. p.) of Tautologize,
T as in Tautologizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tautologize,
T as in Tautologize (v. i.) To repeat the same thing in different words.,
T as in Tautologous (a.) Repeating the same thing in different words; tautological.,
T as in Tautology (n.) A repetition of the same meaning in different words; needless repetition of an idea in different words or phrases; a representation of anything as the cause, condition, or consequence of itself, as in the following lines: --//The dawn is overcast, the morning lowers,/And heavily in clouds brings on the day. Addison.,
T as in Tautomeric (a.) Relating to, or characterized by, tautomerism.,
T as in Tautomerism (n.) The condition, quality, or relation of metameric substances, or their respective derivatives, which are more or less interchangeable, according as one form or the other is the more stable. It is a special case of metamerism; thus, the lactam and the lactim compounds exhibit tautomerism.,
T as in Tautoousian (a.) Alt. of Tautoousious,
T as in Tautoousious (a.) Having the same essence; being identically of the same nature.,
T as in Tautophonical (a.) Pertaining to, or characterized by, tautophony; repeating the same sound.,
T as in Tautophony (n.) Repetition of the same sound.,
T as in Tautozonal (a.) Belonging to the same zone; as, tautozonal planes.,
T as in Tavern (n.) A public house where travelers and other transient guests are accomodated with rooms and meals; an inn; a hotel; especially, in modern times, a public house licensed to sell liquor in small quantities.,
T as in Taverner (n.) One who keeps a tavern.,
T as in Taverning (n.) A feasting at taverns.,
T as in Tavernmen (pl. ) of Tavernman,
T as in Tavernman (n.) The keeper of a tavern; also, a tippler.,
T as in Taw (n.) Tow.,
T as in Taw (v. t.) To push; to tug; to tow.,
T as in Tawed (imp. & p. p.) of Taw,
T as in Tawing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Taw,
T as in Taw (v. t.) To prepare or dress, as hemp, by beating; to tew; hence, to beat; to scourge.,
T as in Taw (v. t.) To dress and prepare, as the skins of sheep, lambs, goats, and kids, for gloves, and the like, by imbuing them with alum, salt, and other agents, for softening and bleaching them.,
T as in Taw (n.) A large marble to be played with; also, a game at marbles.,
T as in Taw (n.) A line or mark from which the players begin a game of marbles.,
T as in Tawdrily (adv.) In a tawdry manner.,
T as in Tawdriness (n.) Quality or state of being tawdry.,
T as in Tawdry (superl.) Bought at the festival of St. Audrey.,
T as in Tawdry (superl.) Very fine and showy in colors, without taste or elegance; having an excess of showy ornaments without grace; cheap and gaudy; as, a tawdry dress; tawdry feathers; tawdry colors.,
T as in Tawdries (pl. ) of Tawdry,
T as in Tawdry (n.) A necklace of a rural fashion, bought at St. Audrey's fair; hence, a necklace in general.,
T as in Tawer (n.) One who taws; a dresser of white leather.,
T as in Tawery (n.) A place where skins are tawed.,
T as in Tawniness (n.) The quality or state of being tawny.,
T as in Tawny (n.) Of a dull yellowish brown color, like things tanned, or persons who are sunburnt; as, tawny Moor or Spaniard; the tawny lion.,
T as in Taws (n.) A leather lash, or other instrument of punishment, used by a schoolmaster.,
T as in Tax (n.) A charge, especially a pecuniary burden which is imposed by authority.,
T as in Tax (n.) A charge or burden laid upon persons or property for the support of a government.,
T as in Tax (n.) Especially, the sum laid upon specific things, as upon polls, lands, houses, income, etc.; as, a land tax; a window tax; a tax on carriages, and the like.,
T as in Tax (n.) A sum imposed or levied upon the members of a society to defray its expenses.,
T as in Tax (n.) A task exacted from one who is under control; a contribution or service, the rendering of which is imposed upon a subject.,
T as in Tax (n.) A disagreeable or burdensome duty or charge; as, a heavy tax on time or health.,
T as in Tax (n.) Charge; censure.,
T as in Tax (n.) A lesson to be learned; a task.,
T as in Taxed (imp. & p. p.) of Tax,
T as in Taxing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tax,
T as in Tax (n.) To subject to the payment of a tax or taxes; to impose a tax upon; to lay a burden upon; especially, to exact money from for the support of government.,
T as in Tax (n.) To assess, fix, or determine judicially, the amount of; as, to tax the cost of an action in court.,
T as in Tax (n.) To charge; to accuse; also, to censure; -- often followed by with, rarely by of before an indirect object; as, to tax a man with pride.,
T as in Taxability (n.) The quality or state of being taxable; taxableness.,
T as in Taxable (a.) Capable of being taxed; liable by law to the assessment of taxes; as, taxable estate; taxable commodities.,
T as in Taxable (a.) That may be legally charged by a court against the plaintiff of defendant in a suit; as, taxable costs.,
T as in Taxaspidean (a.) Having the posterior tarsal scales, or scutella, rectangular and arranged in regular rows; -- said of certain birds.,
T as in Taxation (n.) The act of laying a tax, or of imposing taxes, as on the subjects of a state, by government, or on the members of a corporation or company, by the proper authority; the raising of revenue; also, a system of raising revenue.,
T as in Taxation (n.) The act of taxing, or assessing a bill of cost.,
T as in Taxation (n.) Tax; sum imposed.,
T as in Taxation (n.) Charge; accusation.,
T as in Taxel (n.) The American badger.,
T as in Taxeopoda (n. pl.) An order of extinct Mammalia found in the Tertiary formations.,
T as in Taxer (n.) One who taxes.,
T as in Taxer (n.) One of two officers chosen yearly to regulate the assize of bread, and to see the true gauge of weights and measures is observed.,
T as in Taxgatherer (n.) One who collects taxes or revenues.,
T as in Taxiarch (n.) An Athenian military officer commanding a certain division of an army.,
T as in Taxicorn (n.) One of a family of beetles (Taxicornes) whose antennae are largest at the tip. Also used adjectively.,
T as in Taxidermic (a.) Of or pertaining to the art of preparing and preserving the skins of animals.,
T as in Taxidermist (n.) A person skilled in taxidermy.,
T as in Taxidermy (v. t.) The art of preparing, preserving, and mounting the skins of animals so as to represent their natural appearance, as for cabinets.,
T as in Taxine (n.) A poisonous alkaloid of bitter taste extracted from the leaves and seeds of the European yew (Taxus baccata). Called also taxia.,
T as in Taxis (n.) Manipulation applied to a hernial tumor, or to an intestinal obstruction, for the purpose of reducing it.,
T as in Taxless (a.) Free from taxation.,
T as in Taxology (n.) Same as Taxonomy.,
T as in Taxonomic (a.) Pertaining to, or involving, taxonomy, or the laws and principles of classification; classificatory.,
T as in Taxonomist (n.) One skilled in taxonomy.,
T as in Taxonomy (n.) That division of the natural sciences which treats of the classification of animals and plants; the laws or principles of classification.,
T as in Taxor (n.) Same as Taxer, n., 2.,
T as in Taxpayer (n.) One who is assessed and pays a tax.,
T as in Tayra (n.) A South American carnivore (Galera barbara) allied to the grison. The tail is long and thick. The length, including the tail, is about three feet.,
T as in Tazel (n.) The teasel.,
T as in Tazza (n.) An ornamental cup or vase with a large, flat, shallow bowl, resting on a pedestal and often having handles.,
T as in Tchawytcha (n.) The quinnat salmon.,
T as in T cart () See under T.,
T as in Tea (n.) The prepared leaves of a shrub, or small tree (Thea, / Camellia, Chinensis). The shrub is a native of China, but has been introduced to some extent into some other countries.,
T as in Tea (n.) A decoction or infusion of tea leaves in boiling water; as, tea is a common beverage.,
T as in Tea (n.) Any infusion or decoction, especially when made of the dried leaves of plants; as, sage tea; chamomile tea; catnip tea.,
T as in Tea (n.) The evening meal, at which tea is usually served; supper.,
T as in Tea (v. i.) To take or drink tea.,
T as in Teaberry (n.) The checkerberry.,
T as in Taught (imp. & p. p.) of Teach,
T as in Teaching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Teach,
T as in Teach (v. t.) To impart the knowledge of; to give intelligence concerning; to impart, as knowledge before unknown, or rules for practice; to inculcate as true or important; to exhibit impressively; as, to teach arithmetic, dancing, music, or the like; to teach morals.,
T as in Teach (v. t.) To direct, as an instructor; to manage, as a preceptor; to guide the studies of; to instruct; to inform; to conduct through a course of studies; as, to teach a child or a class.,
T as in Teach (v. t.) To accustom; to guide; to show; to admonish.,
T as in Teach (v. i.) To give instruction; to follow the business, or to perform the duties, of a preceptor.,
T as in Teachable (a.) Capable of being taught; apt to learn; also, willing to receive instruction; docile.,
T as in Teachableness (n.) Willingness to be taught.,
T as in Teache (n.) One of the series of boilers in which the cane juice is treated in making sugar; especially, the last boiler of the series.,
T as in Teacher (n.) One who teaches or instructs; one whose business or occupation is to instruct others; an instructor; a tutor.,
T as in Teacher (n.) One who instructs others in religion; a preacher; a minister of the gospel; sometimes, one who preaches without regular ordination.,
T as in Teaching (n.) The act or business of instructing; also, that which is taught; instruction.,
T as in Teachless (a.) Not teachable.,
T as in Teacup (n.) A small cup from which to drink tea.,
T as in Teacupfuls (pl. ) of Teacupful,
T as in Teacupful (n.) As much as a teacup can hold; enough to fill a teacup.,
T as in Tead (n.) Alt. of Teade,
T as in Teade (n.) A torch.,
T as in Teagle (n.) A hoisting apparatus; an elevator; a crane; a lift.,
T as in Teague (n.) An Irishman; -- a term used in contempt.,
T as in Teak (n.) A tree of East Indies (Tectona grandis) which furnishes an extremely strong and durable timber highly valued for shipbuilding and other purposes; also, the timber of the tree.,
T as in Teakettle (n.) A kettle in which water is boiled for making tea, coffee, etc.,
T as in Teal (n.) Any one of several species of small fresh-water ducks of the genus Anas and the subgenera Querquedula and Nettion. The male is handsomely colored, and has a bright green or blue speculum on the wings.,
T as in Team (n.) A group of young animals, especially of young ducks; a brood; a litter.,
T as in Team (n.) Hence, a number of animals moving together.,
T as in Team (n.) Two or more horses, oxen, or other beasts harnessed to the same vehicle for drawing, as to a coach, wagon, sled, or the like.,
T as in Team (n.) A number of persons associated together in any work; a gang; especially, a number of persons selected to contend on one side in a match, or a series of matches, in a cricket, football, rowing, etc.,
T as in Team (n.) A flock of wild ducks.,
T as in Team (n.) A royalty or privilege granted by royal charter to a lord of a manor, of having, keeping, and judging in his court, his bondmen, neifes, and villains, and their offspring, or suit, that is, goods and chattels, and appurtenances thereto.,
T as in Team (v. i.) To engage in the occupation of driving a team of horses, cattle, or the like, as in conveying or hauling lumber, goods, etc.; to be a teamster.,
T as in Team (v. t.) To convey or haul with a team; as, to team lumber.,
T as in Teamed (a.) Yoked in, or as in, a team.,
T as in Teaming (n.) The act or occupation of driving a team, or of hauling or carrying, as logs, goods, or the like, with a team.,
T as in Teaming (n.) Contract work.,
T as in Teamster (n.) One who drives a team.,
T as in Teamwork (n.) Work done by a team, as distinguished from that done by personal labor.,
T as in Teapot (n.) A vessel with a spout, in which tea is made, and from which it is poured into teacups.,
T as in Teapoy (n.) An ornamental stand, usually with three legs, having caddies for holding tea.,
T as in Tear (n.) A drop of the limpid, saline fluid secreted, normally in small amount, by the lachrymal gland, and diffused between the eye and the eyelids to moisten the parts and facilitate their motion. Ordinarily the secretion passes through the lachrymal duct into the nose, but when it is increased by emotion or other causes, it overflows the lids.,
T as in Tear (n.) Something in the form of a transparent drop of fluid matter; also, a solid, transparent, tear-shaped drop, as of some balsams or resins.,
T as in Tear (n.) That which causes or accompanies tears; a lament; a dirge.,
T as in Tore (imp.) of Tear,
T as in Tare () of Tear,
T as in Torn (p. p.) of Tear,
T as in Tearing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tear,
T as in Tear (v. t.) To separate by violence; to pull apart by force; to rend; to lacerate; as, to tear cloth; to tear a garment; to tear the skin or flesh.,
T as in Tear (v. t.) Hence, to divide by violent measures; to disrupt; to rend; as, a party or government torn by factions.,
T as in Tear (v. t.) To rend away; to force away; to remove by force; to sunder; as, a child torn from its home.,
T as in Tear (v. t.) To pull with violence; as, to tear the hair.,
T as in Tear (v. t.) To move violently; to agitate.,
T as in Tear (v. i.) To divide or separate on being pulled; to be rent; as, this cloth tears easily.,
T as in Tear (v. i.) To move and act with turbulent violence; to rush with violence; hence, to rage; to rave.,
T as in Tear (n.) The act of tearing, or the state of being torn; a rent; a fissure.,
T as in Tearer (n.) One who tears or rends anything; also, one who rages or raves with violence.,
T as in Tear-falling (a.) Shedding tears; tender.,
T as in Tearful (a.) Abounding with tears; weeping; shedding tears; as, tearful eyes.,
T as in Tearless (a.) Shedding no tears; free from tears; unfeeling.,
T as in Tearpit (n.) A cavity or pouch beneath the lower eyelid of most deer and antelope; the lachrymal sinus; larmier. It is capable of being opened at pleasure and secretes a waxy substance.,
T as in Tear-thumb (n.) A name given to several species of plants of the genus Polygonum, having angular stems beset with minute reflexed prickles.,
T as in Teary (a.) Wet with tears; tearful.,
T as in Teary (a.) Consisting of tears, or drops like tears.,
T as in Tea-saucer (n.) A small saucer in which a teacup is set.,
T as in Teased (imp. & p. p.) of Tease,
T as in Teasing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tease,
T as in Tease (v. t.) To comb or card, as wool or flax.,
T as in Tease (v. t.) To stratch, as cloth, for the purpose of raising a nap; teasel.,
T as in Tease (v. t.) To tear or separate into minute shreds, as with needles or similar instruments.,
T as in Tease (v. t.) To vex with importunity or impertinence; to harass, annoy, disturb, or irritate by petty requests, or by jests and raillery; to plague.,
T as in Tease (n.) One who teases or plagues.,
T as in Teasel (n.) A plant of the genus Dipsacus, of which one species (D. fullonum) bears a large flower head covered with stiff, prickly, hooked bracts. This flower head, when dried, is used for raising a nap on woolen cloth.,
T as in Teasel (n.) A bur of this plant.,
T as in Teasel (n.) Any contrivance intended as a substitute for teasels in dressing cloth.,
T as in Teaseled (imp. & p. p.) of Teasel,
T as in Teaselled () of Teasel,
T as in Teaseling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Teasel,
T as in Teaselling () of Teasel,
T as in Teasel (v. t.) To subject, as woolen cloth, to the action of teasels, or any substitute for them which has an effect to raise a nap.,
T as in Teaseler (n.) One who uses teasels for raising a nap on cloth.,
T as in Teaseling (n.) The cutting and gathering of teasels; the use of teasels.,
T as in Teaser (n.) One who teases or vexes.,
T as in Teaser (n.) A jager gull.,
T as in Teasle (n. & v. t.) See Teasel.,
T as in Teaspoon (n.) A small spoon used in stirring and sipping tea, coffee, etc., and for other purposes.,
T as in Teaspoonfuls (pl. ) of Teaspoonful,
T as in Teaspoonful (n.) As much as teaspoon will hold; enough to fill a teaspoon; -- usually reckoned at a fluid dram or one quarter of a tablespoonful.,
T as in Teat (n.) The protuberance through which milk is drawn from the udder or breast of a mammal; a nipple; a pap; a mammilla; a dug; a tit.,
T as in Teat (n.) A small protuberance or nozzle resembling the teat of an animal.,
T as in Teated (a.) Having protuberances resembling the teat of an animal.,
T as in Teathe (n. & v.) See Tath.,
T as in Teatish (a.) Peevish; tettish; fretful; -- said of a child. See Tettish.,
T as in Teaze-hole (n.) The opening in the furnaces through which fuel is introduced.,
T as in Teazel (n. & v. t.) See Teasel.,
T as in Teazer (n.) The stoker or fireman of a furnace, as in glass works.,
T as in Teazle (n. & v. t.) See Teasel.,
T as in Tebeth (n.) The tenth month of the Jewish ecclesiastical year, answering to a part of December with a part of January.,
T as in Techily (adv.) In a techy manner.,
T as in Techiness (n.) The quality or state of being techy.,
T as in Technic (a.) Technical.,
T as in Technic (a.) The method of performance in any art; technical skill; artistic execution; technique.,
T as in Technic (a.) Technical terms or objects; things pertaining to the practice of an art or science.,
T as in Technical (a.) Of or pertaining to the useful or mechanic arts, or to any science, business, or the like; specially appropriate to any art, science, or business; as, the words of an indictment must be technical.,
T as in Technicalities (pl. ) of Technicality,
T as in Technicality (n.) The quality or state of being technical; technicalness.,
T as in Technicality (n.) That which is technical, or peculiar to any trade, profession, sect, or the like.,
T as in Technically (adv.) In a technical manner; according to the signification of terms as used in any art, business, or profession.,
T as in Technicalness (n.) The quality or state of being technical; technicality.,
T as in Technicals (n. pl.) Those things which pertain to the practical part of an art, science, or profession; technical terms; technics.,
T as in Technicist (n.) One skilled in technics or in one or more of the practical arts.,
T as in Technicological (a.) Technological; technical.,
T as in Technicology (n.) Technology.,
T as in Technics (n.) The doctrine of arts in general; such branches of learning as respect the arts.,
T as in Technique (n.) Same as Technic, n.,
T as in Technism (n.) Technicality.,
T as in Technologic (a.) Technological.,
T as in Technological (a.) Of or pertaining to technology.,
T as in Technologist (n.) One skilled in technology; one who treats of arts, or of the terms of arts.,
T as in Technology (n.) Industrial science; the science of systematic knowledge of the industrial arts, especially of the more important manufactures, as spinning, weaving, metallurgy, etc.,
T as in Techy (a.) Peevish; fretful; irritable.,
T as in Tectibranch (n.) One of the Tectibranchiata. Also used adjectively.,
T as in Tectibranchia (n. pl.) Same as Tectibranchiata.,
T as in Tectibranchiata (n. pl.) An order, or suborder, of gastropod Mollusca in which the gills are usually situated on one side of the back, and protected by a fold of the mantle. When there is a shell, it is usually thin and delicate and often rudimentary. The aplysias and the bubble shells are examples.,
T as in Tectibranchiate (a.) Having the gills covered by the mantle; of or pertaining to the Tectibranchiata.,
T as in Tectibranchiate (n.) A tectibranchiate mollusk.,
T as in Tectly (adv.) Covertly; privately; secretly.,
T as in Tectology (n.) A division of morphology created by Haeckel; the science of organic individuality constituting the purely structural portion of morphology, in which the organism is regarded as composed of organic individuals of different orders, each organ being considered an individual. See Promorphology, and Morphon.,
T as in Tectonic (a.) Of or pertaining to building or construction; architectural.,
T as in Tectonics (n.) The science, or the art, by which implements, vessels, dwellings, or other edifices, are constructed, both agreeably to the end for which they are designed, and in conformity with artistic sentiments and ideas.,
T as in Tectorial (a.) Of or pertaining to covering; -- applied to a membrane immediately over the organ of Corti in the internal ear.,
T as in Tectrices (n. pl.) The wing coverts of a bird. See Covert, and Illust. of Bird.,
T as in Tecum (n.) See Tucum.,
T as in Tedded (imp. & p. p.) of Ted,
T as in Tedding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ted,
T as in Ted (v. t.) To spread, or turn from the swath, and scatter for drying, as new-mowed grass; -- chiefly used in the past participle.,
T as in Tedder (n.) A machine for stirring and spreading hay, to expedite its drying.,
T as in Tedder (n.) Same as Tether.,
T as in Teddered (imp. & p. p.) of Tedder,
T as in Teddering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tedder,
T as in Tedder (v. t.) Same as Tether.,
T as in Te Deum () An ancient and celebrated Christian hymn, of uncertain authorship, but often ascribed to St. Ambrose; -- so called from the first words "Te Deum laudamus." It forms part of the daily matins of the Roman Catholic breviary, and is sung on all occasions of thanksgiving. In its English form, commencing with words, "We praise thee, O God," it forms a part of the regular morning service of the Church of England and the Protestant Episcopal Church in America.,
T as in Te Deum () A religious service in which the singing of the hymn forms a principal part.,
T as in Tedge (n.) The gate of a mold, through which the melted metal is poured; runner, geat.,
T as in Tediosity (n.) Tediousness.,
T as in Tedious (a.) Involving tedium; tiresome from continuance, prolixity, slowness, or the like; wearisome.,
T as in Tedium (n.) Irksomeness; wearisomeness; tediousness.,
T as in Tee (n.) The mark aimed at in curling and in quoits.,
T as in Tee (n.) The nodule of earth from which the ball is struck in golf.,
T as in Tee (n.) A short piece of pipe having a lateral outlet, used to connect a line of pipe with a pipe at a right angle with the line; -- so called because it resembles the letter T in shape.,
T as in Tee iron () See T iron, under T.,
T as in Teek (n.) See Teak.,
T as in Teel (n.) Sesame.,
T as in Teelseed (n.) The seed of sesame.,
T as in Teem (v. t.) To pour; -- commonly followed by out; as, to teem out ale.,
T as in Teem (v. t.) To pour, as steel, from a melting pot; to fill, as a mold, with molten metal.,
T as in Teem (a.) To think fit.,
T as in Teemed (imp. & p. p.) of Teem,
T as in Teeming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Teem,
T as in Teem (v. i.) To bring forth young, as an animal; to produce fruit, as a plant; to bear; to be pregnant; to conceive; to multiply.,
T as in Teem (v. i.) To be full, or ready to bring forth; to be stocked to overflowing; to be prolific; to abound.,
T as in Teem (v. t.) To produce; to bring forth.,
T as in Teemer (n.) One who teems, or brings forth.,
T as in Teemful (a.) Pregnant; prolific.,
T as in Teemful (a.) Brimful.,
T as in Teeming (a.) Prolific; productive.,
T as in Teemless (a.) Not fruitful or prolific; barren; as, a teemless earth.,
T as in Teen (n.) Grief; sorrow; affiction; pain.,
T as in Teen (n.) To excite; to provoke; to vex; to affict; to injure.,
T as in Teen (v. t.) To hedge or fence in; to inclose.,
T as in Teenage (n.) The longer wood for making or mending fences.,
T as in Teend (v. t. & i.) To kindle; to burn.,
T as in Teenful (a.) Full of teen; harmful; grievous; grieving; afflicted.,
T as in Teens (n. pl.) The years of one's age having the termination -teen, beginning with thirteen and ending with nineteen; as, a girl in her teens.,
T as in Teeny (a.) Very small; tiny.,
T as in Teeny (a.) Fretful; peevish; pettish; cross.,
T as in Teeong (n.) The mino bird.,
T as in Teest (n.) A tinsmith's stake, or small anvil.,
T as in Teetan (n.) A pipit.,
T as in Teetee (n.) Any one of several species of small, soft-furred South American monkeys belonging to Callithrix, Chrysothrix, and allied genera; as, the collared teetee (Callithrix torquatus), and the squirrel teetee (Chrysothrix sciurea). Called also pinche, titi, and saimiri. See Squirrel monkey, under Squirrel.,
T as in Teetee (n.) A diving petrel of Australia (Halodroma wrinatrix).,
T as in Teetered (imp. & p. p.) of Teeter,
T as in Teetering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Teeter,
T as in Teeter (v. i. & t.) To move up and down on the ends of a balanced plank, or the like, as children do for sport; to seesaw; to titter; to titter-totter.,
T as in Teeter-tail (n.) The spotted sandpiper. See the Note under Sandpiper.,
T as in Teeth (n.) pl. of Tooth.,
T as in Teethed (imp. & p. p.) of Teeth,
T as in Teething (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Teeth,
T as in Teeth (v. i.) To breed, or grow, teeth.,
T as in Teething (n.) The process of the first growth of teeth, or the phenomena attending their issue through the gums; dentition.,
T as in Teetotal (a.) Entire; total.,
T as in Teetotaler (n.) One pledged to entire abstinence from all intoxicating drinks.,
T as in Teetotalism (n.) The principle or practice of entire abstinence, esp. from intoxicating drinks.,
T as in Teetotally (adv.) Entirely; totally.,
T as in Teetotum (n.) A child's toy, somewhat resembling a top, and twirled by the fingers.,
T as in Teetuck (n.) The rock pipit.,
T as in Teeuck (n.) The lapwing.,
T as in Teewit (n.) The pewit.,
T as in Teg (n.) A sheep in its second year; also, a doe in its second year.,
T as in Tegmina (pl. ) of Tegmen,
T as in Tegmen (n.) A tegument or covering.,
T as in Tegmen (n.) The inner layer of the coating of a seed, usually thin and delicate; the endopleura.,
T as in Tegmen (n.) One of the elytra of an insect, especially of certain Orthoptera.,
T as in Tegmen (n.) Same as Tectrices.,
T as in Tegmental (a.) Of or pertaining to a tegument or tegmentum; as, the tegmental layer of the epiblast; the tegmental cells of the taste buds.,
T as in Tegmenta (pl. ) of Tegmentum,
T as in Tegmentum (n.) A covering; -- applied especially to the bundles of longitudinal fibers in the upper part of the crura of the cerebrum.,
T as in Teguexin (n.) A large South American lizard (Tejus teguexin). It becomes three or four feet long, and is blackish above, marked with yellowish spots of various sizes. It feeds upon fruits, insects, reptiles, young birds, and birds' eggs. The closely allied species Tejus rufescens is called red teguexin.,
T as in Tegulae (pl. ) of Tegula,
T as in Tegula (n.) A small appendage situated above the base of the wings of Hymenoptera and attached to the mesonotum.,
T as in Tegular (a.) Of or pertaining to a tile; resembling a tile, or arranged like tiles; consisting of tiles; as, a tegular pavement.,
T as in Tegulated (a.) Composed of small plates, as of horn or metal, overlapping like tiles; -- said of a kind of ancient armor.,
T as in Tegument (n.) A cover or covering; an integument.,
T as in Tegument (n.) Especially, the covering of a living body, or of some part or organ of such a body; skin; hide.,
T as in Tegumentary (a.) Of or pertaining to a tegument or teguments; consisting of teguments; serving as a tegument or covering.,
T as in Te-hee (n. & interj.) A tittering laugh; a titter.,
T as in Te-hee (v. i.) To titter; to laugh derisively.,
T as in Teil (n.) The lime tree, or linden; -- called also teil tree.,
T as in Teind (n.) A tithe.,
T as in Teine (n.) See Teyne.,
T as in Teinland (n.) Land granted by the crown to a thane or lord.,
T as in Teinoscope (n.) An instrument formed by combining prisms so as to correct the chromatic aberration of the light while linear dimensions of objects seen through the prisms are increased or diminished; -- called also prism telescope.,
T as in Teint (n.) Tint; color; tinge, See Tint.,
T as in Teinture (n.) Color; tinge; tincture.,
T as in Tek (n.) A Siberian ibex.,
T as in Telamones (n. pl.) Same as Atlantes.,
T as in Telangiectasis (n.) Dilatation of the capillary vessels.,
T as in Telangiectasy (n.) Telangiectasis.,
T as in Telarly (adv.) In a weblike manner.,
T as in Telary (a.) Of or pertaining to a web; hence, spinning webs; retiary.,
T as in Teledu (n.) An East Indian carnivore (Mydaus meliceps) allied to the badger, and noted for the very offensive odor that it emits, somewhat resembling that of a skunk. It is a native of the high mountains of Java and Sumatra, and has long, silky fur. Called also stinking badger, and stinkard.,
T as in Telegram (n.) A message sent by telegraph; a telegraphic dispatch.,
T as in Telegrammic (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, a telegram; laconic; concise; brief.,
T as in Telegraph (n.) An apparatus, or a process, for communicating intelligence rapidly between distant points, especially by means of preconcerted visible or audible signals representing words or ideas, or by means of words and signs, transmitted by electrical action.,
T as in Telegraphed (imp. & p. p.) of Telegraph,
T as in Telegraphing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Telegraph,
T as in Telegraph (v. t.) To convey or announce by telegraph.,
T as in Telegrapher (n.) One who sends telegraphic messages; a telegraphic operator; a telegraphist.,
T as in Telegraphic (a.) Of or pertaining to the telegraph; made or communicated by a telegraph; as, telegraphic signals; telegraphic art; telegraphic intelligence.,
T as in Telegraphical (a.) Telegraphic.,
T as in Telegraphist (n.) One skilled in telegraphy; a telegrapher.,
T as in Telegraphy (n.) The science or art of constructing, or of communicating by means of, telegraphs; as, submarine telegraphy.,
T as in Telemeter (n.) An instrument used for measuring the distance of an object from an observer; as, a telescope with a micrometer for measuring the apparent diameter of an object whose real dimensions are known.,
T as in Teleocephial (n. pl.) An extensive order of bony fishes including most of the common market species, as bass, salmon, cod, perch, etc.,
T as in Teleological (a.) Of or pertaining to teleology, or the doctrine of design.,
T as in Teleologist (n.) One versed in teleology.,
T as in Teleology (n.) The doctrine of the final causes of things,
T as in Teleology (n.) the doctrine of design, which assumes that the phenomena of organic life, particularly those of evolution, are explicable only by purposive causes, and that they in no way admit of a mechanical explanation or one based entirely on biological science; the doctrine of adaptation to purpose.,
T as in Teleophore (n.) Same as Gonotheca.,
T as in Teleorganic (a.) Vital; as, teleorganic functions.,
T as in Teleosaur (n.) Any one of several species of fossil suarians belonging to Teleosaurus and allied genera. These reptiles are related to the crocodiles, but have biconcave vertebrae.,
T as in Teleosaurus (n.) A genus of extinct crocodilian reptiles of the Jurassic period, having a long and slender snout.,
T as in Teleost (n.) One of the Teleosti. Also used adjectively.,
T as in Teleostean (a.) Of or pertaining to the teleosts.,
T as in Teleostean (n.) A teleostean fish.,
T as in Teleostei (n. pl.) A subclass of fishes including all the ordinary bony fishes as distinguished from the ganoids.,
T as in Teleostomi (n. pl.) An extensive division of fishes including the ordinary fishes (Teleostei) and the ganoids.,
T as in Teleozoic (a.) Having tissued composed of cells.,
T as in Teleozoon (n.) A metazoan.,
T as in Telepathy (n.) The sympathetic affection of one mind by the thoughts, feelings, or emotions of another at a distance, without communication through the ordinary channels of sensation.,
T as in Telepheme (n.) A message by a telephone.,
T as in Telephone (n.) An instrument for reproducing sounds, especially articulate speech, at a distance.,
T as in Telephone (v. t.) To convey or announce by telephone.,
T as in Telephonic (a.) Conveying sound to a great distance.,
T as in Telephonic (a.) Of or pertaining to the telephone; by the telephone.,
T as in Telephonically (adv.) By telephonic means or processes; by the use of the telephone.,
T as in Telephony (n.) The art or process of reproducing sounds at a distance, as with the telephone.,
T as in Telepolariscope (n.) A polariscope arranged to be attached to a telescope.,
T as in Telerythin (n.) A red crystalline compound related to, or produced from, erythrin. So called because regarded as the end of the series of erythrin compounds.,
T as in Telescope (n.) An optical instrument used in viewing distant objects, as the heavenly bodies.,
T as in Telescoped (imp. & p. p.) of Telescope,
T as in Telescoping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Telescope,
T as in Telescope (a.) To slide or pass one within another, after the manner of the sections of a small telescope or spyglass; to come into collision, as railway cars, in such a manner that one runs into another.,
T as in Telescope (v. t.) To cause to come into collision, so as to telescope.,
T as in Telescopic (a.) Alt. of Telescopical,
T as in Telescopical (a.) Of or pertaining to a telescope; performed by a telescope.,
T as in Telescopical (a.) Seen or discoverable only by a telescope; as, telescopic stars.,
T as in Telescopical (a.) Able to discern objects at a distance; farseeing; far-reaching; as, a telescopic eye; telescopic vision.,
T as in Telescopical (a.) Having the power of extension by joints sliding one within another, like the tube of a small telescope or a spyglass; especially (Mach.), constructed of concentric tubes, either stationary, as in the telescopic boiler, or movable, as in the telescopic chimney of a war vessel, which may be put out of sight by being lowered endwise.,
T as in Telescopically (adv.) In a telescopical manner; by or with the telescope.,
T as in Telescopist (n.) One who uses a telescope.,
T as in Telescopy (n.) The art or practice of using or making telescopes.,
T as in Telesm (n.) A kind of amulet or magical charm.,
T as in Telesmatic (a.) Alt. of Telesmatical,
T as in Telesmatical (a.) Of or pertaining to telesms; magical.,
T as in Telespectroscope (n.) A spectroscope arranged to be attached to a telescope for observation of distant objects, as the sun or stars.,
T as in Telestereoscope (n.) A stereoscope adapted to view distant natural objects or landscapes; a telescopic stereoscope.,
T as in Telestic (a.) Tending or relating to a purpose or an end.,
T as in Telestich (n.) A poem in which the final letters of the lines, taken consequently, make a name. Cf. Acrostic.,
T as in Telethermometer (n.) An apparatus for determining the temperature of a distant point, as by a thermoelectric circuit or otherwise.,
T as in Teleutospore (n.) The thick-celled winter or resting spore of the rusts (order Uredinales), produced in late summer. See Illust. of Uredospore.,
T as in Telic (a.) Denoting the final end or purpose, as distinguished from ecbatic. See Ecbatic.,
T as in Told (imp. & p. p.) of Tell,
T as in Telling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tell,
T as in Tell (v. t.) To mention one by one, or piece by piece; to recount; to enumerate; to reckon; to number; to count; as, to tell money.,
T as in Tell (v. t.) To utter or recite in detail; to give an account of; to narrate.,
T as in Tell (v. t.) To make known; to publish; to disclose; to divulge.,
T as in Tell (v. t.) To give instruction to; to make report to; to acquaint; to teach; to inform.,
T as in Tell (v. t.) To order; to request; to command.,
T as in Tell (v. t.) To discern so as to report; to ascertain by observing; to find out; to discover; as, I can not tell where one color ends and the other begins.,
T as in Tell (v. t.) To make account of; to regard; to reckon; to value; to estimate.,
T as in Tell (v. i.) To give an account; to make report.,
T as in Tell (v. i.) To take effect; to produce a marked effect; as, every shot tells; every expression tells.,
T as in Tell (n.) That which is told; tale; account.,
T as in Tell (n.) A hill or mound.,
T as in Tellable (a.) Capable of being told.,
T as in Tellen (n.) Any species of Tellina.,
T as in Teller (n.) One who tells, relates, or communicates; an informer, narrator, or describer.,
T as in Teller (n.) One of four officers of the English Exchequer, formerly appointed to receive moneys due to the king and to pay moneys payable by the king.,
T as in Teller (n.) An officer of a bank who receives and counts over money paid in, and pays money out on checks.,
T as in Teller (n.) One who is appointed to count the votes given in a legislative body, public meeting, assembly, etc.,
T as in Tellership (n.) The office or employment of a teller.,
T as in Tellina (n.) A genus of marine bivalve mollusks having thin, delicate, and often handsomely colored shells.,
T as in Telling (a.) Operating with great effect; effective; as, a telling speech.,
T as in Telltale (a.) Telling tales; babbling.,
T as in Telltale (n.) One who officiously communicates information of the private concerns of others; one who tells that which prudence should suppress.,
T as in Telltale (n.) A movable piece of ivory, lead, or other material, connected with the bellows of an organ, that gives notice, by its position, when the wind is exhausted.,
T as in Telltale (n.) A mechanical attachment to the steering wheel, which, in the absence of a tiller, shows the position of the helm.,
T as in Telltale (n.) A compass in the cabin of a vessel, usually placed where the captain can see it at all hours, and thus inform himself of the vessel's course.,
T as in Telltale (n.) A machine or contrivance for indicating or recording something, particularly for keeping a check upon employees, as factory hands, watchmen, drivers, check takers, and the like, by revealing to their employers what they have done or omitted.,
T as in Telltale (n.) The tattler. See Tattler.,
T as in Tellural (a.) Of or pertaining to the earth.,
T as in Tellurate (n.) A salt of telluric acid.,
T as in Telluret (n.) A telluride.,
T as in Tellureted (n.) Combined or impregnated with tellurium; tellurized.,
T as in Tellurhydric (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, hydrogen telluride, which is regarded as an acid, especially when in solution.,
T as in Tellurian (a.) Of or pertaining to the earth.,
T as in Tellurian (n.) A dweller on the earth.,
T as in Tellurian (n.) An instrument for showing the operation of the causes which produce the succession of day and night, and the changes of the seasons.,
T as in Telluric (a.) Of or pertaining to the earth; proceeding from the earth.,
T as in Telluric (a.) Of or pertaining to tellurium; derived from, or resembling, tellurium; specifically, designating those compounds in which the element has a higher valence as contrasted with tellurous compounds; as, telluric acid, which is analogous to sulphuric acid.,
T as in Telluride (n.) A compound of tellurium with a more positive element or radical; -- formerly called telluret.,
T as in Tellurism (n.) An hypothesis of animal magnetism propounded by Dr. Keiser, in Germany, in which the phenomena are ascribed to the agency of a telluric spirit or influence.,
T as in Tellurite (n.) A salt of tellurous acid.,
T as in Tellurite (n.) Oxide of tellurium. It occurs sparingly in tufts of white or yellowish crystals.,
T as in Tellurium (n.) A rare nonmetallic element, analogous to sulphur and selenium, occasionally found native as a substance of a silver-white metallic luster, but usually combined with metals, as with gold and silver in the mineral sylvanite, with mercury in Coloradoite, etc. Symbol Te. Atomic weight 125.2.,
T as in Tellurize (v. t.) To impregnate with, or to subject to the action of, tellurium; -- chiefly used adjectively in the past participle; as, tellurized ores.,
T as in Tellurous (a.) Of or pertaining to tellurium; derived from, or containing, tellurium; specifically, designating those compounds in which the element has a lower valence as contrasted with telluric compounds; as, tellurous acid, which is analogous to sulphurous acid.,
T as in Telodynamic (a.) Relating to a system for transmitting power to a distance by means of swiftly moving ropes or cables driving grooved pulleys of large diameter.,
T as in Teloogoo (n.) See Telugu.,
T as in Telotrochae (pl. ) of Telotrocha,
T as in Telotrocha (n.) An annelid larva having telotrochal bands of cilia.,
T as in Telotrochal (a.) Alt. of Telotrochous,
T as in Telotrochous (a.) Having both a preoral and a posterior band of cilla; -- applied to the larvae of certain annelids.,
T as in Telotype (n.) An electric telegraph which prints the messages in letters and not in signs.,
T as in Telpher (n.) A contrivance for the conveyance of vehicles or loads by means of electricity.,
T as in Telpherage (n.) The conveyance of vehicles or loads by means of electricity.,
T as in Telsons (pl. ) of Telson,
T as in Telson (n.) The terminal joint or movable piece at the end of the abdomen of Crustacea and other articulates. See Thoracostraca.,
T as in Telugu (n.) A Darvidian language spoken in the northern parts of the Madras presidency. In extent of use it is the next language after Hindustani (in its various forms) and Bengali.,
T as in Telugu (n.) One of the people speaking the Telugu language.,
T as in Telugu (a.) Of or pertaining to the Telugu language, or the Telugus.,
T as in Temerarious (a.) Unreasonably adventurous; despising danger; rash; headstrong; audacious; reckless; heedless.,
T as in Temeration (n.) Temerity.,
T as in Temerity (n.) Unreasonable contempt of danger; extreme venturesomeness; rashness; as, the temerity of a commander in war.,
T as in Temerous (a.) Temerarious.,
T as in Tempean (a.) Of or pertaining to Temple, a valley in Thessaly, celebrated by Greek poets on account of its beautiful scenery; resembling Temple; hence, beautiful; delightful; charming.,
T as in Tempered (imp. & p. p.) of Temper,
T as in Tempering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Temper,
T as in Temper (v. t.) To mingle in due proportion; to prepare by combining; to modify, as by adding some new element; to qualify, as by an ingredient; hence, to soften; to mollify; to assuage; to soothe; to calm.,
T as in Temper (v. t.) To fit together; to adjust; to accomodate.,
T as in Temper (v. t.) To bring to a proper degree of hardness; as, to temper iron or steel.,
T as in Temper (v. t.) To govern; to manage.,
T as in Temper (v. t.) To moisten to a proper consistency and stir thoroughly, as clay for making brick, loam for molding, etc.,
T as in Temper (v. t.) To adjust, as the mathematical scale to the actual scale, or to that in actual use.,
T as in Temper (n.) The state of any compound substance which results from the mixture of various ingredients; due mixture of different qualities; just combination; as, the temper of mortar.,
T as in Temper (n.) Constitution of body; temperament; in old writers, the mixture or relative proportion of the four humors, blood, choler, phlegm, and melancholy.,
T as in Temper (n.) Disposition of mind; the constitution of the mind, particularly with regard to the passions and affections; as, a calm temper; a hasty temper; a fretful temper.,
T as in Temper (n.) Calmness of mind; moderation; equanimity; composure; as, to keep one's temper.,
T as in Temper (n.) Heat of mind or passion; irritation; proneness to anger; -- in a reproachful sense.,
T as in Temper (n.) The state of a metal or other substance, especially as to its hardness, produced by some process of heating or cooling; as, the temper of iron or steel.,
T as in Temper (n.) Middle state or course; mean; medium.,
T as in Temper (n.) Milk of lime, or other substance, employed in the process formerly used to clarify sugar.,
T as in Temper (v. i.) To accord; to agree; to act and think in conformity.,
T as in Temper (v. i.) To have or get a proper or desired state or quality; to grow soft and pliable.,
T as in Tempera (n.) A mode or process of painting; distemper.,
T as in Temperable (a.) Capable of being tempered.,
T as in Temperament (v. t.) Internal constitution; state with respect to the relative proportion of different qualities, or constituent parts.,
T as in Temperament (v. t.) Due mixture of qualities; a condition brought about by mutual compromises or concessions.,
T as in Temperament (v. t.) The act of tempering or modifying; adjustment, as of clashing rules, interests, passions, or the like; also, the means by which such adjustment is effected.,
T as in Temperament (v. t.) Condition with regard to heat or cold; temperature.,
T as in Temperament (v. t.) A system of compromises in the tuning of organs, pianofortes, and the like, whereby the tones generated with the vibrations of a ground tone are mutually modified and in part canceled, until their number reduced to the actual practicable scale of twelve tones to the octave. This scale, although in so far artificial, is yet closely suggestive of its origin in nature, and this system of tuning, although not mathematically true, yet satisfies the ear, while it has the convenience that the same twelve fixed tones answer for every key or scale, C/ becoming identical with D/, and so on.,
T as in Temperament (v. t.) The peculiar physical and mental character of an individual, in olden times erroneously supposed to be due to individual variation in the relations and proportions of the constituent parts of the body, especially of the fluids, as the bile, blood, lymph, etc. Hence the phrases, bilious or choleric temperament, sanguine temperament, etc., implying a predominance of one of these fluids and a corresponding influence on the temperament.,
T as in Temperamental (a.) Of or pertaining to temperament; constitutional.,
T as in Temperance (v. t.) Habitual moderation in regard to the indulgence of the natural appetites and passions; restrained or moderate indulgence; moderation; as, temperance in eating and drinking; temperance in the indulgence of joy or mirth; specifically, moderation, and sometimes abstinence, in respect to using intoxicating liquors.,
T as in Temperance (v. t.) Moderation of passion; patience; calmness; sedateness.,
T as in Temperance (v. t.) State with regard to heat or cold; temperature.,
T as in Temperancy (n.) Temperance.,
T as in Temperate (v. t.) Moderate; not excessive; as, temperate heat; a temperate climate.,
T as in Temperate (v. t.) Not marked with passion; not violent; cool; calm; as, temperate language.,
T as in Temperate (v. t.) Moderate in the indulgence of the natural appetites or passions; as, temperate in eating and drinking.,
T as in Temperate (v. t.) Proceeding from temperance.,
T as in Temperate (v. t.) To render temperate; to moderate; to soften; to temper.,
T as in Temperately (adv.) In a temperate manner.,
T as in Temperateness (n.) The quality or state of being temperate; moderateness; temperance.,
T as in Temperative (a.) Having power to temper.,
T as in Temperature (n.) Constitution; state; degree of any quality.,
T as in Temperature (n.) Freedom from passion; moderation.,
T as in Temperature (n.) Condition with respect to heat or cold, especially as indicated by the sensation produced, or by the thermometer or pyrometer; degree of heat or cold; as, the temperature of the air; high temperature; low temperature; temperature of freezing or of boiling.,
T as in Temperature (n.) Mixture; compound.,
T as in Tempered (a.) Brought to a proper temper; as, tempered steel; having (such) a temper; -- chiefly used in composition; as, a good-tempered or bad-tempered man; a well-tempered sword.,
T as in Temperer (n.) One who, or that which, tempers; specifically, a machine in which lime, cement, stone, etc., are mixed with water.,
T as in Tempering (n.) The process of giving the requisite degree of hardness or softness to a substance, as iron and steel; especially, the process of giving to steel the degree of hardness required for various purposes, consisting usually in first plunging the article, when heated to redness, in cold water or other liquid, to give an excess of hardness, and then reheating it gradually until the hardness is reduced or drawn down to the degree required, as indicated by the color produced on a polished portion, or by the burning of oil.,
T as in Tempest (n.) An extensive current of wind, rushing with great velocity and violence, and commonly attended with rain, hail, or snow; a furious storm.,
T as in Tempest (n.) Fig.: Any violent tumult or commotion; as, a political tempest; a tempest of war, or of the passions.,
T as in Tempest (n.) A fashionable assembly; a drum. See the Note under Drum, n., 4.,
T as in Tempest (v. t.) To disturb as by a tempest.,
T as in Tempest (v. i.) To storm.,
T as in Tempestive (a.) Seasonable; timely; as, tempestive showers.,
T as in Tempestivily (n.) The quality, or state, of being tempestive; seasonableness.,
T as in Tempestuous (a.) Of or pertaining to a tempest; involving or resembling a tempest; turbulent; violent; stormy; as, tempestuous weather; a tempestuous night; a tempestuous debate.,
T as in Templar (n.) One of a religious and military order first established at Jerusalem, in the early part of the 12th century, for the protection of pilgrims and of the Holy Sepulcher. These Knights Templars, or Knights of the Temple, were so named because they occupied an apartment of the palace of Bladwin II. in Jerusalem, near the Temple.,
T as in Templar (n.) A student of law, so called from having apartments in the Temple at London, the original buildings having belonged to the Knights Templars. See Inner Temple, and Middle Temple, under Temple.,
T as in Templar (n.) One belonged to a certain order or degree among the Freemasons, called Knights Templars. Also, one of an order among temperance men, styled Good Templars.,
T as in Templar (a.) Of or pertaining to a temple.,
T as in Template (n.) Same as Templet.,
T as in Temple (n.) A contrivence used in a loom for keeping the web stretched transversely.,
T as in Temple (n.) The space, on either side of the head, back of the eye and forehead, above the zygomatic arch and in front of the ear.,
T as in Temple (n.) One of the side bars of a pair of spectacles, jointed to the bows, and passing one on either side of the head to hold the spectacles in place.,
T as in Temple (n.) A place or edifice dedicated to the worship of some deity; as, the temple of Jupiter at Athens, or of Juggernaut in India.,
T as in Temple (n.) The edifice erected at Jerusalem for the worship of Jehovah.,
T as in Temple (n.) Hence, among Christians, an edifice erected as a place of public worship; a church.,
T as in Temple (n.) Fig.: Any place in which the divine presence specially resides.,
T as in Temple (v. t.) To build a temple for; to appropriate a temple to; as, to temple a god.,
T as in Templed (a.) Supplied with a temple or temples, or with churches; inclosed in a temple.,
T as in Templet (n.) A gauge, pattern, or mold, commonly a thin plate or board, used as a guide to the form of the work to be executed; as, a mason's or a wheelwright's templet.,
T as in Templet (n.) A short piece of timber, iron, or stone, placed in a wall under a girder or other beam, to distribute the weight or pressure.,
T as in Tempo (n.) The rate or degree of movement in time.,
T as in Temporal (a.) Of or pertaining to the temple or temples; as, the temporal bone; a temporal artery.,
T as in Temporal (n.) Of or pertaining to time, that is, to the present life, or this world; secular, as distinguished from sacred or eternal.,
T as in Temporal (n.) Civil or political, as distinguished from ecclesiastical; as, temporal power; temporal courts.,
T as in Temporal (n.) Anything temporal or secular; a temporality; -- used chiefly in the plural.,
T as in Temporalities (pl. ) of Temporality,
T as in Temporality (n.) The state or quality of being temporary; -- opposed to perpetuity.,
T as in Temporality (n.) The laity; temporality.,
T as in Temporality (n.) That which pertains to temporal welfare; material interests; especially, the revenue of an ecclesiastic proceeding from lands, tenements, or lay fees, tithes, and the like; -- chiefly used in the plural.,
T as in Temporally (adv.) In a temporal manner; secularly.,
T as in Temporalness (n.) Worldliness.,
T as in Temporalty (n.) The laity; secular people.,
T as in Temporalty (n.) A secular possession; a temporality.,
T as in Temporaneous (a.) Temporarity.,
T as in Temporarily (adv.) In a temporary manner; for a time.,
T as in Temporariness (n.) The quality or state of being temporary; -- opposed to perpetuity.,
T as in Temporary (a.) Lasting for a time only; existing or continuing for a limited time; not permanent; as, the patient has obtained temporary relief.,
T as in Temporist (n.) A temporizer.,
T as in Temporization (n.) The act of temporizing.,
T as in Temporized (imp. & p. p.) of Temporize,
T as in Temporizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Temporize,
T as in Temporize (v. t.) To comply with the time or occasion; to humor, or yield to, the current of opinion or circumstances; also, to trim, as between two parties.,
T as in Temporize (v. t.) To delay; to procrastinate.,
T as in Temporize (v. t.) To comply; to agree.,
T as in Temporizer (n.) One who temporizes; one who yields to the time, or complies with the prevailing opinions, fashions, or occasions; a trimmer.,
T as in Temporizingly (adv.) In a temporizing or yielding manner.,
T as in Temporo- () A combining form used in anatomy to indicate connection with, or relation to, the temple, or temporal bone; as, temporofacial.,
T as in Temporo-auricular (a.) Of or pertaining to both the temple and the ear; as, the temporo-auricular nerve.,
T as in Temporofacial (a.) Of or pertaining to both the temple and the face.,
T as in Temporomalar (a.) Of or pertaining to both the temple and the region of the malar bone; as, the temporomalar nerve.,
T as in Temporomaxillary (a.) Of or pertaining to both the temple or the temporal bone and the maxilla.,
T as in Temps (n.) Time.,
T as in Tempse (n.) See Temse.,
T as in Tempted (imp. & p. p.) of Tempt,
T as in Tempting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tempt,
T as in Tempt (v. t.) To put to trial; to prove; to test; to try.,
T as in Tempt (v. t.) To lead, or endeavor to lead, into evil; to entice to what is wrong; to seduce.,
T as in Tempt (v. t.) To endeavor to persuade; to induce; to invite; to incite; to provoke; to instigate.,
T as in Tempt (v. t.) To endeavor to accomplish or reach; to attempt.,
T as in Temptability (n.) The quality or state of being temptable; lability to temptation.,
T as in Temptable (a.) Capable of being tempted; liable to be tempted.,
T as in Temptation (n.) The act of tempting, or enticing to evil; seduction.,
T as in Temptation (n.) The state of being tempted, or enticed to evil.,
T as in Temptation (n.) That which tempts; an inducement; an allurement, especially to something evil.,
T as in Temptationless (a.) Having no temptation or motive; as, a temptationless sin.,
T as in Temptatious (a.) Tempting.,
T as in Tempter (n.) One who tempts or entices; especially, Satan, or the Devil, regarded as the great enticer to evil.,
T as in Tempting (a.) Adapted to entice or allure; attractive; alluring; seductive; enticing; as, tempting pleasures.,
T as in Temptress (n.) A woman who entices.,
T as in Temse (n.) A sieve.,
T as in Temulence (n.) Alt. of Temulency,
T as in Temulency (n.) Intoxication; inebriation; drunkenness.,
T as in Temulent (a.) Intoxicated; drunken.,
T as in Temulentive (a.) Somewhat temulent; addicted to drink.,
T as in Ten (a.) One more than nine; twice five.,
T as in Ten (n.) The number greater by one than nine; the sum of five and five; ten units of objects.,
T as in Ten (n.) A symbol representing ten units, as 10, x, or X.,
T as in Tenability (n.) The quality or state of being tenable; tenableness.,
T as in Tenable (a.) Capable of being held, naintained, or defended, as against an assailant or objector, or againts attempts to take or process; as, a tenable fortress, a tenable argument.,
T as in Tenableness (n.) Same as Tenability.,
T as in Tenace (n.) The holding by the fourth hand of the best and third best cards of a suit led; also, sometimes, the combination of best with third best card of a suit in any hand.,
T as in Tenacious (a.) Holding fast, or inclined to hold fast; inclined to retain what is in possession; as, men tenacious of their just rights.,
T as in Tenacious (a.) Apt to retain; retentive; as, a tenacious memory.,
T as in Tenacious (a.) Having parts apt to adhere to each other; cohesive; tough; as, steel is a tenacious metal; tar is more tenacious than oil.,
T as in Tenacious (a.) Apt to adhere to another substance; glutinous; viscous; sticking; adhesive.,
T as in Tenacious (a.) Niggardly; closefisted; miserly.,
T as in Tenacious (a.) Holding stoutly to one's opinion or purpose; obstinate; stubborn.,
T as in Tenacity (n.) The quality or state of being tenacious; as, tenacity, or retentiveness, of memory; tenacity, or persistency, of purpose.,
T as in Tenacity (n.) That quality of bodies which keeps them from parting without considerable force; cohesiveness; the effect of attraction; -- as distinguished from brittleness, fragility, mobility, etc.,
T as in Tenacity (n.) That quality of bodies which makes them adhere to other bodies; adhesiveness; viscosity.,
T as in Tenacity (n.) The greatest longitudinal stress a substance can bear without tearing asunder, -- usually expressed with reference to a unit area of the cross section of the substance, as the number of pounds per square inch, or kilograms per square centimeter, necessary to produce rupture.,
T as in Tenacula (pl. ) of Tenaculum,
T as in Tenaculums (pl. ) of Tenaculum,
T as in Tenaculum (n.) An instrument consisting of a fine, sharp hook attached to a handle, and used mainly for taking up arteries, and the like.,
T as in Tenacy (n.) Tenaciousness; obstinacy.,
T as in Tenaille (n.) An outwork in the main ditch, in front of the curtain, between two bastions. See Illust. of Ravelin.,
T as in Tenaillon (n.) A work constructed on each side of the ravelins, to increase their strength, procure additional ground beyond the ditch, or cover the shoulders of the bastions.,
T as in Tenacies (pl. ) of Tenancy,
T as in Tenancy (n.) A holding, or a mode of holding, an estate; tenure; the temporary possession of what belongs to another.,
T as in Tenancy (n.) A house for habitation, or place to live in, held of another.,
T as in Tenant (n.) One who holds or possesses lands, or other real estate, by any kind of right, whether in fee simple, in common, in severalty, for life, for years, or at will; also, one who has the occupation or temporary possession of lands or tenements the title of which is in another; -- correlative to landlord. See Citation from Blackstone, under Tenement, 2.,
T as in Tenant (n.) One who has possession of any place; a dweller; an occupant.,
T as in Tenanted (imp. & p. p.) of Tenant,
T as in Tenanting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tenant,
T as in Tenant (v. t.) To hold, occupy, or possess as a tenant.,
T as in Tenantable (a.) Fit to be rented; in a condition suitable for a tenant.,
T as in Tenantless (a.) Having no tenants; unoccupied; as, a tenantless mansion.,
T as in Tenantry (n.) The body of tenants; as, the tenantry of a manor or a kingdom.,
T as in Tenantry (n.) Tenancy.,
T as in Tenant saw () See Tenon saw, under Tenon.,
T as in Tench (n.) A European fresh-water fish (Tinca tinca, or T. vulgaris) allied to the carp. It is noted for its tenacity of life.,
T as in Tend (v. t.) To make a tender of; to offer or tender.,
T as in Tended (imp. & p. p.) of Tend,
T as in Tending (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tend,
T as in Tend (v. t.) To accompany as an assistant or protector; to care for the wants of; to look after; to watch; to guard; as, shepherds tend their flocks.,
T as in Tend (v. t.) To be attentive to; to note carefully; to attend to.,
T as in Tend (v. i.) To wait, as attendants or servants; to serve; to attend; -- with on or upon.,
T as in Tend (v. i.) To await; to expect.,
T as in Tend (a.) To move in a certain direction; -- usually with to or towards.,
T as in Tend (a.) To be directed, as to any end, object, or purpose; to aim; to have or give a leaning; to exert activity or influence; to serve as a means; to contribute; as, our petitions, if granted, might tend to our destruction.,
T as in Tendance (n.) The act of attending or waiting; attendance.,
T as in Tendance (n.) Persons in attendance; attendants.,
T as in Tendence (n.) Tendency.,
T as in Tendencies (pl. ) of Tendency,
T as in Tendency (n.) Direction or course toward any place, object, effect, or result; drift; causal or efficient influence to bring about an effect or result.,
T as in Tender (n.) One who tends; one who takes care of any person or thing; a nurse.,
T as in Tender (n.) A vessel employed to attend other vessels, to supply them with provisions and other stores, to convey intelligence, or the like.,
T as in Tender (n.) A car attached to a locomotive, for carrying a supply of fuel and water.,
T as in Tendered (imp. & p. p.) of Tender,
T as in Tendering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tender,
T as in Tender (v. t.) To offer in payment or satisfaction of a demand, in order to save a penalty or forfeiture; as, to tender the amount of rent or debt.,
T as in Tender (v. t.) To offer in words; to present for acceptance.,
T as in Tender (n.) An offer, either of money to pay a debt, or of service to be performed, in order to save a penalty or forfeiture, which would be incurred by nonpayment or nonperformance; as, the tender of rent due, or of the amount of a note, with interest.,
T as in Tender (n.) Any offer or proposal made for acceptance; as, a tender of a loan, of service, or of friendship; a tender of a bid for a contract.,
T as in Tender (n.) The thing offered; especially, money offered in payment of an obligation.,
T as in Tender (superl.) Easily impressed, broken, bruised, or injured; not firm or hard; delicate; as, tender plants; tender flesh; tender fruit.,
T as in Tender (superl.) Sensible to impression and pain; easily pained.,
T as in Tender (superl.) Physically weak; not hardly or able to endure hardship; immature; effeminate.,
T as in Tender (superl.) Susceptible of the softer passions, as love, compassion, kindness; compassionate; pitiful; anxious for another's good; easily excited to pity, forgiveness, or favor; sympathetic.,
T as in Tender (superl.) Exciting kind concern; dear; precious.,
T as in Tender (superl.) Careful to save inviolate, or not to injure; -- with of.,
T as in Tender (superl.) Unwilling to cause pain; gentle; mild.,
T as in Tender (superl.) Adapted to excite feeling or sympathy; expressive of the softer passions; pathetic; as, tender expressions; tender expostulations; a tender strain.,
T as in Tender (superl.) Apt to give pain; causing grief or pain; delicate; as, a tender subject.,
T as in Tender (superl.) Heeling over too easily when under sail; -- said of a vessel.,
T as in Tender (n.) Regard; care; kind concern.,
T as in Tender (v. t.) To have a care of; to be tender toward; hence, to regard; to esteem; to value.,
T as in Tenderfoot (n.) A delicate person; one not inured to the hardship and rudeness of pioneer life.,
T as in Tender-hearted (a.) Having great sensibility; susceptible of impressions or influence; affectionate; pitying; sensitive.,
T as in Tender-hefted (a.) Having great tenderness; easily moved.,
T as in Tenderling (n.) One made tender by too much kindness; a fondling.,
T as in Tenderling (n.) One of the first antlers of a deer.,
T as in Tenderloin (n.) A strip of tender flesh on either side of the vertebral column under the short ribs, in the hind quarter of beef and pork. It consists of the psoas muscles.,
T as in Tenderly (adv.) In a tender manner; with tenderness; mildly; gently; softly; in a manner not to injure or give pain; with pity or affection; kindly.,
T as in Tenderness (n.) The quality or state of being tender (in any sense of the adjective).,
T as in Tendinous (a.) Pertaining to a tendon; of the nature of tendon.,
T as in Tendinous (a.) Full of tendons; sinewy; as, nervous and tendinous parts of the body.,
T as in Tendment (n.) Attendance; care.,
T as in Tendon (n.) A tough insensible cord, bundle, or band of fibrous connective tissue uniting a muscle with some other part; a sinew.,
T as in Tendonous (a.) Tendinous.,
T as in Tendosynovitis (n.) See Tenosynovitis.,
T as in Tendrac (n.) Any one of several species of small insectivores of the family Centetidae, belonging to Ericulus, Echinope, and related genera, native of Madagascar. They are more or less spinose and resemble the hedgehog in habits. The rice tendrac (Oryzorictes hora) is very injurious to rice crops. Some of the species are called also tenrec.,
T as in Tendril (a.) A slender, leafless portion of a plant by which it becomes attached to a supporting body, after which the tendril usually contracts by coiling spirally.,
T as in Tendril (a.) Clasping; climbing as a tendril.,
T as in Tendriled (a.) Alt. of Tendrilled,
T as in Tendrilled (a.) Furnished with tendrils, or with such or so many, tendrils.,
T as in Tendron (n.) A tendril.,
T as in Tendry (n.) A tender; an offer.,
T as in Tene (n. & v.) See 1st and 2d Teen.,
T as in Tenebrae (n.) The matins and lauds for the last three days of Holy Week, commemorating the sufferings and death of Christ, -- usually sung on the afternoon or evening of Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday, instead of on the following days.,
T as in Tenebricose (a.) Tenebrous; dark; gloomy.,
T as in Tenebrific (a.) Rendering dark or gloomy; tenebrous; gloomy.,
T as in Tenebrificous (a.) Tenebrific.,
T as in Tenebrious (a.) Tenebrous.,
T as in Tenebrose (a.) Characterized by darkness or gloom; tenebrous.,
T as in Tenebrosity (n.) The quality or state of being tenebrous; tenebrousness.,
T as in Tenebrous (a.) Dark; gloomy; dusky; tenebrious.,
T as in Tenement (n.) That which is held of another by service; property which one holds of a lord or proprietor in consideration of some military or pecuniary service; fief; fee.,
T as in Tenement (n.) Any species of permanent property that may be held, so as to create a tenancy, as lands, houses, rents, commons, an office, an advowson, a franchise, a right of common, a peerage, and the like; -- called also free / frank tenements.,
T as in Tenement (n.) A dwelling house; a building for a habitation; also, an apartment, or suite of rooms, in a building, used by one family; often, a house erected to be rented.,
T as in Tenement (n.) Fig.: Dwelling; abode; habitation.,
T as in Tenemental (a.) Of or pertaining to a tenement; capable of being held by tenants.,
T as in Tenementary (a.) Capable of being leased; held by tenants.,
T as in Tenent (n.) A tenet.,
T as in Teneral (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, a condition assumed by the imago of certain Neuroptera, after exclusion from the pupa. In this state the insect is soft, and has not fully attained its mature coloring.,
T as in Teneriffe (n.) A white wine resembling Madeira in taste, but more tart, produced in Teneriffe, one of the Canary Islands; -- called also Vidonia.,
T as in Tenerity (a.) Tenderness.,
T as in Tenesmic (a.) Of or pertaining to tenesmus; characterized by tenesmus.,
T as in Tenesmus (n.) An urgent and distressing sensation, as if a discharge from the intestines must take place, although none can be effected; -- always referred to the lower extremity of the rectum.,
T as in Tenet (n.) Any opinion, principle, dogma, belief, or doctrine, which a person holds or maintains as true; as, the tenets of Plato or of Cicero.,
T as in Tenfold (a. & adv.) In tens; consisting of ten in one; ten times repeated.,
T as in Tenia (n.) See Taenia.,
T as in Tenioid (a.) See Taenoid.,
T as in Tennantite (n.) A blackish lead-gray mineral, closely related to tetrahedrite. It is essentially a sulphide of arsenic and copper.,
T as in Tenne (n.) A tincture, rarely employed, which is considered as an orange color or bright brown. It is represented by diagonal lines from sinister to dexter, crossed by vertical lines.,
T as in Tennis (n.) A play in which a ball is driven to and fro, or kept in motion by striking it with a racket or with the open hand.,
T as in Tennis (v. t.) To drive backward and forward, as a ball in playing tennis.,
T as in Tennu (n.) The tapir.,
T as in Ten-o'clock (n.) A plant, the star-of-Bethlehem. See under Star.,
T as in Tenon (n.) A projecting member left by cutting away the wood around it, and made to insert into a mortise, and in this way secure together the parts of a frame; especially, such a member when it passes entirely through the thickness of the piece in which the mortise is cut, and shows on the other side. Cf. Tooth, Tusk.,
T as in Tenon (v. t.) To cut or fit for insertion into a mortise, as the end of a piece of timber.,
T as in Tenonian (a.) Discovered or described by M. Tenon, a French anatomist.,
T as in Tenor (n.) A state of holding on in a continuous course; manner of continuity; constant mode; general tendency; course; career.,
T as in Tenor (n.) That course of thought which holds on through a discourse; the general drift or course of thought; purport; intent; meaning; understanding.,
T as in Tenor (n.) Stamp; character; nature.,
T as in Tenor (n.) An exact copy of a writing, set forth in the words and figures of it. It differs from purport, which is only the substance or general import of the instrument.,
T as in Tenor (n.) The higher of the two kinds of voices usually belonging to adult males; hence, the part in the harmony adapted to this voice; the second of the four parts in the scale of sounds, reckoning from the base, and originally the air, to which the other parts were auxillary.,
T as in Tenor (n.) A person who sings the tenor, or the instrument that play it.,
T as in Tenosynovitis (n.) Inflammation of the synovial sheath enveloping a tendon.,
T as in Tenotome (n.) A slender knife for use in the operation of tenotomy.,
T as in Tenotomy (n.) The division of a tendon, or the act of dividing a tendon.,
T as in Tenpenny (a.) Valued or sold at ten pence; as, a tenpenny cake. See 2d Penny, n.,
T as in Tenpenny (a.) Denoting a size of nails. See 1st Penny.,
T as in Tenpins (n.) A game resembling ninepins, but played with ten pins. See Ninepins.,
T as in Ten-pounder (n.) A large oceanic fish (Elops saurus) found in the tropical parts of all the oceans. It is used chiefly for bait.,
T as in Tenrec (n.) A small insectivore (Centetes ecaudatus), native of Madagascar, but introduced also into the islands of Bourbon and Mauritius; -- called also tanrec. The name is applied to other allied genera. See Tendrac.,
T as in Tense (n.) One of the forms which a verb takes by inflection or by adding auxiliary words, so as to indicate the time of the action or event signified; the modification which verbs undergo for the indication of time.,
T as in Tense (a.) Stretched tightly; strained to stiffness; rigid; not lax; as, a tense fiber.,
T as in Tensibility (n.) The quality or state of being tensible; tensility.,
T as in Tensible (a.) Capable of being extended or drawn out; ductile; tensible.,
T as in Tensile (a.) Of or pertaining to extension; as, tensile strength.,
T as in Tensile (a.) Capable of extension; ductile; tensible.,
T as in Tensiled (a.) Made tensile.,
T as in Tensility (n.) The quality or state of being tensile, or capable of extension; tensibility; as, the tensility of the muscles.,
T as in Tension (a.) The act of stretching or straining; the state of being stretched or strained to stiffness; the state of being bent strained; as, the tension of the muscles, tension of the larynx.,
T as in Tension (a.) Fig.: Extreme strain of mind or excitement of feeling; intense effort.,
T as in Tension (a.) The degree of stretching to which a wire, cord, piece of timber, or the like, is strained by drawing it in the direction of its length; strain.,
T as in Tension (a.) The force by which a part is pulled when forming part of any system in equilibrium or in motion; as, the tension of a srting supporting a weight equals that weight.,
T as in Tension (a.) A device for checking the delivery of the thread in a sewing machine, so as to give the stitch the required degree of tightness.,
T as in Tension (a.) Expansive force; the force with which the particles of a body, as a gas, tend to recede from each other and occupy a larger space; elastic force; elasticity; as, the tension of vapor; the tension of air.,
T as in Tension (a.) The quality in consequence of which an electric charge tends to discharge itself, as into the air by a spark, or to pass from a body of greater to one of less electrical potential. It varies as the quantity of electricity upon a given area.,
T as in Tensioned (a.) Extended or drawn out; subjected to tension.,
T as in Tensity (n.) The quality or state of being tense, or strained to stiffness; tension; tenseness.,
T as in Tensive (a.) Giving the sensation of tension, stiffness, or contraction.,
T as in Tensor (n.) A muscle that stretches a part, or renders it tense.,
T as in Tensor (n.) The ratio of one vector to another in length, no regard being had to the direction of the two vectors; -- so called because considered as a stretching factor in changing one vector into another. See Versor.,
T as in Ten-strike (n.) A knocking down of all ten pins at one delivery of the ball.,
T as in Ten-strike (n.) Any quick, decisive stroke or act.,
T as in Tensure (n.) Tension.,
T as in Tent (n.) A kind of wine of a deep red color, chiefly from Galicia or Malaga in Spain; -- called also tent wine, and tinta.,
T as in Tent (n.) Attention; regard, care.,
T as in Tent (n.) Intention; design.,
T as in Tent (v. t.) To attend to; to heed; hence, to guard; to hinder.,
T as in Tent (v. t.) To probe or to search with a tent; to keep open with a tent; as, to tent a wound. Used also figuratively.,
T as in Tent (n.) A roll of lint or linen, or a conical or cylindrical piece of sponge or other absorbent, used chiefly to dilate a natural canal, to keep open the orifice of a wound, or to absorb discharges.,
T as in Tent (n.) A probe for searching a wound.,
T as in Tent (n.) A pavilion or portable lodge consisting of skins, canvas, or some strong cloth, stretched and sustained by poles, -- used for sheltering persons from the weather, especially soldiers in camp.,
T as in Tent (n.) The representation of a tent used as a bearing.,
T as in Tented (imp. & p. p.) of Tent,
T as in Tenting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tent,
T as in Tent (v. i.) To lodge as a tent; to tabernacle.,
T as in Tentacle (n.) A more or less elongated process or organ, simple or branched, proceeding from the head or cephalic region of invertebrate animals, being either an organ of sense, prehension, or motion.,
T as in Tentacled (a.) Having tentacles.,
T as in Tentacular (a.) Of or pertaining to a tentacle or tentacles.,
T as in Tentaculata (n. pl.) A division of Ctenophora including those which have two long tentacles.,
T as in Tentaculate (a.) Alt. of Tentaculated,
T as in Tentaculated (a.) Having tentacles, or organs like tentacles; tentacled.,
T as in Tentaculifera (n. pl.) Same as Suctoria, 1.,
T as in Tentaculiferous (a.) Producing or bearing tentacles.,
T as in Tentaculiform (a.) Shaped like a tentacle.,
T as in Tentaculite (n.) Any one of numerous species of small, conical fossil shells found in Paleozoic rocks. They are supposed to be pteropods.,
T as in Tentaculocyst (n.) One of the auditory organs of certain medusae; -- called also auditory tentacle.,
T as in Tentacula (pl. ) of Tentaculum,
T as in Tentaculum (n.) A tentacle.,
T as in Tentaculum (n.) One of the stiff hairs situated about the mouth, or on the face, of many animals, and supposed to be tactile organs; a tactile hair.,
T as in Tentage (n.) A collection of tents; an encampment.,
T as in Tentation (n.) Trial; temptation.,
T as in Tentation (n.) A mode of adjusting or operating by repeated trials or experiments.,
T as in Tentative (a.) Of or pertaining to a trial or trials; essaying; experimental.,
T as in Tentative (n.) An essay; a trial; an experiment.,
T as in Tented (a.) Covered with tents.,
T as in Tenter (n.) One who takes care of, or tends, machines in a factory; a kind of assistant foreman.,
T as in Tenter (n.) A kind of governor.,
T as in Tenter (n.) A machine or frame for stretching cloth by means of hooks, called tenter-hooks, so that it may dry even and square.,
T as in Tentered (imp. & p. p.) of Tenter,
T as in Tentering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tenter,
T as in Tenter (v. i.) To admit extension.,
T as in Tenter (v. t.) To hang or stretch on, or as on, tenters.,
T as in Tentfuls (pl. ) of Tentful,
T as in Tentful (n.) As much, or as many, as a tent will hold.,
T as in Tenth (a.) Next in order after the ninth; coming after nine others.,
T as in Tenth (a.) Constituting or being one of ten equal parts into which anything is divided.,
T as in Tenth (n.) The next in order after the ninth; one coming after nine others.,
T as in Tenth (n.) The quotient of a unit divided by ten; one of ten equal parts into which anything is divided.,
T as in Tenth (n.) The tenth part of annual produce, income, increase, or the like; a tithe.,
T as in Tenth (n.) The interval between any tone and the tone represented on the tenth degree of the staff above it, as between one of the scale and three of the octave above; the octave of the third.,
T as in Tenth (n.) A temporary aid issuing out of personal property, and granted to the king by Parliament; formerly, the real tenth part of all the movables belonging to the subject.,
T as in Tenth (n.) The tenth part of the annual profit of every living in the kingdom, formerly paid to the pope, but afterward transferred to the crown. It now forms a part of the fund called Queen Anne's Bounty.,
T as in Tenthly (adv.) In a tenth manner.,
T as in Tenthmeter (n.) Alt. of Tenthmetre,
T as in Tenthmetre (n.) A unit for the measurement of many small lengths, such that 1010 of these units make one meter; the ten millionth part of a millimeter.,
T as in Tenthredinides (n. pl.) A group of Hymneoptera comprising the sawflies.,
T as in Tentif (a.) Attentive.,
T as in Tentifly (adv.) Attentively.,
T as in Tentiginous (a.) Stiff; stretched; strained.,
T as in Tentiginous (a.) Lustful, or pertaining to lust.,
T as in Tentmaker (n.) One whose occupation it is to make tents.,
T as in Tentorium (n.) A fold of the dura mater which separates the cerebellum from the cerebrum and often incloses a process or plate of the skull called the bony tentorium.,
T as in Tentory (n.) The awning or covering of a tent.,
T as in Tentwort (n.) A kind of small fern, the wall rue. See under Wall.,
T as in Tenuated (imp. & p. p.) of Tenuate,
T as in Tenuating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tenuate,
T as in Tenuate (v. t.) To make thin; to attenuate.,
T as in Tenuifolious (a.) Having thin or narrow leaves.,
T as in Tenuious (a.) Rare or subtile; tenuous; -- opposed to dense.,
T as in Tenuirosters (pl. ) of Tenuiroster,
T as in Tenuiroster (n.) One of the Tenuirostres.,
T as in Tenuirostral (a.) Thin-billed; -- applied to birds with a slender bill, as the humming birds.,
T as in Tenuirostres (n. pl.) An artificial group of passerine birds having slender bills, as the humming birds.,
T as in Tenues (pl. ) of Tenuis,
T as in Tenuis (n.) One of the three surd mutes /, /, /; -- so called in relation to their respective middle letters, or medials, /, /, /, and their aspirates, /, /, /. The term is also applied to the corresponding letters and articulate elements in other languages.,
T as in Tenuity (n.) The quality or state of being tenuous; thinness, applied to a broad substance; slenderness, applied to anything that is long; as, the tenuity of a leaf; the tenuity of a hair.,
T as in Tenuity (n.) Rarily; rareness; thinness, as of a fluid; as, the tenuity of the air; the tenuity of the blood.,
T as in Tenuity (n.) Poverty; indigence.,
T as in Tenuity (n.) Refinement; delicacy.,
T as in Tenuous (a.) Thin; slender; small; minute.,
T as in Tenuous (a.) Rare; subtile; not dense; -- said of fluids.,
T as in Tenuous (a.) Lacking substance, as a tenuous argument.,
T as in Tenure (n.) The act or right of holding, as property, especially real estate.,
T as in Tenure (n.) The manner of holding lands and tenements of a superior.,
T as in Tenure (n.) The consideration, condition, or service which the occupier of land gives to his lord or superior for the use of his land.,
T as in Tenure (n.) Manner of holding, in general; as, in absolute governments, men hold their rights by a precarious tenure.,
T as in Teocallis (pl. ) of Teocalli,
T as in Teocalli (n.) Literally, God's house; a temple, usually of pyramidal form, such as were built by the aborigines of Mexico, Yucatan, etc.,
T as in Teosinte (n.) A large grass (Euchlaena luxurians) closely related to maize. It is native of Mexico and Central America, but is now cultivated for fodder in the Southern United States and in many warm countries. Called also Guatemala grass.,
T as in Tepal (n.) A division of a perianth.,
T as in Tepee (n.) An Indian wigwam or tent.,
T as in Tepefaction (n.) Act of tepefying.,
T as in Tepefied (imp. & p. p.) of Tepefy,
T as in Tepefying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tepefy,
T as in Tepefy (v. t. & i.) To make or become tepid, or moderately warm.,
T as in Tephramancy (n.) Divination by the ashes of the altar on which a victim had been consumed in sacrifice.,
T as in Tephrite (n.) An igneous rock consisting essentially of plagioclase and either leucite or nephelite, or both.,
T as in Tephroite (n.) A silicate of manganese of an ash-gray color.,
T as in Tephrosia (n.) A genus of leguminous shrubby plants and herbs, mostly found in tropical countries, a few herbaceous species being North American. The foliage is often ashy-pubescent, whence the name.,
T as in Tepid (a.) Moderately warm; lukewarm; as, a tepid bath; tepid rays; tepid vapors.,
T as in Tepidity (n.) The quality or state of being tepid; moderate warmth; lukewarmness; tepidness.,
T as in Tepor (n.) Gentle heat; moderate warmth; tepidness.,
T as in Tequila (n.) An intoxicating liquor made from the maguey in the district of Tequila, Mexico.,
T as in Ter- () A combining form from L. ter signifying three times, thrice. See Tri-, 2.,
T as in Teraconic (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, an acid obtained by the distillation of terebic acid, and homologous with citraconic acid.,
T as in Teracrylic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid of the acrylic series, obtained by the distillation of terpenylic acid, as an only substance having a peculiar cheesy odor.,
T as in Teraphs (pl. ) of Teraph,
T as in Teraph (n.) See Teraphim.,
T as in Teraphim (n. pl.) Images connected with the magical rites used by those Israelites who added corrupt practices to the patriarchal religion. Teraphim were consulted by the Israelites for oracular answers.,
T as in Terapin (n.) See Terrapin.,
T as in Teratical (a.) Wonderful; ominous; prodigious.,
T as in Teratogeny (n.) The formation of monsters.,
T as in Teratoid (a.) Resembling a monster; abnormal; of a pathological growth, exceedingly complex or highly organized.,
T as in Teratological (a.) Of or pertaining to teratology; as, teratological changes.,
T as in Teratology (n.) That branch of biological science which treats of monstrosities, malformations, or deviations from the normal type of structure, either in plants or animals.,
T as in Teratology (n.) Affectation of sublimity; bombast.,
T as in Teratoma (n.) A tumor, sometimes found in newborn children, which is made up of a heterigenous mixture of tissues, as of bone, cartilage and muscle.,
T as in Terbic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or containing, terbium; also, designating certain of its compounds.,
T as in Terbium (n.) A rare metallic element, of uncertain identification, supposed to exist in certain minerals, as gadolinite and samarskite, with other rare ytterbium earth. Symbol Tr or Tb. Atomic weight 150.,
T as in Terce (n.) See Tierce.,
T as in Tercel (n.) See Tiercel. Called also tarsel, tassel.,
T as in Tercelet (n.) A male hawk or eagle; a tiercelet.,
T as in Tercellene (n.) A small male hawk.,
T as in Tercentenary (a.) Including, or relating to, an interval of three hundred years.,
T as in Tercentenary (n.) The three hundredth anniversary of any event; also, a celebration of such an anniversary.,
T as in Tercet (n.) A triplet.,
T as in Tercet (n.) A triplet; a group of three lines.,
T as in Tercine (n.) A cellular layer derived from the nucleus of an ovule and surrounding the embryo sac. Cf. Quintine.,
T as in Terebate (n.) A salt of terebic acid.,
T as in Terebene (n.) A polymeric modification of terpene, obtained as a white crystalline camphorlike substance; -- called also camphene. By extension, any one of a group of related substances.,
T as in Terebenthene (n.) Oil of turpentine. See Turpentine.,
T as in Terebic (a.) Pertaining to, or obtained from, terbenthene (oil of turpentine); specifically, designating an acid, C7H10O4, obtained by the oxidation of terbenthene with nitric acid, as a white crystalline substance.,
T as in Terebilenic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, a complex acid, C7H8O4, obtained as a white crystalline substance by a modified oxidation of terebic acid.,
T as in Terebinth (n.) The turpentine tree.,
T as in Terebinthic (a.) Of or pertaining to turpentine; resembling turpentine; terbinthine; as, terbinthic qualities.,
T as in Terebinthinate (a.) Impregnating with the qualities of turpentine; terbinthine.,
T as in Terebinthine (a.) Of or pertaining to turpentine; consisting of turpentine, or partaking of its qualities.,
T as in Terebras (pl. ) of Terebra,
T as in Terebrae (pl. ) of Terebra,
T as in Terebra (n.) A genus of marine gastropods having a long, tapering spire. They belong to the Toxoglossa. Called also auger shell.,
T as in Terebra (n.) The boring ovipositor of a hymenopterous insect.,
T as in Terebrant (a.) Boring, or adapted for boring; -- said of certain Hymenoptera, as the sawflies.,
T as in Terebrantia (n. pl.) A division of Hymenoptera including those which have an ovipositor adapted for perforating plants. It includes the sawflies.,
T as in Terebrate (v. t.) To perforate; to bore; to pierce.,
T as in Terebrating (a.) Boring; perforating; -- applied to molluskas which form holes in rocks, wood, etc.,
T as in Terebrating (a.) Boring; piercing; -- applied to certain kinds of pain, especially to those of locomotor ataxia.,
T as in Terebration (n.) The act of terebrating, or boring.,
T as in Terebratulae (pl. ) of Terebratula,
T as in Terebratula (n.) A genus of brachiopods which includes many living and some fossil species. The larger valve has a perforated beak, through which projects a short peduncle for attachment. Called also lamp shell.,
T as in Terebratulid (n.) Any species of Terebratula or allied genera. Used also adjectively.,
T as in Terebratuliform (a.) Having the general form of a terebratula shell.,
T as in Teredine (n.) A borer; the teredo.,
T as in Teredos (pl. ) of Teredo,
T as in Teredines (pl. ) of Teredo,
T as in Teredo (n.) A genus of long, slender, wormlike bivalve mollusks which bore into submerged wood, such as the piles of wharves, bottoms of ships, etc.; -- called also shipworm. See Shipworm. See Illust. in App.,
T as in Terephthalate (n.) A salt of terephthalic acid.,
T as in Terephthalic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, a dibasic acid of the aromatic series, metameric with phthalic acid, and obtained, as a tasteless white crystalline powder, by the oxidation of oil of turpentine; -- called also paraphthalic acid. Cf. Phthalic.,
T as in Teret (a.) Round; terete.,
T as in Terete (a.) Cylindrical and slightly tapering; columnar, as some stems of plants.,
T as in Teretial (a.) Rounded; as, the teretial tracts in the floor of the fourth ventricle of the brain of some fishes.,
T as in Teretous (a.) Terete.,
T as in Tergal (a.) Of or pertaining to back, or tergum. See Dorsal.,
T as in Tergant (a.) Showing the back; as, the eagle tergant.,
T as in Tergeminal (a.) Alt. of Tergeminate,
T as in Tergeminate (a.) Thrice twin; having three pairs of leaflets.,
T as in Tergeminous (a.) Threefold; thrice-paired.,
T as in Tergiferous (a.) Carrying or bearing upon the back.,
T as in Tergite (n.) The dorsal portion of an arthromere or somite of an articulate animal. See Illust. under Coleoptera.,
T as in Tergiversate (v. i.) To shift; to practice evasion; to use subterfuges; to shuffle.,
T as in Tergiversation (n.) The act of tergiversating; a shifting; shift; subterfuge; evasion.,
T as in Tergiversation (n.) Fickleness of conduct; inconstancy; change.,
T as in Tergiversator (n.) One who tergiversates; one who suffles, or practices evasion.,
T as in Terga (pl. ) of Tergum,
T as in Tergum (n.) The back of an animal.,
T as in Tergum (n.) The dorsal piece of a somite of an articulate animal.,
T as in Tergum (n.) One of the dorsal plates of the operculum of a cirriped.,
T as in Terin (n.) A small yellow singing bird, with an ash-colored head; the European siskin. Called also tarin.,
T as in Term (n.) That which limits the extent of anything; limit; extremity; bound; boundary.,
T as in Term (n.) The time for which anything lasts; any limited time; as, a term of five years; the term of life.,
T as in Term (n.) In universities, schools, etc., a definite continuous period during which instruction is regularly given to students; as, the school year is divided into three terms.,
T as in Term (n.) A point, line, or superficies, that limits; as, a line is the term of a superficies, and a superficies is the term of a solid.,
T as in Term (n.) A fixed period of time; a prescribed duration,
T as in Term (n.) The limitation of an estate; or rather, the whole time for which an estate is granted, as for the term of a life or lives, or for a term of years.,
T as in Term (n.) A space of time granted to a debtor for discharging his obligation.,
T as in Term (n.) The time in which a court is held or is open for the trial of causes.,
T as in Term (n.) The subject or the predicate of a proposition; one of the three component parts of a syllogism, each one of which is used twice.,
T as in Term (n.) A word or expression; specifically, one that has a precisely limited meaning in certain relations and uses, or is peculiar to a science, art, profession, or the like; as, a technical term.,
T as in Term (n.) A quadrangular pillar, adorned on the top with the figure of a head, as of a man, woman, or satyr; -- called also terminal figure. See Terminus, n., 2 and 3.,
T as in Term (n.) A member of a compound quantity; as, a or b in a + b; ab or cd in ab - cd.,
T as in Term (n.) The menses.,
T as in Term (n.) Propositions or promises, as in contracts, which, when assented to or accepted by another, settle the contract and bind the parties; conditions.,
T as in Term (n.) In Scotland, the time fixed for the payment of rents.,
T as in Term (n.) A piece of carved work placed under each end of the taffrail.,
T as in Termed (imp. & p. p.) of Term,
T as in Terming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Term,
T as in Term (n.) To apply a term to; to name; to call; to denominate.,
T as in Terma (n.) The terminal lamina, or thin ventral part, of the anterior wall of the third ventricle of the brain.,
T as in Termagancy (n.) The quality or state of being termagant; turbulence; tumultuousness; as, a violent termagancy of temper.,
T as in Termagant (n.) An imaginary being supposed by the Christians to be a Mohammedan deity or false god. He is represented in the ancient moralities, farces, and puppet shows as extremely vociferous and tumultous.,
T as in Termagant (n.) A boisterous, brawling, turbulent person; -- formerly applied to both sexes, now only to women.,
T as in Termagant (a.) Tumultuous; turbulent; boisterous; furious; quarrelsome; scolding.,
T as in Termatarium (n.) Any nest or dwelling of termes, or white ants.,
T as in Termatary (n.) Same as Termatarium.,
T as in Termer (n.) One who resorted to London during the law term only, in order to practice tricks, to carry on intrigues, or the like.,
T as in Termer (n.) One who has an estate for a term of years or for life.,
T as in Termites (pl. ) of Termes,
T as in Termes (n.) A genus of Pseudoneuroptera including the white ants, or termites. See Termite.,
T as in Terminable (a.) Capable of being terminated or bounded; limitable.,
T as in Terminal (n.) Of or pertaining to the end or extremity; forming the extremity; as, a terminal edge.,
T as in Terminal (n.) Growing at the end of a branch or stem; terminating; as, a terminal bud, flower, or spike.,
T as in Terminal (n.) That which terminates or ends; termination; extremity.,
T as in Terminal (n.) Either of the ends of the conducting circuit of an electrical apparatus, as an inductorium, dynamo, or electric motor, usually provided with binding screws for the attachment of wires by which a current may be conveyed into or from the machine; a pole.,
T as in Terminalia (n. pl.) A festival celebrated annually by the Romans on February 23 in honor of Terminus, the god of boundaries.,
T as in Terminant (n.) Termination; ending.,
T as in Terminated (imp. & p. p.) of Terminate,
T as in Terminating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Terminate,
T as in Terminate (v. t.) To set a term or limit to; to form the extreme point or side of; to bound; to limit; as, to terminate a surface by a line.,
T as in Terminate (v. t.) To put an end to; to make to cease; as, to terminate an effort, or a controversy.,
T as in Terminate (v. t.) Hence, to put the finishing touch to; to bring to completion; to perfect.,
T as in Terminate (v. i.) To be limited in space by a point, line, or surface; to stop short; to end; to cease; as, the torrid zone terminates at the tropics.,
T as in Terminate (v. i.) To come to a limit in time; to end; to close.,
T as in Termination (n.) The act of terminating, or of limiting or setting bounds; the act of ending or concluding; as, a voluntary termination of hostilities.,
T as in Termination (n.) That which ends or bounds; limit in space or extent; bound; end; as, the termination of a line.,
T as in Termination (n.) End in time or existence; as, the termination of the year, or of life; the termination of happiness.,
T as in Termination (n.) End; conclusion; result.,
T as in Termination (n.) Last purpose of design.,
T as in Termination (n.) A word; a term.,
T as in Termination (n.) The ending of a word; a final syllable or letter; the part added to a stem in inflection.,
T as in Terminational (a.) Of or pertaining to termination; forming a termination.,
T as in Terminative (a.) Tending or serving to terminate; terminating; determining; definitive.,
T as in Terminator (n.) One who, or that which, terminates.,
T as in Terminator (n.) The dividing line between the illuminated and the unilluminated part of the moon.,
T as in Terminatory (a.) Terminative.,
T as in Termine (v. t.) To terminate.,
T as in Terminer (n.) A determining; as, in oyer and terminer. See Oyer.,
T as in Terminism (n.) The doctrine held by the Terminists.,
T as in Terminist (n.) One of a class of theologians who maintain that God has fixed a certain term for the probation of individual persons, during which period, and no longer, they have the offer to grace.,
T as in Terminological (a.) Of or pertaining to terminology.,
T as in Terminology (n.) The doctrine of terms; a theory of terms or appellations; a treatise on terms.,
T as in Terminology (n.) The terms actually used in any business, art, science, or the like; nomenclature; technical terms; as, the terminology of chemistry.,
T as in Termini (pl. ) of Terminus,
T as in Terminus (n.) Literally, a boundary; a border; a limit.,
T as in Terminus (n.) The Roman divinity who presided over boundaries, whose statue was properly a short pillar terminating in the bust of a man, woman, satyr, or the like, but often merely a post or stone stuck in the ground on a boundary line.,
T as in Terminus (n.) Hence, any post or stone marking a boundary; a term. See Term, 8.,
T as in Terminus (n.) Either end of a railroad line; also, the station house, or the town or city, at that place.,
T as in Termites (pl. ) of Termite,
T as in Termite (n.) Any one of numerous species of pseudoneoropterous insects belonging to Termes and allied genera; -- called also white ant. See Illust. of White ant.,
T as in Termless (a.) Having no term or end; unlimited; boundless; unending; as, termless time.,
T as in Termless (a.) Inexpressible; indescribable.,
T as in Termly (a.) Occurring every term; as, a termly fee.,
T as in Termly (adv.) Term by term; every term.,
T as in Termonology (n.) Terminology.,
T as in Termor (n.) Same as Termer, 2.,
T as in Tern (n.) Any one of numerous species of long-winged aquatic birds, allied to the gulls, and belonging to Sterna and various allied genera.,
T as in Tern (a.) Threefold; triple; consisting of three; ternate.,
T as in Tern (a.) That which consists of, or pertains to, three things or numbers together; especially, a prize in a lottery resulting from the favorable combination of three numbers in the drawing; also, the three numbers themselves.,
T as in Ternary (a.) Proceeding by threes; consisting of three; as, the ternary number was anciently esteemed a symbol of perfection, and held in great veneration.,
T as in Ternary (a.) Containing, or consisting of, three different parts, as elements, atoms, groups, or radicals, which are regarded as having different functions or relations in the molecule; thus, sodic hydroxide, NaOH, is a ternary compound.,
T as in Ternaries (pl. ) of Ternary,
T as in Ternary (n.) A ternion; the number three; three things taken together; a triad.,
T as in Ternate (a.) Having the parts arranged by threes; as, ternate branches, leaves, or flowers.,
T as in Terneplate (a.) Thin iron sheets coated with an alloy of lead and tin; -- so called because made up of three metals.,
T as in Ternion (a.) The number three; three things together; a ternary.,
T as in Terpene (n.) Any one of a series of isomeric hydrocarbons of pleasant aromatic odor, occurring especially in coniferous plants and represented by oil of turpentine, but including also certain hydrocarbons found in some essential oils.,
T as in Terpentic (a.) Terpenylic.,
T as in Terpenylic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid, C8H12O4 (called also terpentic acid), homologous with terebic acid, and obtained as a white crystalline substance by the oxidation of oil of turpentine with chromic acid.,
T as in Terpilene (n.) A polymeric form of terpene, resembling terbene.,
T as in Terpin (n.) A white crystalline substance regarded as a hydrate of oil of turpentine.,
T as in Terpinol (n.) Any oil substance having a hyacinthine odor, obtained by the action of acids on terpin, and regarded as a related hydrate.,
T as in Terpsichore (n.) The Muse who presided over the choral song and the dance, especially the latter.,
T as in Terpsichorean (a.) Of or pertaining to Terpsichore; of or pertaining to dancing.,
T as in Terra (n.) The earth; earth.,
T as in Terrace (v.) A raised level space, shelf, or platform of earth, supported on one or more sides by a wall, a bank of tuft, or the like, whether designed for use or pleasure.,
T as in Terrace (v.) A balcony, especially a large and uncovered one.,
T as in Terrace (v.) A flat roof to a house; as, the buildings of the Oriental nations are covered with terraces.,
T as in Terrace (v.) A street, or a row of houses, on a bank or the side of a hill; hence, any street, or row of houses.,
T as in Terrace (v.) A level plain, usually with a steep front, bordering a river, a lake, or sometimes the sea.,
T as in Terraced (imp. & p. p.) of Terrace,
T as in Terracing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Terrace,
T as in Terrace (v. t.) To form into a terrace or terraces; to furnish with a terrace or terraces, as, to terrace a garden, or a building.,
T as in Terraculture (n.) Cultivation on the earth; agriculture.,
T as in Terrane (n.) A group of rocks having a common age or origin; -- nearly equivalent to formation, but used somewhat less comprehensively.,
T as in Terrapin (n.) Any one of numerous species of tortoises living in fresh and brackish waters. Many of them are valued for food.,
T as in Terraqueous (a.) Consisting of land and water; as, the earth is a terraqueous globe.,
T as in Terrar (n.) See 2d Terrier, 2.,
T as in Terras (n.) See /rass.,
T as in Terreen (n.) See Turren.,
T as in Terreity (n.) Quality of being earthy; earthiness.,
T as in Terrel (n.) A spherical magnet so placed that its poles, equator, etc., correspond to those of the earth.,
T as in Terremote (n.) An earthquake.,
T as in Terrene (n.) A tureen.,
T as in Terrene (a.) Of or pertaining to the earth; earthy; as, terrene substance.,
T as in Terrene (a.) Earthy; terrestrial.,
T as in Terrene (n.) The earth's surface; the earth.,
T as in Terrene (n.) The surface of the ground.,
T as in Terrenity (n.) Earthiness; worldliness.,
T as in Terreous (a.) Consisting of earth; earthy; as, terreous substances; terreous particles.,
T as in Terreplein (n.) The top, platform, or horizontal surface, of a rampart, on which the cannon are placed. See Illust. of Casemate.,
T as in Terrestre (a.) Terrestrial; earthly.,
T as in Terrestrial (a.) Of or pertaining to the earth; existing on the earth; earthly; as, terrestrial animals.,
T as in Terrestrial (a.) Representing, or consisting of, the earth; as, a terrestrial globe.,
T as in Terrestrial (a.) Of or pertaining to the world, or to the present state; sublunary; mundane.,
T as in Terrestrial (a.) Consisting of land, in distinction from water; belonging to, or inhabiting, the land or ground, in distinction from trees, water, or the like; as, terrestrial serpents.,
T as in Terrestrial (a.) Adapted for the observation of objects on land and on the earth; as, a terrestrial telescope, in distinction from an astronomical telescope.,
T as in Terrestrial (n.) An inhabitant of the earth.,
T as in Terrestrify (v. t.) To convert or reduce into a condition like that of the earth; to make earthy.,
T as in Terrestrious (a.) Terrestrial.,
T as in Terret (n.) One of the rings on the top of the saddle of a harness, through which the reins pass.,
T as in Terre-tenant (n.) One who has the actual possession of land; the occupant.,
T as in Terre-verte (n.) An olive-green earth used as a pigment. See Glauconite.,
T as in Terrible (a.) Adapted or likely to excite terror, awe, or dread; dreadful; formidable.,
T as in Terrible (a.) Excessive; extreme; severe.,
T as in Terricolae (n. pl.) A division of annelids including the common earthworms and allied species.,
T as in Terrienniak (n.) The arctic fox.,
T as in Terrier (n.) An auger or borer.,
T as in Terrier (n.) One of a breed of small dogs, which includes several distinct subbreeds, some of which, such as the Skye terrier and Yorkshire terrier, have long hair and drooping ears, while others, at the English and the black-and-tan terriers, have short, close, smooth hair and upright ears.,
T as in Terrier (n.) Formerly, a collection of acknowledgments of the vassals or tenants of a lordship, containing the rents and services they owed to the lord, and the like.,
T as in Terrier (n.) In modern usage, a book or roll in which the lands of private persons or corporations are described by their site, boundaries, number of acres, or the like.,
T as in Terrific (a.) Causing terror; adapted to excite great fear or dread; terrible; as, a terrific form; a terrific sight.,
T as in Terrifical (a.) Terrific.,
T as in Terrifically (adv.) In a terrific manner.,
T as in Terrified (imp. & p. p.) of Terrify,
T as in Terrifying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Terrify,
T as in Terrify (v. t.) To make terrible.,
T as in Terrify (v. t.) To alarm or shock with fear; to frighten.,
T as in Terrigenous (a.) Earthborn; produced by the earth.,
T as in Territorial (a.) Of or pertaining to territory or land; as, territorial limits; territorial jurisdiction.,
T as in Territorial (a.) Limited to a certain district; as, right may be personal or territorial.,
T as in Territorial (a.) Of or pertaining to all or any of the Territories of the United States, or to any district similarly organized elsewhere; as, Territorial governments.,
T as in Territorialized (imp. & p. p.) of Territorialize,
T as in Territorializing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Territorialize,
T as in Territorialize (v. t.) To enlarge by extension of territory.,
T as in Territorialize (v. t.) To reduce to the condition of a territory.,
T as in Territorially (adv.) In regard to territory; by means of territory.,
T as in Territoried (a.) Possessed of territory.,
T as in Territories (pl. ) of Territory,
T as in Territory (n.) A large extent or tract of land; a region; a country; a district.,
T as in Territory (n.) The extent of land belonging to, or under the dominion of, a prince, state, or other form of government; often, a tract of land lying at a distance from the parent country or from the seat of government; as, the territory of a State; the territories of the East India Company.,
T as in Territory (n.) In the United States, a portion of the country not included within the limits of any State, and not yet admitted as a State into the Union, but organized with a separate legislature, under a Territorial governor and other officers appointed by the President and Senate of the United States. In Canada, a similarly organized portion of the country not yet formed into a Province.,
T as in Terror (n.) Extreme fear; fear that agitates body and mind; violent dread; fright.,
T as in Terror (n.) That which excites dread; a cause of extreme fear.,
T as in Terrorism (n.) The act of terrorizing, or state of being terrorized; a mode of government by terror or intimidation.,
T as in Terrorism (n.) The practise of coercing governments to accede to political demands by committing violence on civilian targets; any similar use of violence to achieve goals.,
T as in Terrorist (n.) One who governs by terrorism or intimidation; specifically, an agent or partisan of the revolutionary tribunal during the Reign of Terror in France.,
T as in Terrorize (v. t.) To impress with terror; to coerce by intimidation.,
T as in Terrorless (a.) Free from terror.,
T as in Terry (n.) A kind of heavy colored fabric, either all silk, or silk and worsted, or silk and cotton, often called terry velvet, used for upholstery and trimmings.,
T as in Tersanctus (n.) An ancient ascription of praise (containing the word "Holy" -- in its Latin form, "Sanctus" -- thrice repeated), used in the Mass of the Roman Catholic Church and before the prayer of consecration in the communion service of the Church of England and the Protestant Episcopal Church. Cf. Trisagion.,
T as in Terse (superl.) Appearing as if rubbed or wiped off; rubbed; smooth; polished.,
T as in Terse (superl.) Refined; accomplished; -- said of persons.,
T as in Terse (superl.) Elegantly concise; free of superfluous words; polished to smoothness; as, terse language; a terse style.,
T as in Tersulphide (n.) A trisulphide.,
T as in Tersulphuret (n.) A trisulphide.,
T as in Ter-tenant (n.) See Terre-tenant.,
T as in Tertial (a. & n.) Same as Tertiary.,
T as in Tertian (a.) Occurring every third day; as, a tertian fever.,
T as in Tertian (n.) A disease, especially an intermittent fever, which returns every third day, reckoning inclusively, or in which the intermission lasts one day.,
T as in Tertian (n.) A liquid measure formerly used for wine, equal to seventy imperial, or eighty-four wine, gallons, being one third of a tun.,
T as in Tertiary (a.) Being of the third formation, order, or rank; third; as, a tertiary use of a word.,
T as in Tertiary (a.) Possessing some quality in the third degree; having been subjected to the substitution of three atoms or radicals; as, a tertiary alcohol, amine, or salt. Cf. Primary, and Secondary.,
T as in Tertiary (a.) Later than, or subsequent to, the Secondary.,
T as in Tertiary (a.) Growing on the innermost joint of a bird's wing; tertial; -- said of quills.,
T as in Tertiaries (pl. ) of Tertiary,
T as in Tertiary (n.) A member of the Third Order in any monastic system; as, the Franciscan tertiaries; the Dominican tertiaries; the Carmelite tertiaries. See Third Order, under Third.,
T as in Tertiary (n.) The Tertiary era, period, or formation.,
T as in Tertiary (n.) One of the quill feathers which are borne upon the basal joint of the wing of a bird. See Illust. of Bird.,
T as in Tertiate (v. t.) To do or perform for the third time.,
T as in Tertiate (v. t.) To examine, as the thickness of the metal at the muzzle of a gun; or, in general, to examine the thickness of, as ordnance, in order to ascertain its strength.,
T as in Terutero (n.) The South American lapwing (Vanellus Cayennensis). Its wings are furnished with short spurs. Called also Cayenne lapwing.,
T as in Terza rima () A peculiar and complicated system of versification, borrowed by the early Italian poets from the Troubadours.,
T as in Terzetto (n.) A composition in three voice parts; a vocal (rarely an instrumental) trio.,
T as in Tesselar (a.) Formed of tesserae, as a mosaic.,
T as in Tessellata (n. pl.) A division of Crinoidea including numerous fossil species in which the body is covered with tessellated plates.,
T as in Tessellated (imp. & p. p.) of Tessellate,
T as in Tessellating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tessellate,
T as in Tessellate (v. t.) To form into squares or checkers; to lay with checkered work.,
T as in Tessellate (a.) Tessellated.,
T as in Tessellated (a.) Formed of little squares, as mosaic work; checkered; as, a tessellated pavement.,
T as in Tessellated (a.) Marked like a checkerboard; as, a tessellated leaf.,
T as in Tessellation (n.) The act of tessellating; also, the mosaic work so formed.,
T as in Tesserae (pl. ) of Tessera,
T as in Tessera (n.) A small piece of marble, glass, earthenware, or the like, having a square, or nearly square, face, used by the ancients for mosaic, as for making pavements, for ornamenting walls, and like purposes; also, a similar piece of ivory, bone, wood, etc., used as a ticket of admission to theaters, or as a certificate for successful gladiators, and as a token for various other purposes.,
T as in Tesseraic (a.) Diversified by squares; done in mosaic; tessellated.,
T as in Tesseral (a.) Of, pertaining to, or containing, tesserae.,
T as in Tesseral (a.) Isometric.,
T as in Tessular (a.) Tesseral.,
T as in Test (n.) A cupel or cupelling hearth in which precious metals are melted for trial and refinement.,
T as in Test (n.) Examination or trial by the cupel; hence, any critical examination or decisive trial; as, to put a man's assertions to a test.,
T as in Test (n.) Means of trial; as, absence is a test of love.,
T as in Test (n.) That with which anything is compared for proof of its genuineness; a touchstone; a standard.,
T as in Test (n.) Discriminative characteristic; standard of judgment; ground of admission or exclusion.,
T as in Test (n.) Judgment; distinction; discrimination.,
T as in Test (n.) A reaction employed to recognize or distinguish any particular substance or constituent of a compound, as the production of some characteristic precipitate; also, the reagent employed to produce such reaction; thus, the ordinary test for sulphuric acid is the production of a white insoluble precipitate of barium sulphate by means of some soluble barium salt.,
T as in Tested (imp. & p. p.) of Test,
T as in Testing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Test,
T as in Test (v. t.) To refine, as gold or silver, in a test, or cupel; to subject to cupellation.,
T as in Test (v. t.) To put to the proof; to prove the truth, genuineness, or quality of by experiment, or by some principle or standard; to try; as, to test the soundness of a principle; to test the validity of an argument.,
T as in Test (v. t.) To examine or try, as by the use of some reagent; as, to test a solution by litmus paper.,
T as in Test (n.) A witness.,
T as in Test (v. i.) To make a testament, or will.,
T as in Tests (pl. ) of Testa,
T as in Testae (pl. ) of Testa,
T as in Test (n.) Alt. of Testa,
T as in Testa (n.) The external hard or firm covering of many invertebrate animals.,
T as in Testa (n.) The outer integument of a seed; the episperm, or spermoderm.,
T as in Testable (a.) Capable of being tested or proved.,
T as in Testable (a.) Capable of being devised, or given by will.,
T as in Testacea (n. pl.) Invertebrate animals covered with shells, especially mollusks; shellfish.,
T as in Testacean (n.) Onr of the Testacea.,
T as in Testaceography (n.) The science which treats of testaceans, or shellfish; the description of shellfish.,
T as in Testaceology (n.) The science of testaceous mollusks; conchology.,
T as in Testaceous (a.) Of or pertaining to shells; consisted of a hard shell, or having a hard shell.,
T as in Testaceous (a.) Having a dull red brick color or a brownish yellow color.,
T as in Testacy (n.) The state or circumstance of being testate, or of leaving a valid will, or testament, at death.,
T as in Testament (n.) A solemn, authentic instrument in writing, by which a person declares his will as to disposal of his estate and effects after his death.,
T as in Testament (n.) One of the two distinct revelations of God's purposes toward man; a covenant; also, one of the two general divisions of the canonical books of the sacred Scriptures, in which the covenants are respectively revealed; as, the Old Testament; the New Testament; -- often limited, in colloquial language, to the latter.,
T as in Testamental (a.) Of or pertaining to a testament; testamentary.,
T as in Testamentary (a.) Of or pertaining to a will, or testament; as, letters testamentary.,
T as in Testamentary (a.) Bequeathed by will; given by testament.,
T as in Testamentary (a.) Done, appointed by, or founded on, a testament, or will; as, a testamentary guardian of a minor, who may be appointed by the will of a father to act in that capacity until the child becomes of age.,
T as in Testamentation (n.) The act or power of giving by testament, or will.,
T as in Testamentize (v. i.) To make a will.,
T as in Testamur (n.) A certificate of merit or proficiency; -- so called from the Latin words, Ita testamur, with which it commences.,
T as in Testate (a.) Having made and left a will; as, a person is said to die testate.,
T as in Testate (n.) One who leaves a valid will at death; a testate person.,
T as in Testation (n.) A witnessing or witness.,
T as in Testator (n.) A man who makes and leaves a will, or testament, at death.,
T as in Testatrix (n.) A woman who makes and leaves a will at death; a female testator.,
T as in Teste (n.) A witness.,
T as in Teste (n.) The witnessing or concluding clause, duty attached; -- said of a writ, deed, or the like.,
T as in Tester (n.) A headpiece; a helmet.,
T as in Tester (n.) A flat canopy, as over a pulpit or tomb.,
T as in Tester (n.) A canopy over a bed, supported by the bedposts.,
T as in Tester (n.) An old French silver coin, originally of the value of about eighteen pence, subsequently reduced to ninepence, and later to sixpence, sterling. Hence, in modern English slang, a sixpence; -- often contracted to tizzy. Called also teston.,
T as in Testern (n.) A sixpence; a tester.,
T as in Testern (v. t.) To present with a tester.,
T as in Testes (n.) pl. of Teste, or of Testis.,
T as in Testicardines (n. pl.) A division of brachiopods including those which have a calcareous shell furnished with a hinge and hinge teeth. Terebratula and Spirifer are examples.,
T as in Testicle (n.) One of the essential male genital glands which secrete the semen.,
T as in Testicond (a.) Having the testicles naturally concealed, as in the case of the cetaceans.,
T as in Testicular (a.) Of or pertaining to the testicle.,
T as in Testiculate (a.) Shaped like a testicle, ovate and solid.,
T as in Testiculate (a.) Having two tubers resembling testicles in form, as some species of orchis.,
T as in Testiere (n.) A piece of plate armor for the head of a war horse; a tester.,
T as in Testif (a.) Testy; headstrong; obstinate.,
T as in Testification (n.) The act of testifying, or giving testimony or evidence; as, a direct testification of our homage to God.,
T as in Testificator (n.) A testifier.,
T as in Testifier (n.) One who testifies; one who gives testimony, or bears witness to prove anything; a witness.,
T as in Testified (imp. & p. p.) of Testify,
T as in Testifying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Testify,
T as in Testify (v. i.) To make a solemn declaration, verbal or written, to establish some fact; to give testimony for the purpose of communicating to others a knowledge of something not known to them.,
T as in Testify (v. i.) To make a solemn declaration under oath or affirmation, for the purpose of establishing, or making proof of, some fact to a court; to give testimony in a cause depending before a tribunal.,
T as in Testify (v. i.) To declare a charge; to protest; to give information; to bear witness; -- with against.,
T as in Testify (v. t.) To bear witness to; to support the truth of by testimony; to affirm or declare solemny.,
T as in Testify (v. t.) To affirm or declare under oath or affirmation before a tribunal, in order to prove some fact.,
T as in Testify (adv.) In a testy manner; fretfully; peevishly; with petulance.,
T as in Testimonial (a.) A writing or certificate which bears testimony in favor of one's character, good conduct, ability, etc., or of the value of a thing.,
T as in Testimonial (a.) Something, as money or plate, presented to a preson as a token of respect, or of obligation for services rendered.,
T as in Testimonial (a.) Relating to, or containing, testimony.,
T as in Testimonies (pl. ) of Testimony,
T as in Testimony (n.) A solemn declaration or affirmation made for the purpose of establishing or proving some fact.,
T as in Testimony (n.) Affirmation; declaration; as, these doctrines are supported by the uniform testimony of the fathers; the belief of past facts must depend on the evidence of human testimony, or the testimony of historians.,
T as in Testimony (n.) Open attestation; profession.,
T as in Testimony (n.) Witness; evidence; proof of some fact.,
T as in Testimony (n.) The two tables of the law.,
T as in Testimony (n.) Hence, the whole divine revelation; the sacre/ Scriptures.,
T as in Testimony (v. t.) To witness; to attest; to prove by testimony.,
T as in Testiness (n.) The quality or state of being testy; fretfulness; petulance.,
T as in Testing (n.) The act of testing or proving; trial; proof.,
T as in Testing (n.) The operation of refining gold or silver in a test, or cupel; cupellation.,
T as in Testes (pl. ) of Testis,
T as in Testis (n.) A testicle.,
T as in Teston (n.) A tester; a sixpence.,
T as in Testone (n.) A silver coin of Portugal, worth about sixpence sterling, or about eleven cents.,
T as in Testoon (n.) An Italian silver coin. The testoon of Rome is worth 1s. 3d. sterling, or about thirty cents.,
T as in Testudinal (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a tortoise.,
T as in Testudinarious (a.) Of or pertaining to the shell of a tortoise; resembling a tortoise shell; having the color or markings of a tortoise shell.,
T as in Testudinata (n. pl.) An order of reptiles which includes the turtles and tortoises. The body is covered by a shell consisting of an upper or dorsal shell, called the carapace, and a lower or ventral shell, called the plastron, each of which consists of several plates.,
T as in Testudinate (a.) Alt. of Testudinated,
T as in Testudinated (a.) Resembling a tortoise shell in appearance or structure; roofed; arched; vaulted.,
T as in Testudineous (a.) Resembling the shell of a tortoise.,
T as in Testudines (pl. ) of Testudo,
T as in Testudo (n.) A genus of tortoises which formerly included a large number of diverse forms, but is now restricted to certain terrestrial species, such as the European land tortoise (Testudo Graeca) and the gopher of the Southern United States.,
T as in Testudo (n.) A cover or screen which a body of troops formed with their shields or targets, by holding them over their heads when standing close to each other. This cover resembled the back of a tortoise, and served to shelter the men from darts, stones, and other missiles. A similar defense was sometimes formed of boards, and moved on wheels.,
T as in Testudo (n.) A kind of musical instrument. a species of lyre; -- so called in allusion to the lyre of Mercury, fabled to have been made of the shell of a tortoise.,
T as in Testy (superl.) Fretful; peevish; petulant; easily irritated.,
T as in Tetanic (a.) Of or pertaining to tetanus; having the character of tetanus; as, a tetanic state; tetanic contraction.,
T as in Tetanic (a.) Producing, or tending to produce, tetanus, or tonic contraction of the muscles; as, a tetanic remedy. See Tetanic, n.,
T as in Tetanic (n.) A substance (notably nux vomica, strychnine, and brucine) which, either as a remedy or a poison, acts primarily on the spinal cord, and which, when taken in comparatively large quantity, produces tetanic spasms or convulsions.,
T as in Tetanin (n.) A poisonous base (ptomaine) formed in meat broth through the agency of a peculiar microbe from the wound of a person who has died of tetanus; -- so called because it produces tetanus as one of its prominent effects.,
T as in Tetanization (n.) The production or condition of tetanus.,
T as in Tetanize (v. t.) To throw, as a muscle, into a state of permanent contraction; to cause tetanus in. See Tetanus, n., 2.,
T as in Tetanoid (a.) Resembling tetanus.,
T as in Tetanomotor (n.) An instrument from tetanizing a muscle by irritating its nerve by successive mechanical shocks.,
T as in Tetanus (n.) A painful and usually fatal disease, resulting generally from a wound, and having as its principal symptom persistent spasm of the voluntary muscles. When the muscles of the lower jaw are affected, it is called locked-jaw, or lickjaw, and it takes various names from the various incurvations of the body resulting from the spasm.,
T as in Tetanus (n.) That condition of a muscle in which it is in a state of continued vibratory contraction, as when stimulated by a series of induction shocks.,
T as in Tetany (n.) A morbid condition resembling tetanus, but distinguished from it by being less severe and having intermittent spasms.,
T as in Tetard (n.) A gobioid fish (Eleotris gyrinus) of the Southern United States; -- called also sleeper.,
T as in Tetartohedral (a.) Having one fourth the number of planes which are requisite to complete symmetry.,
T as in Tetartohedrism (n.) The property of being tetartohedral.,
T as in Tetaug (n.) See Tautog.,
T as in Tetchiness (n.) See Techiness.,
T as in Tetchy (a.) See Techy.,
T as in Tete (n.) A kind of wig; false hair.,
T as in Tete-a-tete (n.) Private conversation; familiar interview or conference of two persons.,
T as in Tete-a-tete (n.) A short sofa intended to accomodate two persons.,
T as in Tete-a-tete (a.) Private; confidential; familiar.,
T as in Tete-a-tete (adv.) Face to face; privately or confidentially; familiarly.,
T as in Tetes-de-pont (pl. ) of Tete-de-pont,
T as in Tete-de-pont (n.) A work thrown up at the end of a bridge nearest the enemy, for covering the communications across a river; a bridgehead.,
T as in Tetel (n.) A large African antelope (Alcelaphus tora). It has widely divergent, strongly ringed horns.,
T as in Tether (n.) A long rope or chain by which an animal is fastened, as to a stake, so that it can range or feed only within certain limits.,
T as in Tethered (imp. & p. p.) of Tether,
T as in Tethering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tether,
T as in Tether (v. t.) To confine, as an animal, with a long rope or chain, as for feeding within certain limits.,
T as in Tethydan (n.) A tunicate.,
T as in Tethyodea (n. pl.) A division of Tunicata including the common attached ascidians, both simple and compound. Called also Tethioidea.,
T as in Tethys (n.) A genus of a large naked mollusks having a very large, broad, fringed cephalic disk, and branched dorsal gills. Some of the species become a foot long and are brilliantly colored.,
T as in Tetra- () A combining form or prefix signifying four, as in tetrabasic, tetrapetalous.,
T as in Tetra- () A combining form (also used adjectively) denoting four proportional or combining parts of the substance or ingredient denoted by the term to which it is prefixed, as in tetra-chloride, tetroxide.,
T as in Tetrabasic (a.) Capable of neutralizing four molecules of a monacid base; having four hydrogen atoms capable of replacement by bases; quadribasic; -- said of certain acids; thus, normal silicic acid, Si(OH)4, is a tetrabasic acid.,
T as in Tetraboric (a.) Same as Pyroboric.,
T as in Tetrabranchiata (n. pl.) An order of Cephalopoda having four gills. Among living species it includes only the pearly nautilus. Numerous genera and species are found in the fossil state, such as Ammonites, Baculites, Orthoceras, etc.,
T as in Tetrabranchiate (a.) Of or pertaining to the Tetrabranchiata.,
T as in Tetrabranchiate (n.) One of the Tetrabranchiata.,
T as in Tetracarpel (a.) Composed of four carpels.,
T as in Tetrachord (n.) A scale series of four sounds, of which the extremes, or first and last, constituted a fourth. These extremes were immutable; the two middle sounds were changeable.,
T as in Tetrachotomous (a.) Having a division by fours; separated into four parts or series, or into series of fours.,
T as in Tetracid (a.) Capable of neutralizing four molecules of a monobasic acid; having four hydrogen atoms capable of replacement ba acids or acid atoms; -- said of certain bases; thus, erythrine, C4H6(OH)4, is a tetracid alcohol.,
T as in Tetracoccous (a.) Having four cocci, or carpels.,
T as in Tetracolon (n.) A stanza or division in lyric poetry, consisting of four verses or lines.,
T as in Tetracoralla (n. pl.) Same as Rugosa.,
T as in Tetractinellid (n.) Any species of sponge of the division Tetractinellida. Also used adjectively.,
T as in Tetractinellida (n. pl.) A division of Spongiae in which the spicules are siliceous and have four branches diverging at right angles. Called also Tetractinellinae.,
T as in Tetrad (n.) The number four; a collection of four things; a quaternion.,
T as in Tetrad (n.) A tetravalent or quadrivalent atom or radical; as, carbon is a tetrad.,
T as in Tetradactyl (a.) Alt. of Tetradactyle,
T as in Tetradactyle (a.) Tetradactylous.,
T as in Tetradactylous (a.) Having, or characterized by, four digits to the foot or hand.,
T as in Tetradecane (n.) A light oily hydrocarbon, C14H30, of the marsh-gas series; -- so called from the fourteen carbon atoms in the molecule.,
T as in Tetradecapoda (n. pl.) Same as Arthrostraca.,
T as in Tetradic (a.) Of or pertaining to a tetrad; possessing or having the characteristics of a tetrad; as, a carbon is a tetradic element.,
T as in Tetradite (n.) A person in some way remarkable with regard to the number four, as one born on the fourth day of the month, or one who reverenced four persons in the Godhead.,
T as in Tetradon (n.) See Tetrodon.,
T as in Tetradont (a. & n.) See Tetrodont.,
T as in Tetradrachm (n.) Alt. of Tetradrachma,
T as in Tetradrachma (n.) A silver coin among the ancient Greeks, of the value of four drachms.,
T as in Tetradymite (n.) A telluride of bismuth. It is of a pale steel-gray color and metallic luster, and usually occurs in foliated masses. Called also telluric bismuth.,
T as in Tetradynamia (n. pl.) A Linnaean class of plants having six stamens, four of which are longer than the others.,
T as in Tetradynamian (n.) A plant of the order Tetradynamia.,
T as in Tetradynamian (a.) Alt. of Tetradynamous,
T as in Tetradynamous (a.) Belonging to the order Tetradynamia; having six stamens, four of which are uniformly longer than the others.,
T as in Tetragon (n.) A plane figure having four sides and angles; a quadrangle, as a square, a rhombus, etc.,
T as in Tetragon (n.) An aspect of two planets with regard to the earth when they are distant from each other ninety degrees, or the fourth of a circle.,
T as in Tetragonal (a.) Of or pertaining to a tetragon; having four angles or sides; thus, the square, the parallelogram, the rhombus, and the trapezium are tetragonal fingers.,
T as in Tetragonal (a.) Having four prominent longitudinal angles.,
T as in Tetragonal (a.) Designating, or belonging to, a certain system of crystallization; dimetric. See Tetragonal system, under Crystallization.,
T as in Tetragrammaton (n.) The mystic number four, which was often symbolized to represent the Deity, whose name was expressed by four letters among some ancient nations; as, the Hebrew JeHoVaH, Greek qeo`s, Latin deus, etc.,
T as in Tetragynia (n. pl.) A Linnaean order of plants having four styles.,
T as in Tetragynian (a.) Alt. of Tetragynous,
T as in Tetragynous (a.) Belonging to the order Tetragynia; having four styles.,
T as in Tetrahedral (a.) Having, or composed of, four sides.,
T as in Tetrahedral (a.) Having the form of the regular tetrahedron.,
T as in Tetrahedral (a.) Pertaining or related to a tetrahedron, or to the system of hemihedral forms to which the tetrahedron belongs.,
T as in Tetrahedrally (adv.) In a tetrahedral manner.,
T as in Tetrahedrite (n.) A sulphide of antimony and copper, with small quantities of other metals. It is a very common ore of copper, and some varieties yield a considerable presentage of silver. Called also gray copper ore, fahlore, and panabase.,
T as in Tetrahedron (n.) A solid figure inclosed or bounded by four triangles.,
T as in Tetrahexahedral (a.) Pertaining to a tetrahexahedron.,
T as in Tetrahexahedron (n.) A solid in the isometric system, bounded by twenty-four equal triangular faces, four corresponding to each face of the cube.,
T as in Tetrakishexahedron (n.) A tetrahexahedron.,
T as in Tetrakosane (n.) A hydrocarbon, C24H50, resembling paraffin, and like it belonging to the marsh-gas series; -- so called from having twenty-four atoms of carbon in the molecule.,
T as in Tetralogy (n.) A group or series of four dramatic pieces, three tragedies and one satyric, or comic, piece (or sometimes four tragedies), represented consequently on the Attic stage at the Dionysiac festival.,
T as in Tetramera (n. pl.) A division of Coleoptera having, apparently, only four tarsal joints, one joint being rudimentary.,
T as in Tetramerous (a.) Having the parts arranged in sets of four; as, a tetramerous flower.,
T as in Tetramerous (a.) Having four joints in each of the tarsi; -- said of certain insects.,
T as in Tetrameter (n.) A verse or line consisting of four measures, that is, in iambic, trochaic, and anapestic verse, of eight feet; in other kinds of verse, of four feet.,
T as in Tetramethylene (n.) A hypothetical hydrocarbon, C4H8, analogous to trimethylene, and regarded as the base of well-known series or derivatives.,
T as in Tetramethylene (n.) Sometimes, an isomeric radical used to designate certain compounds which are really related to butylene.,
T as in Tetramorph (n.) The union of the four attributes of the Evangelists in one figure, which is represented as winged, and standing on winged fiery wheels, the wings being covered with eyes. The representations of it are evidently suggested by the vision of Ezekiel (ch. i.),
T as in Tetrandria (n. pl.) A Linnaean class of plants having four stamens.,
T as in Tetrandrian (a.) Alt. of Tetrandrous,
T as in Tetrandrous (a.) Belonging to the class Tetrandria.,
T as in Tetraonid (n.) A bird belonging to the tribe of which the genus Tetrao is the type, as the grouse, partridge, quail, and the like. Used also adjectively.,
T as in Tetrapetalous (a.) Containing four distinct petals, or flower leaves; as, a tetrapetalous corolla.,
T as in Tetrapharmacom (n.) Alt. of Tetrapharmacum,
T as in Tetrapharmacum (n.) A combination of wax, resin, lard, and pitch, composing an ointment.,
T as in Tetraphenol (n.) Furfuran.,
T as in Tetraphyllous (a.) Having four leaves; consisting of four distinct leaves or leaflets.,
T as in Tetrapla (sing.) A Bible consisting of four different Greek versions arranged in four columns by Origen; hence, any version in four languages or four columns.,
T as in Tetraneumona (n. pl.) A division of Arachnida including those spiders which have four lungs, or pulmonary sacs. It includes the bird spiders (Mygale) and the trapdoor spiders. See Mygale.,
T as in Tetrapnuemonian (n.) One of the Tetrapneumona.,
T as in Tetrapod (n.) An insect characterized by having but four perfect legs, as certain of the butterflies.,
T as in Tetrapody (n.) A set of four feet; a measure or distance of four feet.,
T as in Tetrapteran (n.) An insect having four wings.,
T as in Tetrapterous (a.) Having four wings.,
T as in Tetraptote (n.) A noun that has four cases only.,
T as in Tetrarch (a.) A Roman governor of the fourth part of a province; hence, any subordinate or dependent prince; also, a petty king or sovereign.,
T as in Tetrarch (a.) Four.,
T as in Tetrarchate (n.) A tetrarchy.,
T as in Tetrarchical (a.) Of or pertaining to a tetrarch or tetrarchy.,
T as in Tetrarchies (pl. ) of Tetrarchy,
T as in Tetrarchy (n.) The district under a Roman tetrarch; the office or jurisdiction of a tetrarch; a tetrarchate.,
T as in Tetraschistic (a.) Characterized by division into four parts.,
T as in Tetrasepalous (a.) Having four sepals.,
T as in Tetraspaston (n.) A machine in which four pulleys act together.,
T as in Tetraspermous (a.) Having four seeds.,
T as in Tetraspore (n.) A nonsexual spore, one of a group of four regularly occurring in red seaweeds.,
T as in Tetrastich (n.) A stanza, epigram, or poem, consisting of four verses or lines.,
T as in Tetrastyle (a.) Having four columns in front; -- said of a temple, portico, or colonnade.,
T as in Tetrastyle (n.) A tetrastyle building.,
T as in Tetrasyllabic (a.) Alt. of Tetrasyllabical,
T as in Tetrasyllabical (a.) Consisting of, or having, four syllables; quadrisyllabic.,
T as in Terrasyllable (n.) A word consisting of four syllables; a quadrisyllable.,
T as in Tetrathecal (a.) Having four loculaments, or thecae.,
T as in Tetrathionate (n.) A salt of tetrathionic acid.,
T as in Tetrathionic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, a thionic derivative, H/S/O/, of sulphuric acid, obtained as a colorless, odorless liquid.,
T as in Tetratomic (a.) Consisting of four atoms; having four atoms in the molecule, as phosphorus and arsenic.,
T as in Tetratomic (a.) Having a valence of four; quadrivalent; tetravalent; sometimes, in a specific sense, having four hydroxyl groups, whether acid or basic.,
T as in Tetravalence (n.) The quality or state of being tetravalent; quadrivalence.,
T as in Tetravalent (a.) Having a valence of four; tetratomic; quadrivalent.,
T as in Tetraxile (a.) Having four branches diverging at right angles; -- said of certain spicules of sponges.,
T as in Tetrazo- (a.) A combining form (also used adjectively), designating any one of a series of double derivatives of the azo and diazo compounds containing four atoms of nitrogen.,
T as in Tetrazone (n.) Any one of a certain series of basic compounds containing a chain of four nitrogen atoms; for example, ethyl tetrazone, (C2H5)2N.N2.N(C2H5)2, a colorless liquid having an odor of leeks.,
T as in Tetric (a.) Alt. of Tetrical,
T as in Tetrical (a.) Forward; perverse; harsh; sour; rugged.,
T as in Tetricity (n.) Crabbedness; perverseness.,
T as in Tetricous (a.) Tetric.,
T as in Tetrinic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, a complex ketonic acid, C5H6O3, obtained as a white crystalline substance; -- so called because once supposed to contain a peculiar radical of four carbon atoms. Called also acetyl-acrylic acid.,
T as in Tetrodon (n.) Any one of numerous species of plectognath fishes belonging to Tetrodon and allied genera. Each jaw is furnished with two large, thick, beaklike, bony teeth.,
T as in Tetrodont (a.) Of or pertaining to the tetrodons.,
T as in Tetrodont (n.) A tetrodon.,
T as in Tetrol (n.) A hypothetical hydrocarbon, C4H4, analogous to benzene; -- so called from the four carbon atoms in the molecule.,
T as in Tetrolic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid, C3H3.CO2H, of the acetylene series, homologous with propiolic acid, obtained as a white crystalline substance.,
T as in Tetroxide (n.) An oxide having four atoms of oxygen in the molecule; a quadroxide; as, osmium tetroxide, OsO/.,
T as in Tetryl (n.) Butyl; -- so called from the four carbon atoms in the molecule.,
T as in Tetrylene (n.) Butylene; -- so called from the four carbon atoms in the molecule.,
T as in Tetter (n.) A vesicular disease of the skin; herpes. See Herpes.,
T as in Tettered (imp. & p. p.) of Tetter,
T as in Tettering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tetter,
T as in Tetter (v. t.) To affect with tetter.,
T as in Tetterous (a.) Having the character of, or pertaining to, tetter.,
T as in Tetter-totter (n.) A certain game of children; seesaw; -- called also titter-totter, and titter-cum-totter.,
T as in Tetterwort (n.) A plant used as a remedy for tetter, -- in England the calendine, in America the bloodroot.,
T as in Tettigonian (n.) Any one of numerous species of Hemiptera belonging to Tettigonia and allied genera; a leaf hopper.,
T as in Tettish (a.) Captious; testy.,
T as in Tettix (n.) The cicada.,
T as in Tettix (n.) A genus of small grasshoppers.,
T as in Tetty (a.) Testy; irritable.,
T as in Teufit (n.) The lapwing; -- called also teuchit.,
T as in Teuk (n.) The redshank.,
T as in Teutons (pl. ) of Teuton,
T as in Teutones (pl. ) of Teuton,
T as in Teuton (n.) One of an ancient German tribe; later, a name applied to any member of the Germanic race in Europe; now used to designate a German, Dutchman, Scandinavian, etc., in distinction from a Celt or one of a Latin race.,
T as in Teuton (n.) A member of the Teutonic branch of the Indo-European, or Aryan, family.,
T as in Teutonic (a.) Of or pertaining to the Teutons, esp. the ancient Teutons; Germanic.,
T as in Teutonic (a.) Of or pertaining to any of the Teutonic languages, or the peoples who speak these languages.,
T as in Teutonic (n.) The language of the ancient Germans; the Teutonic languages, collectively.,
T as in Teutonicism (n.) A mode of speech peculiar to the Teutons; a Teutonic idiom, phrase, or expression; a Teutonic mode or custom; a Germanism.,
T as in Tewed (imp. & p. p.) of Tew,
T as in Tewing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tew,
T as in Tew (v.) To prepare by beating or working, as leather or hemp; to taw.,
T as in Tew (v.) Hence, to beat; to scourge; also, to pull about; to maul; to tease; to vex.,
T as in Tew (v. i.) To work hard; to strive; to fuse.,
T as in Tew (v. t.) To tow along, as a vessel.,
T as in Tew (n.) A rope or chain for towing a boat; also, a cord; a string.,
T as in Tewan (n.) A tribe of American Indians including many of the Pueblos of New Mexico and adjacent regions.,
T as in Tewed (a.) Fatigued; worn with labor or hardship.,
T as in Tewel (n.) A pipe, funnel, or chimney, as for smoke.,
T as in Tewel (n.) The tuyere of a furnace.,
T as in Tewhit (n.) The lapwing; -- called also teewheep.,
T as in Tewtaw (v. t.) To beat; to break, as flax or hemp.,
T as in Texas (n.) A structure on the hurricane deck of a steamer, containing the pilot house, officers' cabins, etc.,
T as in Text (n.) A discourse or composition on which a note or commentary is written; the original words of an author, in distinction from a paraphrase, annotation, or commentary.,
T as in Text (n.) The four Gospels, by way of distinction or eminence.,
T as in Text (n.) A verse or passage of Scripture, especially one chosen as the subject of a sermon, or in proof of a doctrine.,
T as in Text (n.) Hence, anything chosen as the subject of an argument, literary composition, or the like; topic; theme.,
T as in Text (n.) A style of writing in large characters; text-hand also, a kind of type used in printing; as, German text.,
T as in Text (v. t.) To write in large characters, as in text hand.,
T as in Text-book (n.) A book with wide spaces between the lines, to give room for notes.,
T as in Text-book (n.) A volume, as of some classical author, on which a teacher lectures or comments; hence, any manual of instruction; a schoolbook.,
T as in Text-hand (n.) A large hand in writing; -- so called because it was the practice to write the text of a book in a large hand and the notes in a smaller hand.,
T as in Textile (a.) Pertaining to weaving or to woven fabrics; as, textile arts; woven, capable of being woven; formed by weaving; as, textile fabrics.,
T as in Textile (n.) That which is, or may be, woven; a fabric made by weaving.,
T as in Textmen (pl. ) of Textman,
T as in Textman (n.) One ready in quoting texts.,
T as in Textorial (a.) Of or pertaining to weaving.,
T as in Textrine (a.) Of or pertaining to weaving, textorial; as, the textrine art.,
T as in Textual (a.) Of, pertaining to, or contained in, the text; as, textual criticism; a textual reading.,
T as in Textual (a.) Serving for, or depending on, texts.,
T as in Textual (a.) Familiar with texts or authorities so as to cite them accurately.,
T as in Textualist (n.) A textman; a textuary.,
T as in Textually (adv.) In a textual manner; in the text or body of a work; in accordance with the text.,
T as in Textuarist (n.) A textuary.,
T as in Textuary (a.) Contained in the text; textual.,
T as in Textuary (a.) Serving as a text; authoritative.,
T as in Textuary (n.) One who is well versed in the Scriptures; a textman.,
T as in Textuary (n.) One who adheres strictly or rigidly to the text.,
T as in Textuel (a.) Textual.,
T as in Textuist (n.) A textualist; a textman.,
T as in Textural (a.) Of or pertaining to texture.,
T as in Texture (n.) The act or art of weaving.,
T as in Texture (n.) That which woven; a woven fabric; a web.,
T as in Texture (n.) The disposition or connection of threads, filaments, or other slender bodies, interwoven; as, the texture of cloth or of a spider's web.,
T as in Texture (n.) The disposition of the several parts of any body in connection with each other, or the manner in which the constituent parts are united; structure; as, the texture of earthy substances or minerals; the texture of a plant or a bone; the texture of paper; a loose or compact texture.,
T as in Texture (n.) A tissue. See Tissue.,
T as in Textured (imp. & p. p.) of Texture,
T as in Texturing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Texture,
T as in Texture (v. t.) To form a texture of or with; to interweave.,
T as in Textury (n.) The art or process of weaving; texture.,
T as in Teyne (n.) A thin plate of metal.,
T as in Th () In Old English, the article the, when the following word began with a vowel, was often written with elision as if a part of the word. Thus in Chaucer, the forms thabsence, tharray, thegle, thend, thingot, etc., are found for the absence, the array, the eagle, the end, etc.,
T as in Thack () Alt. of Thacker,
T as in Thacker () See Thatch, Thatcher.,
T as in Thak (v. t.) To thwack.,
T as in Thalamencephalon (n.) The segment of the brain next in front of the midbrain, including the thalami, pineal gland, and pituitary body; the diencephalon; the interbrain.,
T as in Thalamic (a.) Of or pertaining to a thalamus or to thalami.,
T as in Thalamifloral (a.) Alt. of Thalamiflorous,
T as in Thalamiflorous (a.) Bearing the stamens directly on the receptacle; -- said of a subclass of polypetalous dicotyledonous plants in the system of De Candolle.,
T as in Thalamocoele (n.) The cavity or ventricle of the thalamencephalon; the third ventricle.,
T as in Thalamophora (n. pl.) Same as Foraminifera.,
T as in Thalami (pl. ) of Thalamus,
T as in Thalamus (n.) A mass of nervous matter on either side of the third ventricle of the brain; -- called also optic thalamus.,
T as in Thalamus (n.) Same as Thallus.,
T as in Thalamus (n.) The receptacle of a flower; a torus.,
T as in Thalassian (n.) Any sea tortoise.,
T as in Thalassic (a.) Of or pertaining to the sea; -- sometimes applied to rocks formed from sediments deposited upon the sea bottom.,
T as in Thalassinian (n.) Any species of Thalaassinidae, a family of burrowing macrurous Crustacea, having a long and soft abdomen.,
T as in Thalassography (n.) The study or science of the life of marine organisms.,
T as in Thaler (n.) A German silver coin worth about three shillings sterling, or about 73 cents.,
T as in Thalia (n.) That one of the nine Muses who presided over comedy.,
T as in Thalia (n.) One of the three Graces.,
T as in Thalia (n.) One of the Nereids.,
T as in Thaliacea (n. pl.) A division of Tunicata comprising the free-swimming species, such as Salpa and Doliolum.,
T as in Thalian (a.) Of or pertaining to Thalia; hence, of or pertaining to comedy; comic.,
T as in Thallate (n.) A salt of a hypothetical thallic acid.,
T as in Thallene (n.) A hydrocarbon obtained from coal-tar residues, and remarkable for its intense yellowish green fluorescence.,
T as in Thallic (a.) Of or pertaining to thallium; derived from, or containing, thallium; specifically, designating those compounds in which the element has a higher valence as contrasted with the thallous compounds; as, thallic oxide.,
T as in Thalline (a.) Consisting of a thallus.,
T as in Thalline (n.) An artificial alkaloid of the quinoline series, obtained as a white crystalline substance, C10H13NO, whose salts are valuable as antipyretics; -- so called from the green color produced in its solution by certain oxidizing agents.,
T as in Thallious (a.) See Thallous.,
T as in Thallium (n.) A rare metallic element of the aluminium group found in some minerals, as certain pyrites, and also in the lead-chamber deposit in the manufacture of sulphuric acid. It is isolated as a heavy, soft, bluish white metal, easily oxidized in moist air, but preserved by keeping under water. Symbol Tl. Atomic weight 203.7.,
T as in Thallogen (n.) One of a large class or division of the vegetable kingdom, which includes those flowerless plants, such as fungi, algae, and lichens, that consist of a thallus only, composed of cellular tissue, or of a congeries of cells, or even of separate cells, and never show a distinction into root, stem, and leaf.,
T as in Thalloid (a.) Resembling, or consisting of, thallus.,
T as in Thallophyte (n.) Same as Thallogen.,
T as in Thallous (a.) Of or pertaining to thallium; derived from, or containing, thallium; specifically, designating those compounds in which the element has a lower valence as contrasted with the thallic compounds.,
T as in Thalli (pl. ) of Thallus,
T as in Thallus (n.) A solid mass of cellular tissue, consisting of one or more layers, usually in the form of a flat stratum or expansion, but sometimes erect or pendulous, and elongated and branching, and forming the substance of the thallogens.,
T as in Thammuz (n.) Alt. of Tammuz,
T as in Tammuz (n.) A deity among the ancient Syrians, in honor of whom the Hebrew idolatresses held an annual lamentation. This deity has been conjectured to be the same with the Phoenician Adon, or Adonis.,
T as in Tammuz (n.) The fourth month of the Jewish ecclesiastical year, -- supposed to correspond nearly with our month of July.,
T as in Thamnophile (n.) A bush shrike.,
T as in Thamyn (n.) An Asiatic deer (Rucervus Eldi) resembling the swamp deer; -- called also Eld's deer.,
T as in Than (conj.) A particle expressing comparison, used after certain adjectives and adverbs which express comparison or diversity, as more, better, other, otherwise, and the like. It is usually followed by the object compared in the nominative case. Sometimes, however, the object compared is placed in the objective case, and than is then considered by some grammarians as a preposition. Sometimes the object is expressed in a sentence, usually introduced by that; as, I would rather suffer than that you should want.,
T as in Than (adv.) Then. See Then.,
T as in Thanage (n.) The district in which a thane anciently had jurisdiction; thanedom.,
T as in Thanatoid (a.) Deathlike; resembling death.,
T as in Thanatology (n.) A description, or the doctrine, of death.,
T as in Thanatopsis (n.) A view of death; a meditation on the subject of death.,
T as in Thane (n.) A dignitary under the Anglo-Saxons and Danes in England. Of these there were two orders, the king's thanes, who attended the kings in their courts and held lands immediately of them, and the ordinary thanes, who were lords of manors and who had particular jurisdiction within their limits. After the Conquest, this title was disused, and baron took its place.,
T as in Thanedom (n.) The property or jurisdiction of a thane; thanage.,
T as in Thanehood (n.) The character or dignity of a thane; also, thanes, collectively.,
T as in Thaneship (n.) The state or dignity of a thane; thanehood; also, the seignioralty of a thane.,
T as in Thanks (pl. ) of Thank,
T as in Thank (n.) A expression of gratitude; an acknowledgment expressive of a sense of favor or kindness received; obligation, claim, or desert, or gratitude; -- now generally used in the plural.,
T as in Thanked (imp. & p. p.) of Thank,
T as in Thanking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Thank,
T as in Thank (n.) To express gratitude to (anyone) for a favor; to make acknowledgments to (anyone) for kindness bestowed; -- used also ironically for blame.,
T as in Thankful (a.) Obtaining or deserving thanks; thankworthy.,
T as in Thankful (a.) Impressed with a sense of kindness received, and ready to acknowledge it; grateful.,
T as in Thankless (a.) Not acknowledging favors; not expressing thankfulness; unthankful; ungrateful.,
T as in Thankless (a.) Not obtaining or deserving thanks; unacceptable; as, a thankless task.,
T as in Thankly (adv.) Thankfully.,
T as in Thanksgive (v. t.) To give or dedicate in token of thanks.,
T as in Thanksgiver (n.) One who gives thanks, or acknowledges a kindness.,
T as in Thanksgiving (n.) The act of rending thanks, or expressing gratitude for favors or mercies.,
T as in Thanksgiving (n.) A public acknowledgment or celebration of divine goodness; also, a day set apart for religious services, specially to acknowledge the goodness of God, either in any remarkable deliverance from calamities or danger, or in the ordinary dispensation of his bounties.,
T as in Thankworthiness (n.) The quality or state of being thankworthy.,
T as in Thankworthy (a.) Deserving thanks; worthy of gratitude; mreitorious.,
T as in Thar (n.) A goatlike animal (Capra Jemlaica) native of the Himalayas. It has small, flattened horns, curved directly backward. The hair of the neck, shoulders, and chest of the male is very long, reaching to the knees. Called also serow, and imo.,
T as in Thar (v. impersonal, pres.) It needs; need.,
T as in Tharms (n. pl.) Twisted guts.,
T as in Tharos (n.) A small American butterfly (Phycoides tharos) having the upper surface of the wings variegated with orange and black, the outer margins black with small white crescents; -- called also pearl crescent.,
T as in That (pron., a., conj., & adv.) As a demonstrative pronoun (pl. Those), that usually points out, or refers to, a person or thing previously mentioned, or supposed to be understood. That, as a demonstrative, may precede the noun to which it refers; as, that which he has said is true; those in the basket are good apples.,
T as in That (pron., a., conj., & adv.) As an adjective, that has the same demonstrative force as the pronoun, but is followed by a noun.,
T as in That (pron., a., conj., & adv.) As a relative pronoun, that is equivalent to who or which, serving to point out, and make definite, a person or thing spoken of, or alluded to, before, and may be either singular or plural.,
T as in That (pron., a., conj., & adv.) As a conjunction, that retains much of its force as a demonstrative pronoun.,
T as in That (pron., a., conj., & adv.) To introduce a clause employed as the object of the preceding verb, or as the subject or predicate nominative of a verb.,
T as in That (pron., a., conj., & adv.) To introduce, a reason or cause; -- equivalent to for that, in that, for the reason that, because.,
T as in That (pron., a., conj., & adv.) To introduce a purpose; -- usually followed by may, or might, and frequently preceded by so, in order, to the end, etc.,
T as in That (pron., a., conj., & adv.) To introduce a consequence, result, or effect; -- usually preceded by so or such, sometimes by that.,
T as in That (pron., a., conj., & adv.) In an elliptical sentence to introduce a dependent sentence expressing a wish, or a cause of surprise, indignation, or the like.,
T as in That (pron., a., conj., & adv.) As adverb: To such a degree; so; as, he was that frightened he could say nothing.,
T as in Thatch (n.) Straw, rushes, or the like, used for making or covering the roofs of buildings, or of stacks of hay or grain.,
T as in Thatch (n.) A name in the West Indies for several kinds of palm, the leaves of which are used for thatching.,
T as in Thatched (imp. & p. p.) of Thatch,
T as in Thatching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Thatch,
T as in Thatch (n.) To cover with, or with a roof of, straw, reeds, or some similar substance; as, to thatch a roof, a stable, or a stack of grain.,
T as in Thatcher (n.) One who thatches.,
T as in Thatching (n.) The act or art of covering buildings with thatch; so as to keep out rain, snow, etc.,
T as in Thatching (n.) The materials used for this purpose; thatch.,
T as in Thaught (n.) See Thwart.,
T as in Thaumatolatry (n.) Worship or undue admiration of wonderful or miraculous things.,
T as in Thaumatrope (n.) An optical instrument or toy for showing the presistence of an impression upon the eyes after the luminous object is withdrawn.,
T as in Thaumaturge (n.) A magician; a wonder worker.,
T as in Thaumaturgic (a.) Alt. of Thaumaturgical,
T as in Thaumaturgical (a.) Of or pertaining to thaumaturgy; magical; wonderful.,
T as in Thaumaturgics (n.) Feats of legerdemain, or magical performances.,
T as in Thaumaturgist (n.) One who deals in wonders, or believes in them; a wonder worker.,
T as in Thaumaturgus (n.) A miracle worker; -- a title given by the Roman Catholics to some saints.,
T as in Thaumaturgy (n.) The act or art of performing something wonderful; magic; legerdemain.,
T as in Thave (n.) Same as Theave.,
T as in Thawed (imp. & p. p.) of Thaw,
T as in Thawing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Thaw,
T as in Thaw (v. i.) To melt, dissolve, or become fluid; to soften; -- said of that which is frozen; as, the ice thaws.,
T as in Thaw (v. i.) To become so warm as to melt ice and snow; -- said in reference to the weather, and used impersonally.,
T as in Thaw (v. i.) Fig.: To grow gentle or genial.,
T as in Thaw (v. t.) To cause (frozen things, as earth, snow, ice) to melt, soften, or dissolve.,
T as in Thaw (n.) The melting of ice, snow, or other congealed matter; the resolution of ice, or the like, into the state of a fluid; liquefaction by heat of anything congealed by frost; also, a warmth of weather sufficient to melt that which is congealed.,
T as in Thawy (a.) Liquefying by heat after having been frozen; thawing; melting.,
T as in The (v. i.) See Thee.,
T as in The (definite article.) A word placed before nouns to limit or individualize their meaning.,
T as in The (adv.) By that; by how much; by so much; on that account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the more difficult it is to reform.,
T as in Thea (n.) A genus of plants found in China and Japan; the tea plant.,
T as in Theandric (a.) Relating to, or existing by, the union of divine and human operation in Christ, or the joint agency of the divine and human nature.,
T as in Theanthropic (a.) Alt. of Theanthropical,
T as in Theanthropical (a.) Partaking of, or combining, both divinity and humanity.,
T as in Theanthropism (n.) A state of being God and man.,
T as in Theanthropism (n.) The ascription of human atributes to the Deity, or to a polytheistic deity; anthropomorphism.,
T as in Theanthropist (n.) One who advocates, or believes in, theanthropism.,
T as in Theanthropy (n.) Theanthropism.,
T as in Thearchic (a.) Divinely sovereign or supreme.,
T as in Thearchy (n.) Government by God; divine sovereignty; theocracy.,
T as in Theater (n.) Alt. of Theatre,
T as in Theatre (n.) An edifice in which dramatic performances or spectacles are exhibited for the amusement of spectators; anciently uncovered, except the stage, but in modern times roofed.,
T as in Theatre (n.) Any room adapted to the exhibition of any performances before an assembly, as public lectures, scholastic exercises, anatomical demonstrations, surgical operations, etc.,
T as in Theatre (n.) That which resembles a theater in form, use, or the like; a place rising by steps or gradations, like the seats of a theater.,
T as in Theatre (n.) A sphere or scheme of operation.,
T as in Theatre (n.) A place or region where great events are enacted; as, the theater of war.,
T as in Theatin (n.) Alt. of Theatine,
T as in Theatine (n.) One of an order of Italian monks, established in 1524, expressly to oppose Reformation, and to raise the tone of piety among Roman Catholics. They hold no property, nor do they beg, but depend on what Providence sends. Their chief employment is preaching and giving religious instruction.,
T as in Theatine (n.) One of an order of nuns founded by Ursula Benincasa, who died in 1618.,
T as in Theatral (a.) Of or pertaining to a theater; theatrical.,
T as in Theatric (a.) Theatrical.,
T as in Theatrical (a.) Of or pertaining to a theater, or to the scenic representations; resembling the manner of dramatic performers; histrionic; hence, artificial; as, theatrical performances; theatrical gestures.,
T as in Theatricals (n. pl.) Dramatic performances; especially, those produced by amateurs.,
T as in Theave (n.) A ewe lamb of the first year; also, a sheep three years old.,
T as in Thebaic (a.) Of or pertaining to Thebes in Egypt; specifically, designating a version of the Bible preserved by the Copts, and esteemed of great value by biblical scholars. This version is also called the Sahidic version.,
T as in Thebaid (n.) A Latin epic poem by Statius about Thebes in Boeotia.,
T as in Thebaine (n.) A poisonous alkaloid, C19H21NO3, found in opium in small quantities, having a sharp, astringent taste, and a tetanic action resembling that of strychnine.,
T as in Theban (a.) Of or pertaining to Thebes.,
T as in Theban (n.) A native or inhabitant of Thebes; also, a wise man.,
T as in Thecae (pl. ) of Theca,
T as in Theca (n.) A sheath; a case; as, the theca, or cell, of an anther; the theca, or spore case, of a fungus; the theca of the spinal cord.,
T as in Theca (n.) The chitinous cup which protects the hydranths of certain hydroids.,
T as in Theca (n.) The more or less cuplike calicle of a coral.,
T as in Theca (n.) The wall forming a calicle of a coral.,
T as in Thecal (a.) Of or pertaining to a theca; as, a thecal abscess.,
T as in Thecaphore (n.) A surface or organ bearing a theca, or covered with thecae.,
T as in Thecaphore (n.) See Basigynium.,
T as in Thecasporous (a.) Having the spores in thecae, or cases.,
T as in Thecata (n. pl.) Same as Thecophora.,
T as in Thecla (n.) Any one of many species of small delicately colored butterflies belonging to Thecla and allied genera; -- called also hairstreak, and elfin.,
T as in Thecodactyl (n.) Any one of a group of lizards of the Gecko tribe, having the toes broad, and furnished with a groove in which the claws can be concealed.,
T as in Thecodont (a.) Having the teeth inserted in sockets in the alveoli of the jaws.,
T as in Thecodont (a.) Of or pertaining to the thecodonts.,
T as in Thecodont (n.) One of the Thecodontia.,
T as in Thecodontia (n. pl.) A group of fossil saurians having biconcave vertebrae and the teeth implanted in sockets.,
T as in Thecophora (n. pl.) A division of hydroids comprising those which have the hydranths in thecae and the gonophores in capsules. The campanularians and sertularians are examples. Called also Thecata. See Illust. under Hydroidea.,
T as in Thecosomata (n. pl.) An order of Pteropoda comprising those species which have a shell. See Pteropoda.,
T as in Thedom (n.) Success; fortune; luck; chance.,
T as in Thee (a.) To thrive; to prosper.,
T as in Thee (pron.) The objective case of thou. See Thou.,
T as in Theft (n.) The act of stealing; specifically, the felonious taking and removing of personal property, with an intent to deprive the rightful owner of the same; larceny.,
T as in Theft (n.) The thing stolen.,
T as in Theftbote (n.) The receiving of a man's goods again from a thief, or a compensation for them, by way of composition, with the intent that the thief shall escape punishment.,
T as in Thegn (n.) Thane. See Thane.,
T as in Thegnhood (n.) Thanehood.,
T as in Theiform (a.) Having the form of tea.,
T as in Theine (n.) See Caffeine. Called also theina.,
T as in Their (pron. & a.) The possessive case of the personal pronoun they; as, their houses; their country.,
T as in Theism (n.) The belief or acknowledgment of the existence of a God, as opposed to atheism, pantheism, or polytheism.,
T as in Theist (n.) One who believes in the existence of a God; especially, one who believes in a personal God; -- opposed to atheist.,
T as in Theistic (a.) Alt. of Theistical,
T as in Theistical (a.) Of or pertaining to theism, or a theist; according to the doctrine of theists.,
T as in Thelphusian (n.) One of a tribe of fresh-water crabs which live in or on the banks of rivers in tropical countries.,
T as in Thelytokous (a.) Producing females only; -- said of certain female insects.,
T as in Them (pron.) The objective case of they. See They.,
T as in Thematic (a.) Of or pertaining to the theme of a word. See Theme, n., 4.,
T as in Thematic (n.) Of or pertaining to a theme, or subject.,
T as in Theme (n.) A subject or topic on which a person writes or speaks; a proposition for discussion or argument; a text.,
T as in Theme (n.) Discourse on a certain subject.,
T as in Theme (n.) A composition or essay required of a pupil.,
T as in Theme (n.) A noun or verb, not modified by inflections; also, that part of a noun or verb which remains unchanged (except by euphonic variations) in declension or conjugation; stem.,
T as in Theme (n.) That by means of which a thing is done; means; instrument.,
T as in Theme (n.) The leading subject of a composition or a movement.,
T as in Themis (n.) The goddess of law and order; the patroness of existing rights.,
T as in Themselves (pron.) The plural of himself, herself, and itself. See Himself, Herself, Itself.,
T as in Then (adv.) At that time (referring to a time specified, either past or future).,
T as in Then (adv.) Soon afterward, or immediately; next; afterward.,
T as in Then (adv.) At another time; later; again.,
T as in Then (conj.) Than.,
T as in Then (conj.) In that case; in consequence; as a consequence; therefore; for this reason.,
T as in Thenadays (adv.) At that time; then; in those days; -- correlative to nowadays.,
T as in Thenal (a.) Alt. of Thenar,
T as in Thenar (a.) Of or pertaining to the thenar; corresponding to thenar; palmar.,
T as in Thenar (n.) The palm of the hand.,
T as in Thenar (n.) The prominence of the palm above the base of the thumb; the thenar eminence; the ball of the thumb. Sometimes applied to the corresponding part of the foot.,
T as in Thenardite (n.) Anhydrous sodium sulphate, a mineral of a white or brown color and vitreous luster.,
T as in Thence (adv.) From that place.,
T as in Thence (adv.) From that time; thenceforth; thereafter.,
T as in Thence (adv.) For that reason; therefore.,
T as in Thence (adv.) Not there; elsewhere; absent.,
T as in Thenceforth (adv.) From that time; thereafter.,
T as in Thenceforward (adv.) From that time onward; thenceforth.,
T as in Thencefrom (adv.) From that place.,
T as in Theobroma (n.) A genus of small trees. See Cacao.,
T as in Theobromic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid extracted from cacao butter (from the Theobroma Cacao), peanut oil (from Arachis hypogaea), etc., as a white waxy crystalline substance.,
T as in Theobromine (n.) An alkaloidal ureide, C7H8N4O2, homologous with and resembling caffeine, produced artificially, and also extracted from cacao and chocolate (from Theobroma Cacao) as a bitter white crystalline substance; -- called also dimethyl xanthine.,
T as in Theochristic (a.) Anointed by God.,
T as in Theocracy (n.) Government of a state by the immediate direction or administration of God; hence, the exercise of political authority by priests as representing the Deity.,
T as in Theocracy (n.) The state thus governed, as the Hebrew commonwealth before it became a kingdom.,
T as in Theocrasy (n.) A mixture of the worship of different gods, as of Jehovah and idols.,
T as in Theocrasy (n.) An intimate union of the soul with God in contemplation, -- an ideal of the Neoplatonists and of some Oriental mystics.,
T as in Theocrat (n.) One who lives under a theocratic form of government; one who in civil affairs conforms to divine law.,
T as in Theocratic (a.) Alt. of Theocratical,
T as in Theocratical (a.) Of or pertaining to a theocracy; administred by the immediate direction of God; as, the theocratical state of the Israelites.,
T as in Theodicy (n.) A vindication of the justice of God in ordaining or permitting natural and moral evil.,
T as in Theodicy (n.) That department of philosophy which treats of the being, perfections, and government of God, and the immortality of the soul.,
T as in Theodolite (n.) An instrument used, especially in trigonometrical surveying, for the accurate measurement of horizontal angles, and also usually of vertical angles. It is variously constructed.,
T as in Theodolitic (a.) Of or pertaining to a theodolite; made by means of a theodolite; as, theodolitic observations.,
T as in Theogonic (a.) Of or relating to theogony.,
T as in Theogonism (n.) Theogony.,
T as in Theogonist (n.) A writer on theogony.,
T as in Theogony (n.) The generation or genealogy of the gods; that branch of heathen theology which deals with the origin and descent of the deities; also, a poem treating of such genealogies; as, the Theogony of Hesiod.,
T as in Theologaster (n.) A pretender or quack in theology.,
T as in Theologer (n.) A theologian.,
T as in Theologian (n.) A person well versed in theology; a professor of theology or divinity; a divine.,
T as in Theologic (a.) Theological.,
T as in Theological (a.) Of or pertaining to theology, or the science of God and of divine things; as, a theological treatise.,
T as in Theologics (n.) Theology.,
T as in Theologist (n.) A theologian.,
T as in Theologized (imp. & p. p.) of Theologize,
T as in Theologizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Theologize,
T as in Theologize (v. t.) To render theological; to apply to divinity; to reduce to a system of theology.,
T as in Theologize (v. i.) To frame a system of theology; to theorize or speculate upon theological subjects.,
T as in Theologizer (n.) One who theologizes; a theologian.,
T as in Theologue (n.) A theologian.,
T as in Theologue (n.) A student in a theological seminary.,
T as in Theologies (pl. ) of Theology,
T as in Theology (n.) The science of God or of religion; the science which treats of the existence, character, and attributes of God, his laws and government, the doctrines we are to believe, and the duties we are to practice; divinity; (as more commonly understood) "the knowledge derivable from the Scriptures, the systematic exhibition of revealed truth, the science of Christian faith and life.",
T as in Theomachist (n.) One who fights against the gods; one who resists God of the divine will.,
T as in Theomachy (n.) A fighting against the gods, as the battle of the gaints with the gods.,
T as in Theomachy (n.) A battle or strife among the gods.,
T as in Theomachy (n.) Opposition to God or the divine will.,
T as in Theomancy (n.) A kind of divination drawn from the responses of oracles among heathen nations.,
T as in Theopathetic (a.) Alt. of Theopathic,
T as in Theopathic (a.) Of or pertaining to a theopathy.,
T as in Theopathy (n.) Capacity for religious affections or worship.,
T as in Theophanic (a.) Of or pertaining to a theopany; appearing to man, as a god.,
T as in -nies (pl. ) of Theophany,
T as in Theophany (n.) A manifestation of God to man by actual appearance, usually as an incarnation.,
T as in Theophilanthropic (a.) Pertaining to theophilanthropy or the theophilanthropists.,
T as in Theophilanthropism (n.) The doctrine of the theophilanthropists; theophilanthropy.,
T as in Theophilanthropist (n.) A member of a deistical society established at Paris during the French revolution.,
T as in Theophilanthropy (n.) Theophilanthropism.,
T as in Theophilosophic (a.) Combining theism and philosophy, or pertaining to the combination of theism and philosophy.,
T as in Theopneusted (a.) Divinely inspired; theopneustic.,
T as in Theopneustic (a.) Given by the inspiration of the Spirit of God.,
T as in Theopneusty (n.) Divine inspiration; the supernatural influence of the Divine Spirit in qualifying men to receive and communicate revealed truth.,
T as in Theorbist (n.) One who plays on a theorbo.,
T as in Theorbo (n.) An instrument made like large lute, but having two necks, with two sets of pegs, the lower set holding the strings governed by frets, while to the upper set were attached the long bass strings used as open notes.,
T as in Theorem (n.) That which is considered and established as a principle; hence, sometimes, a rule.,
T as in Theorem (n.) A statement of a principle to be demonstrated.,
T as in Theorem (v. t.) To formulate into a theorem.,
T as in Theorematic (a.) Alt. of Theorematical,
T as in Theorematical (a.) Of or pertaining to a theorem or theorems; comprised in a theorem; consisting of theorems.,
T as in Theorematist (n.) One who constructs theorems.,
T as in Theoremic (a.) Theorematic.,
T as in Theoretic (a.) Alt. of Theoretical,
T as in Theoretical (a.) Pertaining to theory; depending on, or confined to, theory or speculation; speculative; terminating in theory or speculation: not practical; as, theoretical learning; theoretic sciences.,
T as in Theoretics (n.) The speculative part of a science; speculation.,
T as in Theoric (a.) Of or pertaining to the theorica.,
T as in Theoric (a.) Relating to, or skilled in, theory; theoretically skilled.,
T as in Theoric (n.) Speculation; theory.,
T as in Theorica (n. pl.) Public moneys expended at Athens on festivals, sacrifices, and public entertainments (especially theatrical performances), and in gifts to the people; -- also called theoric fund.,
T as in Theorical (a.) Theoretic.,
T as in Theorically (adv.) In a theoretic manner.,
T as in Theorist (n.) One who forms theories; one given to theory and speculation; a speculatist.,
T as in Theorization (n.) The act or product of theorizing; the formation of a theory or theories; speculation.,
T as in Theorized (imp. & p. p.) of Theorize,
T as in Theorizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Theorize,
T as in Theorize (v. i.) To form a theory or theories; to form opinions solely by theory; to speculate.,
T as in Theorizer (n.) One who theorizes or speculates; a theorist.,
T as in Theories (pl. ) of Theory,
T as in Theory (n.) A doctrine, or scheme of things, which terminates in speculation or contemplation, without a view to practice; hypothesis; speculation.,
T as in Theory (n.) An exposition of the general or abstract principles of any science; as, the theory of music.,
T as in Theory (n.) The science, as distinguished from the art; as, the theory and practice of medicine.,
T as in Theory (n.) The philosophical explanation of phenomena, either physical or moral; as, Lavoisier's theory of combustion; Adam Smith's theory of moral sentiments.,
T as in Theosoph (n.) Alt. of Theosopher,
T as in Theosopher (n.) A theosophist.,
T as in Theosophic (a.) Alt. of Theosophical,
T as in Theosophical (a.) Of or pertaining to theosophy.,
T as in Theosophism (n.) Belief in theosophy.,
T as in Theosophist (n.) One addicted to theosophy.,
T as in Theosophistical (a.) Of or pertaining to theosophy; theosophical.,
T as in Theosophized (imp. & p. p.) of Theosophize,
T as in Theosophizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Theosophize,
T as in Theosophize (v. i.) To practice theosophy.,
T as in Theosophy (n.) Any system of philosophy or mysticism which proposes to attain intercourse with God and superior spirits, and consequent superhuman knowledge, by physical processes, as by the theurgic operations of some ancient Platonists, or by the chemical processes of the German fire philosophers; also, a direct, as distinguished from a revealed, knowledge of God, supposed to be attained by extraordinary illumination; especially, a direct insight into the processes of the divine mind, and the interior relations of the divine nature.,
T as in Therapeutae (n. pl.) A name given to certain ascetics said to have anciently dwelt in the neighborhood of Alexandria. They are described in a work attributed to Philo, the genuineness and credibility of which are now much discredited.,
T as in Therapeutic (a.) Alt. of Therapeutical,
T as in Therapeutical (a.) Of or pertaining to the healing art; concerned in discovering and applying remedies for diseases; curative.,
T as in Therapeutic (n.) One of the Therapeutae.,
T as in Therapeutics (n.) That part of medical science which treats of the discovery and application of remedies for diseases.,
T as in Therapeutist (n.) One versed in therapeutics, or the discovery and application of remedies.,
T as in Therapy (n.) Therapeutics.,
T as in There (pron.) In or at that place.,
T as in There (pron.) In that matter, relation, etc.; at that point, stage, etc., regarded as a distinct place; as, he did not stop there, but continued his speech.,
T as in There (pron.) To or into that place; thither.,
T as in Thereabout (adv.) Alt. of Thereabouts,
T as in Thereabouts (adv.) Near that place.,
T as in Thereabouts (adv.) Near that number, degree, or quantity; nearly; as, ten men, or thereabouts.,
T as in Thereabouts (adv.) Concerning that; about that.,
T as in Thereafter (adv.) After that; afterward.,
T as in Thereafter (adv.) According to that; accordingly.,
T as in Thereafter (adv.) Of that sort.,
T as in Thereagain (adv.) In opposition; against one's course.,
T as in There-anent (adv.) Concerning that.,
T as in Thereat (adv.) At that place; there.,
T as in Thereat (adv.) At that occurrence or event; on that account.,
T as in Therebefore (adv.) Alt. of Therebiforn,
T as in Therebiforn (adv.) Before that time; beforehand.,
T as in Thereby (adv.) By that; by that means; in consequence of that.,
T as in Thereby (adv.) Annexed to that.,
T as in Thereby (adv.) Thereabout; -- said of place, number, etc.,
T as in Therefor (adv.) For that, or this; for it.,
T as in Therefore (adv.) For that or this reason, referring to something previously stated; for that.,
T as in Therefore (adv.) Consequently; by consequence.,
T as in Therefrom (adv.) From this or that.,
T as in Therein (adv.) In that or this place, time, or thing; in that particular or respect.,
T as in Thereinto (adv.) Into that or this, or into that place.,
T as in Thereof (adv.) Of that or this.,
T as in Thereology (n.) Therapeutios.,
T as in Thereon (adv.) On that or this.,
T as in Thereout (adv.) Out of that or this.,
T as in Thereout (adv.) On the outside; out of doors.,
T as in Thereto (adv.) To that or this.,
T as in Thereto (adv.) Besides; moreover.,
T as in Theretofore (adv.) Up to that time; before then; -- correlative with heretofore.,
T as in Thereunder (adv.) Under that or this.,
T as in Thereunto (adv.) Unto that or this; thereto; besides.,
T as in Thereupon (adv.) Upon that or this; thereon.,
T as in Thereupon (adv.) On account, or in consequence, of that; therefore.,
T as in Thereupon (adv.) Immediately; at once; without delay.,
T as in Therewhile (adv.) At that time; at the same time.,
T as in Therewith (adv.) With that or this.,
T as in Therewith (adv.) In addition; besides; moreover.,
T as in Therewith (adv.) At the same time; forthwith.,
T as in Therewithal (adv.) Over and above; besides; moreover.,
T as in Therewithal (adv.) With that or this; therewith; at the same time.,
T as in Therf (a.) Not fermented; unleavened; -- said of bread, loaves, etc.,
T as in Theriac (n.) Alt. of Theriaca,
T as in Theriaca (n.) An ancient composition esteemed efficacious against the effects of poison; especially, a certain compound of sixty-four drugs, prepared, pulverized, and reduced by means of honey to an electuary; -- called also theriaca Andromachi, and Venice treacle.,
T as in Theriaca (n.) Treacle; molasses.,
T as in Theriac (a.) Alt. of Theriacal,
T as in Theriacal (a.) Of or pertaining to theriac; medicinal.,
T as in Therial (a.) Theriac.,
T as in Theriodont (n.) One of the Theriodontia. Used also adjectively.,
T as in Theriodonta (n. pl.) Same as Theriodontia.,
T as in Theriodontia (n. pl.) An extinct order of reptiles found in the Permian and Triassic formations in South Africa. In some respects they resembled carnivorous mammals. Called also Theromorpha.,
T as in Theriotomy (n.) Zootomy.,
T as in Thermae (n. pl.) Springs or baths of warm or hot water.,
T as in Thermal (a.) Of or pertaining to heat; warm; hot; as, the thermal unit; thermal waters.,
T as in Thermally (adv.) In a thermal manner.,
T as in Thermetograph (n.) A self-registering thermometer, especially one that registers the maximum and minimum during long periods.,
T as in Thermic (a.) Of or pertaining to heat; due to heat; thermal; as, thermic lines.,
T as in Thermidor (n.) The eleventh month of the French republican calendar, -- commencing July 19, and ending August 17. See the Note under Vendemiaire.,
T as in Thermifugine (n.) An artificial alkaloid of complex composition, resembling thalline and used as an antipyretic, -- whence its name.,
T as in Thermo- () A combining form from Gr. qe`rmh heat, qermo`s hot, warm; as in thermochemistry, thermodynamic.,
T as in Thermobarometer (n.) An instrument for determining altitudes by the boiling point of water.,
T as in Thermobattery (n.) A thermoelectric battery; a thermopile.,
T as in Thermocautery (n.) Cautery by the application of heat.,
T as in Thermochemic (a.) Alt. of Thermochemical,
T as in Thermochemical (a.) Of or pertaining to thermochemistry; obtained by, or employed in, thermochemistry.,
T as in Thermochemistry (n.) That branch of chemical science which includes the investigation of the various relations existing between chemical action and that manifestation of force termed heat, or the determination of the heat evolved by, or employed in, chemical actions.,
T as in Thermochrosy (n.) The property possessed by heat of being composed, like light, of rays of different degrees of refrangibility, which are unequal in rate or degree of transmission through diathermic substances.,
T as in Thermocurrent (n.) A current, as of electricity, developed, or set in motion, by the action of heat.,
T as in Thermodynamic (a.) Relating to thermodynamics; caused or operated by force due to the application of heat.,
T as in Thermodynamics (n.) The science which treats of the mechanical action or relations of heat.,
T as in Thermoelectric (a.) Pertaining to thermoelectricity; as, thermoelectric currents.,
T as in Thermoelectricity (n.) Electricity developed in the action of heat. See the Note under Electricity.,
T as in Thermoelectrometer (n.) An instrument for measuring the strength of an electric current in the heat which it produces, or for determining the heat developed by such a current.,
T as in Thermogen (n.) Caloric; heat; regarded as a material but imponderable substance.,
T as in Thermogenic (a.) Relating to heat, or to the production of heat; producing heat; thermogenous; as, the thermogenic tissues.,
T as in Thermogenous (a.) Producing heat; thermogenic.,
T as in Thermograph (n.) An instrument for automatically recording indications of the variation of temperature.,
T as in Thermology (n.) A discourse on, or an account of, heat.,
T as in Thermolysis (n.) The resolution of a compound into parts by heat; dissociation by heat.,
T as in Thermolyze (v. t.) To subject to thermolysis; to dissociate by heat.,
T as in Thermomagnetism (n.) Magnetism as affected or caused by the action of heat; the relation of heat to magnetism.,
T as in Thermometer (n.) An instrument for measuring temperature, founded on the principle that changes of temperature in bodies are accompained by proportional changes in their volumes or dimensions.,
T as in Thermometric (a.) Alt. of Thermometrical,
T as in Thermometrical (a.) Of or pertaining to a thermometer; as, the thermometrical scale or tube.,
T as in Thermometrical (a.) Made, or ascertained, by means of a thermometer; as, thermometrical observations.,
T as in Thermometrically (adv.) In a thermometrical manner; by means of a thermometer.,
T as in Thermometrograph (n.) An instrument for recording graphically the variations of temperature, or the indications of a thermometer.,
T as in Thermometry (n.) The estimation of temperature by the use of a thermometric apparatus.,
T as in Thermomultiplier (n.) Same as Thermopile.,
T as in Thermopile (n.) An instrument of extreme sensibility, used to determine slight differences and degrees of heat. It is composed of alternate bars of antimony and bismuth, or any two metals having different capacities for the conduction of heat, connected with an astatic galvanometer, which is very sensibly affected by the electric current induced in the system of bars when exposed even to the feeblest degrees of heat.,
T as in Thermoscope (n.) An instrument for indicating changes of temperature without indicating the degree of heat by which it is affected; especially, an instrument contrived by Count Rumford which, as modified by Professor Leslie, was afterward called the differential thermometer.,
T as in Thermoscopic (a.) Of or pertaining to the thermoscope; made by means of the thermoscope; as, thermoscopic observations.,
T as in Thermostat (n.) A self-acting apparatus for regulating temperature by the unequal expansion of different metals, liquids, or gases by heat, as in opening or closing the damper of a stove, or the like, as the heat becomes greater or less than is desired.,
T as in Thermostatic (a.) Of or pertaining to the thermostat; made or effected by means of the thermostat.,
T as in Thermosystaltic (a.) Influenced in its contraction by heat or cold; -- said of a muscle.,
T as in Thermotaxic (a.) Pertaining to, or connected with, the regulation of temperature in the animal body; as, the thermotaxic nervous system.,
T as in Thermotension (n.) A process of increasing the strength of wrought iron by heating it to a determinate temperature, and giving to it, while in that state, a mechanical strain or tension in the direction in which the strength is afterward to be exerted.,
T as in Thermotic (a.) Alt. of Thermotical,
T as in Thermotical (a.) Of or pertaining to heat; produced by heat; as, thermotical phenomena.,
T as in Thermotics (n.) The science of heat.,
T as in Thermotropic (a.) Manifesting thermotropism.,
T as in Thermotropism (n.) The phenomenon of turning towards a source of warmth, seen in the growing parts of some plants.,
T as in Thermotype (n.) A picture (as of a slice of wood) obtained by first wetting the object slightly with hydrochloric or dilute sulphuric acid, then taking an impression with a press, and next strongly heating this impression.,
T as in Thermotypy (n.) The art or process of obtaining thermotypes.,
T as in Thermovoltaic (a.) Of or relating to heat and electricity; especially, relating to thermal effects produced by voltaic action.,
T as in Theromorpha (n. pl.) See Theriodonta.,
T as in Theropoda (n. pl.) An order of carnivorous dinosaurs in which the feet are less birdlike, and hence more like those of an ordinary quadruped, than in the Ornithopoda. It includes the rapacious genera Megalosaurus, Creosaurus, and their allies.,
T as in Thesauri (pl. ) of Thesaurus,
T as in Thesaurus (n.) A treasury or storehouse; hence, a repository, especially of knowledge; -- often applied to a comprehensive work, like a dictionary or cyclopedia.,
T as in These (pron.) The plural of this. See This.,
T as in Thesicle (n.) A little or subordinate thesis; a proposition.,
T as in Theses (pl. ) of Thesis,
T as in Thesis (n.) A position or proposition which a person advances and offers to maintain, or which is actually maintained by argument.,
T as in Thesis (n.) Hence, an essay or dissertation written upon specific or definite theme; especially, an essay presented by a candidate for a diploma or degree.,
T as in Thesis (n.) An affirmation, or distinction from a supposition or hypothesis.,
T as in Thesis (n.) The accented part of the measure, expressed by the downward beat; -- the opposite of arsis.,
T as in Thesis (n.) The depression of the voice in pronouncing the syllables of a word.,
T as in Thesis (n.) The part of the foot upon which such a depression falls.,
T as in Thesmothete (n.) A lawgiver; a legislator; one of the six junior archons at Athens.,
T as in Thespian (a.) Of or pertaining to Thespis; hence, relating to the drama; dramatic; as, the Thespian art.,
T as in Thespian (n.) An actor.,
T as in Thessalian (a.) Of or pertaining to Thessaly in Greece.,
T as in Thessalian (n.) A native or inhabitant of Thessaly.,
T as in Thessalonian (a.) Of or pertaining to Thessalonica, a city of Macedonia.,
T as in Thessalonian (n.) A native or inhabitant of Thessalonica.,
T as in Theta (n.) A letter of the Greek alphabet corresponding to th in English; -- sometimes called the unlucky letter, from being used by the judges on their ballots in passing condemnation on a prisoner, it being the first letter of the Greek qa`natos, death.,
T as in Thetical (a.) Laid down; absolute or positive, as a law.,
T as in Thetine (n.) Any one of a series of complex basic sulphur compounds analogous to the sulphines.,
T as in Theurgic (a.) Alt. of Theurgical,
T as in Theurgical (a.) Of or pertaining to theurgy; magical.,
T as in Theurgist (n.) One who pretends to, or is addicted to, theurgy.,
T as in Theurgy (n.) A divine work; a miracle; hence, magic; sorcery.,
T as in Theurgy (n.) A kind of magical science or art developed in Alexandria among the Neoplatonists, and supposed to enable man to influence the will of the gods by means of purification and other sacramental rites.,
T as in Theurgy (n.) In later or modern magic, that species of magic in which effects are claimed to be produced by supernatural agency, in distinction from natural magic.,
T as in Thew (n.) Manner; custom; habit; form of behavior; qualities of mind; disposition; specifically, good qualities; virtues.,
T as in Thew (n.) Muscle or strength; nerve; brawn; sinew.,
T as in Thewed (a.) Furnished with thews or muscles; as, a well-thewed limb.,
T as in Thewed (a.) Accustomed; mannered.,
T as in Thewy (a.) Having strong or large thews or muscles; muscular; sinewy; strong.,
T as in They (obj.) The plural of he, she, or it. They is never used adjectively, but always as a pronoun proper, and sometimes refers to persons without an antecedent expressed.,
T as in Thialdine (n.) A weak nitrogenous sulphur base, C6H13NS2.,
T as in Thialol (n.) A colorless oily liquid, (C2H5)2S2, having a strong garlic odor; -- called also ethyl disulphide. By extension, any one of the series of related compounds.,
T as in Thibetan (a.) Of or pertaining to Thibet.,
T as in Thibetan (n.) A native or inhabitant of Thibet.,
T as in Thibet cloth () A fabric made of coarse goat's hair; a kind of camlet.,
T as in Thibet cloth () A kind of fine woolen cloth, used for dresses, cloaks, etc.,
T as in Thibetian (a. & n.) Same as Thibetan.,
T as in Thible (n.) A slice; a skimmer; a spatula; a pudding stick.,
T as in Thick (superl.) Measuring in the third dimension other than length and breadth, or in general dimension other than length; -- said of a solid body; as, a timber seven inches thick.,
T as in Thick (superl.) Having more depth or extent from one surface to its opposite than usual; not thin or slender; as, a thick plank; thick cloth; thick paper; thick neck.,
T as in Thick (superl.) Dense; not thin; inspissated; as, thick vapors. Also used figuratively; as, thick darkness.,
T as in Thick (superl.) Not transparent or clear; hence, turbid, muddy, or misty; as, the water of a river is apt to be thick after a rain.,
T as in Thick (superl.) Abundant, close, or crowded in space; closely set; following in quick succession; frequently recurring.,
T as in Thick (superl.) Not having due distinction of syllables, or good articulation; indistinct; as, a thick utterance.,
T as in Thick (superl.) Deep; profound; as, thick sleep.,
T as in Thick (superl.) Dull; not quick; as, thick of fearing.,
T as in Thick (superl.) Intimate; very friendly; familiar.,
T as in Thick (n.) The thickest part, or the time when anything is thickest.,
T as in Thick (n.) A thicket; as, gloomy thicks.,
T as in Thick (adv.) Frequently; fast; quick.,
T as in Thick (adv.) Closely; as, a plat of ground thick sown.,
T as in Thick (adv.) To a great depth, or to a greater depth than usual; as, land covered thick with manure.,
T as in Thick (v. t. & i.) To thicken.,
T as in Thickbill (n.) The bullfinch.,
T as in Thickened (imp. & p. p.) of Thicken,
T as in Thickening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Thicken,
T as in Thicken (v. t.) To make thick (in any sense of the word).,
T as in Thicken (v. t.) To render dense; to inspissate; as, to thicken paint.,
T as in Thicken (v. t.) To make close; to fill up interstices in; as, to thicken cloth; to thicken ranks of trees or men.,
T as in Thicken (v. t.) To strengthen; to confirm.,
T as in Thicken (v. t.) To make more frequent; as, to thicken blows.,
T as in Thicken (v. i.) To become thick.,
T as in Thickening (n.) Something put into a liquid or mass to make it thicker.,
T as in Thicket (a.) A wood or a collection of trees, shrubs, etc., closely set; as, a ram caught in a thicket.,
T as in Thickhead (n.) A thick-headed or stupid person.,
T as in Thickhead (n.) Any one of several species of Australian singing birds of the genus Pachycephala. The males of some of the species are bright-colored. Some of the species are popularly called thrushes.,
T as in Thick-headed (a.) Having a thick skull; stupid.,
T as in Thickish (a.) Somewhat thick.,
T as in Thick-knee (n.) A stone curlew. See under Stone.,
T as in Thickly (adv.) In a thick manner; deeply; closely.,
T as in Thickness (n.) The quality or state of being thick (in any of the senses of the adjective).,
T as in Thickset (a.) Close planted; as, a thickset wood; a thickset hedge.,
T as in Thickset (a.) Having a short, thick body; stout.,
T as in Thickset (n.) A close or thick hedge.,
T as in Thickset (n.) A stout, twilled cotton cloth; a fustian corduroy, or velveteen.,
T as in Thickskin (n.) A coarse, gross person; a person void of sensibility or sinsitiveness; a dullard.,
T as in Thick-skinned (a.) Having a thick skin; hence, not sensitive; dull; obtuse.,
T as in Thickskull (n.) A dullard, or dull person; a blockhead; a numskull.,
T as in Thick-skulled (a.) Having a thick skull; hence, dull; heavy; stupid; slow to learn.,
T as in Thick wind () A defect of respiration in a horse, that is unassociated with noise in breathing or with the signs of emphysema.,
T as in Thick-winded (a.) Affected with thick wind.,
T as in Thider (adv.) Thither.,
T as in Thiderward (adv.) Thitherward.,
T as in Thieves (pl. ) of Thief,
T as in Thief (n.) One who steals; one who commits theft or larceny. See Theft.,
T as in Thief (n.) A waster in the snuff of a candle.,
T as in Thiefly (a. & adv.) Like a thief; thievish; thievishly.,
T as in Thienone (n.) A ketone derivative of thiophene obtained as a white crystalline substance, (C4H3S)2.CO, by the action of aluminium chloride and carbonyl chloride on thiophene.,
T as in Thienyl (n.) The hypothetical radical C4H3S, regarded as the essential residue of thiophene and certain of its derivatives.,
T as in Thieved (imp. & p. p.) of Thieve,
T as in Thieving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Thieve,
T as in Thieve (v. t. & i.) To practice theft; to steal.,
T as in Thievery (n.) The practice of stealing; theft; thievishness.,
T as in Thievery (n.) That which is stolen.,
T as in Thievish (a.) Given to stealing; addicted to theft; as, a thievish boy, a thievish magpie.,
T as in Thievish (a.) Like a thief; acting by stealth; sly; secret.,
T as in Thievish (a.) Partaking of the nature of theft; accomplished by stealing; dishonest; as, a thievish practice.,
T as in Thigh (n.) The proximal segment of the hind limb between the knee and the trunk. See Femur.,
T as in Thigh (n.) The coxa, or femur, of an insect.,
T as in Thilk (pron.) That same; this; that.,
T as in Thill (n.) One of the two long pieces of wood, extending before a vehicle, between which a horse is hitched; a shaft.,
T as in Thill (n.) The floor of a coal mine.,
T as in Thiller (n.) The horse which goes between the thills, or shafts, and supports them; also, the last horse in a team; -- called also thill horse.,
T as in Thimble (n.) A kind of cap or cover, or sometimes a broad ring, for the end of the finger, used in sewing to protect the finger when pushing the needle through the material. It is usually made of metal, and has upon the outer surface numerous small pits to catch the head of the needle.,
T as in Thimble (n.) Any thimble-shaped appendage or fixure.,
T as in Thimble (n.) A tubular piece, generally a strut, through which a bolt or pin passes.,
T as in Thimble (n.) A fixed or movable ring, tube, or lining placed in a hole.,
T as in Thimble (n.) A tubular cone for expanding a flue; -- called ferrule in England.,
T as in Thimble (n.) A ring of thin metal formed with a grooved circumference so as to fit within an eye-spice, or the like, and protect it from chafing.,
T as in Thimbleberry (n.) A kind of black raspberry (Rubus occidentalis), common in America.,
T as in Thimbleeye (n.) The chub mackerel. See under Chub.,
T as in Thimblefuls (pl. ) of Thimbleful,
T as in Thimbleful (n.) As much as a thimble will hold; a very small quantity.,
T as in Thimblerig (n.) A sleight-of-hand trick played with three small cups, shaped like thimbles, and a small ball or little pea.,
T as in Thimblerigged (imp. & p. p.) of Thimblerig,
T as in Thimblerigging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Thimblerig,
T as in Thimblerig (v. t.) To swindle by means of small cups or thimbles, and a pea or small ball placed under one of them and quickly shifted to another, the victim laying a wager that he knows under which cup it is; hence, to cheat by any trick.,
T as in Thimblerigger (n.) One who cheats by thimblerigging, or tricks of legerdemain.,
T as in Thimbleweed (n.) Any plant of the composite genus Rudbeckia, coarse herbs somewhat resembling the sunflower; -- so called from their conical receptacles.,
T as in Thin (superl.) Having little thickness or extent from one surface to its opposite; as, a thin plate of metal; thin paper; a thin board; a thin covering.,
T as in Thin (superl.) Rare; not dense or thick; -- applied to fluids or soft mixtures; as, thin blood; thin broth; thin air.,
T as in Thin (superl.) Not close; not crowded; not filling the space; not having the individuals of which the thing is composed in a close or compact state; hence, not abundant; as, the trees of a forest are thin; the corn or grass is thin.,
T as in Thin (superl.) Not full or well grown; wanting in plumpness.,
T as in Thin (superl.) Not stout; slim; slender; lean; gaunt; as, a person becomes thin by disease.,
T as in Thin (superl.) Wanting in body or volume; small; feeble; not full.,
T as in Thin (superl.) Slight; small; slender; flimsy; wanting substance or depth or force; superficial; inadequate; not sufficient for a covering; as, a thin disguise.,
T as in Thin (adv.) Not thickly or closely; in a seattered state; as, seed sown thin.,
T as in Thinned (imp. & p. p.) of Thin,
T as in Thinning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Thin,
T as in Thin (v. t.) To make thin (in any of the senses of the adjective).,
T as in Thin (v. i.) To grow or become thin; -- used with some adverbs, as out, away, etc.; as, geological strata thin out, i. e., gradually diminish in thickness until they disappear.,
T as in Thine (pron. & a.) A form of the possessive case of the pronoun thou, now superseded in common discourse by your, the possessive of you, but maintaining a place in solemn discourse, in poetry, and in the usual language of the Friends, or Quakers.,
T as in Thing (n.) Whatever exists, or is conceived to exist, as a separate entity, whether animate or inanimate; any separable or distinguishable object of thought.,
T as in Thing (n.) An inanimate object, in distinction from a living being; any lifeless material.,
T as in Thing (n.) A transaction or occurrence; an event; a deed.,
T as in Thing (n.) A portion or part; something.,
T as in Thing (n.) A diminutive or slighted object; any object viewed as merely existing; -- often used in pity or contempt.,
T as in Thing (n.) Clothes; furniture; appurtenances; luggage; as, to pack or store one's things.,
T as in Thing (n.) Whatever may be possessed or owned; a property; -- distinguished from person.,
T as in Thing (n.) In Scandinavian countries, a legislative or judicial assembly.,
T as in Thought (imp. & p. p.) of Think,
T as in Thinking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Think,
T as in Think (v. t.) To seem or appear; -- used chiefly in the expressions methinketh or methinks, and methought.,
T as in Think (v. t.) To employ any of the intellectual powers except that of simple perception through the senses; to exercise the higher intellectual faculties.,
T as in Think (v. t.) To call anything to mind; to remember; as, I would have sent the books, but I did not think of it.,
T as in Think (v. t.) To reflect upon any subject; to muse; to meditate; to ponder; to consider; to deliberate.,
T as in Think (v. t.) To form an opinion by reasoning; to judge; to conclude; to believe; as, I think it will rain to-morrow.,
T as in Think (v. t.) To purpose; to intend; to design; to mean.,
T as in Think (v. t.) To presume; to venture.,
T as in Think (v. t.) To conceive; to imagine.,
T as in Think (v. t.) To plan or design; to plot; to compass.,
T as in Think (v. t.) To believe; to consider; to esteem.,
T as in Thinkable (a.) Capable of being thought or conceived; cogitable.,
T as in Thinker (n.) One who thinks; especially and chiefly, one who thinks in a particular manner; as, a close thinker; a deep thinker; a coherent thinker.,
T as in Thinking (a.) Having the faculty of thought; cogitative; capable of a regular train of ideas; as, man is a thinking being.,
T as in Thinking (n.) The act of thinking; mode of thinking; imagination; cogitation; judgment.,
T as in Thinly (a.) In a thin manner; in a loose, scattered manner; scantily; not thickly; as, ground thinly planted with trees; a country thinly inhabited.,
T as in Thinner (n.) One who thins, or makes thinner.,
T as in Thinness (n.) The quality or state of being thin (in any of the senses of the word).,
T as in Thinnish (a.) Somewhat thin.,
T as in Thinolite (n.) A calcareous tufa, in part crystalline, occurring on a large scale as a shore deposit about the Quaternary lake basins of Nevada.,
T as in Thin-skinned (a.) Having a thin skin; hence, sensitive; irritable.,
T as in Thio- () A combining form (also used adjectively) denoting the presence of sulphur. See Sulpho-.,
T as in Thiocarbonate (n.) A sulphocarbonate.,
T as in Thiocarbonic (a.) Same as Sulphocarbonic.,
T as in Thiocyanate (n.) Same as Sulphocyanate.,
T as in Thiocyanic (a.) Same as Sulphocyanic.,
T as in Thionaphthene (n.) A double benzene and thiophene nucleus, C8H6S, analogous to naphthalene, and like it the base of a large series of derivatives.,
T as in Thionic (a.) Of or pertaining to sulphur; containing or resembling sulphur; specifically, designating certain of the thio compounds; as, the thionic acids. Cf. Dithionic, Trithionic, Tetrathionic, etc.,
T as in Thionine (n.) An artificial red or violet dyestuff consisting of a complex sulphur derivative of certain aromatic diamines, and obtained as a dark crystalline powder; -- called also phenylene violet.,
T as in Thionol (n.) A red or violet dyestuff having a greenish metallic luster. It is produced artificially, by the chemical dehydration of thionine, as a brown amorphous powder.,
T as in Thionoline (n.) A beautiful fluorescent crystalline substance, intermediate in composition between thionol and thionine.,
T as in Thionyl (n.) The hypothetical radical SO, regarded as an essential constituent of certain sulphurous compounds; as, thionyl chloride.,
T as in Thiophene (n.) A sulphur hydrocarbon, C4H4S, analogous to furfuran and benzene, and acting as the base of a large number of substances which closely resemble the corresponding aromatic derivatives.,
T as in Thiophenic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or derived from, thiophene; specifically, designating a certain acid analogous to benzoic acid.,
T as in Thiophenol (n.) A colorless mobile liquid, C6H5.SH, of an offensive odor, and analogous to phenol; -- called also phenyl sulphydrate.,
T as in Thiophthene (n.) A double thiophene nucleus, C6H4S2, analogous to thionaphthene, and the base of a large series of compounds.,
T as in Thiosulphate (n.) A salt of thiosulphuric acid; -- formerly called hyposulphite.,
T as in Thiosulphuric (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, an unstable acid, H2S2O3, analogous to sulphuric acid, and formerly called hyposulphurous acid.,
T as in Thiotolene (n.) A colorless oily liquid, C4H3S.CH3, analogous to, and resembling, toluene; -- called also methyl thiophene.,
T as in Thioxene (n.) Any one of three possible metameric substances, which are dimethyl derivatives of thiophene, like the xylenes from benzene.,
T as in Third (a.) Next after the second; coming after two others; -- the ordinal of three; as, the third hour in the day.,
T as in Third (a.) Constituting or being one of three equal parts into which anything is divided; as, the third part of a day.,
T as in Third (n.) The quotient of a unit divided by three; one of three equal parts into which anything is divided.,
T as in Third (n.) The sixtieth part of a second of time.,
T as in Third (n.) The third tone of the scale; the mediant.,
T as in Third (n.) The third part of the estate of a deceased husband, which, by some local laws, the widow is entitled to enjoy during her life.,
T as in Third-borough (n.) An under constable.,
T as in Thirdings (n. pl.) The third part of the corn or grain growing on the ground at the tenant's death, due to the lord for a heriot, as within the manor of Turfat in Herefordshire.,
T as in Thirdly (adv.) In the third place.,
T as in Third-penny (n.) A third part of the profits of fines and penalties imposed at the country court, which was among the perquisites enjoyed by the earl.,
T as in Thirled (imp. & p. p.) of Thirl,
T as in Thirling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Thirl,
T as in Thirl (v. t.) To bore; to drill or thrill. See Thrill.,
T as in Thirlage (n.) The right which the owner of a mill possesses, by contract or law, to compel the tenants of a certain district, or of his sucken, to bring all their grain to his mill for grinding.,
T as in Thirst (n.) A sensation of dryness in the throat associated with a craving for liquids, produced by deprivation of drink, or by some other cause (as fear, excitement, etc.) which arrests the secretion of the pharyngeal mucous membrane; hence, the condition producing this sensation.,
T as in Thirst (n.) Fig.: A want and eager desire after anything; a craving or longing; -- usually with for, of, or after; as, the thirst for gold.,
T as in Thirsted (imp. & p. p.) of Thirst,
T as in Thirsting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Thirst,
T as in Thirst (n.) To feel thirst; to experience a painful or uneasy sensation of the throat or fauces, as for want of drink.,
T as in Thirst (n.) To have a vehement desire.,
T as in Thirst (v. t.) To have a thirst for.,
T as in Thirster (n.) One who thirsts.,
T as in Thirstily (adv.) In a thirsty manner.,
T as in Thirstiness (n.) The state of being thirsty; thirst.,
T as in Thirstle (n.) The throstle.,
T as in Thirsty (n.) Feeling thirst; having a painful or distressing sensation from want of drink; hence, having an eager desire.,
T as in Thirsty (n.) Deficient in moisture; dry; parched.,
T as in Thirteen (a.) One more than twelve; ten and three; as, thirteen ounces or pounds.,
T as in Thirteen (n.) The number greater by one than twelve; the sum of ten and three; thirteen units or objects.,
T as in Thirteen (n.) A symbol representing thirteen units, as 13 or xiii.,
T as in Thirteenth (a.) Next in order after the twelfth; the third after the tenth; -- the ordinal of thirteen; as, the thirteenth day of the month.,
T as in Thirteenth (a.) Constituting or being one of thirteen equal parts into which anything is divided.,
T as in Thirteenth (n.) The quotient of a unit divided by thirteen; one of thirteen equal parts into which anything is divided.,
T as in Thirteenth (n.) The next in order after the twelfth.,
T as in Thirteenth (n.) The interval comprising an octave and a sixth.,
T as in Thirtieth (a.) Next in order after the twenty-ninth; the tenth after the twentieth; -- the ordinal of thirty; as, the thirtieth day of the month.,
T as in Thirtieth (a.) Constituting or being one of thirty equal parts into which anything is divided.,
T as in Thirtieth (n.) The quotient of a unit divided by thirty; one of thirty equal parts.,
T as in Thirty (a.) Being three times ten; consisting of one more than twenty-nine; twenty and ten; as, the month of June consists of thirty days.,
T as in Thirties (pl. ) of Thirty,
T as in Thirty (n.) The sum of three tens, or twenty and ten; thirty units or objects.,
T as in Thirty (n.) A symbol expressing thirty, as 30, or XXX.,
T as in Thirty-second (a.) Being one of thirty-two equal parts into which anything is divided.,
T as in These (pl. ) of This,
T as in This (pron. & a.) As a demonstrative pronoun, this denotes something that is present or near in place or time, or something just mentioned, or that is just about to be mentioned.,
T as in This (pron. & a.) As an adjective, this has the same demonstrative force as the pronoun, but is followed by a noun; as, this book; this way to town.,
T as in Thistle (n.) Any one of several prickly composite plants, especially those of the genera Cnicus, Craduus, and Onopordon. The name is often also applied to other prickly plants.,
T as in Thistly (a.) Overgrown with thistles; as, thistly ground.,
T as in Thistly (a.) Fig.: Resembling a thistle or thistles; sharp; pricking.,
T as in Thither (adv.) To that place; -- opposed to hither.,
T as in Thither (adv.) To that point, end, or result; as, the argument tended thither.,
T as in Thither (a.) Being on the farther side from the person speaking; farther; -- a correlative of hither; as, on the thither side of the water.,
T as in Thither (a.) Applied to time: On the thither side of, older than; of more years than. See Hither, a.,
T as in Thitherto (adv.) To that point; so far.,
T as in Thitherward (adv.) To ward that place; in that direction.,
T as in Thitsee (n.) The varnish tree of Burmah (Melanorrhoea usitatissima).,
T as in Thitsee (n.) A black varnish obtained from the tree.,
T as in Thlipsis (n.) Compression, especially constriction of vessels by an external cause.,
T as in Tho (def. art.) The.,
T as in Tho (pron. pl.) Those.,
T as in Tho (adv.) Then.,
T as in Tho (conj.) Though.,
T as in Thole (n.) A wooden or metal pin, set in the gunwale of a boat, to serve as a fulcrum for the oar in rowing.,
T as in Thole (n.) The pin, or handle, of a scythe snath.,
T as in Tholed (imp. & p. p.) of Thole,
T as in Tholing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Thole,
T as in Thole (v. t.) To bear; to endure; to undergo.,
T as in Thole (v. i.) To wait.,
T as in Thomaean (n.) Alt. of Thomean,
T as in Thomean (n.) A member of the ancient church of Christians established on the Malabar coast of India, which some suppose to have been originally founded by the Apostle Thomas.,
T as in Thomism (n.) Alt. of Thomaism,
T as in Thomaism (n.) The doctrine of Thomas Aquinas, esp. with respect to predestination and grace.,
T as in Thomist (n.) A follower of Thomas Aquinas. See Scotist.,
T as in Thomite (n.) A Thomaean.,
T as in Thomsenolite (n.) A fluoride of aluminium, calcium, and sodium occurring with the cryolite of Greenland.,
T as in Thomsen's disease () An affection apparently congenital, consisting in tonic contraction and stiffness of the voluntary muscles occurring after a period of muscular inaction.,
T as in Thomsonian (a.) Of or pertaining to Thomsonianism.,
T as in Thomsonian (n.) A believer in Thomsonianism; one who practices Thomsonianism.,
T as in Thomsonianism (n.) An empirical system which assumes that the human body is composed of four elements, earth, air, fire, and water, and that vegetable medicines alone should be used; -- from the founder, Dr. Samuel Thomson, of Massachusetts.,
T as in Thomsonite (n.) A zeolitic mineral, occurring generally in masses of a radiated structure. It is a hydrous silicate of aluminia, lime, and soda. Called also mesole, and comptonite.,
T as in Thong (n.) A strap of leather; especially, one used for fastening anything.,
T as in Thooid (a.) Of or pertaining to a group of carnivores, including the wovels and the dogs.,
T as in Thor (n.) The god of thunder, and son of Odin.,
T as in Thoracentesis (n.) The operation of puncturing the chest wall so as to let out liquids contained in the cavity of the chest.,
T as in Thoracic (a.) Of or pertaining to the thorax, or chest.,
T as in Thoracic (n.) One of a group of fishes having the ventral fins placed beneath the thorax or beneath the pectorial fins.,
T as in Thoracica (n. pl.) A division of cirripeds including those which have six thoracic segments, usually bearing six pairs of cirri. The common barnacles are examples.,
T as in Thoracometer (n.) Same as Stethometer.,
T as in Thoracoplasty (n.) A remodeling or reshaping of the thorax; especially, the operation of removing the ribs, so as to obliterate the pleural cavity in cases of empyema.,
T as in Thoracostraca (a.) An extensive division of Crustacea, having a dorsal shield or carapec/ //niting all, or nearly all, of the thoracic somites to the head. It includes the crabs, lobsters, shrimps, and similar species.,
T as in Thoracotomy (n.) The operation of opening the pleural cavity by incision.,
T as in Thoral (a.) Of or pertaining to a bed.,
T as in Thorax (n.) The part of the trunk between the neck and the abdomen, containing that part of the body cavity the walls of which are supported by the dorsal vertebrae, the ribs, and the sternum, and which the heart and lungs are situated; the chest.,
T as in Thorax (n.) The middle region of the body of an insect, or that region which bears the legs and wings. It is composed of three united somites, each of which is composed of several distinct parts. See Illust. in Appendix. and Illust. of Coleoptera.,
T as in Thorax (n.) The second, or middle, region of the body of a crustacean, arachnid, or other articulate animal. In the case of decapod Crustacea, some writers include under the term thorax only the three segments bearing the maxillipeds; others include also the five segments bearing the legs. See Illust. in Appendix.,
T as in Thorax (n.) A breastplate, cuirass, or corselet; especially, the breastplate worn by the ancient Greeks.,
T as in Thoria (n.) A rare white earthy substance, consisting of the oxide of thorium; -- formerly called also thorina.,
T as in Thoric (a.) Of or pertaining to thorium; designating the compounds of thorium.,
T as in Thorite (n.) A mineral of a brown to black color, or, as in the variety orangite, orange-yellow. It is essentially a silicate of thorium.,
T as in Thorium (n.) A metallic element found in certain rare minerals, as thorite, pyrochlore, monazite, etc., and isolated as an infusible gray metallic powder which burns in the air and forms thoria; -- formerly called also thorinum. Symbol Th. Atomic weight 232.0.,
T as in Thorn (n.) A hard and sharp-pointed projection from a woody stem; usually, a branch so transformed; a spine.,
T as in Thorn (n.) Any shrub or small tree which bears thorns; especially, any species of the genus Crataegus, as the hawthorn, whitethorn, cockspur thorn.,
T as in Thorn (n.) Fig.: That which pricks or annoys as a thorn; anything troublesome; trouble; care.,
T as in Thorn (n.) The name of the Anglo-Saxon letter /, capital form /. It was used to represent both of the sounds of English th, as in thin, then. So called because it was the initial letter of thorn, a spine.,
T as in Thorn (v. t.) To prick, as with a thorn.,
T as in Thornback (n.) A European skate (Raia clavata) having thornlike spines on its back.,
T as in Thornback (n.) The large European spider crab or king crab (Maia squinado).,
T as in Thornbill (n.) Any one of several species of small, brilliantly colored American birds of the genus Rhamphomicron. They have a long, slender, sharp bill, and feed upon honey, insects, and the juice of the sugar cane.,
T as in Thornbird (n.) A small South American bird (Anumbius anumbii) allied to the ovenbirds of the genus Furnarius). It builds a very large and complex nest of twigs and thorns in a bush or tree.,
T as in Thornbut (n.) The turbot.,
T as in Thorn-headed (a.) Having a head armed with thorns or spines.,
T as in Thornless (a.) Destitute of, or free from, thorns.,
T as in Thornset (a.) Set with thorns.,
T as in Thorntail (n.) A beautiful South American humming bird (Gouldia Popelairii), having the six outer tail feathers long, slender, and pointed. The head is ornamented with a long, pointed crest.,
T as in Thorny (superl.) Full of thorns or spines; rough with thorns; spiny; as, a thorny wood; a thorny tree; a thorny crown.,
T as in Thorny (superl.) Like a thorn or thorns; hence, figuratively, troublesome; vexatious; harassing; perplexing.,
T as in Thoro (a.) Thorough.,
T as in Thorough (prep.) Through.,
T as in Thorough (a.) Passing through; as, thorough lights in a house.,
T as in Thorough (a.) Passing through or to the end; hence, complete; perfect; as, a thorough reformation; thorough work; a thorough translator; a thorough poet.,
T as in Thorough (adv.) Thoroughly.,
T as in Thorough (adv.) Through.,
T as in Thorough (n.) A furrow between two ridges, to drain off the surface water.,
T as in Thorough bass () The representation of chords by figures placed under the base; figured bass; basso continuo; -- sometimes used as synonymous with harmony.,
T as in Thorough-brace (n.) A leather strap supporting the body of a carriage, and attached to springs, or serving as a spring. See Illust. of Chaise.,
T as in Thoroughbred (a.) Bred from the best blood through a long line; pure-blooded; -- said of stock, as horses. Hence, having the characteristics of such breeding; mettlesome; courageous; of elegant form, or the like.,
T as in Thoroughbred (n.) A thoroughbred animal, especially a horse.,
T as in Thoroughfare (n.) A passage through; a passage from one street or opening to another; an unobstructed way open to the public; a public road; hence, a frequented street.,
T as in Thoroughfare (n.) A passing or going through; passage.,
T as in Thoroughgoing (a.) Going through, or to the end or bottom; very thorough; complete.,
T as in Thoroughgoing (a.) Going all lengths; extreme; thoroughplaced; -- less common in this sense.,
T as in Thorough-lighted (a.) Provided with thorough lights or windows at opposite sides, as a room or building.,
T as in Thoroughly (adv.) In a thorough manner; fully; entirely; completely.,
T as in Thoroughness (n.) The quality or state of being thorough; completeness.,
T as in Thoroughpaced (a.) Perfect in what is undertaken; complete; going all lengths; as, a thoroughplaced Tory or Whig.,
T as in Thoroughpin (n.) A disease of the hock (sometimes of the knee) of a horse, caused by inflammation of the synovial membrane and a consequent excessive secretion of the synovial fluid; -- probably so called because there is usually an oval swelling on each side of the leg, appearing somewhat as if a pin had been thrust through.,
T as in Thoroughsped (a.) Fully accomplished; thoroughplaced.,
T as in Thoroughstitch (adv.) So as to go the whole length of any business; fully; completely.,
T as in Thoroughwax (n.) An umbelliferous plant (Bupleurum rotundifolium) with perfoliate leaves.,
T as in Thoroughwax (n.) Thoroughwort.,
T as in Thoroughwort (n.) Same as Boneset.,
T as in Thorow (prep.) Through.,
T as in Thorow (a.) Thorough.,
T as in Thorp (n.) Alt. of Thorpe,
T as in Thorpe (n.) A group of houses in the country; a small village; a hamlet; a dorp; -- now chiefly occurring in names of places and persons; as, Althorp, Mablethorpe.,
T as in Those (pron.) The plural of that. See That.,
T as in Thoth (n.) The god of eloquence and letters among the ancient Egyptians, and supposed to be the inventor of writing and philosophy. He corresponded to the Mercury of the Romans, and was usually represented as a human figure with the head of an ibis or a lamb.,
T as in Thoth (n.) The Egyptian sacred baboon.,
T as in Thou (obj.) The second personal pronoun, in the singular number, denoting the person addressed; thyself; the pronoun which is used in addressing persons in the solemn or poetical style.,
T as in Thou (v. t.) To address as thou, esp. to do so in order to treat with insolent familiarity or contempt.,
T as in Thou (v. i.) To use the words thou and thee in discourse after the manner of the Friends.,
T as in Though (conj.) Granting, admitting, or supposing that; notwithstanding that; if.,
T as in Though (adv.) However; nevertheless; notwithstanding; -- used in familiar language, and in the middle or at the end of a sentence.,
T as in Thought () imp. & p. p. of Think.,
T as in Thought (n.) The act of thinking; the exercise of the mind in any of its higher forms; reflection; cogitation.,
T as in Thought (n.) Meditation; serious consideration.,
T as in Thought (n.) That which is thought; an idea; a mental conception, whether an opinion, judgment, fancy, purpose, or intention.,
T as in Thought (n.) Solicitude; anxious care; concern.,
T as in Thought (n.) A small degree or quantity; a trifle; as, a thought longer; a thought better.,
T as in Thoughtful (a.) Full of thought; employed in meditation; contemplative; as, a man of thoughtful mind.,
T as in Thoughtful (a.) Attentive; careful; exercising the judgment; having the mind directed to an object; as, thoughtful of gain; thoughtful in seeking truth.,
T as in Thoughtful (a.) Anxious; solicitous; concerned.,
T as in Thoughtless (adv.) Lacking thought; careless; inconsiderate; rash; as, a thoughtless person, or act.,
T as in Thoughtless (adv.) Giddy; gay; dissipated.,
T as in Thoughtless (adv.) Deficient in reasoning power; stupid; dull.,
T as in Thousand (n.) The number of ten hundred; a collection or sum consisting of ten times one hundred units or objects.,
T as in Thousand (n.) Hence, indefinitely, a great number.,
T as in Thousand (n.) A symbol representing one thousand units; as, 1,000, M or CI/.,
T as in Thousand (a.) Consisting of ten hundred; being ten times one hundred.,
T as in Thousand (a.) Hence, consisting of a great number indefinitely.,
T as in Thousandfold (a.) Multiplied by a thousand.,
T as in Thousand legs () A millepid, or galleyworm; -- called also thousand-legged worm.,
T as in Thousandth (a.) Next in order after nine hundred and ninty-nine; coming last of a thousand successive individuals or units; -- the ordinal of thousand; as, the thousandth part of a thing.,
T as in Thousandth (a.) Constituting, or being one of, a thousand equal parts into which anything is divided; the tenth of a hundredth.,
T as in Thousandth (a.) Occurring as being one of, or the last one of, a very great number; very small; minute; -- used hyperbolically; as, to do a thing for the thousandth time.,
T as in Thousandth (n.) The quotient of a unit divided by a thousand; one of a thousand equal parts into which a unit is divided.,
T as in Thowel (n.) Alt. of Thowl,
T as in Thowl (n.) A thole pin.,
T as in Thowl (n.) A rowlock.,
T as in Thracian (a.) Of or pertaining to Thrace, or its people.,
T as in Thracian (n.) A native or inhabitant of Thrace.,
T as in Thrack (v. t.) To load or burden; as, to thrack a man with property.,
T as in Thrackscat (n.) Metal still in the mine.,
T as in Thraldom (n.) The condition of a thrall; slavery; bondage; state of servitude.,
T as in Thrall (n.) A slave; a bondman.,
T as in Thrall (n.) Slavery; bondage; servitude; thraldom.,
T as in Thrall (n.) A shelf; a stand for barrels, etc.,
T as in Thrall (a.) Of or pertaining to a thrall; in the condition of a thrall; bond; enslaved.,
T as in Thrall (v. t.) To enslave.,
T as in Thralldom (n.) Thraldom.,
T as in Thrall-less (a.) Having no thralls.,
T as in Thrall-less (a.) Not enslaved; not subject to bonds.,
T as in Thrall-like (a.) Resembling a thrall, or his condition, feelings, or the like; slavish.,
T as in Thranite (n.) One of the rowers on the topmost of the three benches in a trireme.,
T as in Thrapple (n.) Windpipe; throttle.,
T as in Thrashed (imp. & p. p.) of Thresh,
T as in Thrashing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Thresh,
T as in Thrash (v. t.) Alt. of Thresh,
T as in Thresh (v. t.) To beat out grain from, as straw or husks; to beat the straw or husk of (grain) with a flail; to beat off, as the kernels of grain; as, to thrash wheat, rye, or oats; to thrash over the old straw.,
T as in Thresh (v. t.) To beat soundly, as with a stick or whip; to drub.,
T as in Thrash (v. t.) Alt. of Thresh,
T as in Thresh (v. t.) To practice thrashing grain or the like; to perform the business of beating grain from straw; as, a man who thrashes well.,
T as in Thresh (v. t.) Hence, to labor; to toil; also, to move violently.,
T as in Thrashel (n.) An instrument to thrash with; a flail.,
T as in Thrasher (n.) Alt. of Thresher,
T as in Thresher (n.) One who, or that which, thrashes grain; a thrashing machine.,
T as in Thresher (n.) A large and voracious shark (Alopias vulpes), remarkable for the great length of the upper lobe of its tail, with which it beats, or thrashes, its prey. It is found both upon the American and the European coasts. Called also fox shark, sea ape, sea fox, slasher, swingle-tail, and thrasher shark.,
T as in Thresher (n.) A name given to the brown thrush and other allied species. See Brown thrush.,
T as in Thrashing () a. & n. from Thrash, v.,
T as in Thrasonical (a.) Of or pertaining to Thraso; like, or becoming to, Thraso; bragging; boastful; vainglorious.,
T as in Thraste (imp.) of Thraste,
T as in Thrast (p. p.) of Thraste,
T as in Thraste (v. t.) To thrust.,
T as in Thrave (n.) Twenty-four (in some places, twelve) sheaves of wheat; a shock, or stook.,
T as in Thrave (n.) The number of two dozen; also, an indefinite number; a bunch; a company; a throng.,
T as in Thraw (n. & v.) See Throse.,
T as in Thread (n.) A very small twist of flax, wool, cotton, silk, or other fibrous substance, drawn out to considerable length; a compound cord consisting of two or more single yarns doubled, or joined together, and twisted.,
T as in Thread (n.) A filament, as of a flower, or of any fibrous substance, as of bark; also, a line of gold or silver.,
T as in Thread (n.) The prominent part of the spiral of a screw or nut; the rib. See Screw, n., 1.,
T as in Thread (n.) Fig.: Something continued in a long course or tenor; a,s the thread of life, or of a discourse.,
T as in Thread (n.) Fig.: Composition; quality; fineness.,
T as in Threaded (imp. & p. p.) of Thread,
T as in Threading (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Thread,
T as in Thread (v. t.) To pass a thread through the eye of; as, to thread a needle.,
T as in Thread (v. t.) To pass or pierce through as a narrow way; also, to effect or make, as one's way, through or between obstacles; to thrid.,
T as in Thread (v. t.) To form a thread, or spiral rib, on or in; as, to thread a screw or nut.,
T as in Threadbare (a.) Worn to the naked thread; having the nap worn off; threadbare clothes.,
T as in Threadbare (a.) Fig.: Worn out; as, a threadbare subject; stale topics and threadbare quotations.,
T as in Threadbareness (n.) The state of being threadbare.,
T as in Threaden (a.) Made of thread; as, threaden sails; a threaden fillet.,
T as in Threader (n.) A device for assisting in threading a needle.,
T as in Threader (n.) A tool or machine for forming a thread on a screw or in a nut.,
T as in Threadfin (n.) Any one of several species of fishes belonging to Polynemus and allied genera. They have numerous long pectoral filaments.,
T as in Threadfish (n.) The cutlass fish.,
T as in Threadfish (n.) A carangoid fish (Caranx gallus, or C. crinitus) having the anterior rays of the soft dorsal and anal fins prolonged in the form of long threads.,
T as in Threadiness (n.) Quality of being thready.,
T as in Thread-shaped (a.) Having the form of a thread; filiform.,
T as in Threadworm (n.) Any long, slender nematode worm, especially the pinworm and filaria.,
T as in Thready (a.) Like thread or filaments; slender; as, the thready roots of a shrub.,
T as in Thready (a.) Containing, or consisting of, thread.,
T as in Threaped (imp. & p. p.) of Threap,
T as in Threaping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Threap,
T as in Threap (v. t.) To call; to name.,
T as in Threap (v. t.) To maintain obstinately against denial or contradiction; also, to contend or argue against (another) with obstinacy; to chide; as, he threaped me down that it was so.,
T as in Threap (v. t.) To beat, or thrash.,
T as in Threap (v. t.) To cozen, or cheat.,
T as in Threap (v. i.) To contend obstinately; to be pertinacious.,
T as in Threap (n.) An obstinate decision or determination; a pertinacious affirmation.,
T as in Threat (n.) The expression of an intention to inflict evil or injury on another; the declaration of an evil, loss, or pain to come; menace; threatening; denunciation.,
T as in Threat (n.) To threaten.,
T as in Threatened (imp. & p. p.) of Threaten,
T as in Threatening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Threaten,
T as in Threaten (v. t.) To utter threats against; to menace; to inspire with apprehension; to alarm, or attempt to alarm, as with the promise of something evil or disagreeable; to warn.,
T as in Threaten (v. t.) To exhibit the appearance of (something evil or unpleasant) as approaching; to indicate as impending; to announce the conditional infliction of; as, to threaten war; to threaten death.,
T as in Threaten (v. i.) To use threats, or menaces; also, to have a threatening appearance.,
T as in Threatener (n.) One who threatens.,
T as in Threatening () a. & n. from Threaten, v.,
T as in Threatful (a.) Full of threats; having a menacing appearance.,
T as in Threave (n.) Same as Thrave.,
T as in Three (a.) One more than two; two and one.,
T as in Three (n.) The number greater by a unit than two; three units or objects.,
T as in Three (n.) A symbol representing three units, as 3 or iii.,
T as in Three-coat (a.) Having or consisting of three coats; -- applied to plastering which consists of pricking-up, floating, and a finishing coat; or, as called in the United States, a scratch coat, browning, and finishing coat.,
T as in Three-cornered (a.) Having three corners, or angles; as, a three-cornered hat.,
T as in Three-cornered (a.) Having three prominent longitudinal angles; as, a three-cornered stem.,
T as in Three-decker (n.) A vessel of war carrying guns on three decks.,
T as in Three-flowered (a.) Bearing three flowers together, or only three flowers.,
T as in Threefold (a.) Consisting of three, or thrice repeated; triple; as, threefold justice.,
T as in Three-handed (a.) Said of games or contests where three persons play against each other, or two against one; as, a three-handed game of cards.,
T as in Three-leafed (a.) Alt. of Three-leaved,
T as in Three-leaved (a.) Producing three leaves; as, three-leaved nightshade.,
T as in Three-leaved (a.) Consisting of three distinct leaflets; having the leaflets arranged in threes.,
T as in Three-lobed (a.) Having three lobes.,
T as in Three-nerved (a.) Having three nerves.,
T as in Three-parted (a.) Divided into, or consisting of, three parts; tripartite.,
T as in Threepence (n.) A small silver coin of three times the value of a penny.,
T as in Threepenny (a.) Costing or worth three pence; hence, worth but little; poor; mean.,
T as in Three-pile (n.) An old name for the finest and most costly kind of velvet, having a fine, thick pile.,
T as in Three-piled (a.) Having the quality of three-pile; best; most costly.,
T as in Three-piled (a.) Fig.: Extravagant; exaggerated; high-flown.,
T as in Three-piled (a.) Accustomed to wearing three-pile; hence, of high rank, or wealth.,
T as in Three-ply (a.) Consisting of three distinct webs inwrought together in weaving, as cloth or carpeting; having three strands; threefold.,
T as in Three-pointed (a.) Having three acute or setigerous points; tricuspidate.,
T as in Three-quarter (a.) Measuring thirty inches by twenty-five; -- said of portraitures.,
T as in Three-score (a.) Thrice twenty; sixty.,
T as in Three-sided (a.) Having three sides, especially three plane sides; as, a three-sided stem, leaf, petiole, peduncle, scape, or pericarp.,
T as in Three-square (a.) Having a cross section in the form of an equilateral triangle; -- said especially of a kind of file.,
T as in Three-valved (a.) Consisting of, or having, three valves; opening with three valves; as, a three-valved pericarp.,
T as in Three-way (a.) Connected with, or serving to connect, three channels or pipes; as, a three-way cock or valve.,
T as in Threne (n.) Lamentation; threnody; a dirge.,
T as in Threnetic (a.) Alt. of Threnetical,
T as in Threnetical (a.) Pertaining to a threne; sorrowful; mournful.,
T as in Threnode (n.) A threne, or threnody; a dirge; a funeral song.,
T as in Threnodist (n.) One who composes, delivers, or utters, a threnode, or threnody.,
T as in Threnody (n.) A song of lamentation; a threnode.,
T as in Threpe (v. t.) To call; to term.,
T as in Threpsology (n.) The doctrine of nutrition; a treatise on nutrition.,
T as in Threshed (imp. & p. p.) of Thresh,
T as in Threshing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Thresh,
T as in Thresh (v. t. & i.) Same as Thrash.,
T as in Thresher (n.) Same as Thrasher.,
T as in Thresh-fold (n.) Threshold.,
T as in Threshold (n.) The plank, stone, or piece of timber, which lies under a door, especially of a dwelling house, church, temple, or the like; the doorsill; hence, entrance; gate; door.,
T as in Threshold (n.) Fig.: The place or point of entering or beginning, entrance; outset; as, the threshold of life.,
T as in Threshwold (n.) Threshold.,
T as in Threste (imp.) of Threste,
T as in Threst (p. p. &) of Threste,
T as in Threste (v. t.) To thrust.,
T as in Thretteen (a.) Thirteen.,
T as in Thretty (a.) Thirty.,
T as in Threw () imp. of Throw.,
T as in Thribble (a.) Triple; treble; threefold.,
T as in Thrice (adv.) Three times.,
T as in Thrice (adv.) In a threefold manner or degree; repeatedly; very.,
T as in Thricecock (n.) The missel thrush.,
T as in Thrid (a.) Third.,
T as in Thridded (imp. & p. p.) of Thrid,
T as in Thridding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Thrid,
T as in Thrid (v. t.) To pass through in the manner of a thread or a needle; to make or find a course through; to thread.,
T as in Thrid (v. t.) To make or effect (a way or course) through something; as, to thrid one's way through a wood.,
T as in Thrid (n.) Thread; continuous line.,
T as in Thrifallow (v. t.) See Thryfallow, and Trifallow.,
T as in Thrift (n.) A thriving state; good husbandry; economical management in regard to property; frugality.,
T as in Thrift (n.) Success and advance in the acquisition of property; increase of worldly goods; gain; prosperity.,
T as in Thrift (n.) Vigorous growth, as of a plant.,
T as in Thrift (n.) One of several species of flowering plants of the genera Statice and Armeria.,
T as in Thriftily (adv.) In a thrifty manner.,
T as in Thriftily (adv.) Carefully; properly; becomingly.,
T as in Thriftiness (n.) The quality or state of being thrifty; thrift.,
T as in Thriftless (a.) Without thrift; not prudent or prosperous in money affairs.,
T as in Thrifty (superl.) Given to, or evincing, thrift; characterized by economy and good menegement of property; sparing; frugal.,
T as in Thrifty (superl.) Thriving by industry and frugality; prosperous in the acquisition of worldly goods; increasing in wealth; as, a thrifty farmer or mechanic.,
T as in Thrifty (superl.) Growing rapidly or vigorously; thriving; as, a thrifty plant or colt.,
T as in Thrifty (superl.) Secured by thrift; well husbanded.,
T as in Thrifty (superl.) Well appearing; looking or being in good condition; becoming.,
T as in Thrill (n.) A warbling; a trill.,
T as in Thrill (v. t.) A breathing place or hole; a nostril, as of a bird.,
T as in Thrilled (imp. & p. p.) of Thrill,
T as in Thrilling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Thrill,
T as in Thrill (v. t.) To perforate by a pointed instrument; to bore; to transfix; to drill.,
T as in Thrill (v. t.) Hence, to affect, as if by something that pierces or pricks; to cause to have a shivering, throbbing, tingling, or exquisite sensation; to pierce; to penetrate.,
T as in Thrill (v. t.) To hurl; to throw; to cast.,
T as in Thrill (v. i.) To pierce, as something sharp; to penetrate; especially, to cause a tingling sensation that runs through the system with a slight shivering; as, a sharp sound thrills through the whole frame.,
T as in Thrill (v. i.) To feel a sharp, shivering, tingling, or exquisite sensation, running through the body.,
T as in Thrill (n.) A drill. See 3d Drill, 1.,
T as in Thrill (n.) A sensation as of being thrilled; a tremulous excitement; as, a thrill of horror; a thrill of joy.,
T as in Thrillant (a.) Piercing; sharp; thrilling.,
T as in Thrilling (a.) Causing a thrill; causing tremulous excitement; deeply moving; as, a thrilling romance.,
T as in Throng (imp.) of Thring,
T as in Thring (v. t. & i.) To press, crowd, or throng.,
T as in Thrips (n.) Any one of numerous small species of Thysanoptera, especially those which attack useful plants, as the grain thrips (Thrips cerealium).,
T as in Thrist (n.) Thrist.,
T as in Thrittene (a.) Thirteen.,
T as in Throve (imp.) of Thrive,
T as in Thrived () of Thrive,
T as in Thrived (p. p.) of Thrive,
T as in Thriven () of Thrive,
T as in Thriving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Thrive,
T as in Thrive (v. i.) To prosper by industry, economy, and good management of property; to increase in goods and estate; as, a farmer thrives by good husbandry.,
T as in Thrive (v. i.) To prosper in any business; to have increase or success.,
T as in Thrive (v. i.) To increase in bulk or stature; to grow vigorously or luxuriantly, as a plant; to flourish; as, young cattle thrive in rich pastures; trees thrive in a good soil.,
T as in Thriven () p. p. of Thrive.,
T as in Thriver (n.) One who thrives, or prospers.,
T as in Thrivingly (adv.) In a thriving manner.,
T as in Thrivingness (n.) The quality or condition of one who thrives; prosperity; growth; increase.,
T as in Thro' () A contraction of Through.,
T as in Throat (n.) The part of the neck in front of, or ventral to, the vertebral column.,
T as in Throat (n.) Hence, the passage through it to the stomach and lungs; the pharynx; -- sometimes restricted to the fauces.,
T as in Throat (n.) A contracted portion of a vessel, or of a passage way; as, the throat of a pitcher or vase.,
T as in Throat (n.) The part of a chimney between the gathering, or portion of the funnel which contracts in ascending, and the flue.,
T as in Throat (n.) The upper fore corner of a boom-and-gaff sail, or of a staysail.,
T as in Throat (n.) That end of a gaff which is next the mast.,
T as in Throat (n.) The angle where the arm of an anchor is joined to the shank.,
T as in Throat (n.) The inside of a timber knee.,
T as in Throat (n.) The orifice of a tubular organ; the outer end of the tube of a monopetalous corolla; the faux, or fauces.,
T as in Throat (v. t.) To utter in the throat; to mutter; as, to throat threats.,
T as in Throat (v. t.) To mow, as beans, in a direction against their bending.,
T as in Throatband (n.) Same as Throatlatch.,
T as in Throatboll (n.) The Adam's apple in the neck.,
T as in Throating (n.) A drip, or drip molding.,
T as in Throatlatch (n.) A strap of a bridle, halter, or the like, passing under a horse's throat.,
T as in Throatwort (n.) A plant (Campanula Trachelium) formerly considered a remedy for sore throats because of its throat-shaped corolla.,
T as in Throaty (a.) Guttural; hoarse; having a guttural voice.,
T as in Throbbed (imp. & p. p.) of Throb,
T as in Throbbing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Throb,
T as in Throb (v. i.) To beat, or pulsate, with more than usual force or rapidity; to beat in consequence of agitation; to palpitate; -- said of the heart, pulse, etc.,
T as in Throb (n.) A beat, or strong pulsation, as of the heart and arteries; a violent beating; a papitation:,
T as in Throdden (v. i.) To grow; to thrive.,
T as in Throe (n.) Extreme pain; violent pang; anguish; agony; especially, one of the pangs of travail in childbirth, or purturition.,
T as in Throe (n.) A tool for splitting wood into shingles; a frow.,
T as in Throe (v. i.) To struggle in extreme pain; to be in agony; to agonize.,
T as in Throe (v. t.) To put in agony.,
T as in Thrombosis (n.) The obstruction of a blood vessel by a clot formed at the site of obstruction; -- distinguished from embolism, which is produced by a clot or foreign body brought from a distance.,
T as in Thrombi (pl. ) of Thrombus,
T as in Thrombus (n.) A clot of blood formed of a passage of a vessel and remaining at the site of coagulation.,
T as in Thrombus (n.) A tumor produced by the escape of blood into the subcutaneous cellular tissue.,
T as in Throne (n.) A chair of state, commonly a royal seat, but sometimes the seat of a prince, bishop, or other high dignitary.,
T as in Throne (n.) Hence, sovereign power and dignity; also, the one who occupies a throne, or is invested with sovereign authority; an exalted or dignified personage.,
T as in Throne (n.) A high order of angels in the celestial hierarchy; -- a meaning given by the schoolmen.,
T as in Throned (imp. & p. p.) of Throne,
T as in Throning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Throne,
T as in Throne (v. t.) To place on a royal seat; to enthrone.,
T as in Throne (v. t.) To place in an elevated position; to give sovereignty or dominion to; to exalt.,
T as in Throne (v. i.) To be in, or sit upon, a throne; to be placed as if upon a throne.,
T as in Throneless (a.) Having no throne.,
T as in Throng (n.) A multitude of persons or of living beings pressing or pressed into a close body or assemblage; a crowd.,
T as in Throng (n.) A great multitude; as, the heavenly throng.,
T as in Thronged (imp. & p. p.) of Throng,
T as in Thronging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Throng,
T as in Throng (v. i.) To crowd together; to press together into a close body, as a multitude of persons; to gather or move in multitudes.,
T as in Throng (v. t.) To crowd, or press, as persons; to oppress or annoy with a crowd of living beings.,
T as in Throng (v. t.) To crowd into; to fill closely by crowding or pressing into, as a hall or a street.,
T as in Throng (a.) Thronged; crowded; also, much occupied; busy.,
T as in Throngly (adv.) In throngs or crowds.,
T as in Throp (n.) A thorp.,
T as in Thropple (n.) The windpipe.,
T as in Thropple (v. t.) To throttle.,
T as in Throstle (n.) The song thrush. See under Song.,
T as in Throstle (n.) A machine for spinning wool, cotton, etc., from the rove, consisting of a set of drawing rollers with bobbins and flyers, and differing from the mule in having the twisting apparatus stationary and the processes continuous; -- so called because it makes a singing noise.,
T as in Throstling (n.) A disease of bovine cattle, consisting of a swelling under the throat, which, unless checked, causes strangulation.,
T as in Throttle (n.) The windpipe, or trachea; the weasand.,
T as in Throttle (n.) The throttle valve.,
T as in Throttled (imp. & p. p.) of Throttle,
T as in Throttling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Throttle,
T as in Throttle (v. t.) To compress the throat of; to choke; to strangle.,
T as in Throttle (v. t.) To utter with breaks and interruption, in the manner of a person half suffocated.,
T as in Throttle (v. t.) To shut off, or reduce flow of, as steam to an engine.,
T as in Throttle (v. i.) To have the throat obstructed so as to be in danger of suffocation; to choke; to suffocate.,
T as in Throttle (v. i.) To breathe hard, as when nearly suffocated.,
T as in Throttler (n.) One who, or that which, throttles, or chokes.,
T as in Throttler (n.) See Flasher, 3 (b).,
T as in Through (prep.) From end to end of, or from side to side of; from one surface or limit of, to the opposite; into and out of at the opposite, or at another, point; as, to bore through a piece of timber, or through a board; a ball passes through the side of a ship.,
T as in Through (prep.) Between the sides or walls of; within; as, to pass through a door; to go through an avenue.,
T as in Through (prep.) By means of; by the agency of.,
T as in Through (prep.) Over the whole surface or extent of; as, to ride through the country; to look through an account.,
T as in Through (prep.) Among or in the midst of; -- used to denote passage; as, a fish swims through the water; the light glimmers through a thicket.,
T as in Through (prep.) From the beginning to the end of; to the end or conclusion of; as, through life; through the year.,
T as in Through (adv.) From one end or side to the other; as, to pierce a thing through.,
T as in Through (adv.) From beginning to end; as, to read a letter through.,
T as in Through (adv.) To the end; to a conclusion; to the ultimate purpose; as, to carry a project through.,
T as in Through (a.) Going or extending through; going, extending, or serving from the beginning to the end; thorough; complete; as, a through line; a through ticket; a through train. Also, admitting of passage through; as, a through bridge.,
T as in Throughly (adv.) Thoroughly.,
T as in Throughout (prep.) Quite through; from one extremity to the other of; also, every part of; as, to search throughout the house.,
T as in Throughout (adv.) In every part; as, the cloth was of a piece throughout.,
T as in Throve () imp. of Thrive.,
T as in Throw (n.) Pain; especially, pain of travail; throe.,
T as in Throw (n.) Time; while; space of time; moment; trice.,
T as in Threw (imp.) of Throw,
T as in Thrown (p. p.) of Throw,
T as in Throwing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Throw,
T as in Throw (v. t.) To fling, cast, or hurl with a certain whirling motion of the arm, to throw a ball; -- distinguished from to toss, or to bowl.,
T as in Throw (v. t.) To fling or cast in any manner; to drive to a distance from the hand or from an engine; to propel; to send; as, to throw stones or dust with the hand; a cannon throws a ball; a fire engine throws a stream of water to extinguish flames.,
T as in Throw (v. t.) To drive by violence; as, a vessel or sailors may be thrown upon a rock.,
T as in Throw (v. t.) To cause to take a strategic position; as, he threw a detachment of his army across the river.,
T as in Throw (v. t.) To overturn; to prostrate in wrestling; as, a man throws his antagonist.,
T as in Throw (v. t.) To cast, as dice; to venture at dice.,
T as in Throw (v. t.) To put on hastily; to spread carelessly.,
T as in Throw (v. t.) To divest or strip one's self of; to put off.,
T as in Throw (v. t.) To form or shape roughly on a throwing engine, or potter's wheel, as earthen vessels.,
T as in Throw (v. t.) To give forcible utterance to; to cast; to vent.,
T as in Throw (v. t.) To bring forth; to produce, as young; to bear; -- said especially of rabbits.,
T as in Throw (v. t.) To twist two or more filaments of, as silk, so as to form one thread; to twist together, as singles, in a direction contrary to the twist of the singles themselves; -- sometimes applied to the whole class of operations by which silk is prepared for the weaver.,
T as in Throw (v. i.) To perform the act of throwing or casting; to cast; specifically, to cast dice.,
T as in Throw (n.) The act of hurling or flinging; a driving or propelling from the hand or an engine; a cast.,
T as in Throw (n.) A stroke; a blow.,
T as in Throw (n.) The distance which a missile is, or may be, thrown; as, a stone's throw.,
T as in Throw (n.) A cast of dice; the manner in which dice fall when cast; as, a good throw.,
T as in Throw (n.) An effort; a violent sally.,
T as in Throw (n.) The extreme movement given to a sliding or vibrating reciprocating piece by a cam, crank, eccentric, or the like; travel; stroke; as, the throw of a slide valve. Also, frequently, the length of the radius of a crank, or the eccentricity of an eccentric; as, the throw of the crank of a steam engine is equal to half the stroke of the piston.,
T as in Throw (n.) A potter's wheel or table; a jigger. See 2d Jigger, 2 (a).,
T as in Throw (n.) A turner's lathe; a throwe.,
T as in Throw (n.) The amount of vertical displacement produced by a fault; -- according to the direction it is designated as an upthrow, or a downthrow.,
T as in Throw-crook (n.) An instrument used for twisting ropes out of straw.,
T as in Throwe (n.) A turning lathe.,
T as in Thrower (n.) One who throws. Specifically: (a) One who throws or twists silk; a throwster. (b) One who shapes vessels on a throwing engine.,
T as in Throwing () a. & n. from Throw, v.,
T as in Thrown () a. & p. p. from Throw, v.,
T as in Throw-off (n.) A start in a hunt or a race.,
T as in Throwster (n.) One who throws or twists silk; a thrower.,
T as in Thru (prep., adv. & a.) Through.,
T as in Thrum (n.) One of the ends of weaver's threads; hence, any soft, short threads or tufts resembling these.,
T as in Thrum (n.) Any coarse yarn; an unraveled strand of rope.,
T as in Thrum (n.) A threadlike part of a flower; a stamen.,
T as in Thrum (n.) A shove out of place; a small displacement or fault along a seam.,
T as in Thrum (n.) A mat made of canvas and tufts of yarn.,
T as in Thrummed (imp. & p. p.) of Thrum,
T as in Thrumming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Thrum,
T as in Thrum (v. t.) To furnish with thrums; to insert tufts in; to fringe.,
T as in Thrum (v. t.) To insert short pieces of rope-yarn or spun yarn in; as, to thrum a piece of canvas, or a mat, thus making a rough or tufted surface.,
T as in Thrum (v. i.) To play rudely or monotonously on a stringed instrument with the fingers; to strum.,
T as in Thrum (v. i.) Hence, to make a monotonous drumming noise; as, to thrum on a table.,
T as in Thrum (v. t.) To play, as a stringed instrument, in a rude or monotonous manner.,
T as in Thrum (v. t.) Hence, to drum on; to strike in a monotonous manner; to thrum the table.,
T as in Thrum-eyed (a.) Having the anthers raised above the stigma, and visible at the throat of the corolla, as in long-stamened primroses; -- the reverse of pin-eyed.,
T as in Thrummy (a.) Like thrums; made of, furnished with, or characterized by, thrums.,
T as in Thrumwort (n.) A kind of amaranth (Amarantus caudatus).,
T as in Thruout () Throughout.,
T as in Thrush (n.) Any one of numerous species of singing birds belonging to Turdus and allied genera. They are noted for the sweetness of their songs.,
T as in Thrush (n.) Any one of numerous species of singing birds more or less resembling the true thrushes in appearance or habits; as the thunderbird and the American brown thrush (or thrasher). See Brown thrush.,
T as in Thrush (n.) An affection of the mouth, fauces, etc., common in newly born children, characterized by minute ulcers called aphthae. See Aphthae.,
T as in Thrush (n.) An inflammatory and suppurative affection of the feet in certain animals. In the horse it is in the frog.,
T as in Thrushel (n.) The song thrush.,
T as in Thrusher (n.) The song thrush.,
T as in Thrust (n. & v.) Thrist.,
T as in Thrust (imp. & p. p.) of Thrust,
T as in Thrusting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Thrust,
T as in Thrust (v. t.) To push or drive with force; to drive, force, or impel; to shove; as, to thrust anything with the hand or foot, or with an instrument.,
T as in Thrust (v. t.) To stab; to pierce; -- usually with through.,
T as in Thrust (v. i.) To make a push; to attack with a pointed weapon; as, a fencer thrusts at his antagonist.,
T as in Thrust (v. i.) To enter by pushing; to squeeze in.,
T as in Thrust (v. i.) To push forward; to come with force; to press on; to intrude.,
T as in Thrust (n.) A violent push or driving, as with a pointed weapon moved in the direction of its length, or with the hand or foot, or with any instrument; a stab; -- a word much used as a term of fencing.,
T as in Thrust (n.) An attack; an assault.,
T as in Thrust (n.) The force or pressure of one part of a construction against other parts; especially (Arch.), a horizontal or diagonal outward pressure, as of an arch against its abutments, or of rafters against the wall which support them.,
T as in Thrust (n.) The breaking down of the roof of a gallery under its superincumbent weight.,
T as in Thruster (n.) One who thrusts or stabs.,
T as in Thrusting (n.) The act of pushing with force.,
T as in Thrusting (n.) The act of squeezing curd with the hand, to expel the whey.,
T as in Thrusting (n.) The white whey, or that which is last pressed out of the curd by the hand, and of which butter is sometimes made.,
T as in Thrustle (n.) The throstle, or song thrust.,
T as in Thryes (a.) Thrice.,
T as in Thryfallow (v. t.) To plow for the third time in summer; to trifallow.,
T as in Thud (n.) A dull sound without resonance, like that produced by striking with, or striking against, some comparatively soft substance; also, the stroke or blow producing such sound; as, the thrud of a cannon ball striking the earth.,
T as in Thug (n.) One of an association of robbers and murderers in India who practiced murder by stealthy approaches, and from religious motives. They have been nearly exterminated by the British government.,
T as in Thuggee (n.) The practice of secret or stealthy murder by Thugs.,
T as in Thuggery (n.) Alt. of Thuggism,
T as in Thuggism (n.) Thuggee.,
T as in Thuja (n.) A genus of evergreen trees, thickly branched, remarkable for the distichous arrangement of their branches, and having scalelike, closely imbricated, or compressed leaves.,
T as in Thule (n.) The name given by ancient geographers to the northernmost part of the habitable world. According to some, this land was Norway, according to others, Iceland, or more probably Mainland, the largest of the Shetland islands; hence, the Latin phrase ultima Thule, farthest Thule.,
T as in Thulia (n.) Oxide of thulium.,
T as in Thulium (n.) A rare metallic element of uncertain properties and identity, said to have been found in the mineral gadolinite.,
T as in Thumb (n.) The short, thick first digit of the human hand, differing from the other fingers in having but two phalanges; the pollex. See Pollex.,
T as in Thumbed (imp. & p. p.) of Thumb,
T as in Thumbing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Thumb,
T as in Thumb (v. t.) To handle awkwardly.,
T as in Thumb (v. t.) To play with the thumbs, or with the thumbs and fingers; as, to thumb over a tune.,
T as in Thumb (v. t.) To soil or wear with the thumb or the fingers; to soil, or wear out, by frequent handling; also, to cover with the thumb; as, to thumb the touch-hole of a cannon.,
T as in Thumb (v. i.) To play with the thumb or thumbs; to play clumsily; to thrum.,
T as in Thumbbird (n.) The goldcrest.,
T as in Thumbed (a.) Having thumbs.,
T as in Thumbed (a.) Soiled by handling.,
T as in Thumbkin (n.) An instrument of torture for compressing the thumb; a thumbscrew.,
T as in Thumbless (a.) Without a thumb.,
T as in Thumbscrew (n.) A screw having a flat-sided or knurled head, so that it may be turned by the thumb and forefinger.,
T as in Thumbscrew (n.) An old instrument of torture for compressing the thumb by a screw; a thumbkin.,
T as in Thummie (n.) The chiff-chaff.,
T as in Thummim (n. pl.) A mysterious part or decoration of the breastplate of the Jewish high priest. See the note under Urim.,
T as in Thump (n.) The sound made by the sudden fall or blow of a heavy body, as of a hammer, or the like.,
T as in Thump (n.) A blow or knock, as with something blunt or heavy; a heavy fall.,
T as in Thumped (imp. & p. p.) of Thump,
T as in Thumping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Thump,
T as in Thump (v. t.) To strike or beat with something thick or heavy, or so as to cause a dull sound.,
T as in Thump (v. i.) To give a thump or thumps; to strike or fall with a heavy blow; to pound.,
T as in Thumper (n.) One who, or that which, thumps.,
T as in Thumping (a.) Heavy; large.,
T as in Thunder (n.) The sound which follows a flash of lightning; the report of a discharge of atmospheric electricity.,
T as in Thunder (n.) The discharge of electricity; a thunderbolt.,
T as in Thunder (n.) Any loud noise; as, the thunder of cannon.,
T as in Thunder (n.) An alarming or statrling threat or denunciation.,
T as in Thundered (imp. & p. p.) of Thunder,
T as in Thundering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Thunder,
T as in Thunder (n.) To produce thunder; to sound, rattle, or roar, as a discharge of atmospheric electricity; -- often used impersonally; as, it thundered continuously.,
T as in Thunder (n.) Fig.: To make a loud noise; esp. a heavy sound, of some continuance.,
T as in Thunder (n.) To utter violent denunciation.,
T as in Thunder (v. t.) To emit with noise and terror; to utter vehemently; to publish, as a threat or denunciation.,
T as in Thunderbird (n.) An Australian insectivorous singing bird (Pachycephala gutturalis). The male is conspicuously marked with black and yellow, and has a black crescent on the breast. Called also white-throated thickhead, orange-breasted thrust, black-crowned thrush, guttural thrush, and black-breasted flycatcher.,
T as in Thunderbolt (n.) A shaft of lightning; a brilliant stream of electricity passing from one part of the heavens to another, or from the clouds to the earth.,
T as in Thunderbolt (n.) Something resembling lightning in suddenness and effectiveness.,
T as in Thunderbolt (n.) Vehement threatening or censure; especially, ecclesiastical denunciation; fulmination.,
T as in Thunderbolt (n.) A belemnite, or thunderstone.,
T as in Thunderburst (n.) A burst of thunder.,
T as in Thunderclap (n.) A sharp burst of thunder; a sudden report of a discharge of atmospheric electricity.,
T as in Thundercloud (n.) A cloud charged with electricity, and producing lightning and thunder.,
T as in Thunderer (n.) One who thunders; -- used especially as a translation of L. tonans, an epithet applied by the Romans to several of their gods, esp. to Jupiter.,
T as in Thunderfish (n.) A large European loach (Misgurnus fossilis).,
T as in Thunderhead (n.) A rounded mass of cloud, with shining white edges; a cumulus, -- often appearing before a thunderstorm.,
T as in Thundering (a.) Emitting thunder.,
T as in Thundering (a.) Very great; -- often adverbially.,
T as in Thundering (n.) Thunder.,
T as in Thunderless (a.) Without thunder or noise.,
T as in Thunderous (a.) Producing thunder.,
T as in Thunderous (a.) Making a noise like thunder; sounding loud and deep; sonorous.,
T as in Thunderproof (a.) Secure against the effects of thunder or lightning.,
T as in Thundershower (n.) A shower accompanied with lightning and thunder.,
T as in Thunderstone (n.) A thunderbolt, -- formerly believed to be a stone.,
T as in Thunderstone (n.) A belemnite. See Belemnite.,
T as in Thunderstorm (n.) A storm accompanied with lightning and thunder.,
T as in Thunderstruck (imp.) of Thunderstrike,
T as in Thunderstruck (p. p.) of Thunderstrike,
T as in -strucken () of Thunderstrike,
T as in Thunderstriking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Thunderstrike,
T as in Thunderstrike (v. t.) To strike, blast, or injure by, or as by, lightning.,
T as in Thunderstrike (v. t.) To astonish, or strike dumb, as with something terrible; -- rarely used except in the past participle.,
T as in Thunderworm (n.) A small, footless, burrowing, snakelike lizard (Rhineura Floridana) allied to Amphisbaena, native of Florida; -- so called because it leaves its burrows after a thundershower.,
T as in Thundery (a.) Accompanied with thunder; thunderous.,
T as in Thundrous (a.) Thunderous; sonorous.,
T as in Thunny (n.) The tunny.,
T as in Thurgh (prep.) Through.,
T as in Thurghfare (n.) Thoroughfare.,
T as in Thurible (n.) A censer of metal, for burning incense, having various forms, held in the hand or suspended by chains; -- used especially at mass, vespers, and other solemn services.,
T as in Thuriferous (a.) Producing or bearing frankincense.,
T as in Thurification (n.) The act of fuming with incense, or the act of burning incense.,
T as in Thuringian (a.) Of or pertaining to Thuringia, a country in Germany, or its people.,
T as in Thuringian (n.) A native, or inhabitant of Thuringia.,
T as in Thuringite (n.) A mineral occurring as an aggregation of minute scales having an olive-green color and pearly luster. It is a hydrous silicate of aluminia and iron.,
T as in Thurl (n.) A hole; an aperture.,
T as in Thurl (n.) A short communication between adits in a mine.,
T as in Thurl (n.) A long adit in a coalpit.,
T as in Thurl (v. t.) To cut through; to pierce.,
T as in Thurl (v. t.) To cut through, as a partition between one working and another.,
T as in Thurling (n.) Same as Thurl, n., 2 (a).,
T as in Thurrok (n.) The hold of a ship; a sink.,
T as in Thursday (n.) The fifth day of the week, following Wednesday and preceding Friday.,
T as in Thurst (n.) The ruins of the fallen roof resulting from the removal of the pillars and stalls.,
T as in Thus (n.) The commoner kind of frankincense, or that obtained from the Norway spruce, the long-leaved pine, and other conifers.,
T as in Thus (adv.) In this or that manner; on this wise.,
T as in Thus (adv.) To this degree or extent; so far; so; as, thus wise; thus peaceble; thus bold.,
T as in Thussock (n.) See Tussock.,
T as in Thuya (n.) Same as Thuja.,
T as in Thuyin (n.) A substance extracted from trees of the genus Thuja, or Thuya, and probably identical with quercitrin.,
T as in Thwacked (imp. & p. p.) of Thwack,
T as in Thwacking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Thwack,
T as in Thwack (v. t.) To strike with something flat or heavy; to bang, or thrash: to thump.,
T as in Thwack (v. t.) To fill to overflow.,
T as in Thwack (n.) A heavy blow with something flat or heavy; a thump.,
T as in Thwaite (n.) The twaite.,
T as in Thwaite (n.) Forest land cleared, and converted to tillage; an assart.,
T as in Thwart (a.) Situated or placed across something else; transverse; oblique.,
T as in Thwart (a.) Fig.: Perverse; crossgrained.,
T as in Thwart (a.) Thwartly; obliquely; transversely; athwart.,
T as in Thwart (prep.) Across; athwart.,
T as in Thwart (n.) A seat in an open boat reaching from one side to the other, or athwart the boat.,
T as in Thwarted (imp. & p. p.) of Thwart,
T as in Thwarting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Thwart,
T as in Thwart (v. t.) To move across or counter to; to cross; as, an arrow thwarts the air.,
T as in Thwart (v. t.) To cross, as a purpose; to oppose; to run counter to; to contravene; hence, to frustrate or defeat.,
T as in Thwart (v. i.) To move or go in an oblique or crosswise manner.,
T as in Thwart (v. i.) Hence, to be in opposition; to clash.,
T as in Thwarter (n.) A disease in sheep, indicated by shaking, trembling, or convulsive motions.,
T as in Thwartingly (adv.) In a thwarting or obstructing manner; so as to thwart.,
T as in Thwartly (adv.) Transversely; obliquely.,
T as in Thwartness (n.) The quality or state of being thwart; obliquity; perverseness.,
T as in Thwite (v. t.) To cut or clip with a knife; to whittle.,
T as in Thwittle (v. t.) To cut or whittle.,
T as in Thwittle (n.) A small knife; a whittle.,
T as in Thy (pron.) Of thee, or belonging to thee; the more common form of thine, possessive case of thou; -- used always attributively, and chiefly in the solemn or grave style, and in poetry. Thine is used in the predicate; as, the knife is thine. See Thine.,
T as in Thyine wood () The fragrant and beautiful wood of a North African tree (Callitris quadrivalvis), formerly called Thuja articulata. The tree is of the Cedar family, and furnishes a balsamic resin called sandarach.,
T as in Thylacine (n.) The zebra wolf. See under Wolf.,
T as in Thymate (n.) A compound of thymol analogous to a salt; as, sodium thymate.,
T as in Thyme (n.) Any plant of the labiate genus Thymus. The garden thyme (Thymus vulgaris) is a warm, pungent aromatic, much used to give a relish to seasoning and soups.,
T as in Thymene (n.) A liquid terpene obtained from oil of thyme.,
T as in Thymiatechny (n.) The art of employing perfumes in medicine.,
T as in Thymic (a.) Of or pertaining to the thymus gland.,
T as in Thymic (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, thyme; as, thymic acid.,
T as in Thymol (n.) A phenol derivative of cymene, C10H13.OH, isomeric with carvacrol, found in oil of thyme, and extracted as a white crystalline substance of a pleasant aromatic odor and strong antiseptic properties; -- called also hydroxy cymene.,
T as in Thymus (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, the thymus gland.,
T as in Thymus (n.) The thymus gland.,
T as in Thymy (a.) Abounding with thyme; fragrant; as, a thymy vale.,
T as in Thyro- () A combining form used in anatomy to indicate connection with, or relation to, the thyroid body or the thyroid cartilage; as, thyrohyal.,
T as in Thyroarytenoid (a.) Of or pertaining to both the thyroid and arytenoid cartilages of the larynx.,
T as in Thyrohyal (n.) One of the lower segments in the hyoid arch, often consolidated with the body of the hyoid bone and forming one of its great horns, as in man.,
T as in Thyrohyoid (a.) Of or pertaining to the thyroid cartilage of the larynx and the hyoid arch.,
T as in Thyroid (a.) Shaped like an oblong shield; shield-shaped; as, the thyroid cartilage.,
T as in Thyroid (a.) Of or pertaining to the thyroid body, thyroid cartilage, or thyroid artery; thyroideal.,
T as in Thyroideal (a.) Thyroid.,
T as in Thyrotomy (n.) The operation of cutting into the thyroid cartilage.,
T as in Thyrse (n.) A thyrsus.,
T as in Thyrsoid (a.) Alt. of Thyrsoidal,
T as in Thyrsoidal (a.) Having somewhat the form of a thyrsus.,
T as in Thyrsi (pl. ) of Thyrsus,
T as in Thyrsus (n.) A staff entwined with ivy, and surmounted by a pine cone, or by a bunch of vine or ivy leaves with grapes or berries. It is an attribute of Bacchus, and of the satyrs and others engaging in Bacchic rites.,
T as in Thyrsus (n.) A species of inflorescence; a dense panicle, as in the lilac and horse-chestnut.,
T as in Thysanopter (n.) One of the Thysanoptera.,
T as in Thysanoptera (n. pl.) A division of insects, considered by some writers a distinct order, but regarded by others as belonging to the Hemiptera. They are all of small size, and have narrow, broadly fringed wings with rudimentary nervures. Most of the species feed upon the juices of plants, and some, as those which attack grain, are very injurious to crops. Called also Physopoda. See Thrips.,
T as in Thysanopteran (n.) One of the Thysanoptera.,
T as in Thysanopterous (a.) Of or pertaining to the Thysanoptera.,
T as in Thysanura (n. pl.) An order of wingless hexapod insects which have setiform caudal appendages, either bent beneath the body to form a spring, or projecting as bristles. It comprises the Cinura, or bristletails, and the Collembola, or springtails. Called also Thysanoura. See Lepisma, and Podura.,
T as in Thysanuran (n.) One of the Thysanura. Also used adjectively.,
T as in Thysanurous (a.) Of or pertaining to the Thysanura.,
T as in Thysbe (n.) A common clearwing moth (Hemaris thysbe).,
T as in Thyself (pron.) An emphasized form of the personal pronoun of the second person; -- used as a subject commonly with thou; as, thou thyself shalt go; that is, thou shalt go, and no other. It is sometimes used, especially in the predicate, without thou, and in the nominative as well as in the objective case.,
T as in Tiar (n.) A tiara.,
T as in Tiara (n.) A form of headdress worn by the ancient Persians. According to Xenophon, the royal tiara was encircled with a diadem, and was high and erect, while those of the people were flexible, or had rims turned over.,
T as in Tiara (n.) The pope's triple crown. It was at first a round, high cap, but was afterward encompassed with a crown, subsequently with a second, and finally with a third. Fig.: The papal dignity.,
T as in Tiaraed (a.) Adorned with, or wearing, a tiara.,
T as in Tib-cat (n.) A female cat.,
T as in Tibiae (pl. ) of Tibia,
T as in Tibia (n.) The inner, or preaxial, and usually the larger, of the two bones of the leg or hind limb below the knee.,
T as in Tibia (n.) The fourth joint of the leg of an insect. See Illust. under Coleoptera, and under Hexapoda.,
T as in Tibia (n.) A musical instrument of the flute kind, originally made of the leg bone of an animal.,
T as in Tibial (a.) Of or pertaining to a tibia.,
T as in Tibial (a.) Of or pertaining to a pipe or flute.,
T as in Tibial (n.) A tibial bone; a tibiale.,
T as in Tibialia (pl. ) of Tibiale,
T as in Tibiale (n.) The bone or cartilage of the tarsus which articulates with the tibia and corresponds to a part of the astragalus in man and most mammals.,
T as in Tibicinate (v. i.) To play on a tibia, or pipe.,
T as in Tibio- () A combining form used in anatomy to indicate connection with, or relation to, the tibia; as, tibiotarsus, tibiofibular.,
T as in Tibiotarsal (a.) Of or pertaining to both to the tibia and the tarsus; as, the tibiotarsal articulation.,
T as in Tibiotarsal (a.) Of or pertaining to the tibiotarsus.,
T as in Tibiotarsi (pl. ) of Tibiotarsus,
T as in Tibiotarsus (n.) The large bone between the femur and tarsometatarsus in the leg of a bird. It is formed by the union of the proximal part of the tarsus with the tibia.,
T as in Tibrie (n.) The pollack.,
T as in Tic (n.) A local and habitual convulsive motion of certain muscles; especially, such a motion of some of the muscles of the face; twitching; velication; -- called also spasmodic tic.,
T as in Tical (n.) A bean-shaped coin of Siam, worth about sixty cents; also, a weight equal to 236 grains troy.,
T as in Tical (n.) A money of account in China, reckoning at about $1.60; also, a weight of about four ounces avoirdupois.,
T as in Tice (v. t.) To entice.,
T as in Tice (n.) A ball bowled to strike the ground about a bat's length in front of the wicket.,
T as in Ticement (n.) Enticement.,
T as in Tichorrhine (n.) A fossil rhinoceros with a vertical bony medial septum supporting the nose; the hairy rhinoceros.,
T as in Tick (n.) Credit; trust; as, to buy on, or upon, tick.,
T as in Tick (v. i.) To go on trust, or credit.,
T as in Tick (v. i.) To give tick; to trust.,
T as in Tick (n.) Any one of numerous species of large parasitic mites which attach themselves to, and suck the blood of, cattle, dogs, and many other animals. When filled with blood they become ovate, much swollen, and usually livid red in color. Some of the species often attach themselves to the human body. The young are active and have at first but six legs.,
T as in Tick (n.) Any one of several species of dipterous insects having a flattened and usually wingless body, as the bird ticks (see under Bird) and sheep tick (see under Sheep).,
T as in Tick (n.) The cover, or case, of a bed, mattress, etc., which contains the straw, feathers, hair, or other filling.,
T as in Tick (n.) Ticking. See Ticking, n.,
T as in Ticked (imp. & p. p.) of Tick,
T as in Ticking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tick,
T as in Tick (v. i.) To make a small or repeating noise by beating or otherwise, as a watch does; to beat.,
T as in Tick (v. i.) To strike gently; to pat.,
T as in Tick (n.) A quick, audible beat, as of a clock.,
T as in Tick (n.) Any small mark intended to direct attention to something, or to serve as a check.,
T as in Tick (n.) The whinchat; -- so called from its note.,
T as in Tick (v. t.) To check off by means of a tick or any small mark; to score.,
T as in Ticken (n.) See Ticking.,
T as in Ticker (n.) One who, or that which, ticks, or produces a ticking sound, as a watch or clock, a telegraphic sounder, etc.,
T as in Ticket (v.) A small piece of paper, cardboard, or the like, serving as a notice, certificate, or distinguishing token of something.,
T as in Ticket (v.) A little note or notice.,
T as in Ticket (v.) A tradesman's bill or account.,
T as in Ticket (v.) A certificate or token of right of admission to a place of assembly, or of passage in a public conveyance; as, a theater ticket; a railroad or steamboat ticket.,
T as in Ticket (v.) A label to show the character or price of goods.,
T as in Ticket (v.) A certificate or token of a share in a lottery or other scheme for distributing money, goods, or the like.,
T as in Ticket (v.) A printed list of candidates to be voted for at an election; a set of nominations by one party for election; a ballot.,
T as in Ticketed (imp. & p. p.) of Ticket,
T as in Ticketing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ticket,
T as in Ticket (v. t.) To distinguish by a ticket; to put a ticket on; as, to ticket goods.,
T as in Ticket (v. t.) To furnish with a tickets; to book; as, to ticket passengers to California.,
T as in Ticketing (n.) A periodical sale of ore in the English mining districts; -- so called from the tickets upon which are written the bids of the buyers.,
T as in Ticking (n.) A strong, closely woven linen or cotton fabric, of which ticks for beds are made. It is usually twilled, and woven in stripes of different colors, as white and blue; -- called also ticken.,
T as in Tickled (imp. & p. p.) of Tickle,
T as in Tickling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tickle,
T as in Tickle (v. t.) To touch lightly, so as to produce a peculiar thrilling sensation, which commonly causes laughter, and a kind of spasm which become dengerous if too long protracted.,
T as in Tickle (v. t.) To please; to gratify; to make joyous.,
T as in Tickle (v. i.) To feel titillation.,
T as in Tickle (v. i.) To excite the sensation of titillation.,
T as in Tickle (a.) Ticklish; easily tickled.,
T as in Tickle (a.) Liable to change; uncertain; inconstant.,
T as in Tickle (a.) Wavering, or liable to waver and fall at the slightest touch; unstable; easily overthrown.,
T as in Tickle-footed (a.) Uncertain; inconstant; slippery.,
T as in Ticklenburg (n.) A coarse, mixed linen fabric made to be sold in the West Indies.,
T as in Tickleness (n.) Unsteadiness.,
T as in Tickler (n.) One who, or that which, tickles.,
T as in Tickler (n.) Something puzzling or difficult.,
T as in Tickler (n.) A book containing a memorandum of notes and debts arranged in the order of their maturity.,
T as in Tickler (n.) A prong used by coopers to extract bungs from casks.,
T as in Ticklish (a.) Sensible to slight touches; easily tickled; as, the sole of the foot is very ticklish; the hardened palm of the hand is not ticklish.,
T as in Ticklish (a.) Standing so as to be liable to totter and fall at the slightest touch; unfixed; easily affected; unstable.,
T as in Ticklish (a.) Difficult; nice; critical; as, a ticklish business.,
T as in Tickseed (n.) A seed or fruit resembling in shape an insect, as that of certain plants.,
T as in Tickseed (n.) Same as Coreopsis.,
T as in Tickseed (n.) Any plant of the genus Corispermum, plants of the Goosefoot family.,
T as in Ticktack (n.) A noise like that made by a clock or a watch.,
T as in Ticktack (n.) A kind of backgammon played both with men and pegs; tricktrack.,
T as in Ticktack (adv.) With a ticking noise, like that of a watch.,
T as in Ticpolonga (n.) A very venomous viper (Daboia Russellii), native of Ceylon and India; -- called also cobra monil.,
T as in Tid (a.) Tender; soft; nice; -- now only used in tidbit.,
T as in Tidal (a.) Of or pertaining to tides; caused by tides; having tides; periodically rising and falling, or following and ebbing; as, tidal waters.,
T as in Tidbit (n.) A delicate or tender piece of anything eatable; a delicious morsel.,
T as in Tidde (obs.) imp. of Tide, v. i.,
T as in Tidder (v. t.) Alt. of Tiddle,
T as in Tiddle (v. t.) To use with tenderness; to fondle.,
T as in Tide (prep.) Time; period; season.,
T as in Tide (prep.) The alternate rising and falling of the waters of the ocean, and of bays, rivers, etc., connected therewith. The tide ebbs and flows twice in each lunar day, or the space of a little more than twenty-four hours. It is occasioned by the attraction of the sun and moon (the influence of the latter being three times that of the former), acting unequally on the waters in different parts of the earth, thus disturbing their equilibrium. A high tide upon one side of the earth is accompanied by a high tide upon the opposite side. Hence, when the sun and moon are in conjunction or opposition, as at new moon and full moon, their action is such as to produce a greater than the usual tide, called the spring tide, as represented in the cut. When the moon is in the first or third quarter, the sun's attraction in part counteracts the effect of the moon's attraction, thus producing under the moon a smaller tide than usual, called the neap tide.,
T as in Tide (prep.) A stream; current; flood; as, a tide of blood.,
T as in Tide (prep.) Tendency or direction of causes, influences, or events; course; current.,
T as in Tide (prep.) Violent confluence.,
T as in Tide (prep.) The period of twelve hours.,
T as in Tide (v. t.) To cause to float with the tide; to drive or carry with the tide or stream.,
T as in Tide (n.) To betide; to happen.,
T as in Tide (n.) To pour a tide or flood.,
T as in Tide (n.) To work into or out of a river or harbor by drifting with the tide and anchoring when it becomes adverse.,
T as in Tided (a.) Affected by the tide; having a tide.,
T as in Tideless (a.) Having no tide.,
T as in Tide-rode (a.) Swung by the tide when at anchor; -- opposed to wind-rode.,
T as in Tidesmen (pl. ) of Tidesman,
T as in Tidesman (n.) A customhouse officer who goes on board of a merchant ship to secure payment of the duties; a tidewaiter.,
T as in Tidewaiter (n.) A customhouse officer who watches the landing of goods from merchant vessels, in order to secure payment of duties.,
T as in Tideway (n.) Channel in which the tide sets.,
T as in Tidife (n.) The blue titmouse.,
T as in Tidily (adv.) In a tidy manner.,
T as in Tidiness (n.) The quality or state of being tidy.,
T as in Tiding (n.) Tidings.,
T as in Tidings (n.) Account of what has taken place, and was not before known; news.,
T as in Tidley (n.) The wren.,
T as in Tidley (n.) The goldcrest.,
T as in Tidology (n.) A discourse or treatise upon the tides; that part of science which treats of tides.,
T as in Tidy (n.) The wren; -- called also tiddy.,
T as in Tidy (superl.) Being in proper time; timely; seasonable; favorable; as, tidy weather.,
T as in Tidy (superl.) Arranged in good order; orderly; appropriate; neat; kept in proper and becoming neatness, or habitually keeping things so; as, a tidy lass; their dress is tidy; the apartments are well furnished and tidy.,
T as in Tidies (pl. ) of Tidy,
T as in Tidy (n.) A cover, often of tatting, drawn work, or other ornamental work, for the back of a chair, the arms of a sofa, or the like.,
T as in Tidy (n.) A child's pinafore.,
T as in Tidied (imp. & p. p.) of Tidy,
T as in Tidying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tidy,
T as in Tidy (v. t.) To put in proper order; to make neat; as, to tidy a room; to tidy one's dress.,
T as in Tidy (v. i.) To make things tidy.,
T as in Tidytips (n.) A California composite plant (Layia platyglossa), the flower of which has yellow rays tipped with white.,
T as in Ties (pl. ) of Tie,
T as in Tie (v. t.) A knot; a fastening.,
T as in Tie (v. t.) A bond; an obligation, moral or legal; as, the sacred ties of friendship or of duty; the ties of allegiance.,
T as in Tie (v. t.) A knot of hair, as at the back of a wig.,
T as in Tie (v. t.) An equality in numbers, as of votes, scores, etc., which prevents either party from being victorious; equality in any contest, as a race.,
T as in Tie (v. t.) A beam or rod for holding two parts together; in railways, one of the transverse timbers which support the track and keep it in place.,
T as in Tie (v. t.) A line, usually straight, drawn across the stems of notes, or a curved line written over or under the notes, signifying that they are to be slurred, or closely united in the performance, or that two notes of the same pitch are to be sounded as one; a bind; a ligature.,
T as in Tie (v. t.) Low shoes fastened with lacings.,
T as in Tied (imp. & p. p.) of Tie,
T as in Tight () of Tie,
T as in Tying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tie,
T as in Tie (v. t.) To fasten with a band or cord and knot; to bind.,
T as in Tie (v. t.) To form, as a knot, by interlacing or complicating a cord; also, to interlace, or form a knot in; as, to tie a cord to a tree; to knit; to knot.,
T as in Tie (v. t.) To unite firmly; to fasten; to hold.,
T as in Tie (v. t.) To hold or constrain by authority or moral influence, as by knotted cords; to oblige; to constrain; to restrain; to confine.,
T as in Tie (v. t.) To unite, as notes, by a cross line, or by a curved line, or slur, drawn over or under them.,
T as in Tie (v. t.) To make an equal score with, in a contest; to be even with.,
T as in Tie (v. i.) To make a tie; to make an equal score.,
T as in Tiebar (n.) A flat bar used as a tie.,
T as in Tiebeam (n.) A beam acting as a tie, as at the bottom of a pair of principal rafters, to prevent them from thrusting out the wall. See Illust. of Timbers, under Roof.,
T as in Tier (n.) One who, or that which, ties.,
T as in Tier (n.) A chold's apron covering the upper part of the body, and tied with tape or cord; a pinafore.,
T as in Tier (v. t.) A row or rank, especially one of two or more rows placed one above, or higher than, another; as, a tier of seats in a theater.,
T as in Tierce (n.) A cask whose content is one third of a pipe; that is, forty-two wine gallons; also, a liquid measure of forty-two wine, or thirty-five imperial, gallons.,
T as in Tierce (n.) A cask larger than a barrel, and smaller than a hogshead or a puncheon, in which salt provisions, rice, etc., are packed for shipment.,
T as in Tierce (n.) The third tone of the scale. See Mediant.,
T as in Tierce (n.) A sequence of three playing cards of the same suit. Tierce of ace, king, queen, is called tierce-major.,
T as in Tierce (n.) A position in thrusting or parrying in which the wrist and nails are turned downward.,
T as in Tierce (n.) The third hour of the day, or nine a. m,; one of the canonical hours; also, the service appointed for that hour.,
T as in Tierce (a.) Divided into three equal parts of three different tinctures; -- said of an escutcheon.,
T as in Tiercel (n.) Alt. of Tiercelet,
T as in Tiercelet (n.) The male of various falcons, esp. of the peregrine; also, the male of the goshawk.,
T as in Tierce-major (n.) See Tierce, 4.,
T as in Tiercet (n.) A triplet; three lines, or three lines rhyming together.,
T as in Tie-rod (n.) A rod used as a tie. See Tie.,
T as in Tiers etat () The third estate, or commonalty, in France, answering to the commons in Great Britain; -- so called in distinction from, and as inferior to, the nobles and clergy.,
T as in Tietick (n.) The meadow pipit.,
T as in Tiewig (n.) A wig having a tie or ties, or one having some of the curls tied up; also, a wig tied upon the head.,
T as in Tiff (n.) Liquor; especially, a small draught of liquor.,
T as in Tiff (n.) A fit of anger or peevishness; a slight altercation or contention. See Tift.,
T as in Tiffed (imp. & p. p.) of Tiff,
T as in Tiffing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tiff,
T as in Tiff (v. i.) To be in a pet.,
T as in Tiff (v. t.) To deck out; to dress.,
T as in Tiffany (n.) A species of gause, or very silk.,
T as in Tiffin (n.) A lunch, or slight repast between breakfast and dinner; -- originally, a Provincial English word, but introduced into India, and brought back to England in a special sense.,
T as in Tiffish (a.) Inclined to tiffs; peevish; petulant.,
T as in Tift (n.) A fit of pettishness, or slight anger; a tiff.,
T as in Tig (n.) A game among children. See Tag.,
T as in Tig (n.) A capacious, flat-bottomed drinking cup, generally with four handles, formerly used for passing around the table at convivial entertainment.,
T as in Tigella (n.) That part of an embryo which represents the young stem; the caulicle or radicle.,
T as in Tigelle (n.) Same as Tigella.,
T as in Tiger (n.) A very large and powerful carnivore (Felis tigris) native of Southern Asia and the East Indies. Its back and sides are tawny or rufous yellow, transversely striped with black, the tail is ringed with black, the throat and belly are nearly white. When full grown, it equals or exceeds the lion in size and strength. Called also royal tiger, and Bengal tiger.,
T as in Tiger (n.) Fig.: A ferocious, bloodthirsty person.,
T as in Tiger (n.) A servant in livery, who rides with his master or mistress.,
T as in Tiger (n.) A kind of growl or screech, after cheering; as, three cheers and a tiger.,
T as in Tiger (n.) A pneumatic box or pan used in refining sugar.,
T as in Tiger-eye (n.) A siliceous stone of a yellow color and chatoyant luster, obtained in South Africa and much used for ornament. It is an altered form of the mineral crocidolite. See Crocidolite.,
T as in Tiger-foot (n.) Same as Tiger's-foot.,
T as in Tiger-footed (a.) Hastening to devour; furious.,
T as in Tigerine (a.) Tigerish; tigrine.,
T as in Tigerish (a.) Like a tiger; tigrish.,
T as in Tiger's-foot (n.) A name given to some species of morning-glory (Ipomoea) having the leaves lobed in pedate fashion.,
T as in Tigh (n.) A close, or inclosure; a croft.,
T as in Tight () p. p. of Tie.,
T as in Tight (superl.) Firmly held together; compact; not loose or open; as, tight cloth; a tight knot.,
T as in Tight (superl.) Close, so as not to admit the passage of a liquid or other fluid; not leaky; as, a tight ship; a tight cask; a tight room; -- often used in this sense as the second member of a compound; as, water-tight; air-tight.,
T as in Tight (superl.) Fitting close, or too close, to the body; as, a tight coat or other garment.,
T as in Tight (superl.) Not ragged; whole; neat; tidy.,
T as in Tight (superl.) Close; parsimonious; saving; as, a man tight in his dealings.,
T as in Tight (superl.) Not slack or loose; firmly stretched; taut; -- applied to a rope, chain, or the like, extended or stretched out.,
T as in Tight (superl.) Handy; adroit; brisk.,
T as in Tight (superl.) Somewhat intoxicated; tipsy.,
T as in Tight (superl.) Pressing; stringent; not easy; firmly held; dear; -- said of money or the money market. Cf. Easy, 7.,
T as in Tight (v. t.) To tighten.,
T as in Tightened (imp. & p. p.) of Tighten,
T as in Tightening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tighten,
T as in Tighten (v. t.) To draw tighter; to straiten; to make more close in any manner.,
T as in Tightener (n.) That which tightens; specifically (Mach.), a tightening pulley.,
T as in Tighter (n.) A ribbon or string used to draw clothes closer.,
T as in Tightly (adv.) In a tight manner; closely; nearly.,
T as in Tightness (n.) The quality or condition of being tight.,
T as in Tights (n. pl.) Close-fitting garments, especially for the lower part of the body and the legs.,
T as in Tiglic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid, C4H7CO2H (called also methyl crotonic acid), homologous with crotonic acid, and obtained from croton oil (from Croton Tiglium) as a white crystalline substance.,
T as in Tigress (n.) The female of the tiger.,
T as in Tigrine (a.) Of or pertaining to a tiger; like a tiger.,
T as in Tigrine (a.) Resembling the tiger in color; as, the tigrine cat (Felis tigrina) of South America.,
T as in Tigrish (a.) Resembling a tiger; tigerish.,
T as in Tike (n.) A tick. See 2d Tick.,
T as in Tike (n.) A dog; a cur.,
T as in Tike (n.) A countryman or clown; a boorish person.,
T as in Tikus (n.) The bulau.,
T as in Til (prep. & conj.) See Till.,
T as in Tilburies (pl. ) of Tilbury,
T as in Tilbury (n.) A kind of gig or two-wheeled carriage, without a top or cover.,
T as in Tilde (n.) The accentual mark placed over n, and sometimes over l, in Spanish words [thus, ?, /], indicating that, in pronunciation, the sound of the following vowel is to be preceded by that of the initial, or consonantal, y.,
T as in Tile (v. t.) To protect from the intrusion of the uninitiated; as, to tile a Masonic lodge.,
T as in Tile (n.) A plate, or thin piece, of baked clay, used for covering the roofs of buildings, for floors, for drains, and often for ornamental mantel works.,
T as in Tile (n.) A small slab of marble or other material used for flooring.,
T as in Tile (n.) A plate of metal used for roofing.,
T as in Tile (n.) A small, flat piece of dried earth or earthenware, used to cover vessels in which metals are fused.,
T as in Tile (n.) A draintile.,
T as in Tile (n.) A stiff hat.,
T as in Tiled (imp. & p. p.) of Tile,
T as in Tiling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tile,
T as in Tile (v. t.) To cover with tiles; as, to tile a house.,
T as in Tile (v. t.) Fig.: To cover, as if with tiles.,
T as in Tile-drain (v. t.) To drain by means of tiles; to furnish with a tile drain.,
T as in Tilefish (n.) A large, edible, deep-water food fish (Lopholatilus chamaeleonticeps) more or less thickly covered with large, round, yellow spots.,
T as in Tiler (n.) A man whose occupation is to cover buildings with tiles.,
T as in Tiler (n.) A doorkeeper or attendant at a lodge of Freemasons.,
T as in Tileries (pl. ) of Tilery,
T as in Tilery (n.) A place where tiles are made or burned; a tile kiln.,
T as in Tilestone (n.) A kind of laminated shale or sandstone belonging to some of the layers of the Upper Silurian.,
T as in Tilestone (n.) A tile of stone.,
T as in Tiliaceous (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a natural order of plants (Tiliaceae) of which the linden (Tilia) is the type. The order includes many plants which furnish a valuable fiber, as the jute.,
T as in Tiling (n.) A surface covered with tiles, or composed of tiles.,
T as in Tiling (n.) Tiles, collectively.,
T as in Till (n.) A vetch; a tare.,
T as in Till (n.) A drawer.,
T as in Till (n.) A tray or drawer in a chest.,
T as in Till (n.) A money drawer in a shop or store.,
T as in Till (n.) A deposit of clay, sand, and gravel, without lamination, formed in a glacier valley by means of the waters derived from the melting glaciers; -- sometimes applied to alluvium of an upper river terrace, when not laminated, and appearing as if formed in the same manner.,
T as in Till (n.) A kind of coarse, obdurate land.,
T as in Till (v. t.) To; unto; up to; as far as; until; -- now used only in respect to time, but formerly, also, of place, degree, etc., and still so used in Scotland and in parts of England and Ireland; as, I worked till four o'clock; I will wait till next week.,
T as in Till (conj.) As far as; up to the place or degree that; especially, up to the time that; that is, to the time specified in the sentence or clause following; until.,
T as in Tilled (imp. & p. p.) of Till,
T as in Tilling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Till,
T as in Till (prep.) To plow and prepare for seed, and to sow, dress, raise crops from, etc., to cultivate; as, to till the earth, a field, a farm.,
T as in Till (prep.) To prepare; to get.,
T as in Till (v. i.) To cultivate land.,
T as in Tillable (a.) Capable of being tilled; fit for the plow; arable.,
T as in Tillage (n.) The operation, practice, or art of tilling or preparing land for seed, and keeping the ground in a proper state for the growth of crops.,
T as in Tillage (n.) A place tilled or cultivated; cultivated land.,
T as in Tillandsia (n.) A genus of epiphytic endogenous plants found in the Southern United States and in tropical America. Tillandsia usneoides, called long moss, black moss, Spanish moss, and Florida moss, has a very slender pendulous branching stem, and forms great hanging tufts on the branches of trees. It is often used for stuffing mattresses.,
T as in Tiller (v. t.) One who tills; a husbandman; a cultivator; a plowman.,
T as in Tiller (n.) A shoot of a plant, springing from the root or bottom of the original stalk; a sucker.,
T as in Tiller (n.) A sprout or young tree that springs from a root or stump.,
T as in Tiller (n.) A young timber tree.,
T as in Tillered (imp. & p. p.) of Tiller,
T as in Tillering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tiller,
T as in Tiller (v. i.) To put forth new shoots from the root, or round the bottom of the original stalk; as, wheat or rye tillers; some spread plants by tillering.,
T as in Tiller (n.) A lever of wood or metal fitted to the rudder head and used for turning side to side in steering. In small boats hand power is used; in large vessels, the tiller is moved by means of mechanical appliances. See Illust. of Rudder. Cf. 2d Helm, 1.,
T as in Tiller (n.) The stalk, or handle, of a crossbow; also, sometimes, the bow itself.,
T as in Tiller (n.) The handle of anything.,
T as in Tiller (n.) A small drawer; a till.,
T as in Tilley () Alt. of Tilley seed,
T as in Tilley seed () The seeds of a small tree (Croton Pavana) common in the Malay Archipelago. These seeds furnish croton oil, like those of Croton Tiglium.,
T as in Tillmen (pl. ) of Tillman,
T as in Tillman (n.) A man who tills the earth; a husbandman.,
T as in Tillodont (n.) One of the Tillodontia.,
T as in Tillodontia (n. pl.) An extinct group of Mammalia found fossil in the Eocene formation. The species are related to the carnivores, ungulates, and rodents. Called also Tillodonta.,
T as in Tillet (n.) A bag made of thin glazed muslin, used as a wrapper for dress goods.,
T as in Tillow (v. i.) See 3d Tiller.,
T as in Tilly-vally (interj., adv., or a.) A word of unknown origin and signification, formerly used as expressive of contempt, or when anything said was reject as trifling or impertinent.,
T as in Tilmus (n.) Floccillation.,
T as in Tilt (n.) A covering overhead; especially, a tent.,
T as in Tilt (n.) The cloth covering of a cart or a wagon.,
T as in Tilt (n.) A cloth cover of a boat; a small canopy or awning extended over the sternsheets of a boat.,
T as in Tilted (imp. & p. p.) of Tilt,
T as in Tilting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tilt,
T as in Tilt (v. t.) To cover with a tilt, or awning.,
T as in Tilt (v. t.) To incline; to tip; to raise one end of for discharging liquor; as, to tilt a barrel.,
T as in Tilt (v. t.) To point or thrust, as a lance.,
T as in Tilt (v. t.) To point or thrust a weapon at.,
T as in Tilt (v. t.) To hammer or forge with a tilt hammer; as, to tilt steel in order to render it more ductile.,
T as in Tilt (v. i.) To run or ride, and thrust with a lance; to practice the military game or exercise of thrusting with a lance, as a combatant on horseback; to joust; also, figuratively, to engage in any combat or movement resembling that of horsemen tilting with lances.,
T as in Tilt (v. i.) To lean; to fall partly over; to tip.,
T as in Tilt (n.) A thrust, as with a lance.,
T as in Tilt (n.) A military exercise on horseback, in which the combatants attacked each other with lances; a tournament.,
T as in Tilt (n.) See Tilt hammer, in the Vocabulary.,
T as in Tilt (n.) Inclination forward; as, the tilt of a cask.,
T as in Tilter (n.) One who tilts, or jousts; hence, one who fights.,
T as in Tilter (n.) One who operates a tilt hammer.,
T as in Tilth (n.) The state of being tilled, or prepared for a crop; culture; as, land is good tilth.,
T as in Tilth (n.) That which is tilled; tillage ground.,
T as in Tilt hammer () A tilted hammer; a heavy hammer, used in iron works, which is lifted or tilted by projections or wipers on a revolving shaft; a trip hammer.,
T as in Tilting (n.) The act of one who tilts; a tilt.,
T as in Tilting (n.) The process by which blister steel is rendered ductile by being forged with a tilt hammer.,
T as in Tilt-mill (n.) A mill where a tilt hammer is used, or where the process of tilting is carried on.,
T as in Til tree () See Teil.,
T as in Tilt-up (n.) Same as Tip-up.,
T as in Tilt-yard (n.) A yard or place for tilting.,
T as in Timal (n.) The blue titmouse.,
T as in Timaline (a.) Of or pertaining to the genus Timalus or family Timalidae, which includes the babblers thrushes, and bulbuls.,
T as in Timbal (n.) A kettledrum. See Tymbal.,
T as in Timber (n.) A certain quantity of fur skins, as of martens, ermines, sables, etc., packed between boards; being in some cases forty skins, in others one hundred and twenty; -- called also timmer.,
T as in Timber (n.) The crest on a coat of arms.,
T as in Timber (v. t.) To surmount as a timber does.,
T as in Timber (n.) That sort of wood which is proper for buildings or for tools, utensils, furniture, carriages, fences, ships, and the like; -- usually said of felled trees, but sometimes of those standing. Cf. Lumber, 3.,
T as in Timber (n.) The body, stem, or trunk of a tree.,
T as in Timber (n.) Fig.: Material for any structure.,
T as in Timber (n.) A single piece or squared stick of wood intended for building, or already framed; collectively, the larger pieces or sticks of wood, forming the framework of a house, ship, or other structure, in distinction from the covering or boarding.,
T as in Timber (n.) Woods or forest; wooden land.,
T as in Timber (n.) A rib, or a curving piece of wood, branching outward from the keel and bending upward in a vertical direction. One timber is composed of several pieces united.,
T as in Timbered (imp. & p. p.) of Timber,
T as in Timbering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Timber,
T as in Timber (v. t.) To furnish with timber; -- chiefly used in the past participle.,
T as in Timber (v. i.) To light on a tree.,
T as in Timber (v. i.) To make a nest.,
T as in Timbered (a.) Furnished with timber; -- often compounded; as, a well-timbered house; a low-timbered house.,
T as in Timbered (a.) Built; formed; contrived.,
T as in Timbered (a.) Massive, like timber.,
T as in Timbered (a.) Covered with growth timber; wooden; as, well-timbered land.,
T as in Timberhead (n.) The top end of a timber, rising above the gunwale, and serving for belaying ropes, etc.; -- called also kevel head.,
T as in Timbering (n.) The act of furnishing with timber; also, timbers, collectively; timberwork; timber.,
T as in Timberling (n.) A small tree.,
T as in Timbermen (pl. ) of Timberman,
T as in Timberman (n.) A man employed in placing supports of timber in a mine.,
T as in Timberwork (n.) Work made of timbers.,
T as in Timbre (n.) See 1st Timber.,
T as in Timbre (n.) The crest on a coat of arms.,
T as in Timbre (n.) The quality or tone distinguishing voices or instruments; tone color; clang tint; as, the timbre of the voice; the timbre of a violin. See Tone, and Partial tones, under Partial.,
T as in Timbrel (n.) A kind of drum, tabor, or tabret, in use from the highest antiquity.,
T as in Timbreled (a.) Alt. of Timbrelled,
T as in Timbrelled (a.) Sung to the sound of the timbrel.,
T as in Timburine (n.) A tambourine.,
T as in Times (pl. ) of Time,
T as in Time (n.) Duration, considered independently of any system of measurement or any employment of terms which designate limited portions thereof.,
T as in Time (n.) A particular period or part of duration, whether past, present, or future; a point or portion of duration; as, the time was, or has been; the time is, or will be.,
T as in Time (n.) The period at which any definite event occurred, or person lived; age; period; era; as, the Spanish Armada was destroyed in the time of Queen Elizabeth; -- often in the plural; as, ancient times; modern times.,
T as in Time (n.) The duration of one's life; the hours and days which a person has at his disposal.,
T as in Time (n.) A proper time; a season; an opportunity.,
T as in Time (n.) Hour of travail, delivery, or parturition.,
T as in Time (n.) Performance or occurrence of an action or event, considered with reference to repetition; addition of a number to itself; repetition; as, to double cloth four times; four times four, or sixteen.,
T as in Time (n.) The present life; existence in this world as contrasted with immortal life; definite, as contrasted with infinite, duration.,
T as in Time (n.) Tense.,
T as in Time (n.) The measured duration of sounds; measure; tempo; rate of movement; rhythmical division; as, common or triple time; the musician keeps good time.,
T as in Timed (imp. & p. p.) of Time,
T as in Timing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Time,
T as in Time (v. t.) To appoint the time for; to bring, begin, or perform at the proper season or time; as, he timed his appearance rightly.,
T as in Time (v. t.) To regulate as to time; to accompany, or agree with, in time of movement.,
T as in Time (v. t.) To ascertain or record the time, duration, or rate of; as, to time the speed of horses, or hours for workmen.,
T as in Time (v. t.) To measure, as in music or harmony.,
T as in Time (v. i.) To keep or beat time; to proceed or move in time.,
T as in Time (v. i.) To pass time; to delay.,
T as in Timeful (a.) Seasonable; timely; sufficiently early.,
T as in Time-honored (a.) Honored for a long time; venerable, and worthy of honor, by reason of antiquity, or long continuance.,
T as in Timekeeper (n.) A clock, watch, or other chronometer; a timepiece.,
T as in Timekeeper (n.) A person who keeps, marks, regulates, or determines the time.,
T as in Timekeeper (n.) A person who keeps a record of the time spent by workmen at their work.,
T as in Timekeeper (n.) One who gives the time for the departure of conveyances.,
T as in Timekeeper (n.) One who marks the time in musical performances.,
T as in Timekeeper (n.) One appointed to mark and declare the time of participants in races or other contests.,
T as in Timeless (a.) Done at an improper time; unseasonable; untimely.,
T as in Timeless (a.) Done or occurring before the proper time; premature; immature; as, a timeless grave.,
T as in Timeless (a.) Having no end; interminable; unending.,
T as in Timelessly (adv.) In a timeless manner; unseasonably.,
T as in Timeliness (n.) The quality or state of being timely; seasonableness; opportuneness.,
T as in Timeling (n.) A timeserver.,
T as in Timely (superl.) Being or occurring in good time; sufficiently early; seasonable.,
T as in Timely (superl.) Keeping time or measure.,
T as in Timely (adv.) Early; soon; in good season.,
T as in Timenoguy (n.) A rope carried taut between or over obstacles likely to engage or foul the running rigging in working a ship.,
T as in Timeous (a.) Timely; seasonable.,
T as in Timepiece (n.) A clock, watch, or other instrument, to measure or show the progress of time; a chronometer.,
T as in Timepleaser (n.) One who complies with prevailing opinions, whatever they may be; a timeserver.,
T as in Timer (n.) A timekeeper; especially, a watch by which small intervals of time can be measured; a kind of stop watch. It is used for timing the speed of horses, machinery, etc.,
T as in Timesaving (a.) Saving time; as, a timesaving expedient.,
T as in Timeserver (n.) One who adapts his opinions and manners to the times; one who obsequiously compiles with the ruling power; -- now used only in a bad sense.,
T as in Timeserving (a.) Obsequiously complying with the spirit of the times, or the humors of those in power.,
T as in Timeserving (n.) An obsequious compliance with the spirit of the times, or the humors of those in power, which implies a surrender of one's independence, and sometimes of one's integrity.,
T as in Time-table (n.) A tabular statement of the time at which, or within which, several things are to take place, as the recitations in a school, the departure and arrival of railroad trains or other public conveyances, the rise and fall of the tides, etc.,
T as in Time-table (n.) A plane surface divided in one direction with lines representing hours and minutes, and in the other with lines representing miles, and having diagonals (usually movable strings) representing the speed and position of various trains.,
T as in Time-table (n.) A table showing the notation, length, or duration of the several notes.,
T as in Timid (a.) Wanting courage to meet danger; easily frightened; timorous; not bold; fearful; shy.,
T as in Timidity (n.) The quality or state of being timid; timorousness; timidness.,
T as in Timidous (a.) Timid.,
T as in Timist (n.) A performer who keeps good time.,
T as in Timist (n.) A timeserver.,
T as in Timmer (n.) Same as 1st Timber.,
T as in Timocracy (n.) A state in which the love of honor is the ruling motive.,
T as in Timocracy (n.) A state in which honors are distributed according to a rating of property.,
T as in Timocratic (a.) Belonging to, or constituted by, timocracy.,
T as in Timoneer (n.) A helmsman.,
T as in Timorous (a.) Fearful of danger; timid; deficient in courage.,
T as in Timorous (a.) Indicating, or caused by, fear; as, timorous doubts.,
T as in Timorsome (a.) Easily frightened; timorous.,
T as in Timothy () Alt. of Timothy grass,
T as in Timothy grass () A kind of grass (Phleum pratense) with long cylindrical spikes; -- called also herd's grass, in England, cat's-tail grass, and meadow cat's-tail grass. It is much prized for fodder. See Illustration in Appendix.,
T as in Timous (a.) Timely; seasonable.,
T as in Timpani (pl. ) of Timpano,
T as in Timpano (n.) See Tympano.,
T as in Tim-whiskey (n.) A kind of carriage. See Whiskey.,
T as in Tin (n.) An elementary substance found as an oxide in the mineral cassiterite, and reduced as a soft white crystalline metal, malleable at ordinary temperatures, but brittle when heated. It is not easily oxidized in the air, and is used chiefly to coat iron to protect it from rusting, in the form of tin foil with mercury to form the reflective surface of mirrors, and in solder, bronze, speculum metal, and other alloys. Its compounds are designated as stannous, or stannic. Symbol Sn (Stannum). Atomic weight 117.4.,
T as in Tin (n.) Thin plates of iron covered with tin; tin plate.,
T as in Tin (n.) Money.,
T as in Tinned (imp. & p. p.) of Tin,
T as in Tinning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tin,
T as in Tin (v. t.) To cover with tin or tinned iron, or to overlay with tin foil.,
T as in Tinamides (n. pl.) A division of struthious birds, including the tinamous.,
T as in Tinamou (n.) Any one of several species of South American birds belonging to Tinamus and allied genera.,
T as in Tincal (n.) Crude native borax, formerly imported from Thibet. It was once the chief source of boric compounds. Cf. Borax.,
T as in Tinchel (n.) A circle of sportsmen, who, by surrounding an extensive space and gradually closing in, bring a number of deer and game within a narrow compass.,
T as in Tinct (a.) Tined; tinged.,
T as in Tinct (n.) Color; tinge; tincture; tint.,
T as in Tinct (v. t.) To color or stain; to imblue; to tint.,
T as in Tinctorial (a.) Of or relating to color or colors; imparting a color; as, tinctorial matter.,
T as in Tincture (n.) A tinge or shade of color; a tint; as, a tincture of red.,
T as in Tincture (n.) One of the metals, colors, or furs used in armory.,
T as in Tincture (n.) The finer and more volatile parts of a substance, separated by a solvent; an extract of a part of the substance of a body communicated to the solvent.,
T as in Tincture (n.) A solution (commonly colored) of medicinal substance in alcohol, usually more or less diluted; spirit containing medicinal substances in solution.,
T as in Tincture (n.) A slight taste superadded to any substance; as, a tincture of orange peel.,
T as in Tincture (n.) A slight quality added to anything; a tinge; as, a tincture of French manners.,
T as in Tinctured (imp. & p. p.) of Tincture,
T as in Tincturing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tincture,
T as in Tincture (v. t.) To communicate a slight foreign color to; to tinge; to impregnate with some extraneous matter.,
T as in Tincture (v. t.) To imbue the mind of; to communicate a portion of anything foreign to; to tinge.,
T as in Tind (v. t.) To kindle.,
T as in Tindal (n.) A petty officer among lascars, or native East Indian sailors; a boatswain's mate; a cockswain.,
T as in Tindal (n.) An attendant on an army.,
T as in Tinder (n.) Something very inflammable, used for kindling fire from a spark, as scorched linen.,
T as in Tine (n.) Trouble; distress; teen.,
T as in Tine (v. t.) To kindle; to set on fire.,
T as in Tine (v. i.) To kindle; to rage; to smart.,
T as in Tine (v. t.) To shut in, or inclose.,
T as in Tine (n.) A tooth, or spike, as of a fork; a prong, as of an antler.,
T as in Tinea (n.) A name applied to various skin diseases, but especially to ringworm. See Ringworm, and Sycosis.,
T as in Tinea (n.) A genus of small Lepidoptera, including the clothes moths and carpet moths.,
T as in Tinean (n.) Any species of Tinea, or of the family Tineidae, which includes numerous small moths, many of which are injurious to woolen and fur goods and to cultivated plants. Also used adjectively.,
T as in Tined (a.) Furnished with tines; as, a three-tined fork.,
T as in Tineid (n.) Same as Tinean.,
T as in Tinemen (pl. ) of Tineman,
T as in Tineman (n.) An officer of the forest who had the care of vert and venison by night.,
T as in Tinet (n.) Brushwood and thorns for making and repairing hedges.,
T as in Ting (n.) A sharp sound, as of a bell; a tinkling.,
T as in Ting (v. i.) To sound or ring, as a bell; to tinkle.,
T as in Ting (n.) The apartment in a Chinese temple where the idol is kept.,
T as in Tinged (imp. & p. p.) of Tinge,
T as in Tingeing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tinge,
T as in Tinge (v. t.) To imbue or impregnate with something different or foreign; as, to tinge a decoction with a bitter taste; to affect in some degree with the qualities of another substance, either by mixture, or by application to the surface; especially, to color slightly; to stain; as, to tinge a blue color with red; an infusion tinged with a yellow color by saffron.,
T as in Tinge (n.) A degree, usually a slight degree, of some color, taste, or something foreign, infused into another substance or mixture, or added to it; tincture; color; dye; hue; shade; taste.,
T as in Tingent (a.) Having the power to tinge.,
T as in Tinger (n.) One who, or that which, tinges.,
T as in Tingid (a.) Of or pertaining to the genus Tingis.,
T as in Tingis (n.) A genus of small hemipterous insects which injure trees by sucking the sap from the leaves. See Illustration in Appendix.,
T as in Tingled (imp. & p. p.) of Tingle,
T as in Tingling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tingle,
T as in Tingle (v. i.) To feel a kind of thrilling sensation, as in hearing a shrill sound.,
T as in Tingle (v. i.) To feel a sharp, thrilling pain.,
T as in Tingle (v. i.) To have, or to cause, a sharp, thrilling sensation, or a slight pricking sensation.,
T as in Tink (v. i.) To make a sharp, shrill noise; to tinkle.,
T as in Tink (n.) A sharp, quick sound; a tinkle.,
T as in Tinker (n.) A mender of brass kettles, pans, and other metal ware.,
T as in Tinker (n.) One skilled in a variety of small mechanical work.,
T as in Tinker (n.) A small mortar on the end of a staff.,
T as in Tinker (n.) A young mackerel about two years old.,
T as in Tinker (n.) The chub mackerel.,
T as in Tinker (n.) The silversides.,
T as in Tinker (n.) A skate.,
T as in Tinker (n.) The razor-billed auk.,
T as in Tinkered (imp. & p. p.) of Tinker,
T as in Tinkering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tinker,
T as in Tinker (v. t.) To mend or solder, as metal wares; hence, more generally, to mend.,
T as in Tinker (v. i.) To busy one's self in mending old kettles, pans, etc.; to play the tinker; to be occupied with small mechanical works.,
T as in Tinkering (n.) The act or work of a tinker.,
T as in Tinkerly (a.) After the manner of a tinker.,
T as in Tinkershire (n.) Alt. of Tinkle,
T as in Tinkle (n.) The common guillemot.,
T as in Tinkle (v. i.) To make, or give forth, small, quick, sharp sounds, as a piece of metal does when struck; to clink.,
T as in Tinkle (v. i.) To hear, or resound with, a small, sharp sound.,
T as in Tinkled (imp. & p. p.) of Tinkle,
T as in Tinkling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tinkle,
T as in Tinkle (v. t.) To cause to clonk, or make small, sharp, quick sounds.,
T as in Tinkle (n.) A small, sharp, quick sound, as that made by striking metal.,
T as in Tinkler (n.) A tinker.,
T as in Tinkling (n.) A tinkle, or succession of tinkles.,
T as in Tinkling (n.) A grackle (Quiscalus crassirostris) native of Jamaica. It often associates with domestic cattle, and rids them of insects.,
T as in Tinmen (pl. ) of Tinman,
T as in Tinman (n.) A manufacturer of tin vessels; a dealer in tinware.,
T as in Tinmouth (n.) The crappie.,
T as in Tinned (a.) Covered, or plated, with tin; as, a tinned roof; tinned iron.,
T as in Tinned (a.) Packed in tin cases; canned; as, tinned meats.,
T as in Tinnen (a.) Made or consisting of tin.,
T as in Tinner (n.) One who works in a tin mine.,
T as in Tinner (n.) One who makes, or works in, tinware; a tinman.,
T as in Tinnient (a.) Emitting a clear sound.,
T as in Tinning (n.) The act, art, or process of covering or coating anything with melted tin, or with tin foil, as kitchen utensils, locks, and the like.,
T as in Tinning (n.) The covering or lining of tin thus put on.,
T as in Tinnitus (n.) A ringing, whistling, or other imaginary noise perceived in the ears; -- called also tinnitus aurium.,
T as in Tinnock (n.) The blue titmouse.,
T as in Tinny (a.) Pertaining to, abounding with, or resembling, tin.,
T as in Tinsel (n.) A shining material used for ornamental purposes; especially, a very thin, gauzelike cloth with much gold or silver woven into it; also, very thin metal overlaid with a thin coating of gold or silver, brass foil, or the like.,
T as in Tinsel (n.) Something shining and gaudy; something superficially shining and showy, or having a false luster, and more gay than valuable.,
T as in Tinsel (a.) Showy to excess; gaudy; specious; superficial.,
T as in Tinseled (imp. & p. p.) of Tinsel,
T as in Tinselled () of Tinsel,
T as in Tinseling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tinsel,
T as in Tinselling () of Tinsel,
T as in Tinsel (v. t.) To adorn with tinsel; to deck out with cheap but showy ornaments; to make gaudy.,
T as in Tinselly (a.) Like tinsel; gaudy; showy, but cheap.,
T as in Tinselly (adv.) In a showy and cheap manner.,
T as in Tinsmith (n.) One who works in tin; a tinner.,
T as in Tinstone (n.) Cassiterite.,
T as in Tint (n.) A slight coloring.,
T as in Tint (n.) A pale or faint tinge of any color.,
T as in Tint (n.) A color considered with reference to other very similar colors; as, red and blue are different colors, but two shades of scarlet are different tints.,
T as in Tint (n.) A shaded effect produced by the juxtaposition of many fine parallel lines.,
T as in Tinted (imp. & p. p.) of Tint,
T as in Tinting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tint,
T as in Tint (v. t.) To give a slight coloring to; to tinge.,
T as in Tintamar (n.) A hideous or confused noise; an uproar.,
T as in Tinternell (n.) A certain old dance.,
T as in Tintle (n.) The wren.,
T as in Tintinnabular (a.) Alt. of Tintinnabulary,
T as in Tintinnabulary (a.) Having or making the sound of a bell; tinkling.,
T as in Tintinnabulation (n.) A tinkling sound, as of a bell or bells.,
T as in Tintinnabulous (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the tinkling of a bell; having a tinkling sound; tintinnabular.,
T as in Tinto (n.) A red Madeira wine, wanting the high aroma of the white sorts, and, when old, resembling tawny port.,
T as in Tintype (n.) Same as Ferrotype.,
T as in Tinware (n.) Articles made of tinned iron.,
T as in Tiny (superl.) Very small; little; puny.,
T as in Tip (n.) The point or extremity of anything; a pointed or somewhat sharply rounded end; the end; as, the tip of the finger; the tip of a spear.,
T as in Tip (n.) An end piece or part; a piece, as a cap, nozzle, ferrule, or point, applied to the extreme end of anything; as, a tip for an umbrella, a shoe, a gas burner, etc.,
T as in Tip (n.) A piece of stiffened lining pasted on the inside of a hat crown.,
T as in Tip (n.) A thin, boarded brush made of camel's hair, used by gilders in lifting gold leaf.,
T as in Tip (n.) Rubbish thrown from a quarry.,
T as in Tipped (imp. & p. p.) of Tip,
T as in Tipping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tip,
T as in Tip (v. t.) To form a point upon; to cover the tip, top, or end of; as, to tip anything with gold or silver.,
T as in Tip (v. t.) To strike slightly; to tap.,
T as in Tip (v. t.) To bestow a gift, or douceur, upon; to give a present to; as, to tip a servant.,
T as in Tip (v. t.) To lower one end of, or to throw upon the end; to tilt; as, to tip a cask; to tip a cart.,
T as in Tip (v. i.) To fall on, or incline to, one side.,
T as in Tip (n.) A light touch or blow; a tap.,
T as in Tip (n.) A gift; a douceur; a fee.,
T as in Tip (n.) A hint, or secret intimation, as to the chances in a horse race, or the like.,
T as in Tipcart (n.) A cart so constructed that the body can be easily tipped, in order to dump the load.,
T as in Tipcat (n.) A game in which a small piece of wood pointed at both ends, called a cat, is tipped, or struck with a stick or bat, so as to fly into the air.,
T as in Tipper (n.) A kind of ale brewed with brackish water obtained from a particular well; -- so called from the first brewer of it, one Thomas Tipper.,
T as in Tippet (n.) A cape, or scarflike garment for covering the neck, or the neck and shoulders, -- usually made of fur, cloth, or other warm material.,
T as in Tippet (n.) A length of twisted hair or gut in a fish line.,
T as in Tippet (n.) A handful of straw bound together at one end, and used for thatching.,
T as in Tipping (n.) A distinct articulation given in playing quick notes on the flute, by striking the tongue against the roof of the mouth; double-tonguing.,
T as in Tippled (imp. & p. p.) of Tipple,
T as in Tippling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tipple,
T as in Tipple (v. i.) To drink spirituous or strong liquors habitually; to indulge in the frequent and improper used of spirituous liquors; especially, to drink frequently in small quantities, but without absolute drunkeness.,
T as in Tipple (v. t.) To drink, as strong liquors, frequently or in excess.,
T as in Tipple (v. t.) To put up in bundles in order to dry, as hay.,
T as in Tipple (n.) Liquor taken in tippling; drink.,
T as in Tippled (a.) Intoxicated; inebriated; tipsy; drunk.,
T as in Tippler (n.) One who keeps a tippling-house.,
T as in Tippler (n.) One who habitually indulges in the excessive use of spirituous liquors, whether he becomes intoxicated or not.,
T as in Tippling-house (n.) A house in which liquors are sold in drams or small quantities, to be drunk on the premises.,
T as in Tipsify (v. t.) To make tipsy.,
T as in Tipsily (adv.) In a tipsy manner; like one tipsy.,
T as in Tipsiness (n.) The state of being tipsy.,
T as in Tipstaff (pl. ) of Tipstaff,
T as in Tipstaff (n.) A staff tipped with metal.,
T as in Tipstaff (n.) An officer who bears a staff tipped with metal; a constable.,
T as in Tipsy (superl.) Being under the influence of strong drink; rendered weak or foolish by liquor, but not absolutely or completely drunk; fuddled; intoxicated.,
T as in Tipsy (superl.) Staggering, as if from intoxication; reeling.,
T as in Tiptoes (pl. ) of Tiptoe,
T as in Tiptoe (n.) The end, or tip, of the toe.,
T as in Tiptoe (a.) Being on tiptoe, or as on tiptoe; hence, raised as high as possible; lifted up; exalted; also, alert.,
T as in Tiptoe (a.) Noiseless; stealthy.,
T as in Tiptoe (v. i.) To step or walk on tiptoe.,
T as in Tiptop (n.) The highest or utmost degree; the best of anything.,
T as in Tiptop (a.) Very excellent; most excellent; perfect.,
T as in Tipulae (pl. ) of Tipula,
T as in Tipulas (pl. ) of Tipula,
T as in Tipula (n.) Any one of many species of long-legged dipterous insects belonging to Tipula and allied genera. They have long and slender bodies. See Crane fly, under Crane.,
T as in Tipulary (a.) Of or pertaining to the tipulas.,
T as in Tip-up (n.) The spotted sandpiper; -- called also teeter-tail. See under Sandpiper.,
T as in Tirade (n.) A declamatory strain or flight of censure or abuse; a rambling invective; an oration or harangue abounding in censorious and bitter language.,
T as in Tirailleur (n.) Formerly, a member of an independent body of marksmen in the French army. They were used sometimes in front of the army to annoy the enemy, sometimes in the rear to check his pursuit. The term is now applied to all troops acting as skirmishers.,
T as in Tire (n.) A tier, row, or rank. See Tier.,
T as in Tire (n.) Attire; apparel.,
T as in Tire (n.) A covering for the head; a headdress.,
T as in Tire (n.) A child's apron, covering the breast and having no sleeves; a pinafore; a tier.,
T as in Tire (n.) Furniture; apparatus; equipment.,
T as in Tire (n.) A hoop or band, as of metal, on the circumference of the wheel of a vehicle, to impart strength and receive the wear.,
T as in Tire (v. t.) To adorn; to attire; to dress.,
T as in Tire (v. i.) To seize, pull, and tear prey, as a hawk does.,
T as in Tire (v. i.) To seize, rend, or tear something as prey; to be fixed upon, or engaged with, anything.,
T as in Tired (imp. & p. p.) of Tire,
T as in Tiring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tire,
T as in Tire (v. i.) To become weary; to be fatigued; to have the strength fail; to have the patience exhausted; as, a feeble person soon tires.,
T as in Tire (v. t.) To exhaust the strength of, as by toil or labor; to exhaust the patience of; to wear out (one's interest, attention, or the like); to weary; to fatigue; to jade.,
T as in Tired (a.) Weary; fatigued; exhausted.,
T as in Tiredness (n.) The state of being tired, or weary.,
T as in Tireless (a.) Untiring.,
T as in Tireling (a.) Tired; fatigued.,
T as in Tiresome (a.) Fitted or tending to tire; exhausted; wearisome; fatiguing; tedious; as, a tiresome journey; a tiresome discourse.,
T as in Tire-women (pl. ) of Tire-woman,
T as in Tire-woman (n.) A lady's maid.,
T as in Tire-woman (n.) A dresser in a theater.,
T as in Tiring-house (n.) A tiring-room.,
T as in Tiring-room (n.) The room or place where players dress for the stage.,
T as in Tirma (n.) The oyster catcher.,
T as in Tiro (n.) Same as Tyro.,
T as in T iron () See under T.,
T as in Tironian (a.) Of or pertaining to Tiro, or a system of shorthand said to have been introduced by him into ancient Rome.,
T as in Tirralirra (n.) A verbal imitation of a musical sound, as of the note of a lark or a horn.,
T as in Tirrit (n.) A word from the vocabulary of Mrs. Quickly, the hostess in Shakespeare's Henry IV., probably meaning terror.,
T as in Tirwit (n.) The lapwing.,
T as in 'T is () A common contraction of it is.,
T as in Tisane (n.) See Ptisan.,
T as in Tisar (n.) The fireplace at the side of an annealing oven.,
T as in Tisic (a.) Alt. of Tisical,
T as in Tisical (a.) Consumptive, phthisical.,
T as in Tisic (n.) Consumption; phthisis. See Phthisis.,
T as in Tisicky (a.) Consumptive, phthisical.,
T as in Tisri (n.) The seventh month of the Jewish ecclesiastical year, answering to a part of September with a part of October.,
T as in Tissue (n.) A woven fabric.,
T as in Tissue (n.) A fine transparent silk stuff, used for veils, etc.; specifically, cloth interwoven with gold or silver threads, or embossed with figures.,
T as in Tissue (n.) One of the elementary materials or fibres, having a uniform structure and a specialized function, of which ordinary animals and plants are composed; a texture; as, epithelial tissue; connective tissue.,
T as in Tissue (n.) Fig.: Web; texture; complicated fabrication; connected series; as, a tissue of forgeries, or of falsehood.,
T as in Tissued (imp. & p. p.) of Tissue,
T as in Tissuing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tissue,
T as in Tissue (v. t.) To form tissue of; to interweave.,
T as in Tissued (a.) Clothed in, or adorned with, tissue; also, variegated; as, tissued flowers.,
T as in Tit (n.) A small horse.,
T as in Tit (n.) A woman; -- used in contempt.,
T as in Tit (n.) A morsel; a bit.,
T as in Tit (n.) Any one of numerous species of small singing birds belonging to the families Paridae and Leiotrichidae; a titmouse.,
T as in Tit (n.) The European meadow pipit; a titlark.,
T as in Titan (a.) Titanic.,
T as in Titanate (n.) A salt of titanic acid.,
T as in Titanic (a.) Of or relating to Titans, or fabled giants of ancient mythology; hence, enormous in size or strength; as, Titanic structures.,
T as in Titanic (a.) Of or pertaining to titanium; derived from, or containing, titanium; specifically, designating those compounds of titanium in which it has a higher valence as contrasted with the titanous compounds.,
T as in Titaniferous (a.) Containing or affording titanium; as, titaniferous magnetite.,
T as in Titanite (n.) See Sphene.,
T as in Titanitic (a.) Pertaining to, or containing, titanium; as, a titanitic mineral.,
T as in Titanium (n.) An elementary substance found combined in the minerals manaccanite, rutile, sphene, etc., and isolated as an infusible iron-gray amorphous powder, having a metallic luster. It burns when heated in the air. Symbol Ti. Atomic weight 48.1.,
T as in Titano- () A combining form (also used adjectively) designating certain double compounds of titanium with some other elements; as, titano-cyanide, titano-fluoride, titano-silicate, etc.,
T as in Titanotherium (n.) A large American Miocene mammal, allied to the rhinoceros, and more nearly to the extinct Brontotherium.,
T as in Titanous (a.) Designating certain compounds of titanium in which that element has a lower valence as contrasted with titanic compounds.,
T as in Titbit (n.) Same as Tidbit.,
T as in Tith (a.) Tight; nimble.,
T as in Tithable (a.) Subject to the payment of tithes; as, tithable lands.,
T as in Tithe (n.) A tenth; the tenth part of anything; specifically, the tenthpart of the increase arising from the profits of land and stock, allotted to the clergy for their support, as in England, or devoted to religious or charitable uses. Almost all the tithes of England and Wales are commuted by law into rent charges.,
T as in Tithe (n.) Hence, a small part or proportion.,
T as in Tithe (a.) Tenth.,
T as in Tithed (imp. & p. p.) of Tithe,
T as in Tithing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tithe,
T as in Tithe (v. t.) To levy a tenth part on; to tax to the amount of a tenth; to pay tithes on.,
T as in Tithe (v. i.) Tp pay tithes.,
T as in Tither (n.) One who collects tithes.,
T as in Tither (n.) One who pays tithes.,
T as in Tithing (n.) The act of levying or taking tithes; that which is taken as tithe; a tithe.,
T as in Tithing (n.) A number or company of ten householders who, dwelling near each other, were sureties or frankpledges to the king for the good behavior of each other; a decennary.,
T as in Tithingmen (pl. ) of Tithingman,
T as in Tithingman (n.) The chief man of a tithing; a headborough; one elected to preside over the tithing.,
T as in Tithingman (n.) A peace officer; an under constable.,
T as in Tithingman (n.) A parish officer elected annually to preserve good order in the church during divine service, to make complaint of any disorderly conduct, and to enforce the observance of the Sabbath.,
T as in Tithly (a.) Tightly; nimbly.,
T as in Tithonic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or denoting, those rays of light which produce chemical effects; actinic.,
T as in Tithonicity (n.) The state or property of being tithonic; actinism.,
T as in Tithonographic (a.) Of, relating to, or produced by, the chemical action of rays of light; photographic.,
T as in Tithonometer (n.) An instrument or apparatus for measuring or detecting tithonicity; an actinometer.,
T as in Tithymal (n.) Any kind of spurge, esp. Euphorbia Cyparissias.,
T as in Titi (n.) Same as Teetee.,
T as in Titillated (imp. & p. p.) of Titillate,
T as in Titillating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Titillate,
T as in Titillate (v. t. & i.) To tickle; as, to titillate the nose with a feather.,
T as in Titillation (n.) The act of tickling, or the state of being tickled; a tickling sensation.,
T as in Titillation (n.) Any pleasurable sensation.,
T as in Titillative (a.) Tending or serving to titillate, or tickle; tickling.,
T as in Titlark (n.) Any one of numerous small spring birds belonging to Anthus, Corydalla, and allied genera, which resemble the true larks in color and in having a very long hind claw; especially, the European meadow pipit (Anthus pratensis).,
T as in Title (n.) An inscription put over or upon anything as a name by which it is known.,
T as in Title (n.) The inscription in the beginning of a book, usually containing the subject of the work, the author's and publisher's names, the date, etc.,
T as in Title (n.) The panel for the name, between the bands of the back of a book.,
T as in Title (n.) A section or division of a subject, as of a law, a book, specif. (Roman & Canon Laws), a chapter or division of a law book.,
T as in Title (n.) An appellation of dignity, distinction, or preeminence (hereditary or acquired), given to persons, as duke marquis, honorable, esquire, etc.,
T as in Title (n.) A name; an appellation; a designation.,
T as in Title (n.) That which constitutes a just cause of exclusive possession; that which is the foundation of ownership of property, real or personal; a right; as, a good title to an estate, or an imperfect title.,
T as in Title (n.) The instrument which is evidence of a right.,
T as in Title (n.) That by which a beneficiary holds a benefice.,
T as in Title (n.) A church to which a priest was ordained, and where he was to reside.,
T as in Titled (imp. & p. p.) of Title,
T as in Titling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Title,
T as in Title (n.) To call by a title; to name; to entitle.,
T as in Titled (a.) Having or bearing a title.,
T as in Titleless (a.) Not having a title or name; without legitimate title.,
T as in Title-page (n.) The page of a book which contains it title.,
T as in Titler (n.) A large truncated cone of refined sugar.,
T as in Titling (n.) The hedge sparrow; -- called also titlene. Its nest often chosen by the cuckoo as a place for depositing its own eggs.,
T as in Titling (n.) The meadow pipit.,
T as in Titling (n.) Stockfish; -- formerly so called in customhouses.,
T as in Titmal (n.) The blue titmouse.,
T as in Titmice (pl. ) of Titmouse,
T as in Titmouse (n.) Any one of numerous species of small insectivorous singing birds belonging to Parus and allied genera; -- called also tit, and tomtit.,
T as in Titrated (imp. & p. p.) of Titrate,
T as in Titrating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Titrate,
T as in Titrate (n.) To analyse, or determine the strength of, by means of standard solutions. Cf. Standardized solution, under Solution.,
T as in Titrated (a.) Standardized; determined or analyzed by titration; as, titrated solutions.,
T as in Titration (n.) The act or process of titrating; a substance obtained by titrating.,
T as in Tittered (imp. & p. p.) of Titter,
T as in Tittering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Titter,
T as in Titter (v. t.) To laugh with the tongue striking against the root of the upper teeth; to laugh with restraint, or without much noise; to giggle.,
T as in Titter (n.) A restrained laugh.,
T as in Titter (v. i.) To seesaw. See Teeter.,
T as in Titterel (n.) The whimbrel.,
T as in Titter-totter (v. i.) See Teeter.,
T as in Tittimouse (n.) Titmouse.,
T as in Tittle (n.) A particle; a minute part; a jot; an iota.,
T as in Tittlebat (n.) The three-spined stickleback.,
T as in Tittle-tattle (n.) Idle, trifling talk; empty prattle.,
T as in Tittle-tattle (n.) An idle, trifling talker; a gossip.,
T as in Tittle-tattle (v. i.) To talk idly; to prate.,
T as in Tittle-tattling (n.) The act or habit of parting idly or gossiping.,
T as in Titty (n.) A little teat; a nipple.,
T as in Titubate (v. i.) To stumble.,
T as in Titubate (v. i.) To rock or roll, as a curved body on a plane.,
T as in Titubation (n.) The act of stumbling, rocking, or rolling; a reeling.,
T as in Titular (a.) Existing in title or name only; nominal; having the title to an office or dignity without discharging its appropriate duties; as, a titular prince.,
T as in Titular (n.) A titulary.,
T as in Titularity (n.) The quality or state of being titular.,
T as in Titularly (adv.) In a titular manner; nominally; by title only.,
T as in Titularies (pl. ) of Titulary,
T as in Titulary (n.) A person invested with a title, in virtue of which he holds an office or benefice, whether he performs the duties of it or not.,
T as in Titulary (a.) Consisting in a title; titular.,
T as in Titulary (a.) Of or pertaining to a title.,
T as in Tituled (a.) Having a title.,
T as in Tiver (n.) A kind of ocher which is used in some parts of England in marking sheep.,
T as in Tiver (v. t.) To mark with tiver.,
T as in Tivy (adv.) With great speed; -- a huntsman's word or sound.,
T as in Tiza (n.) See Ulexite.,
T as in Tmesis (n.) The separation of the parts of a compound word by the intervention of one or more words; as, in what place soever, for whatsoever place.,
T as in To- (prep.) An obsolete intensive prefix used in the formation of compound verbs; as in to-beat, to-break, to-hew, to-rend, to-tear. See these words in the Vocabulary. See the Note on All to, or All-to, under All, adv.,
T as in To (prep.) The preposition to primarily indicates approach and arrival, motion made in the direction of a place or thing and attaining it, access; and also, motion or tendency without arrival; movement toward; -- opposed to from.,
T as in To (prep.) Hence, it indicates motion, course, or tendency toward a time, a state or condition, an aim, or anything capable of being regarded as a limit to a tendency, movement, or action; as, he is going to a trade; he is rising to wealth and honor.,
T as in To (prep.) In a very general way, and with innumerable varieties of application, to connects transitive verbs with their remoter or indirect object, and adjectives, nouns, and neuter or passive verbs with a following noun which limits their action. Its sphere verges upon that of for, but it contains less the idea of design or appropriation; as, these remarks were addressed to a large audience; let us keep this seat to ourselves; a substance sweet to the taste; an event painful to the mind; duty to God and to our parents; a dislike to spirituous liquor.,
T as in To (prep.) As sign of the infinitive, to had originally the use of last defined, governing the infinitive as a verbal noun, and connecting it as indirect object with a preceding verb or adjective; thus, ready to go, i.e., ready unto going; good to eat, i.e., good for eating; I do my utmost to lead my life pleasantly. But it has come to be the almost constant prefix to the infinitive, even in situations where it has no prepositional meaning, as where the infinitive is direct object or subject; thus, I love to learn, i.e., I love learning; to die for one's country is noble, i.e., the dying for one's country. Where the infinitive denotes the design or purpose, good usage formerly allowed the prefixing of for to the to; as, what went ye out for see? (Matt. xi. 8).,
T as in To (prep.) In many phrases, and in connection with many other words, to has a pregnant meaning, or is used elliptically.,
T as in To (prep.) Extent; limit; degree of comprehension; inclusion as far as; as, they met us to the number of three hundred.,
T as in To (prep.) Effect; end; consequence; as, the prince was flattered to his ruin; he engaged in a war to his cost; violent factions exist to the prejudice of the state.,
T as in To (prep.) Apposition; connection; antithesis; opposition; as, they engaged hand to hand.,
T as in To (prep.) Accord; adaptation; as, an occupation to his taste; she has a husband to her mind.,
T as in To (prep.) Comparison; as, three is to nine as nine is to twenty-seven; it is ten to one that you will offend him.,
T as in To (prep.) Addition; union; accumulation.,
T as in To (prep.) Accompaniment; as, she sang to his guitar; they danced to the music of a piano.,
T as in To (prep.) Character; condition of being; purpose subserved or office filled.,
T as in Toad (n.) Any one of numerous species of batrachians belonging to the genus Bufo and allied genera, especially those of the family Bufonidae. Toads are generally terrestrial in their habits except during the breeding season, when they seek the water. Most of the species burrow beneath the earth in the daytime and come forth to feed on insects at night. Most toads have a rough, warty skin in which are glands that secrete an acrid fluid.,
T as in Toadeater (n.) A fawning, obsequious parasite; a mean sycophant; a flatterer; a toady.,
T as in Toadfish (n.) Any marine fish of the genus Batrachus, having a large, thick head and a wide mouth, and bearing some resemblance to a toad. The American species (Batrachus tau) is very common in shallow water. Called also oyster fish, and sapo.,
T as in Toadfish (n.) The angler.,
T as in Toadfish (n.) A swellfish.,
T as in Toadflax (n.) An herb (Linaria vulgaris) of the Figwort family, having narrow leaves and showy orange and yellow flowers; -- called also butter and eggs, flaxweed, and ramsted.,
T as in Toadhead (n.) The golden plover.,
T as in Toadish (a.) Like a toad.,
T as in Toadlet (n.) A small toad.,
T as in Toadstone (n.) A local name for the igneous rocks of Derbyshire, England; -- said by some to be derived from the German todter stein, meaning dead stone, that is, stone which contains no ores.,
T as in Toadstone (n.) Bufonite, formerly regarded as a precious stone, and worn as a jewel. See Bufonite.,
T as in Toadstool (n.) A name given to many umbrella-shaped fungi, mostly of the genus Agaricus. The species are almost numberless. They grow on decaying organic matter.,
T as in Toadies (pl. ) of Toady,
T as in Toady (n.) A mean flatterer; a toadeater; a sycophant.,
T as in Toady (n.) A coarse, rustic woman.,
T as in Toadied (imp. & p. p.) of Toady,
T as in Toadying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Toady,
T as in Toady (v. t.) To fawn upon with mean sycophancy.,
T as in Toadyism (n.) The practice of meanly fawning on another; base sycophancy; servile adulation.,
T as in Toasted (imp. & p. p.) of Toast,
T as in Toasting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Toast,
T as in Toast (v. t.) To dry and brown by the heat of a fire; as, to toast bread.,
T as in Toast (v. t.) To warm thoroughly; as, to toast the feet.,
T as in Toast (v. t.) To name when a health is proposed to be drunk; to drink to the health, or in honor, of; as, to toast a lady.,
T as in Toast (v.) Bread dried and browned before a fire, usually in slices; also, a kind of food prepared by putting slices of toasted bread into milk, gravy, etc.,
T as in Toast (v.) A lady in honor of whom persons or a company are invited to drink; -- so called because toasts were formerly put into the liquor, as a great delicacy.,
T as in Toast (v.) Hence, any person, especially a person of distinction, in honor of whom a health is drunk; hence, also, anything so commemorated; a sentiment, as "The land we live in," "The day we celebrate," etc.,
T as in Toaster (n.) One who toasts.,
T as in Toaster (n.) A kitchen utensil for toasting bread, cheese, etc.,
T as in Toasting () a. & n. from Toast, v.,
T as in Toastmaster (n.) A person who presides at a public dinner or banquet, and announces the toasts.,
T as in Toat (n.) The handle of a joiner's plane.,
T as in Tobacco (n.) An American plant (Nicotiana Tabacum) of the Nightshade family, much used for smoking and chewing, and as snuff. As a medicine, it is narcotic, emetic, and cathartic. Tobacco has a strong, peculiar smell, and an acrid taste.,
T as in Tobacco (n.) The leaves of the plant prepared for smoking, chewing, etc., by being dried, cured, and manufactured in various ways.,
T as in Tobacconing (n.) Smoking tobacco.,
T as in Tobacconist (n.) A dealer in tobacco; also, a manufacturer of tobacco.,
T as in Tobacconist (n.) A smoker of tobacco.,
T as in To-beat (v. t.) To beat thoroughly or severely.,
T as in Tobias fish () The lant, or sand eel.,
T as in Tobine (n.) A stout twilled silk used for dresses.,
T as in Tobit (n.) A book of the Apocrypha.,
T as in Toboggan (n.) A kind of sledge made of pliable board, turned up at one or both ends, used for coasting down hills or prepared inclined planes; also, a sleigh or sledge, to be drawn by dogs, or by hand, over soft and deep snow.,
T as in Tobogganed (imp. & p. p.) of Toboggan,
T as in Tobogganing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Toboggan,
T as in Toboggan (v. i.) To slide down hill over the snow or ice on a toboggan.,
T as in Tobogganer (n.) Alt. of Tobogganist,
T as in Tobogganist (n.) One who practices tobogganing.,
T as in To-break (v. t.) To break completely; to break in pieces.,
T as in To-brest (v. t.) To burst or break in pieces.,
T as in Toccata (n.) An old form of piece for the organ or harpsichord, somewhat in the free and brilliant style of the prelude, fantasia, or capriccio.,
T as in Tocher (n.) Dowry brought by a bride to her husband.,
T as in Tockay (n.) A spotted lizard native of India.,
T as in Toco (n.) A toucan (Ramphastos toco) having a very large beak. See Illust. under Toucan.,
T as in Tocology (n.) The science of obstetrics, or midwifery; that department of medicine which treats of parturition.,
T as in Tocororo (n.) A cuban trogon (Priotelus temnurus) having a serrated bill and a tail concave at the end.,
T as in Tocsin (n.) An alarm bell, or the ringing of a bell for the purpose of alarm.,
T as in Tod (n.) A bush; a thick shrub; a bushy clump.,
T as in Tod (n.) An old weight used in weighing wool, being usually twenty-eight pounds.,
T as in Tod (n.) A fox; -- probably so named from its bushy tail.,
T as in Tod (v. t. & i.) To weigh; to yield in tods.,
T as in To-day (prep.) On this day; on the present day.,
T as in To-day (n.) The present day.,
T as in Toddled (imp. & p. p.) of Toddle,
T as in Toddling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Toddle,
T as in Toddle (v. i.) To walk with short, tottering steps, as a child.,
T as in Toddle (n.) A toddling walk.,
T as in Toddler (n.) One who toddles; especially, a young child.,
T as in Toddy (n.) A juice drawn from various kinds of palms in the East Indies; or, a spirituous liquor procured from it by fermentation.,
T as in Toddy (n.) A mixture of spirit and hot water sweetened.,
T as in To-do (n.) Bustle; stir; commotion; ado.,
T as in Tody (n.) Any one of several species of small insectivorous West Indian birds of the genus Todus. They are allied to the kingfishers.,
T as in Toe (n.) One of the terminal members, or digits, of the foot of a man or an animal.,
T as in Toe (n.) The fore part of the hoof or foot of an animal.,
T as in Toe (n.) Anything, or any part, corresponding to the toe of the foot; as, the toe of a boot; the toe of a skate.,
T as in Toe (n.) The journal, or pivot, at the lower end of a revolving shaft or spindle, which rests in a step.,
T as in Toe (n.) A lateral projection at one end, or between the ends, of a piece, as a rod or bolt, by means of which it is moved.,
T as in Toe (n.) A projection from the periphery of a revolving piece, acting as a cam to lift another piece.,
T as in Toed (imp. & p. p.) of Toe,
T as in Toeing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Toe,
T as in Toe (v. t.) To touch or reach with the toes; to come fully up to; as, to toe the mark.,
T as in Toe (v. i.) To hold or carry the toes (in a certain way).,
T as in Toed (a.) Having (such or so many) toes; -- chiefly used in composition; as, narrow-toed, four-toed.,
T as in Toed (a.) Having the end secured by nails driven obliquely, said of a board, plank, or joist serving as a brace, and in general of any part of a frame secured to other parts by diagonal nailing.,
T as in To-fall (n.) A lean-to. See Lean-to.,
T as in Toffee (n.) Alt. of Toffy,
T as in Toffy (n.) Taffy.,
T as in Tofore (prep.) Alt. of Toforn,
T as in Toforn (prep.) Before.,
T as in Toft (n.) A knoll or hill.,
T as in Toft (n.) A grove of trees; also, a plain.,
T as in Toft (n.) A place where a messuage has once stood; the site of a burnt or decayed house.,
T as in Toftmen (pl. ) of Toftman,
T as in Toftman (n.) The owner of a toft. See Toft, 3.,
T as in Tofus (n.) Tophus.,
T as in Tofus (n.) Tufa. See under Tufa, and Toph.,
T as in Togas (pl. ) of Toga,
T as in Togae (pl. ) of Toga,
T as in Toga (n.) The loose outer garment worn by the ancient Romans, consisting of a single broad piece of woolen cloth of a shape approaching a semicircle. It was of undyed wool, except the border of the toga praetexta.,
T as in Togated (a.) Dressed in a toga or gown; wearing a gown; gowned.,
T as in Toged (a.) Togated.,
T as in Together (prep.) In company or association with respect to place or time; as, to live together in one house; to live together in the same age; they walked together to the town.,
T as in Together (prep.) In or into union; into junction; as, to sew, knit, or fasten two things together; to mix things together.,
T as in Together (prep.) In concert; with mutual cooperation; as, the allies made war upon France together.,
T as in Toggery (n.) Clothes; garments; dress; as, fishing toggery.,
T as in Toggle (n.) A wooden pin tapering toward both ends with a groove around its middle, fixed transversely in the eye of a rope to be secured to any other loop or bight or ring; a kind of button or frog capable of being readily engaged and disengaged for temporary purposes.,
T as in Toggle (n.) Two rods or plates connected by a toggle joint.,
T as in Toght (a.) Taut.,
T as in Togider (adv.) Alt. of Togidres,
T as in Togidres (adv.) Together.,
T as in Togue (n.) The namaycush.,
T as in Tohew (v. t.) To hew in pieces.,
T as in Toil (n.) A net or snare; any thread, web, or string spread for taking prey; -- usually in the plural.,
T as in Toiled (imp. & p. p.) of Toil,
T as in Toiling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Toil,
T as in Toil (v. i.) To exert strength with pain and fatigue of body or mind, especially of the body, with efforts of some continuance or duration; to labor; to work.,
T as in Toil (v. t.) To weary; to overlabor.,
T as in Toil (v. t.) To labor; to work; -- often with out.,
T as in Toil (v.) Labor with pain and fatigue; labor that oppresses the body or mind, esp. the body.,
T as in Toiler (n.) One who toils, or labors painfully.,
T as in Toilet (n.) A covering of linen, silk, or tapestry, spread over a table in a chamber or a dressing room.,
T as in Toilet (n.) A dressing table.,
T as in Toilet (n.) Act or mode of dressing, or that which is arranged in dressing; attire; dress; as, her toilet is perfect.,
T as in Toilette (n.) See Toilet, 3.,
T as in Toilful (a.) Producing or involving much toil; laborious; toilsome; as, toilful care.,
T as in Toilinette (n.) A cloth, the weft of which is of woolen yarn, and the warp of cotton and silk, -- used for waistcoats.,
T as in Toilless (a.) Free from toil.,
T as in Toilsome (a.) Attended with toil, or fatigue and pain; laborious; wearisome; as, toilsome work.,
T as in Toise (a.) An old measure of length in France, containing six French feet, or about 6.3946 French feet.,
T as in Tokay (n.) A grape of an oval shape and whitish color.,
T as in Tokay (n.) A rich Hungarian wine made from Tokay grapes.,
T as in Token (n.) Something intended or supposed to represent or indicate another thing or an event; a sign; a symbol; as, the rainbow is a token of God's covenant established with Noah.,
T as in Token (n.) A memorial of friendship; something by which the friendship of another person is to be kept in mind; a memento; a souvenir.,
T as in Token (n.) Something given or shown as a symbol or guarantee of authority or right; a sign of authenticity, of power, good faith, etc.,
T as in Token (n.) A piece of metal intended for currency, and issued by a private party, usually bearing the name of the issuer, and redeemable in lawful money. Also, a coin issued by government, esp. when its use as lawful money is limited and its intrinsic value is much below its nominal value.,
T as in Token (n.) A livid spot upon the body, indicating, or supposed to indicate, the approach of death.,
T as in Token (n.) Ten and a half quires, or, commonly, 250 sheets, of paper printed on both sides; also, in some cases, the same number of sheets printed on one side, or half the number printed on both sides.,
T as in Token (n.) A piece of metal given beforehand to each person in the congregation who is permitted to partake of the Lord's Supper.,
T as in Token (n.) A bit of leather having a peculiar mark designating a particular miner. Each hewer sends one of these with each corf or tub he has hewn.,
T as in Tokened (imp. & p. p.) of Token,
T as in Tokening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Token,
T as in Token (n.) To betoken.,
T as in Tokened (a.) Marked by tokens, or spots; as, the tokened pestilence.,
T as in Tokenless (a.) Without a token.,
T as in Tokin (n.) A tocsin.,
T as in Tol (v. t.) To take away. See Toll.,
T as in Tola (n.) A weight of British India. The standard tola is equal to 180 grains.,
T as in Tolane (n.) A hydrocarbon, C14H10, related both to the acetylene and the aromatic series, and produced artificially as a white crystalline substance; -- called also diphenyl acetylene.,
T as in Tolbooth (n.) See Tollbooth.,
T as in Told () imp. & p. p. of Tell.,
T as in Toled (imp. & p. p.) of Tole,
T as in Toling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tole,
T as in Tole (v. t.) To draw, or cause to follow, by displaying something pleasing or desirable; to allure by some bait.,
T as in Toledo (n.) A sword or sword blade made at Toledo in Spain, which city was famous in the 16th and 17th centuries for the excellence of its weapons.,
T as in Tolerabolity (n.) The quality or state of being tolerable.,
T as in Tolerable (a.) Capable of being borne or endured; supportable, either physically or mentally.,
T as in Tolerable (a.) Moderately good or agreeable; not contemptible; not very excellent or pleasing, but such as can be borne or received without disgust, resentment, or opposition; passable; as, a tolerable administration; a tolerable entertainment; a tolerable translation.,
T as in Tolerance (n.) The power or capacity of enduring; the act of enduring; endurance.,
T as in Tolerance (n.) The endurance of the presence or actions of objectionable persons, or of the expression of offensive opinions; toleration.,
T as in Tolerance (n.) The power possessed or acquired by some persons of bearing doses of medicine which in ordinary cases would prove injurious or fatal.,
T as in Tolerant (a.) Inclined to tolerate; favoring toleration; forbearing; indulgent.,
T as in Tolerated (imp. & p. p.) of Tolerate,
T as in Tolerating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tolerate,
T as in Tolerate (v. t.) To suffer to be, or to be done, without prohibition or hindrance; to allow or permit negatively, by not preventing; not to restrain; to put up with; as, to tolerate doubtful practices.,
T as in Toleration (n.) The act of tolerating; the allowance of that which is not wholly approved.,
T as in Toleration (n.) Specifically, the allowance of religious opinions and modes of worship in a state when contrary to, or different from, those of the established church or belief.,
T as in Toleration (n.) Hence, freedom from bigotry and severity in judgment of the opinions or belief of others, especially in respect to religious matters.,
T as in Toll (v. t.) To take away; to vacate; to annul.,
T as in Toll (v. t.) To draw; to entice; to allure. See Tole.,
T as in Toll (v. t.) To cause to sound, as a bell, with strokes slowly and uniformly repeated; as, to toll the funeral bell.,
T as in Toll (v. t.) To strike, or to indicate by striking, as the hour; to ring a toll for; as, to toll a departed friend.,
T as in Toll (v. t.) To call, summon, or notify, by tolling or ringing.,
T as in Tolled (imp. & p. p.) of Toll,
T as in Tolling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Toll,
T as in Toll (v. i.) To sound or ring, as a bell, with strokes uniformly repeated at intervals, as at funerals, or in calling assemblies, or to announce the death of a person.,
T as in Toll (n.) The sound of a bell produced by strokes slowly and uniformly repeated.,
T as in Toll (n.) A tax paid for some liberty or privilege, particularly for the privilege of passing over a bridge or on a highway, or for that of vending goods in a fair, market, or the like.,
T as in Toll (n.) A liberty to buy and sell within the bounds of a manor.,
T as in Toll (n.) A portion of grain taken by a miller as a compensation for grinding.,
T as in Toll (v. i.) To pay toll or tallage.,
T as in Toll (v. i.) To take toll; to raise a tax.,
T as in Toll (v. t.) To collect, as a toll.,
T as in Tollable (a.) Subject to the payment of toll; as, tollable goods.,
T as in Tollage (n.) Payment of toll; also, the amount or quantity paid as toll.,
T as in Tollbooth (n.) A place where goods are weighed to ascertain the duties or toll.,
T as in Tollbooth (n.) In Scotland, a burgh jail; hence, any prison, especially a town jail.,
T as in Tollbooth (v. t.) To imprison in a tollbooth.,
T as in Toller (n.) A toll gatherer.,
T as in Toller (n.) One who tolls a bell.,
T as in Tolletane (a.) Of or pertaining to Toledo in Spain; made in Toledo.,
T as in Tollgate (n.) A gate where toll is taken.,
T as in Tollhouses (pl. ) of Tollhouse,
T as in Tollhouse (n.) A house occupied by a receiver of tolls.,
T as in Tollmen (pl. ) of Tollman,
T as in Tollman (n.) One who receives or collects toll; a toll gatherer.,
T as in Tolmen (n.) See Dolmen.,
T as in Tolsester (n.) A toll or tribute of a sextary of ale, paid to the lords of some manors by their tenants, for liberty to brew and sell ale.,
T as in Tolsey (n.) A tollbooth; also, a merchants' meeting place, or exchange.,
T as in Tolt (n.) A writ by which a cause pending in a court baron was removed into a country court.,
T as in Toltec (n.) One of a race which formerly occupied Mexico.,
T as in Tolu (n.) A fragrant balsam said to have been first brought from Santiago de Tolu, in New Granada. See Balsam of Tolu, under Balsam.,
T as in Toluate (n.) A salt of any one of the toluic acids.,
T as in Toluene (n.) A hydrocarbon, C6H5.CH3, of the aromatic series, homologous with benzene, and obtained as a light mobile colorless liquid, by distilling tolu balsam, coal tar, etc.; -- called also methyl benzene, phenyl methane, etc.,
T as in Toluenyl (n.) Tolyl.,
T as in Toluic (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, one of three metameric acids, CH3.C6H4.CO2H, which are related to toluene and analogous to benzoic acids. They are white crystalline substances, and are called respectively orthotoluic acid, metatoluic acid, and paratoluic acid.,
T as in Toluid (n.) A complex double tolyl and toluidine derivative of glycocoll, obtained as a white crystalline substance.,
T as in Toluidine (n.) Any one of three metameric amido derivatives of toluene analogous to aniline, and called respectively orthtoluidine, metatoluidine, and paratoluidine; especially, the commonest one, or paratoluidine, which is obtained as a white crystalline substance.,
T as in Toluol (n.) Alt. of Toluole,
T as in Toluole (n.) Same as Toluene.,
T as in Toluric (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, any one of three isomeric crystalline acids, C9H10ON.CO2H, which are toluyl derivatives of glycocoll.,
T as in Tolutation (n.) A pacing or ambling.,
T as in Toluyl (n.) Any one of the three hypothetical radicals corresponding to the three toluic acids.,
T as in Toluylene (n.) Same as Stilbene.,
T as in Toluylene (n.) Sometimes, but less properly, tolylene.,
T as in Tolyl (n.) The hydrocarbon radical, CH3.C6H4, regarded as characteristic of certain compounds of the aromatic series related to toluene; as, tolyl carbinol.,
T as in Tolylene (n.) A hydrocarbon radical, C6H4.(CH2)2, regarded as characteristic of certain toluene derivatives.,
T as in Tolypeutine (n.) The apar.,
T as in Tom (n.) The knave of trumps at gleek.,
T as in Tomahawk (n.) A kind of war hatchet used by the American Indians. It was originally made of stone, but afterwards of iron.,
T as in Tomahawked (imp. & p. p.) of Tomahawk,
T as in Tomahawking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tomahawk,
T as in Tomahawk (v. t.) To cut, strike, or kill, with a tomahawk.,
T as in Tomaley (n.) The liver of the lobster, which becomes green when boiled; -- called also tomalline.,
T as in Toman (n.) A money of account in Persia, whose value varies greatly at different times and places. Its average value may be reckoned at about two and a half dollars.,
T as in Tomatoes (pl. ) of Tomato,
T as in Tomato (n.) The fruit of a plant of the Nightshade family (Lycopersicum esculentun); also, the plant itself. The fruit, which is called also love apple, is usually of a rounded, flattened form, but often irregular in shape. It is of a bright red or yellow color, and is eaten either cooked or uncooked.,
T as in Tomb (n.) A pit in which the dead body of a human being is deposited; a grave; a sepulcher.,
T as in Tomb (n.) A house or vault, formed wholly or partly in the earth, with walls and a roof, for the reception of the dead.,
T as in Tomb (n.) A monument erected to inclose the body and preserve the name and memory of the dead.,
T as in Tombed (imp. & p. p.) of Tomb,
T as in Tombing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tomb,
T as in Tomb (v. t.) To place in a tomb; to bury; to inter; to entomb.,
T as in Tombac (n.) An alloy of copper and zinc, resembling brass, and containing about 84 per cent of copper; -- called also German, / Dutch, brass. It is very malleable and ductile, and when beaten into thin leaves is sometimes called Dutch metal. The addition of arsenic makes white tombac.,
T as in Tombester (n.) A female dancer.,
T as in Tombless (a.) Destitute of a tomb.,
T as in Tomboy (n.) A romping girl; a hoiden.,
T as in Tombstone (n.) A stone erected over a grave, to preserve the memory of the deceased.,
T as in Tomcat (n.) A male cat, especially when full grown or of large size.,
T as in Tomcod (n.) A small edible American fish (Microgadus tomcod) of the Codfish family, very abundant in autumn on the Atlantic coast of the Northen United States; -- called also frostfish. See Illust. under Frostfish.,
T as in Tomcod (n.) The kingfish. See Kingfish (a).,
T as in Tomcod (n.) The jack. See 2d Jack, 8. (c).,
T as in Tome (n.) As many writings as are bound in a volume, forming part of a larger work; a book; -- usually applied to a ponderous volume.,
T as in Tomelet (n.) All small tome, or volume.,
T as in Tomentose (a.) Covered with matted woolly hairs; as, a tomentose leaf; a tomentose leaf; a tomentose membrane.,
T as in Tometous (a.) Tomentose.,
T as in Tomenta (pl. ) of Tomentum,
T as in Tomentum (n.) The closely matted hair or downy nap covering the leaves or stems of some plants.,
T as in Tomfool (n.) A great fool; a trifler.,
T as in Tomfoolery (n.) Folly; trifling.,
T as in Tomia (pl. ) of Tomium,
T as in Tomium (n.) The cutting edge of the bill of a bird.,
T as in Tomjohn (n.) A kind of open sedan used in Ceylon, carried by a single pole on men's shoulders.,
T as in Tommy (n.) Bread, -- generally a penny roll; the supply of food carried by workmen as their daily allowance.,
T as in Tommy (n.) A truck, or barter; the exchange of labor for goods, not money.,
T as in Tomnoddy (n.) A sea bird, the puffin.,
T as in Tomnoddy (n.) A fool; a dunce; a noddy.,
T as in Tomopteris (n.) A genus of transparent marine annelids which swim actively at the surface of the sea. They have deeply divided or forked finlike organs (parapodia). This genus is the type of the order, or suborder, Gymnocopa.,
T as in Tomorn (adv.) To-morrow.,
T as in Tomorrow (adv.) On the day after the present day; on the next day; on the morrow.,
T as in Tomorrow (n.) The day after the present; the morrow.,
T as in Tompion (n.) A stopper of a cannon or a musket. See Tampion.,
T as in Tompion (n.) A plug in a flute or an organ pipe, to modulate the tone.,
T as in Tompion (n.) The iron bottom to which grapeshot are fixed.,
T as in Tompon (n.) An inking pad used in lithographic printing.,
T as in Tomrig (n.) A rude, wild, wanton girl; a hoiden; a tomboy.,
T as in Tomtit (n.) A titmouse, esp. the blue titmouse.,
T as in Tomtit (n.) The wren.,
T as in Tom-tom (n.) See Tam-tam.,
T as in Ton () pl. of Toe.,
T as in Ton (n.) The common tunny, or house mackerel.,
T as in Ton (n.) The prevailing fashion or mode; vogue; as, things of ton.,
T as in Ton (n.) A measure of weight or quantity.,
T as in Ton (n.) The weight of twenty hundredweight.,
T as in Ton (n.) Forty cubic feet of space, being the unit of measurement of the burden, or carrying capacity, of a vessel; as a vessel of 300 tons burden.,
T as in Ton (n.) A certain weight or quantity of merchandise, with reference to transportation as freight; as, six hundred weight of ship bread in casks, seven hundred weight in bags, eight hundred weight in bulk; ten bushels of potatoes; eight sacks, or ten barrels, of flour; forty cubic feet of rough, or fifty cubic feet of hewn, timber, etc.,
T as in Tonality (n.) The principle of key in music; the character which a composition has by virtue of the key in which it is written, or through the family relationship of all its tones and chords to the keynote, or tonic, of the whole.,
T as in To-name (n.) A name added, for the sake of distinction, to one's surname, or used instead of it.,
T as in Tonca bean () See Tonka bean.,
T as in Tone (n.) Sound, or the character of a sound, or a sound considered as of this or that character; as, a low, high, loud, grave, acute, sweet, or harsh tone.,
T as in Tone (n.) Accent, or inflection or modulation of the voice, as adapted to express emotion or passion.,
T as in Tone (n.) A whining style of speaking; a kind of mournful or artificial strain of voice; an affected speaking with a measured rhythm ahd a regular rise and fall of the voice; as, children often read with a tone.,
T as in Tone (n.) A sound considered as to pitch; as, the seven tones of the octave; she has good high tones.,
T as in Tone (n.) The larger kind of interval between contiguous sounds in the diatonic scale, the smaller being called a semitone as, a whole tone too flat; raise it a tone.,
T as in Tone (n.) The peculiar quality of sound in any voice or instrument; as, a rich tone, a reedy tone.,
T as in Tone (n.) A mode or tune or plain chant; as, the Gregorian tones.,
T as in Tone (n.) That state of a body, or of any of its organs or parts, in which the animal functions are healthy and performed with due vigor.,
T as in Tone (n.) Tonicity; as, arterial tone.,
T as in Tone (n.) State of mind; temper; mood.,
T as in Tone (n.) Tenor; character; spirit; drift; as, the tone of his remarks was commendatory.,
T as in Tone (n.) General or prevailing character or style, as of morals, manners, or sentiment, in reference to a scale of high and low; as, a low tone of morals; a tone of elevated sentiment; a courtly tone of manners.,
T as in Tone (n.) The general effect of a picture produced by the combination of light and shade, together with color in the case of a painting; -- commonly used in a favorable sense; as, this picture has tone.,
T as in Toned (imp. & p. p.) of Tone,
T as in Toning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tone,
T as in Tone (v. t.) To utter with an affected tone.,
T as in Tone (v. t.) To give tone, or a particular tone, to; to tune. See Tune, v. t.,
T as in Tone (v. t.) To bring, as a print, to a certain required shade of color, as by chemical treatment.,
T as in Toned (a.) Having (such) a tone; -- chiefly used in composition; as, high-toned; sweet-toned.,
T as in Toneless (a.) Having no tone; unmusical.,
T as in Tong (n.) Alt. of Tonge,
T as in Tonge (n.) Tongue.,
T as in Tonga (n.) A drug useful in neuralgia, derived from a Fijian plant supposed to be of the aroid genus Epipremnum.,
T as in Tongkang (n.) A kind of boat or junk used in the seas of the Malay Archipelago.,
T as in Tongo (n.) The mangrove; -- so called in the Pacific Islands.,
T as in Tongs (n. pl.) An instrument, usually of metal, consisting of two parts, or long shafts, jointed together at or near one end, or united by an elastic bow, used for handling things, especially hot coals or metals; -- often called a pair of tongs.,
T as in Tongue (n.) an organ situated in the floor of the mouth of most vertebrates and connected with the hyoid arch.,
T as in Tongue (n.) The power of articulate utterance; speech.,
T as in Tongue (n.) Discourse; fluency of speech or expression.,
T as in Tongue (n.) Honorable discourse; eulogy.,
T as in Tongue (n.) A language; the whole sum of words used by a particular nation; as, the English tongue.,
T as in Tongue (n.) Speech; words or declarations only; -- opposed to thoughts or actions.,
T as in Tongue (n.) A people having a distinct language.,
T as in Tongue (n.) The lingual ribbon, or odontophore, of a mollusk.,
T as in Tongue (n.) The proboscis of a moth or a butterfly.,
T as in Tongue (n.) The lingua of an insect.,
T as in Tongue (n.) Any small sole.,
T as in Tongue (n.) That which is considered as resembing an animal's tongue, in position or form.,
T as in Tongue (n.) A projection, or slender appendage or fixture; as, the tongue of a buckle, or of a balance.,
T as in Tongue (n.) A projection on the side, as of a board, which fits into a groove.,
T as in Tongue (n.) A point, or long, narrow strip of land, projecting from the mainland into a sea or a lake.,
T as in Tongue (n.) The pole of a vehicle; especially, the pole of an ox cart, to the end of which the oxen are yoked.,
T as in Tongue (n.) The clapper of a bell.,
T as in Tongue (n.) A short piece of rope spliced into the upper part of standing backstays, etc.; also. the upper main piece of a mast composed of several pieces.,
T as in Tongue (n.) Same as Reed, n., 5.,
T as in Tongued (imp. & p. p.) of Tongue,
T as in Tonguing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tongue,
T as in Tongue (v. t.) To speak; to utter.,
T as in Tongue (v. t.) To chide; to scold.,
T as in Tongue (v. t.) To modulate or modify with the tongue, as notes, in playing the flute and some other wind instruments.,
T as in Tongue (v. t.) To join means of a tongue and grove; as, to tongue boards together.,
T as in Tongue (v. i.) To talk; to prate.,
T as in Tongue (v. i.) To use the tongue in forming the notes, as in playing the flute and some other wind instruments.,
T as in Tonguebird (n.) The wryneck.,
T as in Tongued (a.) Having a tongue.,
T as in Tonguefish (n.) A flounder (Symphurus plagiusa) native of the southern coast of the United States.,
T as in Tongueless (a.) Having no tongue.,
T as in Tongueless (a.) Hence, speechless; mute.,
T as in Tongueless (a.) Unnamed; not spoken of.,
T as in Tonguelet (n.) A little tongue.,
T as in Tongue-pad (n.) A great talker.,
T as in Tongue-shaped (a.) Shaped like a tongue; specifically (Bot.), linear or oblong, and fleshy, blunt at the end, and convex beneath; as, a tongue-shaped leaf.,
T as in Tongue-shell (n.) Any species of Lingula.,
T as in Tonguester (n.) One who uses his tongue; a talker; a story-teller; a gossip.,
T as in Tongue-tie (n.) Impeded motion of the tongue because of the shortness of the fraenum, or of the adhesion of its margins to the gums.,
T as in Tongue-tie (v. t.) To deprive of speech or the power of speech, or of distinct articulation.,
T as in Tongue-tied (a.) Destitute of the power of distinct articulation; having an impediment in the speech, esp. when caused by a short fraenum.,
T as in Tongue-tied (a.) Unable to speak freely, from whatever cause.,
T as in Tongueworm (n.) Any species of Linguatulina.,
T as in Tonguy (a.) Ready or voluble in speaking; as, a tonguy speaker.,
T as in Tonic (a.) Of or relating to tones or sounds; specifically (Phon.), applied to, or distingshing, a speech sound made with tone unmixed and undimmed by obstruction, such sounds, namely, the vowels and diphthongs, being so called by Dr. James Rush (1833) " from their forming the purest and most plastic material of intonation.",
T as in Tonic (a.) Of or pertaining to tension; increasing tension; hence, increasing strength; as, tonic power.,
T as in Tonic (a.) Increasing strength, or the tone of the animal system; obviating the effects of debility, and restoring healthy functions.,
T as in Tonic (n.) A tonic element or letter; a vowel or a diphthong.,
T as in Tonic (n.) The key tone, or first tone of any scale.,
T as in Tonic (n.) A medicine that increases the strength, and gives vigor of action to the system.,
T as in Tonical (a.) Tonic.,
T as in Tonicity (n.) The state of healthy tension or partial contraction of muscle fibers while at rest; tone; tonus.,
T as in Tonight (adv.) On this present or coming night.,
T as in Tonight (adv.) On the last night past.,
T as in Tonight (n.) The present or the coming night; the night after the present day.,
T as in Tonite (n.) An explosive compound; a preparation of gun cotton.,
T as in Tonka bean () The seed of a leguminous tree (Dipteryx odorata), native of Guiana. It has a peculiarly agreeable smell, and is employed in the scenting of snuff. Called also tonquin bean.,
T as in Tonnage (n.) The weight of goods carried in a boat or a ship.,
T as in Tonnage (n.) The cubical content or burden of a vessel, or vessels, in tons; or, the amount of weight which one or several vessels may carry. See Ton, n. (b).,
T as in Tonnage (n.) A duty or impost on vessels, estimated per ton, or, a duty, toll, or rate payable on goods per ton transported on canals.,
T as in Tonnage (n.) The whole amount of shipping estimated by tons; as, the tonnage of the United States. See Ton.,
T as in Tonne (n.) A tun.,
T as in Tonnihood (n.) The female of the bullfinch; -- called also tonyhoop.,
T as in Tonnish (a.) In the ton; fashionable; modish.,
T as in Tonometer (n.) An instrument for determining the rate of vibrations in tones.,
T as in Tonometer (n.) An apparatus for studying and registering the action of various fluids and drugs on the excised heart of lower animals.,
T as in Tonometer (n.) An instrument for measuring tension, esp. that of the eyeball.,
T as in Tonometry (n.) The act of measuring with a tonometer;,
T as in Tonometry (n.) measurement of tension, esp. the tension of the eyeball.,
T as in Tonophant (n.) A modification of the kaleidophon, for showing composition of acoustic vibrations. It consists of two thin slips of steel welded together, their length being adjystable by a screw socket.,
T as in Tonous (a.) Abounding in tone or sound.,
T as in Tonquin bean () See Tonka bean.,
T as in Tonsil (n.) One of the two glandular organs situated in the throat at the sides of the fauces. The tonsils are sometimes called the almonds, from their shape.,
T as in Tonsilar (a.) Of or pertaining to the tonsils; tonsilitic.,
T as in Tonsile (a.) Capable of being clipped.,
T as in Tonsilitic (a.) Tonsilar.,
T as in Tonsilitis (n.) Inflammation of the tonsil; quinsy.,
T as in Tonsilotome (n.) An instrument for removing the tonsils.,
T as in Tonsilotomy (n.) The operation of removing the tonsil, or a portion thereof.,
T as in Tonsor (n.) A barber.,
T as in Tonsorial (a.) Of or pertaining to a barber, or shaving.,
T as in Tonsure (n.) The act of clipping the hair, or of shaving the crown of the head; also, the state of being shorn.,
T as in Tonsure (n.) The first ceremony used for devoting a person to the service of God and the church; the first degree of the clericate, given by a bishop, abbot, or cardinal priest, consisting in cutting off the hair from a circular space at the back of the head, with prayers and benedictions; hence, entrance or admission into minor orders.,
T as in Tonsure (n.) The shaven corona, or crown, which priests wear as a mark of their order and of their rank.,
T as in Tonsured (a.) Having the tonsure; shaven; shorn; clipped; hence, bald.,
T as in Tontine (n.) An annuity, with the benefit of survivorship, or a loan raised on life annuities with the benefit of survivorship. Thus, an annuity is shared among a number, on the principle that the share of each, at his death, is enjoyed by the survivors, until at last the whole goes to the last survivor, or to the last two or three, according to the terms on which the money is advanced. Used also adjectively; as, tontine insurance.,
T as in Tonus (n.) Tonicity, or tone; as, muscular tonus.,
T as in Tonies (pl. ) of Tony,
T as in Tony (n.) A simpleton.,
T as in Too (adv.) Over; more than enough; -- noting excess; as, a thing is too long, too short, or too wide; too high; too many; too much.,
T as in Too (adv.) Likewise; also; in addition.,
T as in Took () imp. of Take.,
T as in Tool (n.) An instrument such as a hammer, saw, plane, file, and the like, used in the manual arts, to facilitate mechanical operations; any instrument used by a craftsman or laborer at his work; an implement; as, the tools of a joiner, smith, shoe-maker, etc.; also, a cutter, chisel, or other part of an instrument or machine that dresses work.,
T as in Tool (n.) A machine for cutting or shaping materials; -- also called machine tool.,
T as in Tool (n.) Hence, any instrument of use or service.,
T as in Tool (n.) A weapon.,
T as in Tool (n.) A person used as an instrument by another person; -- a word of reproach; as, men of intrigue have their tools, by whose agency they accomplish their purposes.,
T as in tooled (imp. & p. p.) of Tool,
T as in tooling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tool,
T as in Tool (v. t.) To shape, form, or finish with a tool.,
T as in Tool (v. t.) To drive, as a coach.,
T as in Tooling (n.) Work performed with a tool.,
T as in Tool-post (n.) Alt. of Tool-stock,
T as in Tool-stock (n.) The part of a tool-rest in which a cutting tool is clamped.,
T as in Tool-rest (n.) the part that supports a tool-post or a tool.,
T as in Toom (a.) Empty.,
T as in Toom (v. t.) To empty.,
T as in Toon () pl. of Toe.,
T as in Toon (n.) The reddish brown wood of an East Indian tree (Cedrela Toona) closely resembling the Spanish cedar; also. the tree itself.,
T as in Toonwood (n.) Same as Toon.,
T as in Toot (v. i.) To stand out, or be prominent.,
T as in Toot (v. i.) To peep; to look narrowly.,
T as in Toot (v. t.) To see; to spy.,
T as in Tooted (imp. & p. p.) of Toot,
T as in Tooting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Toot,
T as in Toot (v. i.) To blow or sound a horn; to make similar noise by contact of the tongue with the root of the upper teeth at the beginning and end of the sound; also, to give forth such a sound, as a horn when blown.,
T as in Toot (v. t.) To cause to sound, as a horn, the note being modified at the beginning and end as if by pronouncing the letter t; to blow; to sound.,
T as in Tooter (n.) One who toots; one who plays upon a pipe or horn.,
T as in Teeth (pl. ) of Tooth,
T as in Tooth (n.) One of the hard, bony appendages which are borne on the jaws, or on other bones in the walls of the mouth or pharynx of most vertebrates, and which usually aid in the prehension and mastication of food.,
T as in Tooth (n.) Fig.: Taste; palate.,
T as in Tooth (n.) Any projection corresponding to the tooth of an animal, in shape, position, or office; as, the teeth, or cogs, of a cogwheel; a tooth, prong, or tine, of a fork; a tooth, or the teeth, of a rake, a saw, a file, a card.,
T as in Tooth (n.) A projecting member resembling a tenon, but fitting into a mortise that is only sunk, not pierced through.,
T as in Tooth (n.) One of several steps, or offsets, in a tusk. See Tusk.,
T as in Tooth (n.) An angular or prominence on any edge; as, a tooth on the scale of a fish, or on a leaf of a plant,
T as in Tooth (n.) one of the appendages at the mouth of the capsule of a moss. See Peristome.,
T as in Tooth (n.) Any hard calcareous or chitinous organ found in the mouth of various invertebrates and used in feeding or procuring food; as, the teeth of a mollusk or a starfish.,
T as in Toothed (imp. & p. p.) of Tooth,
T as in Toothing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tooth,
T as in Tooth (v. t.) To furnish with teeth.,
T as in Tooth (v. t.) To indent; to jag; as, to tooth a saw.,
T as in Tooth (v. t.) To lock into each other. See Tooth, n., 4.,
T as in Toothache (n.) Pain in a tooth or in the teeth; odontalgia.,
T as in Toothback (n.) Any notodontian.,
T as in Toothbill (n.) A peculiar fruit-eating ground pigeon (Didunculus strigiostris) native of the Samoan Islands, and noted for its resemblance, in several characteristics, to the extinct dodo. Its beak is stout and strongly hooked, and the mandible has two or three strong teeth toward the end. Its color is chocolate red. Called also toothbilled pigeon, and manu-mea.,
T as in Toothbrush (n.) A brush for cleaning the teeth.,
T as in Toothdrawer (n.) One whose business it is to extract teeth with instruments; a dentist.,
T as in Toothed (a.) Having teeth; furnished with teeth.,
T as in Toothed (a.) Having marginal projecting points; dentate.,
T as in Toothful (a.) Toothsome.,
T as in Toothing (n.) The act or process of indenting or furnishing with teeth.,
T as in Toothing (n.) Bricks alternately projecting at the end of a wall, in order that they may be bonded into a continuation of it when the remainder is carried up.,
T as in Toothless (a.) Having no teeth.,
T as in Toothlet (n.) A little tooth, or like projection.,
T as in Toothleted (a.) Having a toothlet or toothlets; as, a toothleted leaf.,
T as in Toothpick (n.) A pointed instument for clearing the teeth of substances lodged between them.,
T as in Toothpicker (n.) A toothpick.,
T as in Toothshell (n.) Any species of Dentalium and allied genera having a tooth-shaped shell. See Dentalium.,
T as in Toothsome (a.) Grateful to the taste; palatable.,
T as in Toothwort (n.) A plant whose roots are fancied to resemble teeth, as certain plants of the genus Lathraea, and various species of Dentaria. See Coralwort.,
T as in Toothy (a.) Toothed; with teeth.,
T as in Toozoo (n.) The ringdove.,
T as in Top (n.) A child's toy, commonly in the form of a conoid or pear, made to spin on its point, usually by drawing off a string wound round its surface or stem, the motion being sometimes continued by means of a whip.,
T as in Top (n.) A plug, or conical block of wood, with longitudital grooves on its surface, in which the strands of the rope slide in the process of twisting.,
T as in Top (n.) The highest part of anything; the upper end, edge, or extremity; the upper side or surface; summit; apex; vertex; cover; lid; as, the top of a spire; the top of a house; the top of a mountain; the top of the ground.,
T as in Top (n.) The utmost degree; the acme; the summit.,
T as in Top (n.) The highest rank; the most honorable position; the utmost attainable place; as, to be at the top of one's class, or at the top of the school.,
T as in Top (n.) The chief person; the most prominent one.,
T as in Top (n.) The crown of the head, or the hair upon it; the head.,
T as in Top (n.) The head, or upper part, of a plant.,
T as in Top (n.) A platform surrounding the head of the lower mast and projecting on all sudes. It serves to spead the topmast rigging, thus strengheningthe mast, and also furnishes a convenient standing place for the men aloft.,
T as in Top (n.) A bundle or ball of slivers of comkbed wool, from which the noils, or dust, have been taken out.,
T as in Top (n.) Eve; verge; point.,
T as in Top (n.) The part of a cut gem between the girdle, or circumference, and the table, or flat upper surface.,
T as in Top (n.) Top-boots.,
T as in Topped (imp. & p. p.) of Top,
T as in Topping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Top,
T as in Top (v. i.) To rise aloft; to be eminent; to tower; as, lofty ridges and topping mountains.,
T as in Top (v. i.) To predominate; as, topping passions.,
T as in Top (v. i.) To excel; to rise above others.,
T as in Top (v. t.) To cover on the top; to tip; to cap; -- chiefly used in the past participle.,
T as in Top (v. t.) To rise above; to excel; to outgo; to surpass.,
T as in Top (v. t.) To rise to the top of; to go over the top of.,
T as in Top (v. t.) To take off the or upper part of; to crop.,
T as in Top (v. t.) To perform eminently, or better than before.,
T as in Top (v. t.) To raise one end of, as a yard, so that that end becomes higher than the other.,
T as in Toparch (n.) The ruler or principal man in a place or country; the governor of a toparchy.,
T as in Toparchies (pl. ) of Toparchy,
T as in Toparchy (n.) A small state, consisting of a few cities or towns; a petty country governed by a toparch; as, Judea was formerly divided into ten toparchies.,
T as in Top-armor (n.) A top railing supported by stanchions and equipped with netting.,
T as in Topau (n.) The rhinocerous bird (a).,
T as in Topaz (n.) A mineral occurring in rhombic prisms, generally yellowish and pellucid, also colorless, and of greenesh, bluish, or brownish shades. It sometimes occurs massive and opaque. It is a fluosilicate of alumina, and is used as a gem.,
T as in Topaz (n.) Either one of two species of large, brilliantly colored humming birds of the Topaza, of South America and the West Indies.,
T as in Topazolite (n.) A topaz-yellow variety of garnet.,
T as in Top-block (n.) A large ironbound block strapped with a hook, and, when used, hung to an eyebolt in the cap, -- used in swaying and lowering the topmast.,
T as in Top-boots (n. pl.) High boots, having generally a band of some kind of light-colored leather around the upper part of the leg; riding boots.,
T as in Top-chain (n.) A chain for slinging the lower yards, in time of action, to prevent their falling, if the ropes by which they are hung are shot away.,
T as in Top-cloth (n.) A piece of canvas used to cover the hammocks which are lashed to the top in action to protect the topmen.,
T as in Topcoat (n.) An outer coat; an overcoat.,
T as in Top-drain (v. t.) To drain the surface of, as land; as, to top-drain a field or farm.,
T as in Top-draining (n.) The act or practice of drining the surface of land.,
T as in Top-dressed (imp. & p. p.) of Top-dress,
T as in Top-dressing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Top-dress,
T as in Top-dress (v. t.) To apply a surface dressing of manureto,as land.,
T as in Top-dressing (n.) The act of applying a dressing of manure to the surface of land; also, manure so applied.,
T as in Tope (n.) A moundlike Buddhist sepulcher, or memorial monument, often erected over a Buddhist relic.,
T as in Tope (n.) A grove or clump of trees; as, a toddy tope.,
T as in Tope (n.) A small shark or dogfish (Galeorhinus, / Galeus, galeus), native of Europe, but found also on the coasts of California and Tasmania; -- called also toper, oil shark, miller's dog, and penny dog.,
T as in Tope (n.) The wren.,
T as in Toped (imp. & p. p.) of Tope,
T as in Toping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tope,
T as in Tope (v. i.) To drink hard or frequently; to drink strong or spiritous liquors to excess.,
T as in Toper (n.) One who topes, or drinks frequently or to excess; a drunkard; a sot.,
T as in Topet (n.) The European crested titmouse.,
T as in Topful (a.) Full to the top, ore brim; brimfull.,
T as in Topgallant (a.) Situated above the topmast and below the royal mast; designatb, or pertaining to, the third spars in order from the deck; as, the topgallant mast, yards, braces, and the like. See Illustration of Ship.,
T as in Topgallant (a.) Fig.: Highest; elevated; splendid.,
T as in Topgallant (n.) A topgallant mast or sail.,
T as in Topgallant (n.) Fig.: Anything elevated or splendid.,
T as in Toph (n.) kind of sandstone.,
T as in Tophaceous (a.) Gritty; sandy; rough; stony.,
T as in Top-hamper (n.) The upper rigging, spars, etc., of a ship.,
T as in Top-heavy (a.) Having the top or upper part too heavy for the lower part.,
T as in Tophet (n.) A place lying east or southeast of Jerusalem, in the valley of Hinnom.,
T as in Tophin (n.) Same as Toph.,
T as in Tophi (pl. ) of Tophus,
T as in Tophus (n.) One of the mineral concretions about the joints, and in other situations, occurring chiefly in gouty persons. They consist usually of urate of sodium; when occurring in the internal organs they are also composed of phosphate of calcium.,
T as in Tophus (n.) Calcareous tufa.,
T as in Topiarian (a.) Of or pertaining to the ornamental cutting and trimming of trees, hedges, etc.; practicing ornamental gardening.,
T as in Topiary (a.) Of or pertaining to ornamental gardening; produced by cutting, trimming, etc.; topiarian.,
T as in Topic (n.) One of the various general forms of argument employed in probable as distinguished from demonstrative reasoning, -- denominated by Aristotle to`poi (literally, places), as being the places or sources from which arguments may be derived, or to which they may be referred; also, a prepared form of argument, applicable to a great variety of cases, with a supply of which the ancient rhetoricians and orators provided themselves; a commonplace of argument or oratory.,
T as in Topic (n.) A treatise on forms of argument; a system or scheme of forms or commonplaces of argument or oratory; as, the Topics of Aristotle.,
T as in Topic (n.) An argument or reason.,
T as in Topic (n.) The subject of any distinct portion of a discourse, or argument, or literary composition; also, the general or main subject of the whole; a matter treated of; a subject, as of conversation or of thought; a matter; a point; a head.,
T as in Topic (n.) An external local application or remedy, as a plaster, a blister, etc.,
T as in Topic (a.) Topical.,
T as in Topical (n.) Of or pertaining to a place; limited; logical application; as, a topical remedy; a topical claim or privilege.,
T as in Topical (n.) Pertaining to, or consisting of, a topic or topics; according to topics.,
T as in Topical (n.) Resembling a topic, or general maxim; hence, not demonstrative, but merely probable, as an argument.,
T as in Topically (adv.) In a topical manner; with application to, or limitation of, a particular place or topic.,
T as in Topknot (n.) A crest or knot of feathers upon the head or top, as of a bird; also, an orgamental knot worn on top of the head, as by women.,
T as in Topknot (n.) A small Europen flounder (Rhoumbus punctatus). The name is also applied to allied species.,
T as in Topless (a.) Having no top, or no visble fop; hence, fig.: very lofty; supreme; unequaled.,
T as in Top-light (n.) A lantern or light on the top of a vessel.,
T as in Topmem (pl. ) of Topman,
T as in Topman (n.) See Topsman, 2.,
T as in Topman (n.) A man stationed in the top.,
T as in Topmast (n.) The second mast, or that which is next above the lower mast, and below the topgallant mast.,
T as in Topmost (a.) Highest; uppermost; as, the topmost cliff; the topmost branch of a tree.,
T as in Topographer (n.) One who is skilled in the science of topography; one who describes a particular place, town, city, or tract of land.,
T as in Topographic () Alt. of Topographical,
T as in Topographical () Of or pertaining to topography; descriptive of a place.,
T as in Topographist (n.) A topographer.,
T as in Topography (n.) The description of a particular place, town, manor, parish, or tract of land; especially, the exact and scientific delineation and description in minute detail of any place or region.,
T as in Topology (n.) The art of, or method for, assisting the memory by associating the thing or subject to be remembered with some place.,
T as in Toponomy (n.) The designation of position and direction.,
T as in Toppiece (n.) A small wig for the top of the head; a toupee.,
T as in Topping (a.) Rising above; surpassing.,
T as in Topping (a.) Hence, assuming superiority; proud.,
T as in Topping (a.) Fine; gallant.,
T as in Topping (n.) The act of one who tops; the act of cutting off the top.,
T as in Topping (n.) The act of raising one extremity of a spar higher than the other.,
T as in Topping (n.) That which comes from hemp in the process of hatcheling.,
T as in Toppingly (adv.) In a topping or proud manner.,
T as in Toppingly (a.) Same as Topping, a., 3.,
T as in Toppled (imp. & p. p.) of Topple,
T as in Toppling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Topple,
T as in Topple (v. i.) To fall forward; to pitch or tumble down.,
T as in Topple (v. t.) To throw down; to overturn.,
T as in Top-proud (a.) Proud to the highest degree.,
T as in Top-rope (n.) A rope used for hoisting and lowering a topmast, and for other purposes.,
T as in Topsail (n.) In a square-rigged vessel, the sail next above the lowermost sail on a mast. This sail is the one most frequently reefed or furled in working the ship. In a fore-and-aft rigged vessel, the sail set upon and above the gaff. See Cutter, Schooner, Sail, and Ship.,
T as in Tops-and-bottoms (n. pl.) Small rolls of dough, baked, cut in halves, and then browned in an oven, -- used as food for infants.,
T as in Top-shaped (a.) Having the shape of a top; (Bot.) cone-shaped, with the apex downward; turbinate.,
T as in Top-shell (n.) Any one of numerous species of marine top-shaped shells of the genus Trochus, or family Trochidae.,
T as in Topsmen (pl. ) of Topsman,
T as in Topsman (n.) The chief drover of those who drive a herd of cattle.,
T as in Topsman (n.) The uppermost sawyer in a saw pit; a topman.,
T as in Topsoil (n.) The upper layer of soil; surface soil.,
T as in Topsoiling (n.) The act or art of taking off the top soil of land before an excavation or embankment is begun.,
T as in Topstone (n.) A stone that is placed on the top, or which forms the top.,
T as in Topsy-turvy (adv.) In an inverted posture; with the top or head downward; upside down; as, to turn a carriage topsy-turvy.,
T as in Top-tackle (n.) A tackle used in hoisting and lowering the topmast.,
T as in Top-timbers (n.) The highest timbers on the side of a vessel, being those above the futtocks.,
T as in Top-tool (n.) A tool applied to the top of the work, in distinction from a tool inserted in the anvil and on which the work is placed.,
T as in Toque (n.) A kind of cap worn in the 16th century, and copied in modern fashions; -- called also toquet.,
T as in Toque (n.) A variety of the bonnet monkey.,
T as in Toquet (n.) See Toque, 1.,
T as in Tor (n.) A tower; a turret.,
T as in Tor (n.) High-pointed hill; a rocky pinnacle.,
T as in Torace (v. t.) Alt. of Torase,
T as in Torase (v. t.) To scratch to pieces.,
T as in Torbernite (n.) A mineral occurring in emerald-green tabular crystals having a micaceous structure. It is a hydrous phosphate of uranium and copper. Called also copper uranite, and chalcolite.,
T as in Torc (n.) Same as Torque, 1.,
T as in Torch (n.) A light or luminary formed of some combustible substance, as of resinous wood; a large candle or flambeau, or a lamp giving a large, flaring flame.,
T as in Torch (n.) A flashlight.,
T as in Torchbearer (n.) One whose office it is to carry a torch.,
T as in Torcher (n.) One who gives light with a torch, or as if with a torch.,
T as in Torchlight (n.) The light of a torch, or of torches. Also adjectively; as, a torchlight procession.,
T as in Torchon lace () a simple thread lace worked upon a pillow with coarse thread; also, a similar lace made by machinery.,
T as in Torchwood (n.) The inflammable wood of certain trees (Amyris balsamifera, A. Floridana, etc.); also, the trees themselves.,
T as in Torchwort (n.) The common mullein, the stalks of which, dipped in suet, anciently served for torches. Called also torch, and hig-taper.,
T as in Tore () imp. of Tear.,
T as in Tore (n.) The dead grass that remains on mowing land in winter and spring.,
T as in Tore (n.) Same as Torus.,
T as in Tore (n.) The surface described by the circumference of a circle revolving about a straight line in its own plane.,
T as in Tore (n.) The solid inclosed by such a surface; -- sometimes called an anchor ring.,
T as in Toreador (n.) A bullfighter.,
T as in To-rent (imp. & p. p.) of To-rend,
T as in To-rend (v. t.) To rend in pieces.,
T as in Toret (n.) A Turret.,
T as in Toret (n.) A ring for fastening a hawk's leash to the jesses; also, a ring affixed to the collar of a dog, etc.,
T as in Toreumatography (n.) A description of sculpture such as bas-relief in metal.,
T as in Toreumatology (n.) The art or the description of scupture such as bas-relief in metal; toreumatography.,
T as in Toreutic (a.) In relief; pertaining to sculpture in relief, especially of metal; also, pertaining to chasing such as surface ornamentation in metal.,
T as in Torgoch (n.) The saibling.,
T as in Torilto (n.) A species of Turnix (Turnix sylvatica) native of Spain and Northen Africa.,
T as in Torinese (a.) Of or pertaining to Turin.,
T as in Torinese (n. sing. & pl.) A native or inhabitant of Turin; collectively, the people of Turin.,
T as in Torment (n.) An engine for casting stones.,
T as in Torment (n.) Extreme pain; anguish; torture; the utmost degree of misery, either of body or mind.,
T as in Torment (n.) That which gives pain, vexation, or misery.,
T as in tormented (imp. & p. p.) of Torment,
T as in tormenting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Torment,
T as in Torment (v. t.) To put to extreme pain or anguish; to inflict excruciating misery upon, either of body or mind; to torture.,
T as in Torment (v. t.) To pain; to distress; to afflict.,
T as in Torment (v. t.) To tease; to vex; to harass; as, to be tormented with importunities, or with petty annoyances.,
T as in Torment (v. t.) To put into great agitation.,
T as in Tormenter (n.) One who, or that which, torments; a tormentor.,
T as in Tormenter (n.) An executioner.,
T as in Tormentful (a.) Full of torment; causing, or accompainied by, torment; excruciating.,
T as in Tormentil (n.) A rosaceous herb (Potentilla Tormentilla), the root of which is used as a powerful astringent, and for alleviating gripes, or tormina, in diarrhea.,
T as in Tormenting (a.) Causing torment; as, a tormenting dream.,
T as in Tormentise (n.) Torture; torment.,
T as in Tormentor (n.) One who, or that which, torments; one who inflicts penal anguish or tortures.,
T as in Tormentor (n.) An implement for reducing a stiff soil, resembling a harrow, but running upon wheels.,
T as in Tormentress (n.) A woman who torments.,
T as in Tormentry (n.) Anything producing torment, annoyance, or pain.,
T as in Tormina (n. pl.) acute, colicky pains; gripes.,
T as in Torminous (a.) Affected with tormina; griping.,
T as in Torn () p. p. of Tear.,
T as in Tornadoes (pl. ) of Tornado,
T as in Tornado (n.) A violent whirling wind; specifically (Meteorol.), a tempest distinguished by a rapid whirling and slow progressive motion, usually accompaned with severe thunder, lightning, and torrents of rain, and commonly of short duration and small breadth; a small cyclone.,
T as in Tornariae (pl. ) of Tornaria,
T as in Tornaria (n.) The peculiar free swimming larva of Balanoglossus. See Illust. in Append.,
T as in Torose (a.) Cylindrical with alternate swellings and contractions; having the surface covered with rounded prominences.,
T as in Torosity (n.) The quality or state of being torose.,
T as in Torous (a.) Torose.,
T as in Torpedinous (a.) Of or pertaining to a torpedo; resembling a torpedo; exerting a benumbing influence; stupefying; dull; torpid.,
T as in Torpedoes (pl. ) of Torpedo,
T as in Torpedo (n.) Any one of numerous species of elasmobranch fishes belonging to Torpedo and allied genera. They are related to the rays, but have the power of giving electrical shocks. Called also crampfish, and numbfish. See Electrical fish, under Electrical.,
T as in Torpedo (n.) An engine or machine for destroying ships by blowing them up.,
T as in Torpedo (n.) A quantity of explosives anchored in a channel, beneath the water, or set adrift in a current, and so arranged that they will be exploded when touched by a vessel, or when an electric circuit is closed by an operator on shore.,
T as in Torpedo (n.) A kind of small submarine boat carrying an explosive charge, and projected from a ship against another ship at a distance, or made self-propelling, and otherwise automatic in its action against a distant ship.,
T as in Torpedo (n.) A kind of shell or cartridge buried in earth, to be exploded by electricity or by stepping on it.,
T as in Torpedo (n.) A kind of detonating cartridge or shell placed on a rail, and exploded when crushed under the locomotive wheels, -- used as an alarm signal.,
T as in Torpedo (n.) An explosive cartridge or shell lowered or dropped into a bored oil well, and there exploded, to clear the well of obstructions or to open communication with a source of supply of oil.,
T as in Torpedo (n.) A kind of firework in the form of a small ball, or pellet, which explodes when thrown upon a hard object.,
T as in Torpedo (v. t.) to destroy by, or subject to the action of, a torpedo.,
T as in Torpent (a.) Having no motion or activity; incapable of motion; benumbed; torpid.,
T as in Torpescence (n.) The quality or state or being torpescent; torpidness; numbness; stupidity.,
T as in Toppescent (a.) Becoming torpid or numb.,
T as in Torpid (a.) Having lost motion, or the power of exertion and feeling; numb; benumbed; as, a torpid limb.,
T as in Torpid (a.) Dull; stupid; sluggish; inactive.,
T as in Torpidity (n.) Same as Torpidness.,
T as in Torpidly (adv.) In a torpid manner.,
T as in Torpidness (n.) The qualityy or state of being torpid.,
T as in Torpified (imp. & p. p.) of Torpify,
T as in Torpifying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Torpify,
T as in Torpify (v. t.) To make torpid; to numb, or benumb.,
T as in Torpitude (n.) Torpidness.,
T as in Torpor (n.) Loss of motion, or of the motion; a state of inactivity with partial or total insensibility; numbness.,
T as in Torpor (n.) Dullness; sluggishness; inactivity; as, a torpor of the mental faculties.,
T as in Torporific (a.) Tending to produce torpor.,
T as in Torquate (a.) Collared; having a torques, or distinct colored ring around the neck.,
T as in torquated (a.) Having or wearing a torque, or neck chain.,
T as in Torque (n.) A collar or neck chain, usually twisted, especially as worn by ancient barbaric nations, as the Gauls, Germans, and Britons.,
T as in Torque (n.) That which tends to produce torsion; a couple of forces.,
T as in Torque (n.) A turning or twisting; tendency to turn, or cause to turn, about an axis.,
T as in Torqued (a.) Wreathed; twisted.,
T as in Torqued (a.) Twisted; bent; -- said of a dolphin haurient, which forms a figure like the letter S.,
T as in Torques (n.) A cervical ring of hair or feathers, distinguished by its color or structure; a collar.,
T as in Torrefaction (n.) The act or process of torrefying, or the state of being torrefied.,
T as in Torrefied (imp. & p. p.) of Torrefy,
T as in Torrefying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Torrefy,
T as in Torrefy (v. t.) To dry by a fire.,
T as in Torrefy (v. t.) To subject to scorching heat, so as to drive off volatile ingredients; to roast, as ores.,
T as in Torrefy (v. t.) To dry or parch, as drugs, on a metallic plate till they are friable, or are reduced to the state desired.,
T as in Torrent (n.) A violent stream, as of water, lava, or the like; a stream suddenly raised and running rapidly, as down a precipice.,
T as in Torrent (n.) Fig.: A violent or rapid flow; a strong current; a flood; as, a torrent of vices; a torrent of eloquence.,
T as in Torrent (n.) Rolling or rushing in a rapid stream.,
T as in Torrential (a.) Alt. of Torrentine,
T as in Torrentine (a.) Of or pertaining to a torrent; having the character of a torrent; caused by a torrent .,
T as in Torricellian (a.) Of or pertaining to Torricelli, an Italian philosopher and mathematician, who, in 1643, discovered that the rise of a liquid in a tube, as in the barometer, is due to atmospheric pressure. See Barometer.,
T as in Torrid (a.) Parched; dried with heat; as, a torrid plain or desert.,
T as in Torrid (a.) Violenty hot; drying or scorching with heat; burning; parching.,
T as in Torridity (n.) Torridness.,
T as in Torridness (n.) The quality or state of being torrid or parched.,
T as in Torril (n.) A worthless woman; also, a worthless horse.,
T as in Torrock (n.) A gull.,
T as in Torsal (n.) A torsel.,
T as in Torse (n.) A wreath.,
T as in Torse (n.) A developable surface. See under Developable.,
T as in Torsel (n.) A plate of timber for the end of a beam or joist to rest on.,
T as in Torsibillty (n.) The tendency, as of a rope, to untwist after being twisted.,
T as in Torsion (n.) The act of turning or twisting, or the state of being twisted; the twisting or wrenching of a body by the exertion of a lateral force tending to turn one end or part of it about a longitudinal axis, while the other is held fast or turned in the opposite direction.,
T as in Torsion (n.) That force with which a thread, wire, or rod of any material, returns, or tends to return, to a state of rest after it has been twisted; torsibility.,
T as in Torsional (a.) Of or pertaining to torsion; resulting from torsion, or the force with which a thread or wire returns to a state of rest after having been twisted round its axis; as, torsional force.,
T as in Torsk (n.) The cusk. See Cusk.,
T as in Torsk (n.) The codfish. Called also tusk.,
T as in Torsos (pl. ) of Torso,
T as in Torsi (pl. ) of Torso,
T as in Torso (n.) The human body, as distinguished from the head and limbs; in sculpture, the trunk of a statue, mutilated of head and limbs; as, the torso of Hercules.,
T as in Tort (n.) Mischief; injury; calamity.,
T as in Tort (n.) Any civil wrong or injury; a wrongful act (not involving a breach of contract) for which an action will lie; a form of action, in some parts of the United States, for a wrong or injury.,
T as in Tort (a.) Stretched tight; taut.,
T as in Torta (n.) a flat heap of moist, crushed silver ore, prepared for the patio process.,
T as in Torteaus (pl. ) of Torteau,
T as in Torteau (n.) A roundel of a red color.,
T as in Torticollis (n.) See Wryneck.,
T as in Tortile (a.) Twisted; wreathed; coiled.,
T as in Tortility (n.) The quality or state of being tortile, twisted, or wreathed.,
T as in Tortilla (n.) An unleavened cake, as of maize flour, baked on a heated iron or stone.,
T as in Tortion (n.) Torment; pain.,
T as in Tortious (a.) Injurious; wrongful.,
T as in Tortious (a.) Imploying tort, or privat injury for which the law gives damages; involing tort.,
T as in Tortiously (adv.) In a tortous manner.,
T as in Tortive (a.) Twisted; wreathed.,
T as in Tortoise (n.) Any one of numerous species of reptiles of the order Testudinata.,
T as in Tortoise (n.) Same as Testudo, 2.,
T as in Tortoise (n.) having a color like that of a tortoise's shell, black with white and orange spots; -- used mostly to describe cats of that color.,
T as in Tortoise (n.) a tortoise-shell cat.,
T as in Tortricid (a.) Of or pertaining to Tortix, or the family Tortricidae.,
T as in Tortrix (n.) Any one of numerous species of small moths of the family Tortricidae, the larvae of which usually roll up the leaves of plants on which they live; -- also called leaf roller.,
T as in Tortrix (n.) A genus of tropical short-tailed snakes, which are not venomous. One species (Tortrix scytalae) is handsomely banded with black, and is sometimes worn alive by the natives of Brazil for a necklace.,
T as in Tortulous (a.) Swelled out at intervals like a knotted cord.,
T as in Tortuose (a.) Wreathed; twisted; winding.,
T as in Tortuoslty (n.) the quality or state of being tortuous.,
T as in Tortuous (a.) Bent in different directions; wreathed; twisted; winding; as, a tortuous train; a tortuous train; a tortuous leaf or corolla.,
T as in Tortuous (a.) Fig.: Deviating from rectitude; indirect; erroneous; deceitful.,
T as in Tortuous (a.) Injurious: tortious.,
T as in Tortuous (a.) Oblique; -- applied to the six signs of the zodiac (from Capricorn to Gemini) which ascend most rapidly and obliquely.,
T as in Torturable (a.) Capable of being tortured.,
T as in Torture (n.) Extreme pain; anguish of body or mind; pang; agony; torment; as, torture of mind.,
T as in Torture (n.) Especially, severe pain inflicted judicially, either as punishment for a crime, or for the purpose of extorting a confession from an accused person, as by water or fire, by the boot or thumbkin, or by the rack or wheel.,
T as in Torture (n.) The act or process of torturing.,
T as in Tortured (imp. & p. p.) of Torture,
T as in Torturing. (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Torture,
T as in Torture (v. t.) To put to torture; to pain extremely; to harass; to vex.,
T as in Torture (v. t.) To punish with torture; to put to the rack; as, to torture an accused person.,
T as in Torture (v. t.) To wrest from the proper meaning; to distort.,
T as in Torture (v. t.) To keep on the stretch, as a bow.,
T as in Torturer (n.) One who tortures; a tormentor.,
T as in Torturingly (adv.) So as to torture.,
T as in Torturous (a.) Involving, or pertaining to, torture.,
T as in Torulae (pl. ) of Torula,
T as in Torula (n.) A chain of special bacteria. (b) A genus of budding fungi. Same as Saccharomyces. Also used adjectively.,
T as in Torulaform (a.) Having the appearance of a torula; in the form of a little chain; as, a torulaform string of micrococci.,
T as in Torulose (a.) Same as Torose.,
T as in Torulous (a.) Same as Torose.,
T as in Tori (pl. ) of Torus,
T as in Torus (n.) A lage molding used in the bases of columns. Its profile is semicircular. See Illust. of Molding.,
T as in Torus (n.) One of the ventral parapodia of tubicolous annelids. It usually has the form of an oblong thickening or elevation of the integument with rows of uncini or hooks along the center. See Illust. under Tubicolae.,
T as in Torus (n.) The receptacle, or part of the flower on which the carpels stand.,
T as in Torus (n.) See 3d Tore, 2.,
T as in Torved (a.) Stern; grim. See Torvous.,
T as in Torvity (a.) Sourness or severity of countenance; sterness.,
T as in Torvous (a.) Sour of aspect; of a severe countenance; stern; grim.,
T as in Tories (pl. ) of Tory,
T as in Tory (n.) A member of the conservative party, as opposed to the progressive party which was formerly called the Whig, and is now called the Liberal, party; an earnest supporter of exsisting royal and ecclesiastical authority.,
T as in Tory (n.) One who, in the time of the Revolution, favored submitting tothe claims of Great Britain against the colonies; an adherent tothe crown.,
T as in Tory (a.) Of ro pertaining to the Tories.,
T as in Toryism (n.) The principles of the Tories.,
T as in Toscatter (v. t.) To scatter in pieces; to divide.,
T as in Tose (v. t.) To tease, or comb, as wool.,
T as in Tosh (a.) Neat; trim.,
T as in Toshred (v. t.) To cut into shreads or pieces.,
T as in Tossed (imp. & p. p.) of Toss,
T as in Tost () of Toss,
T as in Tossing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Toss,
T as in Toss (v. t.) To throw with the hand; especially, to throw with the palm of the hand upward, or to throw upward; as, to toss a ball.,
T as in Toss (v. t.) To lift or throw up with a sudden or violent motion; as, to toss the head.,
T as in Toss (v. t.) To cause to rise and fall; as, a ship tossed on the waves in a storm.,
T as in Toss (v. t.) To agitate; to make restless.,
T as in Toss (v. t.) Hence, to try; to harass.,
T as in Toss (v. t.) To keep in play; to tumble over; as, to spend four years in tossing the rules of grammar.,
T as in Toss (v. i.) To roll and tumble; to be in violent commotion; to write; to fling.,
T as in Toss (v. i.) To be tossed, as a fleet on the ocean.,
T as in Toss (n.) A throwing upward, or with a jerk; the act of tossing; as, the toss of a ball.,
T as in Toss (n.) A throwing up of the head; a particular manner of raising the head with a jerk.,
T as in Tossel (n.) See Tassel.,
T as in Tosser (n.) Ohe who tosser.,
T as in Tossily (adv.) In a tossy manner.,
T as in Tossing (n.) The act of throwing upward; a rising and falling suddenly; a rolling and tumbling.,
T as in Tossing (n.) A process which consists in washing ores by violent agitation in water, in order to separate the lighter or earhy particles; -- called also tozing, and treloobing, in Cornwall.,
T as in Tossing (n.) A process for refining tin by dropping it through the air while melted.,
T as in Tosspot (n.) A toper; one habitually given to strong drink; a drunkard.,
T as in Tossy (a.) Tossing the head, as in scorn or pride; hence, proud; contemptuous; scornful; affectedly indifferent; as, a tossy commonplace.,
T as in Tost () imp. & p. p. of Toss.,
T as in Tosto (a.) Quick; rapid.,
T as in Toswink (v. i.) To labor excessively.,
T as in Tot (n.) Anything small; -- frequently applied as a term of endearment to a little child.,
T as in Tot (n.) A drinking cup of small size, holding about half a pint.,
T as in Tot (n.) A foolish fellow.,
T as in Tota (n.) The grivet.,
T as in Total (a.) Whole; not divided; entire; full; complete; absolute; as, a total departure from the evidence; a total loss.,
T as in Total (n.) The whole; the whole sum or amount; as, these sums added make the grand total of five millions.,
T as in Totality (n.) The quality or state of being total; as, the totality of an eclipse.,
T as in Totality (n.) The whole sum; the whole quantity or amount; the entirety; as, the totalityof human knowledge.,
T as in Totalize (v. t.) To make total, or complete;to reduce to completeness.,
T as in Totally (adv.) In a total manner; wholly; entirely.,
T as in Totalness (n.) The quality or state of being total; entireness; totality.,
T as in Toted (imp. & p. p.) of Tote,
T as in Toting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tote,
T as in Tote (v. t.) To carry or bear; as, to tote a child over a stream; -- a colloquial word of the Southern States, and used esp. by negroes.,
T as in Tote (n.) The entire body, or all; as, the whole tote.,
T as in Totear (v. t.) To tear or rend in pieces.,
T as in Totem (n.) A rude picture, as of a bird, beast, or the like, used by the North American Indians as a symbolic designation, as of a family or a clan.,
T as in Totemic (a.) Of or pertaining to a totem, or totemism.,
T as in Totemism (n.) The system of distinguishing families, clans, etc., in a tribe by the totem.,
T as in Totemism (n.) Superstitious regard for a totem; the worship of any real or imaginary object; nature worship.,
T as in Totemist (n.) One belonging to a clan or tribe having a totem.,
T as in Toter (n.) The stone roller. See Stone roller (a), under Stone.,
T as in T'other () A colloquial contraction of the other, and formerly a contraction for that other. See the Note under That, 2.,
T as in Totipalmate (a.) Having all four toes united by a web; -- said of certain sea birds, as the pelican and the gannet. See Illust. under Aves.,
T as in Totipalmi (n.pl.) A division of swimming birds including those that have totipalmate feet.,
T as in Totipresence (n.) Omnipresence.,
T as in Totipresent (a.) Omnipresence.,
T as in Tottered (imp. & p. p.) of Totter,
T as in Tottering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Totter,
T as in Totter (v. i.) To shake so as to threaten a fall; to vacillate; to be unsteady; to stagger; as,an old man totters with age.,
T as in Totter (v. i.) To shake; to reel; to lean; to waver.,
T as in Totterer (n.) One who totters.,
T as in Totteringly (adv.) In a tottering manner.,
T as in Tottery (a.) Trembling or vaccilating, as if about to fall; unsteady; shaking.,
T as in Tottled (imp. & p. p.) of Totly,
T as in Tottling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Totly,
T as in Totly (v. i.) To walk in a wavering, unsteady manner; to toddle; to topple.,
T as in Tottlish (a.) Trembling or tottering, as if about to fall; un steady.,
T as in Totty (a.) Unsteady; dizzy; tottery.,
T as in Toty (a.) Totty.,
T as in Toty (n.) A sailor or fisherman; -- so called in some parts of the Pacific.,
T as in Toucan (n.) Any one of numerous species of fruit-eating birds of tropical America belonging to Ramphastos, Pteroglossus, and allied genera of the family Ramphastidae. They have a very large, but light and thin, beak, often nearly as long as the body itself. Most of the species are brilliantly colored with red, yellow, white, and black in striking contrast.,
T as in Toucan (n.) A modern constellation of the southern hemisphere.,
T as in Toncanet (n.) A small toucan.,
T as in Touched (imp. & p. p.) of Touch,
T as in Touching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Touch,
T as in Touch (v. t.) To come in contact with; to hit or strike lightly against; to extend the hand, foot, or the like, so as to reach or rest on.,
T as in Touch (v. t.) To perceive by the sense of feeling.,
T as in Touch (v. t.) To come to; to reach; to attain to.,
T as in Touch (v. t.) To try; to prove, as with a touchstone.,
T as in Touch (v. t.) To relate to; to concern; to affect.,
T as in Touch (v. t.) To handle, speak of, or deal with; to treat of.,
T as in Touch (v. t.) To meddle or interfere with; as, I have not touched the books.,
T as in Touch (v. t.) To affect the senses or the sensibility of; to move; to melt; to soften.,
T as in Touch (v. t.) To mark or delineate with touches; to add a slight stroke to with the pencil or brush.,
T as in Touch (v. t.) To infect; to affect slightly.,
T as in Touch (v. t.) To make an impression on; to have effect upon.,
T as in Touch (v. t.) To strike; to manipulate; to play on; as, to touch an instrument of music.,
T as in Touch (v. t.) To perform, as a tune; to play.,
T as in Touch (v. t.) To influence by impulse; to impel forcibly.,
T as in Touch (v. t.) To harm, afflict, or distress.,
T as in Touch (v. t.) To affect with insanity, especially in a slight degree; to make partially insane; -- rarely used except in the past participle.,
T as in Touch (v. t.) To be tangent to. See Tangent, a.,
T as in Touch (a.) To lay a hand upon for curing disease.,
T as in Touch (v. i.) To be in contact; to be in a state of junction, so that no space is between; as, two spheres touch only at points.,
T as in Touch (v. i.) To fasten; to take effect; to make impression.,
T as in Touch (v. i.) To treat anything in discourse, especially in a slight or casual manner; -- often with on or upon.,
T as in Touch (v. i.) To be brought, as a sail, so close to the wind that its weather leech shakes.,
T as in Touch (v.) The act of touching, or the state of being touched; contact.,
T as in Touch (v.) The sense by which pressure or traction exerted on the skin is recognized; the sense by which the properties of bodies are determined by contact; the tactile sense. See Tactile sense, under Tactile.,
T as in Touch (v.) Act or power of exciting emotion.,
T as in Touch (v.) An emotion or affection.,
T as in Touch (v.) Personal reference or application.,
T as in Touch (v.) A stroke; as, a touch of raillery; a satiric touch; hence, animadversion; censure; reproof.,
T as in Touch (v.) A single stroke on a drawing or a picture.,
T as in Touch (v.) Feature; lineament; trait.,
T as in Touch (v.) The act of the hand on a musical instrument; bence, in the plural, musical notes.,
T as in Touch (v.) A small quantity intermixed; a little; a dash.,
T as in Touch (v.) A hint; a suggestion; slight notice.,
T as in Touch (v.) A slight and brief essay.,
T as in Touch (v.) A touchstone; hence, stone of the sort used for touchstone.,
T as in Touch (v.) Hence, examination or trial by some decisive standard; test; proof; tried quality.,
T as in Touch (v.) The particular or characteristic mode of action, or the resistance of the keys of an instrument to the fingers; as, a heavy touch, or a light touch; also, the manner of touching, striking, or pressing the keys of a piano; as, a legato touch; a staccato touch.,
T as in Touch (v.) The broadest part of a plank worked top and but (see Top and but, under Top, n.), or of one worked anchor-stock fashion (that is, tapered from the middle to both ends); also, the angles of the stern timbers at the counters.,
T as in Touch (n.) That part of the field which is beyond the line of flags on either side.,
T as in Touch (n.) A boys' game; tag.,
T as in Touchable (a.) Capable of being touched; tangible.,
T as in Touchback (n.) The act of touching the football down by a player behind his own goal line when it received its last impulse from an opponent; -- distinguished from safety touchdown.,
T as in Touch-box (n.) A box containing lighted tinder, formerly carried by soldiers who used matchlocks, to kindle the match.,
T as in Touchdown (n.) The act of touching the football down behind the opponents' goal .,
T as in Touchhole (n.) The vent of a cannot or other firearm, by which fire is communicateed to the powder of the charge.,
T as in Touchily (adv.) In a touchy manner.,
T as in Touchiness (n.) The quality or state of being touchy peevishness; irritability; irascibility.,
T as in Touching (a.) Affecting; moving; pathetic; as, a touching tale.,
T as in Touching (prep.) Concerning; with respect to.,
T as in Touching (n.) The sense or act of feeling; touch.,
T as in Touch-me-not (n.) See Impatiens.,
T as in Touch-me-not (n.) Squirting cucumber. See under Cucumber.,
T as in Touch-needle (n.) A small bar of gold and silver, either pure, or alloyed in some known proportion with copper, for trying the purity of articles of gold or silver by comparison of the streaks made by the article and the bar on a touchstone.,
T as in Touch-paper (n.) Paper steeped in saltpeter, which burns slowly, and is used as a match for firing gunpowder, and the like.,
T as in Touchstone (n.) Lydian stone; basanite; -- so called because used to test the purity of gold and silver by the streak which is left upon the stone when it is rubbed by the metal. See Basanite.,
T as in Touchstone (n.) Any test or criterion by which the qualities of a thing are tried.,
T as in Touchwood (n.) Wood so decayed as to serve for tinder; spunk, or punk.,
T as in Touchwood (n.) Dried fungi used as tinder; especially, the Polyporus igniarius.,
T as in Touchy (a.) Peevish; irritable; irascible; techy; apt to take fire.,
T as in Tough (superl.) Having the quality of flexibility without brittleness; yielding to force without breaking; capable of resisting great strain; as, the ligaments of animals are remarkably tough.,
T as in Tough (superl.) Not easily broken; able to endure hardship; firm; strong; as, tough sinews.,
T as in Tough (superl.) Not easily separated; viscous; clammy; tenacious; as, tough phlegm.,
T as in Tough (superl.) Stiff; rigid; not flexible; stubborn; as, a tough bow.,
T as in Tough (superl.) Severe; violent; as, a tough storm.,
T as in Tough-cake (n.) See Tough-pitch (b).,
T as in Toughened (imp. & p. p.) of Toughen,
T as in Toughening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Toughen,
T as in Toughen (v. i. & t.) To grow or make tough, or tougher.,
T as in Tough-head (n.) The ruddy duck.,
T as in Toughish (a.) Tough in a slight degree.,
T as in Toughly (adv.) In a tough manner.,
T as in Toughness (n.) The quality or state of being tough.,
T as in Tough-pitch (n.) The exact state or quality of texture and consistency of well reduced and refined copper.,
T as in Tough-pitch (n.) Copper so reduced; -- called also tough-cake.,
T as in Touite (n.) The wood warbler.,
T as in Toupee (n.) Alt. of Toupet,
T as in Toupet (n.) A little tuft; a curl or artificial lock of hair.,
T as in Toupet (n.) A small wig, or a toppiece of a wig.,
T as in Toupettit (n.) The crested titmouse.,
T as in Tour (n.) A tower.,
T as in Tour (v. t.) A going round; a circuit; hence, a journey in a circuit; a prolonged circuitous journey; a comprehensive excursion; as, the tour of Europe; the tour of France or England.,
T as in Tour (v. t.) A turn; a revolution; as, the tours of the heavenly bodies.,
T as in Tour (v. t.) anything done successively, or by regular order; a turn; as, a tour of duty.,
T as in Toured (imp. & p. p.) of Tour,
T as in Touring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tour,
T as in Tour (v. i.) To make a tourm; as, to tour throught a country.,
T as in Touraco (n.) Same as Turacou.,
T as in Tourbillion (n.) An ornamental firework which turns round, when in the air, so as to form a scroll of fire.,
T as in Tourist (n.) One who makes a tour, or performs a journey in a circuit.,
T as in Tourmaline (n.) A mineral occurring usually in three-sided or six-sided prisms terminated by rhombohedral or scalenohedral planes. Black tourmaline (schorl) is the most common variety, but there are also other varieties, as the blue (indicolite), red (rubellite), also green, brown, and white. The red and green varieties when transparent are valued as jewels.,
T as in Tourn (n.) A spinning wheel.,
T as in Tourn (n.) The sheriff's turn, or court.,
T as in Tournament (n.) A mock fight, or warlike game, formerly in great favor, in which a number of combatants were engaged, as an exhibition of their address and bravery; hence, figuratively, a real battle.,
T as in Tournament (n.) Any contest of skill in which there are many contestents for championship; as, a chess tournament.,
T as in Tournery (n.) Work turned on a lathe; turnery.,
T as in Tourney (v. t.) A tournament.,
T as in Tourney (n.) To perform in tournaments; to tilt.,
T as in Tourniquet (n.) An instrument for arresting hemorrhage. It consists essentially of a pad or compress upon which pressure is made by a band which is tightened by a screw or other means.,
T as in Tournois (n.) A former French money of account worth 20 sous, or a franc. It was thus called in distinction from the Paris livre, which contained 25 sous.,
T as in Tournure (n.) Turn; contour; figure.,
T as in Tournure (n.) Any device used by women to expand the skirt of a dress below the waist; a bustle.,
T as in Toused (imp. & p. p.) of Touze,
T as in Tousing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Touze,
T as in Touse (v. t. & i.) Alt. of Touze,
T as in Touze (v. t. & i.) To pull; to haul; to tear; to worry.,
T as in Touse (n.) A pulling; a disturbance.,
T as in Tousel (v. t.) Same as Tousle.,
T as in Touser (n.) One who touses.,
T as in Tousle (v. t.) To put into disorder; to tumble; to touse.,
T as in Tous-les-mois (n.) A kind of starch with very large, oval, flattened grains, often sold as arrowroot, and extensively used for adulterating cocoa. It is made from the rootstocks of a species of Canna, probably C. edulis, the tubers of which are edible every month in the year.,
T as in Tout (v. i.) To act as a tout. See 2d Tout.,
T as in Tout (v. i.) To ply or seek for customers.,
T as in Tout (n.) One who secretly watches race horses which are in course of training, to get information about their capabilities, for use in betting.,
T as in Tout (v. i.) To toot a horn.,
T as in Tout (n.) The anus.,
T as in Tout-ensemble (n.) All together; hence, in costume, the fine arts, etc., the general effect of a work as a whole, without regard to the execution of the separate perts.,
T as in Touter (n.) One who seeks customers, as for an inn, a public conveyance, shops, and the like: hence, an obtrusive candidate for office.,
T as in Touze (v.t & i.) See Touse.,
T as in Tow (n.) The coarse and broken part of flax or hemp, separated from the finer part by the hatchel or swingle.,
T as in Towed (imp. & p. p.) of Tow,
T as in Towing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tow,
T as in Tow (v. t.) To draw or pull through the water, as a vessel of any kind, by means of a rope.,
T as in Tow (v. t.) A rope by which anything is towed; a towline, or towrope.,
T as in Tow (v. t.) The act of towing, or the state of being towed; --chiefly used in the phrase, to take in tow, that is to tow.,
T as in Tow (v. t.) That which is towed, or drawn by a towline, as a barge, raft, collection of boats, ect.,
T as in Towage (v.) The act of towing.,
T as in Towage (v.) The price paid for towing.,
T as in Towall (n.) A towel.,
T as in Toward (prep.) Alt. of Towards,
T as in Towards (prep.) In the direction of; to.,
T as in Towards (prep.) With direction to, in a moral sense; with respect or reference to; regarding; concerning.,
T as in Towards (prep.) Tending to; in the direction of; in behalf of.,
T as in Towards (prep.) Near; about; approaching to.,
T as in Toward (adv.) Alt. of Towards,
T as in Towards (adv.) Near; at hand; in state of preparation.,
T as in Toward (prep.) Approaching; coming near.,
T as in Toward (prep.) Readly to do or learn; compliant with duty; not froward; apt; docile; tractable; as, a toward youth.,
T as in Toward (prep.) Ready to act; forward; bold; valiant.,
T as in Towardliness (n.) The quality or state of being towardly; docility; tractableness.,
T as in Towardly (a.) Same as Toward, a., 2.,
T as in Towardness (n.) Quality or state of being toward.,
T as in Towards (prep. & adv.) See Toward.,
T as in Towboat (n.) A vessel constructed for being towed, as a canal boat.,
T as in Towboat (n.) A steamer used for towing other vessels; a tug.,
T as in Towel (n.) A cloth used for wiping, especially one used for drying anything wet, as the person after a bath.,
T as in Towel (v. t.) To beat with a stick.,
T as in Toweling (n.) Cloth for towels, especially such as is woven in long pieces to be cut at will, as distinguished from that woven in towel lengths with borders, etc.,
T as in Tower (n.) A mass of building standing alone and insulated, usually higher than its diameter, but when of great size not always of that proportion.,
T as in Tower (n.) A projection from a line of wall, as a fortification, for purposes of defense, as a flanker, either or the same height as the curtain wall or higher.,
T as in Tower (n.) A structure appended to a larger edifice for a special purpose, as for a belfry, and then usually high in proportion to its width and to the height of the rest of the edifice; as, a church tower.,
T as in Tower (n.) A citadel; a fortress; hence, a defense.,
T as in Tower (n.) A headdress of a high or towerlike form, fashionable about the end of the seventeenth century and until 1715; also, any high headdress.,
T as in Tower (n.) High flight; elevation.,
T as in towered (imp. & p. p.) of Tower,
T as in towering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tower,
T as in Tower (v. i.) To rise and overtop other objects; to be lofty or very high; hence, to soar.,
T as in Tower (v. t.) To soar into.,
T as in Towered (a.) Adorned or defended by towers.,
T as in Towering (a.) Very high; elevated; rising aloft; as, a towering height.,
T as in Towering (a.) Hence, extreme; violent; surpassing.,
T as in Towery (a.) Having towers; adorned or defended by towers.,
T as in Tow-head (n.) An urchin who has soft, whitish hair.,
T as in Tow-head (n.) The hooded merganser.,
T as in Towhee (n.) The chewink.,
T as in Towilly (n.) The sanderling; -- so called from its cry.,
T as in Towline (v. t.) A line used to tow vessels; a towrope.,
T as in Town (adv. & prep.) Formerly: (a) An inclosure which surrounded the mere homestead or dwelling of the lord of the manor. [Obs.] (b) The whole of the land which constituted the domain. [Obs.] (c) A collection of houses inclosed by fences or walls.,
T as in Town (adv. & prep.) Any number or collection of houses to which belongs a regular market, and which is not a city or the see of a bishop.,
T as in Town (adv. & prep.) Any collection of houses larger than a village, and not incorporated as a city; also, loosely, any large, closely populated place, whether incorporated or not, in distinction from the country, or from rural communities.,
T as in Town (adv. & prep.) The body of inhabitants resident in a town; as, the town voted to send two representatives to the legislature; the town voted to lay a tax for repairing the highways.,
T as in Town (adv. & prep.) A township; the whole territory within certain limits, less than those of a country.,
T as in Town (adv. & prep.) The court end of London;-- commonly with the.,
T as in Town (adv. & prep.) The metropolis or its inhabitants; as, in winter the gentleman lives in town; in summer, in the country.,
T as in Town (adv. & prep.) A farm or farmstead; also, a court or farmyard.,
T as in Town-crier (n.) A town officer who makes proclamations to the people; the public crier of a town.,
T as in Towned (a.) Having towns; containing many towns.,
T as in Townhall (n.) A public hall or building, belonging to a town, where the public offices are established, the town council meets, the people assemble in town meeting, etc.,
T as in Townhouse (n.) A building devoted to the public used of a town; a townhall.,
T as in Townish (a.) Of or pertaining to the inhabitants of a town; like the town.,
T as in Townless (a.) Having no town.,
T as in Townlet (n.) A small town.,
T as in Townsfolk (n.) The people of a town; especially, the inhabitants of a city, in distinction from country people; townspeople.,
T as in Township (n.) The district or territory of a town.,
T as in Township (n.) In surveys of the public land of the United States, a division of territory six miles square, containing 36 sections.,
T as in Township (n.) In Canada, one of the subdivisions of a county.,
T as in Townsmen (pl. ) of Townsman,
T as in Townsman (n.) An inhabitant of a town; one of the same town with another.,
T as in Townsman (n.) A selectman, in New England. See Selectman.,
T as in Townpeople (n.) The inhabitants of a town or city, especially in distinction from country people; townsfolk.,
T as in Townward (adv.) Alt. of Townwards,
T as in Townwards (adv.) Toward a town.,
T as in Towpath (n.) A path traveled by men or animals in towing boats; -- called also towing path.,
T as in Towrope (n.) A rope used in towing vessels.,
T as in Towser (n.) A familiar name for a dog.,
T as in Towy (a.) Composed of, or like, tow.,
T as in Tox/mia (a.) Blood poisoning. See under Blood.,
T as in Toxic (a.) Alt. of Toxical,
T as in Toxical (a.) Of or pertaining to poison; poisonous; as, toxic medicines.,
T as in Toxicant (n.) A poisonous agent or drug, as opium; an intoxicant.,
T as in Toxicological (a.) Of or pertaining to toxicology.,
T as in Toxicologist (n.) One versed in toxicology; the writer of a treatise on poisons.,
T as in Toxicology (n.) The science which treats of poisons, their effects, antidotes, and recognition; also, a discourse or treatise on the science.,
T as in Toxicomania (n.) Toxiphobia.,
T as in Toxicomania (n.) An insane desire for intoxicating or poisonous drugs, as alcohol or opium.,
T as in Toxifera (n.pl.) Same as Toxoglossa.,
T as in Toxin (n.) Alt. of Toxine,
T as in Toxine (n.) A poisonous product formed by pathogenic bacteria, as a toxic proteid or poisonous ptomaine.,
T as in Toxiphobia (n.) An insane or greatly exaggerated dread of poisons.,
T as in Toxodon (n.) A gigantic extinct herbivorous mammal from South America, having teeth bent like a bow. It is the type of the order Toxodonta.,
T as in Toxodonta (n.pl.) An extinct order of Mammalia found in the South American Tertiary formation. The incisor teeth were long and curved and provided with a persistent pulp. They are supposed to be related both to the rodents and ungulates. Called also Toxodontia.,
T as in Toxoglossa (n.pl.) A division of marine gastropod mollusks in which the radula are converted into poison fangs. The cone shells (Conus), Pleurotoma, and Terebra, are examples. See Illust. of Cone, n., 4, Pleurotoma, and Terebra.,
T as in Toxophilite (n.) A lover of archery; one devoted to archery.,
T as in Toxotes (n.) A genus of fishes comprising the archer fishes. See Archer fish.,
T as in Toy (v. t.) A plaything for children; a bawble.,
T as in Toy (v. t.) A thing for amusement, but of no real value; an article of trade of little value; a trifle.,
T as in Toy (v. t.) A wild fancy; an odd conceit; idle sport; folly; trifling opinion.,
T as in Toy (v. t.) Amorous dalliance; play; sport; pastime.,
T as in Toy (v. t.) An old story; a silly tale.,
T as in Toy (v. t.) A headdress of linen or woolen, that hangs down over the shoulders, worn by old women of the lower classes; -- called also toy mutch.,
T as in toyed (imp. & p. p.) of Toy,
T as in toying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Toy,
T as in Toy (v. i.) To dally amorously; to trifle; to play.,
T as in Toy (v. t.) To treat foolishly.,
T as in Toyear (adv.) This year.,
T as in Toyer (n.) One who toys; one who is full of trifling tricks; a trifler.,
T as in Toyful (a.) Full of trifling play.,
T as in Toyhouse (n.) A house for children to play in or to play with; a playhouse.,
T as in Toyingly (adv.) In a toying manner.,
T as in Toyish (a.) Sportive; trifling; wanton.,
T as in Toyish (a.) Resembling a toy.,
T as in Toyman (n.) One who deals in toys.,
T as in Toyshop (n.) A shop where toys are sold.,
T as in Toysome (a.) Disposed to toy; trifling; wanton.,
T as in Toze (v. t.) To pull violently; to touse.,
T as in Tozy (a.) Soft, like wool that has been teased.,
T as in Trabeae (pl. ) of Trabea,
T as in Trabea (n.) A toga of purple, or ornamented with purple horizontal stripes. -- worn by kings, consuls, and augurs.,
T as in Trabeated (a.) Furnished with an entablature.,
T as in Trabeation (n.) Same as Entablature.,
T as in Trabeculae (pl. ) of Trabecula,
T as in Trabecula (n.) A small bar, rod, bundle of fibers, or septal membrane, in the framework of an organ part.,
T as in Trabecular (a.) Of or pertaining to a trabecula or trabeculae; composed of trabeculae.,
T as in Trabeculate (a.) Crossbarred, as the ducts in a banana stem.,
T as in Trabu (n.) Same as Trubu.,
T as in Trace (n.) One of two straps, chains, or ropes of a harness, extending from the collar or breastplate to a whiffletree attached to a vehicle or thing to be drawn; a tug.,
T as in Trace (v. t.) A mark left by anything passing; a track; a path; a course; a footprint; a vestige; as, the trace of a carriage or sled; the trace of a deer; a sinuous trace.,
T as in Trace (v. t.) A very small quantity of an element or compound in a given substance, especially when so small that the amount is not quantitatively determined in an analysis; -- hence, in stating an analysis, often contracted to tr.,
T as in Trace (v. t.) A mark, impression, or visible appearance of anything left when the thing itself no longer exists; remains; token; vestige.,
T as in Trace (v. t.) The intersection of a plane of projection, or an original plane, with a coordinate plane.,
T as in Trace (v. t.) The ground plan of a work or works.,
T as in traced (imp. & p. p.) of Trace,
T as in tracing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Trace,
T as in Trace (v. t.) To mark out; to draw or delineate with marks; especially, to copy, as a drawing or engraving, by following the lines and marking them on a sheet superimposed, through which they appear; as, to trace a figure or an outline; a traced drawing.,
T as in Trace (v. t.) To follow by some mark that has been left by a person or thing which has preceded; to follow by footsteps, tracks, or tokens.,
T as in Trace (v. t.) Hence, to follow the trace or track of.,
T as in Trace (v. t.) To copy; to imitate.,
T as in Trace (v. t.) To walk over; to pass through; to traverse.,
T as in Trace (v. i.) To walk; to go; to travel.,
T as in Traceable (a.) Capable of being traced.,
T as in Tracer (n.) One who, or that which, traces.,
T as in Traceries (pl. ) of Tracer/y,
T as in Tracer/y (n.) Ornamental work with rambled lines.,
T as in Tracer/y (n.) The decorative head of a Gothic window.,
T as in Tracer/y (n.) A similar decoration in some styles of vaulting, the ribs of the vault giving off the minor bars of which the tracery is composed.,
T as in Tracheae (pl. ) of Trachea,
T as in Trachea (n.) The windpipe. See Illust. of Lung.,
T as in Trachea (n.) One of the respiratory tubes of insects and arachnids.,
T as in Trachea (n.) One of the large cells in woody tissue which have spiral, annular, or other markings, and are connected longitudinally so as to form continuous ducts.,
T as in Tracheal (a.) Of or pertaining to the trachea; like a trachea.,
T as in Trachearia (n.pl.) A division of Arachnida including those that breathe only by means of tracheae. It includes the mites, ticks, false scorpions, and harvestmen.,
T as in Tracheary (a.) Tracheal; breathing by means of tracheae.,
T as in Tracheary (n.) One of the Trachearia.,
T as in Tracheata (n.pl.) An extensive division of arthropods comprising all those which breathe by tracheae, as distinguished from Crustacea, which breathe by means of branchiae.,
T as in Tracheate (a.) Breathing by means of tracheae; of or pertaining to the Tracheata.,
T as in Tracheate (n.) Any arthropod having tracheae; one of the Tracheata.,
T as in Tracheid (n.) A wood cell with spiral or other markings and closed throughout, as in pine wood.,
T as in Tracheitis (n.) Inflammation of the trachea, or windpipe.,
T as in Trachelidan (n.) Any one of a tribe of beetles (Trachelides) which have the head supported on a pedicel. The oil beetles and the Cantharides are examples.,
T as in Trachelipod (n.) One of the Trachelipoda.,
T as in Trachelipoda (n.pl.) An extensive artificial group of gastropods comprising all those which have a spiral shell and the foot attached to the base of the neck.,
T as in Trachelipodous (a.) Having the foot united with the neck; of or pertainingto the Trachelipoda.,
T as in Trachelobranchiate (a.) Having the gills situated upon the neck; -- said of certain mollusks.,
T as in Trachelorrhaphy (n.) The operation of sewing up a laceration of the neck of the uterus.,
T as in Trachenchyma (n.) A vegetable tissue consisting of tracheae.,
T as in Tracheobranchlae (pl. ) of Tracheobranchia,
T as in Tracheobranchia (n.) One of the gill-like breathing organs of certain aquatic insect larvae. They contain tracheal tubes somewhat similar to those of other insects.,
T as in Tracheobronchial (a.) Pertaining both to the tracheal and bronchial tubes, or to their junction; -- said of the syrinx of certain birds.,
T as in Tracheocele (n.) Goiter.,
T as in Tracheocele (n.) A tumor containing air and communicating with the trachea.,
T as in Tracheophonae (n. pl.) A group of passerine birds having the syrinx at the lower end of the trachea.,
T as in Tracheoscopy (n.) Examination of the interior of the trachea by means of a mirror.,
T as in Tracheotomy (n.) The operation of making an opening into the windpipe.,
T as in Trachinoid (a.) Of, pertaining to, or like, Trachinus, a genus of fishes which includes the weevers. See Weever.,
T as in Trachitis (n.) Tracheitis.,
T as in Trachycarpous (a.) Rough-fruited.,
T as in Trachymedusae (n. pl.) A division of acalephs in which the development is direct from the eggs, without a hydroid stage. Some of the species are parasitic on other medusae.,
T as in Trachyspermous (a.) Rough-seeded.,
T as in Trachystomata (n. pl.) An order of tailed aquatic amphibians, including Siren and Pseudobranchus. They have anterior legs only, are eel-like in form, and have no teeth except a small patch on the palate. The external gills are persistent through life.,
T as in Trachyte (n.) An igneous rock, usually light gray in color and breaking with a rough surface. It consists chiefly of orthoclase feldspar with sometimes hornblende and mica.,
T as in Trachytic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, trachyte.,
T as in Trachytoid (a.) Resembling trachyte; -- used to define the structure of certain rocks.,
T as in Tracing (n.) The act of one who traces; especially, the act of copying by marking on thin paper, or other transparent substance, the lines of a pattern placed beneath; also, the copy thus producted.,
T as in Tracing (n.) A regular path or track; a course.,
T as in Track (n.) A mark left by something that has passed along; as, the track, or wake, of a ship; the track of a meteor; the track of a sled or a wheel.,
T as in Track (n.) A mark or impression left by the foot, either of man or beast; trace; vestige; footprint.,
T as in Track (n.) The entire lower surface of the foot; -- said of birds, etc.,
T as in Track (n.) A road; a beaten path.,
T as in Track (n.) Course; way; as, the track of a comet.,
T as in Track (n.) A path or course laid out for a race, for exercise, etc.,
T as in Track (n.) The permanent way; the rails.,
T as in Track (n.) A tract or area, as of land.,
T as in tracked (imp. & p. p.) of Track,
T as in tracking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Track,
T as in Track (v. t.) To follow the tracks or traces of; to pursue by following the marks of the feet; to trace; to trail; as, to track a deer in the snow.,
T as in Track (v. t.) To draw along continuously, as a vessel, by a line, men or animals on shore being the motive power; to tow.,
T as in Trackage (n.) The act of tracking, or towing, as a boat; towage.,
T as in Tracker (n.) One who, or that which, tracks or pursues, as a man or dog that follows game.,
T as in Tracker (n.) In the organ, a light strip of wood connecting (in path) a key and a pallet, to communicate motion by pulling.,
T as in Trackless (a.) Having no track; marked by no footsteps; untrodden; as, a trackless desert.,
T as in Trackmaster (n.) One who has charge of the track; -- called also roadmaster.,
T as in Track-road (n.) A towing path.,
T as in Trackscout (n.) See Trackschuyt.,
T as in Tract (n.) A written discourse or dissertation, generally of short extent; a short treatise, especially on practical religion.,
T as in Tract (v.) Something drawn out or extended; expanse.,
T as in Tract (v.) A region or quantity of land or water, of indefinite extent; an area; as, an unexplored tract of sea.,
T as in Tract (v.) Traits; features; lineaments.,
T as in Tract (v.) The footprint of a wild beast.,
T as in Tract (v.) Track; trace.,
T as in Tract (v.) Treatment; exposition.,
T as in Tract (v.) Continuity or extension of anything; as, the tract of speech.,
T as in Tract (v.) Continued or protracted duration; length; extent.,
T as in Tract (v.) Verses of Scripture sung at Mass, instead of the Alleluia, from Septuagesima Sunday till the Saturday befor Easter; -- so called because sung tractim, or without a break, by one voice, instead of by many as in the antiphons.,
T as in Tract (v. t.) To trace out; to track; also, to draw out; to protact.,
T as in Tractability (n.) The quality or state of being tractable or docile; docility; tractableness.,
T as in Tractable (v. t.) Capable of being easily led, taught, or managed; docile; manageable; governable; as, tractable children; a tractable learner.,
T as in Tractable (v. t.) Capable of being handled; palpable; practicable; feasible; as, tractable measures.,
T as in Tractarian (n.) One of the writers of the Oxford tracts, called "Tracts for the Times," issued during the period 1833-1841, in which series of papers the sacramental system and authority of the Church, and the value of tradition, were brought into prominence. Also, a member of the High Church party, holding generally the principles of the Tractarian writers; a Puseyite.,
T as in Tractarian (a.) Of or pertaining to the Tractarians, or their principles.,
T as in Tractarianism (n.) The principles of the Tractarians, or of those persons accepting the teachings of the "Tracts for the Times.",
T as in Tractate (n.) A treatise; a tract; an essay.,
T as in Tractation (n.) Treatment or handling of a subject; discussion.,
T as in Tractator (n.) One who writes tracts; specif., a Tractarian.,
T as in Tractile (a.) Capable of being drawn out in length; ductile.,
T as in Tractility (n.) The quality of being tractile; ductility.,
T as in Traction (n.) The act of drawing, or the state of being drawn; as, the traction of a muscle.,
T as in Traction (n.) Specifically, the act of drawing a body along a plane by motive power, as the drawing of a carriage by men or horses, the towing of a boat by a tug.,
T as in Traction (n.) Attraction; a drawing toward.,
T as in Traction (n.) The adhesive friction of a wheel on a rail, a rope on a pulley, or the like.,
T as in Tractite (n.) A Tractarian.,
T as in Tractitious (a.) Treating of; handling.,
T as in Tractive (a.) Serving to draw; pulling; attracting; as, tractive power.,
T as in Tractor (n.) That which draws, or is used for drawing.,
T as in Tractor (n.) Two small, pointed rods of metal, formerly used in the treatment called Perkinism.,
T as in Tractoration (n.) See Perkinism.,
T as in Tractory (n.) A tractrix.,
T as in Tractrix (n.) A curve such that the part of the tangent between the point of tangency and a given straight line is constant; -- so called because it was conceived as described by the motion of one end of a tangent line as the other end was drawn along the given line.,
T as in Trad () imp. of Tread.,
T as in Trade (v.) A track; a trail; a way; a path; also, passage; travel; resort.,
T as in Trade (v.) Course; custom; practice; occupation; employment.,
T as in Trade (v.) Business of any kind; matter of mutual consideration; affair; dealing.,
T as in Trade (v.) Specifically: The act or business of exchanging commodities by barter, or by buying and selling for money; commerce; traffic; barter.,
T as in Trade (v.) The business which a person has learned, and which he engages in, for procuring subsistence, or for profit; occupation; especially, mechanical employment as distinguished from the liberal arts, the learned professions, and agriculture; as, we speak of the trade of a smith, of a carpenter, or mason, but not now of the trade of a farmer, or a lawyer, or a physician.,
T as in Trade (v.) Instruments of any occupation.,
T as in Trade (v.) A company of men engaged in the same occupation; thus, booksellers and publishers speak of the customs of the trade, and are collectively designated as the trade.,
T as in Trade (v.) The trade winds.,
T as in Trade (v.) Refuse or rubbish from a mine.,
T as in Traded (imp. & p. p.) of Trade,
T as in Trading (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Trade,
T as in Trade (v. i.) To barter, or to buy and sell; to be engaged in the exchange, purchase, or sale of goods, wares, merchandise, or anything else; to traffic; to bargain; to carry on commerce as a business.,
T as in Trade (v. i.) To buy and sell or exchange property in a single instance.,
T as in Trade (v. i.) To have dealings; to be concerned or associated; -- usually followed by with.,
T as in Trade (v. t.) To sell or exchange in commerce; to barter.,
T as in Trade () imp. of Tread.,
T as in Traded (a.) Professional; practiced.,
T as in Tradeful (a.) Full of trade; busy in traffic; commercial.,
T as in Tradeless (a.) Having no trade or traffic.,
T as in Trade-mark (n.) A peculiar distinguishing mark or device affixed by a manufacturer or a merchant to his goods, the exclusive right of using which is recognized by law.,
T as in Trader (n.) One engaged in trade or commerce; one who makes a business of buying and selling or of barter; a merchant; a trafficker; as, a trader to the East Indies; a country trader.,
T as in Trader (n.) A vessel engaged in the coasting or foreign trade.,
T as in Tradescantia (n.) A genus including spiderwort and Wandering Jew.,
T as in Tradesfolk (n.) People employed in trade; tradesmen.,
T as in Tradesmen (pl. ) of Tradesman,
T as in Tradesman (n.) One who trades; a shopkeeper.,
T as in Tradesman (n.) A mechanic or artificer; esp., one whose livelihood depends upon the labor of his hands.,
T as in Tradespeople (n.) People engaged in trade; shopkeepers.,
T as in trades union () Alt. of Trade union,
T as in Trade union () An organized combination among workmen for the purpose of maintaining their rights, privileges, and interests with respect to wages, hours of labor, customs, etc.,
T as in Trades-unionist (n.) Alt. of Trade-unionist,
T as in Trade-unionist (n.) A member of a trades union, or a supporter of trades unions.,
T as in Tradeswomen (pl. ) of Tradeswoman,
T as in Tradeswoman (n.) A woman who trades, or is skilled in trade.,
T as in Trading (a.) Carrying on trade or commerce; engaged in trade; as, a trading company.,
T as in Trading (a.) Frequented by traders.,
T as in Trading (a.) Venal; corrupt; jobbing; as, a trading politician.,
T as in Tradition (n.) The act of delivering into the hands of another; delivery.,
T as in Tradition (n.) The unwritten or oral delivery of information, opinions, doctrines, practices, rites, and customs, from father to son, or from ancestors to posterity; the transmission of any knowledge, opinions, or practice, from forefathers to descendants by oral communication, without written memorials.,
T as in Tradition (n.) Hence, that which is transmitted orally from father to son, or from ancestors to posterity; knowledge or belief transmitted without the aid of written memorials; custom or practice long observed.,
T as in Tradition (n.) An unwritten code of law represented to have been given by God to Moses on Sinai.,
T as in Tradition (n.) That body of doctrine and discipline, or any article thereof, supposed to have been put forth by Christ or his apostles, and not committed to writing.,
T as in Tradition (v. t.) To transmit by way of tradition; to hand down.,
T as in Traditional (a.) Of or pertaining to tradition; derived from tradition; communicated from ancestors to descendants by word only; transmitted from age to age without writing; as, traditional opinions; traditional customs; traditional expositions of the Scriptures.,
T as in Traditional (a.) Observant of tradition; attached to old customs; old-fashioned.,
T as in Traditionlism (n.) A system of faith founded on tradition; esp., the doctrine that all religious faith is to be based solely upon what is delivered from competent authority, exclusive of rational processes.,
T as in Traditionalist (n.) An advocate of, or believer in, traditionalism; a traditionist.,
T as in Traditionally (adv.) In a traditional manner.,
T as in Traditionarily (adv.) By tradition.,
T as in Traditionary (a.) Traditional.,
T as in Traditionaries (pl. ) of Traditionary,
T as in Traditionary (n.) One, among the Jews, who acknowledges the authority of traditions, and explains the Scriptures by them.,
T as in Traditioner (n.) Alt. of Traditionist,
T as in Traditionist (n.) One who adheres to tradition.,
T as in Traditive (a.) Transmitted or transmissible from father to son, or from age, by oral communication; traditional.,
T as in Traditor (n.) A deliverer; -- a name of infamy given to Christians who delivered the Scriptures, or the goods of the church, to their persecutors to save their lives.,
T as in Traduced (imp. & p. p.) of Traduce,
T as in Traducing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Traduce,
T as in Traduce (v. t.) To transfer; to transmit; to hand down; as, to traduce mental qualities to one's descendants.,
T as in Traduce (v. t.) To translate from one language to another; as, to traduce and compose works.,
T as in Traduce (v. t.) To increase or distribute by propagation.,
T as in Traduce (v. t.) To draw away; to seduce.,
T as in Traduce (v. t.) To represent; to exhibit; to display; to expose; to make an example of.,
T as in Traduce (v. t.) To expose to contempt or shame; to represent as blamable; to calumniate; to vilify; to defame.,
T as in Traducement (n.) The act of traducing; misrepresentation; ill-founded censure; defamation; calumny.,
T as in Traducent (a.) Slanderous.,
T as in Traducer (n.) One who traduces; a slanderer; a calumniator.,
T as in Traducer (n.) One who derives or deduces.,
T as in Traducian (n.) A believer in traducianism.,
T as in Traducianism (n.) The doctrine that human souls are produced by the act of generation; -- opposed to creationism, and infusionism.,
T as in Traducible (a.) Capable of being derived or propagated.,
T as in Traducible (a.) Capable of being traduced or calumniated.,
T as in Traducingly (adv.) In a traducing manner; by traduction; slanderously.,
T as in Traduct (v. t.) To derive or deduce; also, to transmit; to transfer.,
T as in Traduct (n.) That which is traducted; that which is transferred; a translation.,
T as in Traduction (n.) Transmission from one to another.,
T as in Traduction (n.) Translation from one language to another.,
T as in Traduction (n.) Derivation by descent; propagation.,
T as in Traduction (n.) The act of transferring; conveyance; transportation.,
T as in Traduction (n.) Transition.,
T as in Traduction (n.) A process of reasoning in which each conclusion applies to just such an object as each of the premises applies to.,
T as in Traductive (a.) Capable of being deduced; derivable.,
T as in Trafficked (imp. & p. p.) of Traffic,
T as in Trafficking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Traffic,
T as in Traffic (v. i.) To pass goods and commodities from one person to another for an equivalent in goods or money; to buy or sell goods; to barter; to trade.,
T as in Traffic (v. i.) To trade meanly or mercenarily; to bargain.,
T as in Traffic (v. t.) To exchange in traffic; to effect by a bargain or for a consideration.,
T as in Traffic (v.) Commerce, either by barter or by buying and selling; interchange of goods and commodities; trade.,
T as in Traffic (v.) Commodities of the market.,
T as in Traffic (v.) The business done upon a railway, steamboat line, etc., with reference to the number of passengers or the amount of freight carried.,
T as in Trafficable (a.) Capable of being disposed of in traffic; marketable.,
T as in Trafficker (n.) One who traffics, or carries on commerce; a trader; a merchant.,
T as in Trafficless (a.) Destitute of traffic, or trade.,
T as in Tragacanth (n.) A kind of gum procured from a spiny leguminous shrub (Astragalus gummifer) of Western Asia, and other species of Astragalus. It comes in hard whitish or yellowish flakes or filaments, and is nearly insoluble in water, but slowly swells into a mucilaginous mass, which is used as a substitute for gum arabic in medicine and the arts. Called also gum tragacanth.,
T as in Tragedian (n.) A writer of tragedy.,
T as in Tragedian (n.) An actor or player in tragedy.,
T as in Tragedienne (n.) A woman who plays in tragedy.,
T as in Tragedious (a.) Like tragedy; tragical.,
T as in Tragedies (pl. ) of Tragedy,
T as in Tragedy (n.) A dramatic poem, composed in elevated style, representing a signal action performed by some person or persons, and having a fatal issue; that species of drama which represents the sad or terrible phases of character and life.,
T as in Tragedy (n.) A fatal and mournful event; any event in which human lives are lost by human violence, more especially by unauthorized violence.,
T as in Tragic (a.) Alt. of Tragical,
T as in Tragical (a.) Of or pertaining to tragedy; of the nature or character of tragedy; as, a tragic poem; a tragic play or representation.,
T as in Tragical (a.) Fatal to life; mournful; terrible; calamitous; as, the tragic scenes of the French revolution.,
T as in Tragical (a.) Mournful; expressive of tragedy, the loss of life, or of sorrow.,
T as in Tragic (n.) A writer of tragedy.,
T as in Tragic (n.) A tragedy; a tragic drama.,
T as in Tragi-comedy (n.) A kind of drama representing some action in which serious and comic scenes are blended; a composition partaking of the nature both of tragedy and comedy.,
T as in Tragi-comic (a.) Alt. of Tragi-comical,
T as in Tragi-comical (a.) Of or pertaining to tragi-comedy; partaking of grave and comic scenes.,
T as in Tragi-comi-pastoral (a.) Partaking of the nature of, or combining, tragedy, comedy, and pastoral poetry.,
T as in Tragopan (n.) Any one of several species of Asiatic pheasants of the genus Ceriornis. They are brilliantly colored with a variety of tints, the back and breast are usually covered with white or buff ocelli, and the head is ornamented with two bright-colored, fleshy wattles. The crimson tragopan, or horned pheasant (C. satyra), of India is one of the best-known species.,
T as in Tragus (n.) The prominence in front of the external opening of the ear. See Illust. under Ear.,
T as in T rail () See under T.,
T as in Trailed (imp. & p. p.) of Trail,
T as in Trailing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Trail,
T as in Trail (v. t.) To hunt by the track; to track.,
T as in Trail (v. t.) To draw or drag, as along the ground.,
T as in Trail (v. t.) To carry, as a firearm, with the breech near the ground and the upper part inclined forward, the piece being held by the right hand near the middle.,
T as in Trail (v. t.) To tread down, as grass, by walking through it; to lay flat.,
T as in Trail (v. t.) To take advantage of the ignorance of; to impose upon.,
T as in Trail (v. i.) To be drawn out in length; to follow after.,
T as in Trail (v. i.) To grow to great length, especially when slender and creeping upon the ground, as a plant; to run or climb.,
T as in Trail (n.) A track left by man or beast; a track followed by the hunter; a scent on the ground by the animal pursued; as, a deer trail.,
T as in Trail (n.) A footpath or road track through a wilderness or wild region; as, an Indian trail over the plains.,
T as in Trail (n.) Anything drawn out to a length; as, the trail of a meteor; a trail of smoke.,
T as in Trail (n.) Anything drawn behind in long undulations; a train.,
T as in Trail (n.) Anything drawn along, as a vehicle.,
T as in Trail (n.) A frame for trailing plants; a trellis.,
T as in Trail (n.) The entrails of a fowl, especially of game, as the woodcock, and the like; -- applied also, sometimes, to the entrails of sheep.,
T as in Trail (n.) That part of the stock of a gun carriage which rests on the ground when the piece is unlimbered. See Illust. of Gun carriage, under Gun.,
T as in Trail (n.) The act of taking advantage of the ignorance of a person; an imposition.,
T as in Trailer (n.) One who, or that which, trails.,
T as in Trailer (n.) A part of an object which extends some distance beyond the main body of the object; as, the trailer of a plant.,
T as in Trailing () a. & vb. n. from Trail.,
T as in Trained (imp. & p. p.) of Train,
T as in Training (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Train,
T as in Train (v. t.) To draw along; to trail; to drag.,
T as in Train (v. t.) To draw by persuasion, artifice, or the like; to attract by stratagem; to entice; to allure.,
T as in Train (v. t.) To teach and form by practice; to educate; to exercise; to discipline; as, to train the militia to the manual exercise; to train soldiers to the use of arms.,
T as in Train (v. t.) To break, tame, and accustom to draw, as oxen.,
T as in Train (v. t.) To lead or direct, and form to a wall or espalier; to form to a proper shape, by bending, lopping, or pruning; as, to train young trees.,
T as in Train (v. t.) To trace, as a lode or any mineral appearance, to its head.,
T as in Train (v. i.) To be drilled in military exercises; to do duty in a military company.,
T as in Train (v. i.) To prepare by exercise, diet, instruction, etc., for any physical contest; as, to train for a boat race.,
T as in Train (v.) That which draws along; especially, persuasion, artifice, or enticement; allurement.,
T as in Train (v.) Hence, something tied to a lure to entice a hawk; also, a trap for an animal; a snare.,
T as in Train (v.) That which is drawn along in the rear of, or after, something; that which is in the hinder part or rear.,
T as in Train (v.) That part of a gown which trails behind the wearer.,
T as in Train (v.) The after part of a gun carriage; the trail.,
T as in Train (v.) The tail of a bird.,
T as in Train (v.) A number of followers; a body of attendants; a retinue; a suite.,
T as in Train (v.) A consecution or succession of connected things; a series.,
T as in Train (v.) Regular method; process; course; order; as, things now in a train for settlement.,
T as in Train (v.) The number of beats of a watch in any certain time.,
T as in Train (v.) A line of gunpowder laid to lead fire to a charge, mine, or the like.,
T as in Train (v.) A connected line of cars or carriages on a railroad.,
T as in Train (v.) A heavy, long sleigh used in Canada for the transportation of merchandise, wood, and the like.,
T as in Train (v.) A roll train; as, a 12-inch train.,
T as in Trainable (a.) Capable of being trained or educated; as, boys trainable to virtue.,
T as in Trainbands (pl. ) of Trainband,
T as in Trainband (n.) A band or company of an organized military force instituted by James I. and dissolved by Charles II.; -- afterwards applied to the London militia.,
T as in Trainbearer (n.) One who holds up a train, as of a robe.,
T as in Trainel (n.) A dragnet.,
T as in Trainer (n.) One who trains; an instructor; especially, one who trains or prepares men, horses, etc., for exercises requiring physical agility and strength.,
T as in Trainer (n.) A militiaman when called out for exercise or discipline.,
T as in Training (n.) The act of one who trains; the act or process of exercising, disciplining, etc.; education.,
T as in Train oil () Oil procured from the blubber or fat of whales, by boiling.,
T as in Trainy (a.) Belonging to train oil.,
T as in Traipse (v. i.) To walk or run about in a slatternly, careless, or thoughtless manner.,
T as in Trais (n. pl.) Alt. of Trays,
T as in Trays (n. pl.) Traces.,
T as in Trait (v.) A stroke; a touch.,
T as in Trait (v.) A distinguishing or marked feature; a peculiarity; as, a trait of character.,
T as in Traiteur (n.) The keeper of an eating house, or restaurant; a restaurateur.,
T as in Traitor (n.) One who violates his allegiance and betrays his country; one guilty of treason; one who, in breach of trust, delivers his country to an enemy, or yields up any fort or place intrusted to his defense, or surrenders an army or body of troops to the enemy, unless when vanquished; also, one who takes arms and levies war against his country; or one who aids an enemy in conquering his country. See Treason.,
T as in Traitor (n.) Hence, one who betrays any confidence or trust; a betrayer.,
T as in Traitor (a.) Traitorous.,
T as in Traitor (v. t.) To act the traitor toward; to betray; to deceive.,
T as in Traitoress (n.) A traitress.,
T as in Traitorly (a.) Like a traitor; treacherous; traitorous.,
T as in Traitorous (a.) Guilty of treason; treacherous; perfidious; faithless; as, a traitorous officer or subject.,
T as in Traitorous (a.) Consisting in treason; partaking of treason; implying breach of allegiance; as, a traitorous scheme.,
T as in Traitory (n.) Treachery.,
T as in Traitress (n.) A woman who betrays her country or any trust; a traitoress.,
T as in Trajected (imp. & p. p.) of Traject,
T as in Trajecting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Traject,
T as in Traject (v. t.) To throw or cast through, over, or across; as, to traject the sun's light through three or more cross prisms.,
T as in Traject (v. t.) A place for passing across; a passage; a ferry.,
T as in Traject (v. t.) The act of trajecting; trajection.,
T as in Traject (v. t.) A trajectory.,
T as in Trajection (n.) The act of trajecting; a throwing or casting through or across; also, emission.,
T as in Trajection (n.) Transposition.,
T as in Trajectories (pl. ) of Trajectory,
T as in Trajectory (n.) The curve which a body describes in space, as a planet or comet in its orbit, or stone thrown upward obliquely in the air.,
T as in Trajet (n.) Alt. of Trajetry,
T as in Trajetour (n.) Alt. of Trajetry,
T as in Trajetry (n.) See Treget, Tregetour, and Tregetry.,
T as in Tralation (n.) The use of a word in a figurative or extended sense; ametaphor; a trope.,
T as in Tralatition (n.) A change, as in the use of words; a metaphor.,
T as in Tralatitious (a.) Passed along; handed down; transmitted.,
T as in Tralatitious (a.) Metaphorical; figurative; not literal.,
T as in Tralatitiously (adv.) In a tralatitious manner; metephorically.,
T as in Tralineate (v. i.) To deviate; to stray; to wander.,
T as in Tralucency (n.) Translucency; as, the tralucency of a gem.,
T as in Tralucent (a.) Translucent.,
T as in Tram (n.) A four-wheeled truck running on rails, and used in a mine, as for carrying coal or ore.,
T as in Tram (n.) The shaft of a cart.,
T as in Tram (n.) One of the rails of a tramway.,
T as in Tram (n.) A car on a horse railroad.,
T as in Tram (n.) A silk thread formed of two or more threads twisted together, used especially for the weft, or cross threads, of the best quality of velvets and silk goods.,
T as in Tramble (v. t.) To wash, as tin ore, with a shovel in a frame fitted for the purpose.,
T as in Trammel (n.) A kind of net for catching birds, fishes, or other prey.,
T as in Trammel (n.) A net for confining a woman's hair.,
T as in Trammel (n.) A kind of shackle used for regulating the motions of a horse and making him amble.,
T as in Trammel (n.) Fig.: Whatever impedes activity, progress, or freedom, as a net or shackle.,
T as in Trammel (n.) An iron hook of various forms and sizes, used for handing kettles and other vessels over the fire.,
T as in Trammel (n.) An instrument for drawing ellipses, one part of which consists of a cross with two grooves at right angles to each other, the other being a beam carrying two pins (which slide in those grooves), and also the describing pencil.,
T as in Trammel (n.) A beam compass. See under Beam.,
T as in Trammeled (imp. & p. p.) of Trammel,
T as in Trammelled () of Trammel,
T as in Trammeling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Trammel,
T as in Trammelling () of Trammel,
T as in Trammel (v. t.) To entangle, as in a net; to catch.,
T as in Trammel (v. t.) To confine; to hamper; to shackle.,
T as in Trammeled (a.) Having blazes, or white marks, on the fore and hind foot of one side, as if marked by trammels; -- said of a horse.,
T as in Trammeler (n.) One who uses a trammel net.,
T as in Trammeler (n.) One who, or that which, trammels or restrains.,
T as in Tramming (n.) The act or process of forming trams. See 2d Tram.,
T as in Tramontane (a.) Lying or being beyond the mountains; coming from the other side of the mountains; hence, foreign; barbarous.,
T as in Tramontane (n.) One living beyond the mountains; hence, a foreigner; a stranger.,
T as in Tramped (imp. & p. p.) of Tramp,
T as in Tramping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tramp,
T as in Tramp (v. i.) To tread upon forcibly and repeatedly; to trample.,
T as in Tramp (v. i.) To travel or wander through; as, to tramp the country.,
T as in Tramp (v. i.) To cleanse, as clothes, by treading upon them in water.,
T as in Tramp (v. i.) To travel; to wander; to stroll.,
T as in Tramp (n.) A foot journey or excursion; as, to go on a tramp; a long tramp.,
T as in Tramp (n.) A foot traveler; a tramper; often used in a bad sense for a vagrant or wandering vagabond.,
T as in Tramp (n.) The sound of the foot, or of feet, on the earth, as in marching.,
T as in Tramp (n.) A tool for trimming hedges.,
T as in Tramp (n.) A plate of iron worn to protect the sole of the foot, or the shoe, when digging with a spade.,
T as in Tramper (n.) One who tramps; a stroller; a vagrant or vagabond; a tramp.,
T as in Trampled (imp. & p. p.) of Trample,
T as in Trampling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Trample,
T as in Trample (v. t.) To tread under foot; to tread down; to prostrate by treading; as, to trample grass or flowers.,
T as in Trample (v. t.) Fig.: To treat with contempt and insult.,
T as in Trample (v. i.) To tread with force and rapidity; to stamp.,
T as in Trample (v. i.) To tread in contempt; -- with on or upon.,
T as in Trample (n.) The act of treading under foot; also, the sound produced by trampling.,
T as in Trampler (n.) One who tramples; one who treads down; as, a trampler on nature's law.,
T as in Trampoose (v. i.) To walk with labor, or heavily; to tramp.,
T as in Tramroad (n.) A road prepared for easy transit of trams or wagons, by forming the wheel tracks of smooth beams of wood, blocks of stone, or plates of iron.,
T as in Tramway (n.) Same as Tramroad.,
T as in Tramway (n.) A railway laid in the streets of a town or city, on which cars for passengers or for freight are drawn by horses; a horse railroad.,
T as in Tranation (n.) The act of swimming over.,
T as in Trance (n.) A tedious journey.,
T as in Trance (n.) A state in which the soul seems to have passed out of the body into another state of being, or to be rapt into visions; an ecstasy.,
T as in Trance (n.) A condition, often simulating death, in which there is a total suspension of the power of voluntary movement, with abolition of all evidences of mental activity and the reduction to a minimum of all the vital functions so that the patient lies still and apparently unconscious of surrounding objects, while the pulsation of the heart and the breathing, although still present, are almost or altogether imperceptible.,
T as in Tranced (imp. & p. p.) of Trance,
T as in Trancing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Trance,
T as in Trance (v. t.) To entrance.,
T as in Trance (v. t.) To pass over or across; to traverse.,
T as in Trance (v. i.) To pass; to travel.,
T as in Tranect (n.) A ferry.,
T as in Trangram (n.) Something intricately contrived; a contrived; a puzzle.,
T as in Trannel (n.) A treenail.,
T as in Tranquil (a.) Quiet; calm; undisturbed; peaceful; not agitated; as, the atmosphere is tranquil; the condition of the country is tranquil.,
T as in Tranquilization (n.) Alt. of Tranquillization,
T as in Tranquillization (n.) The act of tranquilizing, or the state of being tranquilized.,
T as in Tranquilized (imp. & p. p.) of Tranquillize,
T as in Tranquilliized () of Tranquillize,
T as in Tranquilizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tranquillize,
T as in Tranquillizing () of Tranquillize,
T as in Tranquilize (v. t.) Alt. of Tranquillize,
T as in Tranquillize (v. t.) To render tranquil; to allay when agitated; to compose; to make calm and peaceful; as, to tranquilize a state disturbed by factions or civil commotions; to tranquilize the mind.,
T as in Tranquilizer (n.) Alt. of Tranquillizer,
T as in Tranquillizer (n.) One who, or that which, tranquilizes.,
T as in Tranquilizing (a.) Alt. of Tranquillizing,
T as in Tranquillizing (a.) Making tranquil; calming.,
T as in Tranquillity (n.) The quality or state of being tranquil; calmness; composure.,
T as in Tranquilly (adv.) In a tranquil manner; calmly.,
T as in Tranquilness (n.) Quality or state of being tranquil.,
T as in Trans- () A prefix, signifying over, beyond, through and through, on the other side, as in transalpine, beyond the Alps; transform, to form through and through, that is, anew, transfigure.,
T as in Transacted (imp. & p. p.) of Transact,
T as in Transacting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Transact,
T as in Transact (v. t.) To carry through; to do; perform; to manage; as, to transact commercial business; to transact business by an agent.,
T as in Transact (v. i.) To conduct matters; to manage affairs.,
T as in Transaction (n.) The doing or performing of any business; management of any affair; performance.,
T as in Transaction (n.) That which is done; an affair; as, the transactions on the exchange.,
T as in Transaction (n.) An adjustment of a dispute between parties by mutual agreement.,
T as in Transactor (n.) One who transacts, performs, or conducts any business.,
T as in Transalpine (a.) Being on the farther side of the Alps in regard to Rome, that is, on the north or west side of the Alps; of or pertaining to the region or the people beyond the Alps; as, transalpine Gaul; -- opposed to cisalpine.,
T as in Transalpine (n.) A native or inhabitant of a country beyond the Alps, that is, out of Italy.,
T as in Transanimated (imp. & p. p.) of Transanimate,
T as in Transanimating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Transanimate,
T as in Transanimate (v. t.) To animate with a soul conveyed from another body.,
T as in Transanimation (n.) The conveyance of a soul from one body to another.,
T as in Transatlantic (a.) Lying or being beyond the Atlantic Ocean.,
T as in Transatlantic (a.) Crossing the Atlantic Ocean.,
T as in Transaudient (a.) Permitting the passage of sound.,
T as in Transcalency (n.) The quality or state of being transcalent.,
T as in Transcalent (a.) Pervious to, or permitting the passage of, heat.,
T as in Transcended (imp. & p. p.) of Transcend,
T as in Transcending (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Transcend,
T as in Transcend (v. t.) To rise above; to surmount; as, lights in the heavens transcending the region of the clouds.,
T as in Transcend (v. t.) To pass over; to go beyond; to exceed.,
T as in Transcend (v. t.) To surpass; to outgo; to excel; to exceed.,
T as in Transcend (v. i.) To climb; to mount.,
T as in Transcend (v. i.) To be transcendent; to excel.,
T as in Transcendence () Alt. of Transcendency,
T as in Transcendency () The quality or state of being transcendent; superior excellence; supereminence.,
T as in Transcendency () Elevation above truth; exaggeration.,
T as in Transcendent (a.) Very excellent; superior or supreme in excellence; surpassing others; as, transcendent worth; transcendent valor.,
T as in Transcendent (a.) Transcending, or reaching beyond, the limits of human knowledge; -- applied to affirmations and speculations concerning what lies beyond the reach of the human intellect.,
T as in Trancscendent (n.) That which surpasses or is supereminent; that which is very excellent.,
T as in Trancscendental (a.) Supereminent; surpassing others; as, transcendental being or qualities.,
T as in Trancscendental (a.) In the Kantian system, of or pertaining to that which can be determined a priori in regard to the fundamental principles of all human knowledge. What is transcendental, therefore, transcends empiricism; but is does not transcend all human knowledge, or become transcendent. It simply signifies the a priori or necessary conditions of experience which, though affording the conditions of experience, transcend the sphere of that contingent knowledge which is acquired by experience.,
T as in Trancscendental (a.) Vaguely and ambitiously extravagant in speculation, imagery, or diction.,
T as in Transcendental (n.) A transcendentalist.,
T as in Transcendentalism (n.) The transcending, or going beyond, empiricism, and ascertaining a priori the fundamental principles of human knowledge.,
T as in Transcendentalism (n.) Ambitious and imaginative vagueness in thought, imagery, or diction.,
T as in Transcendentalist (n.) One who believes in transcendentalism.,
T as in Transcendentality (n.) The quality or state of being transcendental.,
T as in Transcendentally (adv.) In a transcendental manner.,
T as in Transcendently (adv.) In a transcendent manner.,
T as in Transcendentness (n.) Same as Transcendence.,
T as in Transcension (n.) The act of transcending, or surpassing; also, passage over.,
T as in Transcolated (imp. & p. p.) of Transcolate,
T as in Transcolating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Transcolate,
T as in Transcolate (v. t.) To cause to pass through a sieve or colander; to strain, as through a sieve.,
T as in Transcolation (n.) Act of transcolating, or state of being transcolated.,
T as in Transcontinental (a.) Extending or going across a continent; as, a transcontinental railroad or journey.,
T as in Transcorporate (v. i.) To transmigrate.,
T as in Transcribbler (n.) A transcriber; -- used in contempt.,
T as in Transcribed (imp. & p. p.) of Transcribe,
T as in Transcribing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Transcribe,
T as in Transcribe (v. t.) To write over again, or in the same words; to copy; as, to transcribe Livy or Tacitus; to transcribe a letter.,
T as in Transcriber (n.) One who transcribes, or writes from a copy; a copier; a copyist.,
T as in Transcript (n.) That which has been transcribed; a writing or composition consisting of the same words as the original; a written copy.,
T as in Transcript (n.) A copy of any kind; an imitation.,
T as in Transcript (n.) A written version of what was said orally; as, a transcript of a trial.,
T as in Transcription (n.) The act or process of transcribing, or copying; as, corruptions creep into books by repeated transcriptions.,
T as in Transcription (n.) A copy; a transcript.,
T as in Transcription (n.) An arrangement of a composition for some other instrument or voice than that for which it was originally written, as the translating of a song, a vocal or instrumental quartet, or even an orchestral work, into a piece for the piano; an adaptation; an arrangement; -- a name applied by modern composers for the piano to a more or less fanciful and ornate reproduction on their own instrument of a song or other piece not originally intended for it; as, Liszt's transcriptions of songs by Schubert.,
T as in Transcriptive (a.) Done as from a copy; having the style or appearance of a transcription.,
T as in Transcur (v. i.) To run or rove to and fro.,
T as in Transcurrence (n.) A roving hither and thither.,
T as in Transcursion (n.) A rambling or ramble; a passage over bounds; an excursion.,
T as in Transdialect (v. t.) To change or translate from one dialect into another.,
T as in Transduction (n.) The act of conveying over.,
T as in Transe (n.) See Trance.,
T as in Transelement (v. t.) Alt. of Transelementate,
T as in Transelementate (v. t.) To change or transpose the elements of; to transubstantiate.,
T as in Transelementation (n.) Transubstantiation.,
T as in Transenne (n.) A transom.,
T as in Transept (n.) The transversal part of a church, which crosses at right angles to the greatest length, and between the nave and choir. In the basilicas, this had often no projection at its two ends. In Gothic churches these project these project greatly, and should be called the arms of the transept. It is common, however, to speak of the arms themselves as the transepts.,
T as in Transexion (n.) Change of sex.,
T as in Transfeminate (v. t.) To change into a woman, as a man.,
T as in Transferred (imp. & p. p.) of Transfer,
T as in Transferring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Transfer,
T as in Transfer (v. t.) To convey from one place or person another; to transport, remove, or cause to pass, to another place or person; as, to transfer the laws of one country to another; to transfer suspicion.,
T as in Transfer (v. t.) To make over the possession or control of; to pass; to convey, as a right, from one person to another; to give; as, the title to land is transferred by deed.,
T as in Transfer (v. t.) To remove from one substance or surface to another; as, to transfer drawings or engravings to a lithographic stone.,
T as in Transfer (n.) The act of transferring, or the state of being transferred; the removal or conveyance of a thing from one place or person to another.,
T as in Transfer (n.) The conveyance of right, title, or property, either real or personal, from one person to another, whether by sale, by gift, or otherwise.,
T as in Transfer (n.) That which is transferred.,
T as in Transfer (n.) A picture, or the like, removed from one body or ground to another, as from wood to canvas, or from one piece of canvas to another.,
T as in Transfer (n.) A drawing or writing printed off from one surface on another, as in ceramics and in many decorative arts.,
T as in Transfer (n.) A soldier removed from one troop, or body of troops, and placed in another.,
T as in Transfer (n.) A pathological process by virtue of which a unilateral morbid condition on being abolished on one side of the body makes its appearance in the corresponding region upon the other side.,
T as in Transferability (n.) The quality or state of being transferable.,
T as in Transferable (a.) Capable of being transferred or conveyed from one place or person to another.,
T as in Transferable (a.) Negotiable, as a note, bill of exchange, or other evidence of property, that may be conveyed from one person to another by indorsement or other writing; capable of being transferred with no loss of value; as, the stocks of most public companies are transferable; some tickets are not transferable.,
T as in Transferee (n.) The person to whom a transfer in made.,
T as in Transference (n.) The act of transferring; conveyance; passage; transfer.,
T as in Transferography (n.) The act or process of copying inscriptions, or the like, by making transfers.,
T as in Transferrence (n.) See Transference.,
T as in Transferrer (n.) One who makes a transfer or conveyance.,
T as in Transferrible (a.) Capable of being transferred; transferable.,
T as in Transfigurate (v. t.) To transfigure; to transform.,
T as in Transfiguratien (n.) A change of form or appearance; especially, the supernatural change in the personal appearance of our Savior on the mount.,
T as in Transfiguratien (n.) A feast held by some branches of the Christian church on the 6th of August, in commemoration of the miraculous change above mentioned.,
T as in Transfigured (imp. & p. p.) of Transfigure,
T as in Transfiguring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Transfigure,
T as in Transfigure (v. t.) To change the outward form or appearance of; to metamorphose; to transform.,
T as in Transfigure (v. t.) Especially, to change to something exalted and glorious; to give an ideal form to.,
T as in Transfixed (imp. & p. p.) of Transfix,
T as in Transfixing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Transfix,
T as in Transfix (v. t.) To pierce through, as with a pointed weapon; to impale; as, to transfix one with a dart.,
T as in Transfixion (n.) The act of transfixing, or the state of being transfixed, or pierced.,
T as in Transfluent (a.) Flowing or running across or through; as, a transfluent stream.,
T as in Transfluent (a.) Passing or flowing through a bridge; -- said of water.,
T as in Transflux (n.) A flowing through, across, or beyond.,
T as in Transforate (v. t.) To bore through; to perforate.,
T as in Transformed (imp. & p. p.) of Transform,
T as in Transforming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Transform,
T as in Transform (v. t.) To change the form of; to change in shape or appearance; to metamorphose; as, a caterpillar is ultimately transformed into a butterfly.,
T as in Transform (v. t.) To change into another substance; to transmute; as, the alchemists sought to transform lead into gold.,
T as in Transform (v. t.) To change in nature, disposition, heart, character, or the like; to convert.,
T as in Transform (v. t.) To change, as an algebraic expression or geometrical figure, into another from without altering its value.,
T as in Transform (v. i.) To be changed in form; to be metamorphosed.,
T as in Transformable (a.) Capable of being transformed or changed.,
T as in Transformation (n.) The act of transforming, or the state of being transformed; change of form or condition.,
T as in Transformation (n.) Any change in an organism which alters its general character and mode of life, as in the development of the germ into the embryo, the egg into the animal, the larva into the insect (metamorphosis), etc.; also, the change which the histological units of a tissue are prone to undergo. See Metamorphosis.,
T as in Transformation (n.) Change of one from of material into another, as in assimilation; metabolism; metamorphosis.,
T as in Transformation (n.) The imagined possible or actual change of one metal into another; transmutation.,
T as in Transformation (n.) A change in disposition, heart, character, or the like; conversion.,
T as in Transformation (n.) The change, as of an equation or quantity, into another form without altering the value.,
T as in Transformative (a.) Having power, or a tendency, to transform.,
T as in Transformer (n.) One who, or that which, transforms. Specif. (Elec.), an apparatus for producing from a given electrical current another current of different voltage.,
T as in Transformism (n.) The hypothesis, or doctrine, that living beings have originated by the modification of some other previously existing forms of living matter; -- opposed to abiogenesis.,
T as in Transfreight (v. i.) To transfrete.,
T as in Transfretation (n.) The act of passing over a strait or narrow sea.,
T as in Transfrete (v. i.) To pass over a strait or narrow sea.,
T as in Transfuge (n.) Alt. of Transfugitive,
T as in Transfugitive (n.) One who flees from one side to another; hence, a deserter; a turncoat; an apostate.,
T as in Transfund (v. t.) To pour from one vessel into another; to transfuse.,
T as in Transfused (imp. & p. p.) of Transfuse,
T as in Transfusing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Transfuse,
T as in Transfuse (v. t.) To pour, as liquid, out of one vessel into another; to transfer by pouring.,
T as in Transfuse (v. t.) To transfer, as blood, from the veins or arteries of one man or animal to those of another.,
T as in Transfuse (v. t.) To cause to pass from to another; to cause to be instilled or imbibed; as, to transfuse a spirit of patriotism into a man; to transfuse a love of letters.,
T as in Transfusible (a.) Capable of being transfused; transferable by transfusion.,
T as in Transfusion (n.) The act of transfusing, or pouring, as liquor, out of one vessel into another.,
T as in Transfusion (n.) The act or operation of transferring the blood of one man or animal into the vascular system of another; also, the introduction of any fluid into the blood vessels, or into a cavity of the body from which it can readily be adsorbed into the vessels; intrafusion; as, the peritoneal transfusion of milk.,
T as in Transfusive (a.) Tending to transfuse; having power to transfuse.,
T as in Transgressed (imp. & p. p.) of Transgress,
T as in Transgressing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Transgress,
T as in Transgress (v. t.) To pass over or beyond; to surpass.,
T as in Transgress (v. t.) Hence, to overpass, as any prescribed as the /imit of duty; to break or violate, as a law, civil or moral.,
T as in Transgress (v. t.) To offend against; to vex.,
T as in Transgress (v. i.) To offend against the law; to sin.,
T as in Transgression (n.) The act of transgressing, or of passing over or beyond any law, civil or moral; the violation of a law or known principle of rectitude; breach of command; fault; offense; crime; sin.,
T as in Transgressional (a.) Of pertaining to transgression; involving a transgression.,
T as in Transgressive (a.) Disposed or tending to transgress; faulty; culpable. -,
T as in Transgressor (n.) One who transgresses; one who breaks a law, or violates a command; one who violates any known rule or principle of rectitude; a sinner.,
T as in Transhape (v. t.) To transshape.,
T as in Tranship (v. t.) Same as Transship.,
T as in Transhipment (n.) Same as Transshipment.,
T as in Transhuman (a.) More than human; superhuman.,
T as in Transhumanize (v. t.) To make more than human; to purity; to elevate above humanity.,
T as in Transience (n.) Alt. of Transiency,
T as in Transiency (n.) The quality of being transient; transientness.,
T as in Transient (a.) Passing before the sight or perception, or, as it were, moving over or across a space or scene viewed, and then disappearing; hence, of short duration; not permanent; not lasting or durable; not stationary; passing; fleeting; brief; transitory; as, transient pleasure.,
T as in Transient (a.) Hasty; momentary; imperfect; brief; as, a transient view of a landscape.,
T as in Transient (a.) Staying for a short time; not regular or permanent; as, a transient guest; transient boarders.,
T as in Transient (n.) That which remains but for a brief time.,
T as in Transilience (n.) Alt. of Transiliency,
T as in Transiliency (n.) A leap across or from one thing to another.,
T as in Transire (n.) A customhouse clearance for a coasting vessel; a permit.,
T as in Transit (n.) The act of passing; passage through or over.,
T as in Transit (n.) The act or process of causing to pass; conveyance; as, the transit of goods through a country.,
T as in Transit (n.) A line or route of passage or conveyance; as, the Nicaragua transit.,
T as in Transit (n.) The passage of a heavenly body over the meridian of a place, or through the field of a telescope.,
T as in Transit (n.) The passage of a smaller body across the disk of a larger, as of Venus across the sun's disk, or of a satellite or its shadow across the disk of its primary.,
T as in Transit (n.) An instrument resembling a theodolite, used by surveyors and engineers; -- called also transit compass, and surveyor's transit.,
T as in Transit (v. t.) To pass over the disk of (a heavenly body).,
T as in Transition (n.) Passage from one place or state to another; charge; as, the transition of the weather from hot to cold.,
T as in Transition (n.) A direct or indirect passing from one key to another; a modulation.,
T as in Transition (n.) A passing from one subject to another.,
T as in Transition (n.) Change from one form to another.,
T as in Transitional (a.) Of or pertaining to transition; involving or denoting transition; as, transitional changes; transitional stage.,
T as in Transitionary (a.) Transitional.,
T as in Transitive (a.) Having the power of making a transit, or passage.,
T as in Transitive (a.) Effected by transference of signification.,
T as in Transitive (a.) Passing over to an object; expressing an action which is not limited to the agent or subject, but which requires an object to complete the sense; as, a transitive verb, for example, he holds the book.,
T as in Transitorily (adv.) In a transitory manner; with brief continuance.,
T as in Transitoriness (n.) The quality or state of being transitory; speedy passage or departure.,
T as in Transitory (a.) Continuing only for a short time; not enduring; fleeting; evanescent.,
T as in Translatable (a.) Capable of being translated, or rendered into another language.,
T as in Translated (imp. & p. p.) of Translate,
T as in Translating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Translate,
T as in Translate (v. t.) To bear, carry, or remove, from one place to another; to transfer; as, to translate a tree.,
T as in Translate (v. t.) To change to another condition, position, place, or office; to transfer; hence, to remove as by death.,
T as in Translate (v. t.) To remove to heaven without a natural death.,
T as in Translate (v. t.) To remove, as a bishop, from one see to another.,
T as in Translate (v. t.) To render into another language; to express the sense of in the words of another language; to interpret; hence, to explain or recapitulate in other words.,
T as in Translate (v. t.) To change into another form; to transform.,
T as in Translate (v. t.) To cause to remove from one part of the body to another; as, to translate a disease.,
T as in Translate (v. t.) To cause to lose senses or recollection; to entrance.,
T as in Translate (v. i.) To make a translation; to be engaged in translation.,
T as in Translation (n.) The act of translating, removing, or transferring; removal; also, the state of being translated or removed; as, the translation of Enoch; the translation of a bishop.,
T as in Translation (n.) The act of rendering into another language; interpretation; as, the translation of idioms is difficult.,
T as in Translation (n.) That which is obtained by translating something a version; as, a translation of the Scriptures.,
T as in Translation (n.) A transfer of meaning in a word or phrase, a metaphor; a tralation.,
T as in Translation (n.) Transfer of meaning by association; association of ideas.,
T as in Translation (n.) Motion in which all the points of the moving body have at any instant the same velocity and direction of motion; -- opposed to rotation.,
T as in Translatitious (a.) Metaphorical; tralatitious; also, foreign; exotic.,
T as in Translative (a.) tropical; figurative; as, a translative sense.,
T as in Translator (n.) One who translates; esp., one who renders into another language; one who expresses the sense of words in one language by equivalent words in another.,
T as in Translator (n.) A repeating instrument.,
T as in Translatorship (n.) The office or dignity of a translator.,
T as in Translatory (a.) Serving to translate; transferring.,
T as in Translatress (n.) A woman who translates.,
T as in Translavation (n.) A laving or lading from one vessel to another.,
T as in Transliterate (v. t.) To express or represent in the characters of another alphabet; as, to transliterate Sanskrit words by means of English letters.,
T as in Transliteration (n.) The act or product of transliterating, or of expressing words of a language by means of the characters of another alphabet.,
T as in Translocation (n.) removal of things from one place to another; substitution of one thing for another.,
T as in Translucence (n.) Alt. of Translucency,
T as in Translucency (n.) The quality or state of being translucent; clearness; partial transparency.,
T as in Translucent (a.) Transmitting rays of light without permitting objects to be distinctly seen; partially transparent.,
T as in Translucent (a.) Transparent; clear.,
T as in Translucently (adv.) In a translucent manner.,
T as in Translucid (a.) Translucent.,
T as in Translunary (a.) Being or lying beyond the moon; hence, ethereal; -- opposed to sublunary.,
T as in Transmarine (a.) Lying or being beyond the sea.,
T as in Transmeable (a.) Alt. of Transmeatable,
T as in Transmeatable (a.) Capable of being passed over or traversed; passable.,
T as in Transmeate (v. t.) To pass over or beyond.,
T as in Transmeation (n.) The act of transmeating; a passing through or beyond.,
T as in Transmew (v. t. & i.) To transmute; to transform; to metamorphose.,
T as in Transmigrant (a.) Migrating or passing from one place or state to another; passing from one residence to another.,
T as in Transmigrant (n.) One who transmigrates.,
T as in Transmigrated (imp. & p. p.) of Transmigrate,
T as in Transmigrating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Transmigrate,
T as in Transmigrate (v. i.) To pass from one country or jurisdiction to another for the purpose of residence, as men or families; to migrate.,
T as in Transmigrate (v. i.) To pass from one body or condition into another.,
T as in Transmigration (n.) The act of passing from one country to another; migration.,
T as in Transmigration (n.) The passing of the soul at death into another mortal body; metempsychosis.,
T as in Transmigrator (n.) One who transmigrates.,
T as in Transmigratory (a.) Passing from one body or state to another.,
T as in Transmissibility (n.) The quality of being transmissible.,
T as in Transmissible (a.) Capable of being transmitted from one to another; capable of being passed through any body or substance.,
T as in Transmission (n.) The act of transmitting, or the state of being transmitted; as, the transmission of letters, writings, papers, news, and the like, from one country to another; the transmission of rights, titles, or privileges, from father to son, or from one generation to another.,
T as in Transmission (n.) The right possessed by an heir or legatee of transmitting to his successor or successors any inheritance, legacy, right, or privilege, to which he is entitled, even if he should die without enjoying or exercising it.,
T as in Transmissive (a.) Capable of being transmitted; derived, or handed down, from one to another.,
T as in Transmitted (imp. & p. p.) of Transmit,
T as in Transmitting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Transmit,
T as in Transmit (v. t.) To cause to pass over or through; to communicate by sending; to send from one person or place to another; to pass on or down as by inheritance; as, to transmit a memorial; to transmit dispatches; to transmit money, or bills of exchange, from one country to another.,
T as in Transmit (v. t.) To suffer to pass through; as, glass transmits light; metals transmit, or conduct, electricity.,
T as in Transmittal (n.) Transmission.,
T as in Transmittance (n.) Transmission.,
T as in Transmitter (n.) One who, or that which, transmits; specifically, that portion of a telegraphic or telephonic instrument by means of which a message is sent; -- opposed to receiver.,
T as in Transmittible (a.) Capable of being transmitted; transmissible.,
T as in Transmogrification (n.) The act of transmogrifying, or the state of being transmogrified; transformation.,
T as in Transmogrify (v. t.) To change into a different shape; to transform.,
T as in Transmove (v. t.) To move or change from one state into another; to transform.,
T as in Transmutability (n.) The quality of being transmutable.,
T as in Transmutable (a.) Capable of being transmuted or changed into a different substance, or into into something of a different form a nature; transformable.,
T as in Transmutation (n.) The act of transmuting, or the state of being transmuted; as, the transmutation of metals.,
T as in Transmutation (n.) The change or reduction of one figure or body into another of the same area or solidity, but of a different form, as of a triangle into a square.,
T as in Transmutation (n.) The change of one species into another, which is assumed to take place in any development theory of life; transformism.,
T as in Transmutationist (n.) One who believes in the transmutation of metals or of species.,
T as in Transmuted (imp. & p. p.) of Transmute,
T as in Transmuting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Transmute,
T as in Transmute (v. t.) To change from one nature, form, or substance, into another; to transform.,
T as in Transmuter (n.) One who transmutes.,
T as in Transmutual (a.) Reciprocal; commutual.,
T as in Transnatation (n.) The act of swimming across, as a river.,
T as in Transnature (v. t.) To transfer or transform the nature of.,
T as in Transom (n.) A horizontal crossbar in a window, over a door, or between a door and a window above it. Transom is the horizontal, as mullion is the vertical, bar across an opening. See Illust. of Mullion.,
T as in Transom (n.) One of the principal transverse timbers of the stern, bolted to the sternpost and giving shape to the stern structure; -- called also transsummer.,
T as in Transom (n.) The piece of wood or iron connecting the cheeks of some gun carriages.,
T as in Transom (n.) The vane of a cross-staff.,
T as in Transom (n.) One of the crossbeams connecting the side frames of a truck with each other.,
T as in Transpadane (a.) Lying or being on the further side of the river Po with reference to Rome, that is, on the north side; -- opposed to cispadane.,
T as in Transpalatine (a.) Situated beyond or outside the palatine bone; -- said of a bone in the skull of some reptiles.,
T as in Transpare (v. t. & i.) To be, or cause to be, transparent; to appear, or cause to appear, or be seen, through something.,
T as in Transparence (n.) The quality or state of being transparent; transparency.,
T as in Transparencies (pl. ) of Transparency,
T as in Transparency (n.) The quality or condition of being transparent; transparence.,
T as in Transparency (n.) That which is transparent; especially, a picture painted on thin cloth or glass, or impressed on porcelain, or the like, to be viewed by natural or artificial light, which shines through it.,
T as in Transparent (a.) Having the property of transmitting rays of light, so that bodies can be distinctly seen through; pervious to light; diaphanous; pellucid; as, transparent glass; a transparent diamond; -- opposed to opaque.,
T as in Transparent (a.) Admitting the passage of light; open; porous; as, a transparent veil.,
T as in Transpass (v. t.) To pass over; as, Alexander transpassed the river.,
T as in Transpass (v. i.) To pass by; to pass away.,
T as in Transpassable (a.) Capable of being transpassed, or crossed over.,
T as in Transpatronize (v. t.) To transfer the patronage of.,
T as in Transpeciate (v. t.) To change from one species to another; to transform.,
T as in Transpicuous (a.) Transparent; pervious to the sight.,
T as in Transpierced (imp. & p. p.) of Transpierce,
T as in Transpiercing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Transpierce,
T as in Transpierce (v. t.) To pierce through; to penetrate; to permeate; to pass through.,
T as in Transpirable (a.) Capable of being transpired, or of transpiring.,
T as in Transpiration (n.) The act or process of transpiring or excreting in the form of vapor; exhalation, as through the skin or other membranes of the body; as, pulmonary transpiration, or the excretion of aqueous vapor from the lungs. Perspiration is a form of transpiration.,
T as in Transpiration (n.) The evaporation of water, or exhalation of aqueous vapor, from cells and masses of tissue.,
T as in Transpiration (n.) The passing of gases through fine tubes, porous substances, or the like; as, transpiration through membranes.,
T as in Transpiratory (a.) Of or relating to transpiration.,
T as in Transpired (imp. & p. p.) of Transpire,
T as in Transpiring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Transpire,
T as in Transpire (v. i.) To pass off in the form of vapor or insensible perspiration; to exhale.,
T as in Transpire (v. i.) To evaporate from living cells.,
T as in Transpire (v. i.) To escape from secrecy; to become public; as, the proceedings of the council soon transpired.,
T as in Transpire (v. i.) To happen or come to pass; to occur.,
T as in Transpire (v. t.) To excrete through the skin; to give off in the form of vapor; to exhale; to perspire.,
T as in Transpire (v. t.) To evaporate (moisture) from living cells.,
T as in Transplaced (imp. & p. p.) of Transplace,
T as in Transplacing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Transplace,
T as in Transplace (v. t.) To remove across some space; to put in an opposite or another place.,
T as in Transplanted (imp. & p. p.) of Transplant,
T as in Transplanting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Transplant,
T as in Transplant (v. t.) To remove, and plant in another place; as, to transplant trees.,
T as in Transplant (v. t.) To remove, and settle or establish for residence in another place; as, to transplant inhabitants.,
T as in Transplantation (n.) The act of transplanting, or the state of being transplanted; also, removal.,
T as in Transplantation (n.) The removal of tissues from a healthy part, and the insertion of them in another place where there is a lesion; as, the transplantation of tissues in autoplasty.,
T as in Transplantation (n.) The removal of a bodily organ or of tissues from one person, and the insertion of them into another person to replace a damaged organ or tissue; as, the transplantation of a heart, kidney, or liver.,
T as in Transplanter (n.) One who transplants; also, a machine for transplanting trees.,
T as in Transplendency (n.) Quality or state of being transplendent.,
T as in Transplendent (a.) Resplendent in the highest degree.,
T as in Transported (imp. & p. p.) of Transport,
T as in Transporting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Transport,
T as in Transport (v. t.) To carry or bear from one place to another; to remove; to convey; as, to transport goods; to transport troops.,
T as in Transport (v. t.) To carry, or cause to be carried, into banishment, as a criminal; to banish.,
T as in Transport (v. t.) To carry away with vehement emotion, as joy, sorrow, complacency, anger, etc.; to ravish with pleasure or ecstasy; as, music transports the soul.,
T as in Transport (v.) Transportation; carriage; conveyance.,
T as in Transport (v.) A vessel employed for transporting, especially for carrying soldiers, warlike stores, or provisions, from one place to another, or to convey convicts to their destination; -- called also transport ship, transport vessel.,
T as in Transport (v.) Vehement emotion; passion; ecstasy; rapture.,
T as in Transport (v.) A convict transported, or sentenced to exile.,
T as in Transportability (n.) The quality or state of being transportable.,
T as in Transportable (a.) Capable of being transported.,
T as in Transportable (a.) Incurring, or subject to, the punishment of transportation; as, a transportable offense.,
T as in Transportal (n.) Transportation; the act of removing from one locality to another.,
T as in Transportance (n.) Transportation.,
T as in Transportant (a.) Transporting; /avishing; as, transportant love.,
T as in Transportation (n.) The act of transporting, or the state of being transported; carriage from one place to another; removal; conveyance.,
T as in Transportation (n.) Transport; ecstasy.,
T as in Transported (a.) Conveyed from one place to another; figuratively, carried away with passion or pleasure; entranced.,
T as in Transporter (n.) One who transports.,
T as in Transporting (a.) That transports; fig., ravishing.,
T as in Transportingly (adv.) So as to transport.,
T as in Transportment (n.) The act of transporting, or the state of being transported; transportation.,
T as in Transposable (a.) That may transposed; as, a transposable phrase.,
T as in Transposal (n.) The act of transposing, or the state of being transposed; transposition.,
T as in Transposed (imp. & p. p.) of Transpose,
T as in Transposing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Transpose,
T as in Transpose (v. t.) To change the place or order of; to substitute one for the other of; to exchange, in respect of position; as, to transpose letters, words, or propositions.,
T as in Transpose (v. t.) To change; to transform; to invert.,
T as in Transpose (v. t.) To bring, as any term of an equation, from one side over to the other, without destroying the equation; thus, if a + b = c, and we make a = c - b, then b is said to be transposed.,
T as in Transpose (v. t.) To change the natural order of, as words.,
T as in Transpose (v. t.) To change the key of.,
T as in Transposer (n.) One who transposes.,
T as in Transposition (n.) The act of transposing, or the state of being transposed.,
T as in Transposition (n.) The bringing of any term of an equation from one side over to the other without destroying the equation.,
T as in Transposition (n.) A change of the natural order of words in a sentence; as, the Latin and Greek languages admit transposition, without inconvenience, to a much greater extent than the English.,
T as in Transposition (n.) A change of a composition into another key.,
T as in Transpositional (a.) Of or pertaining to transposition; involving transposition.,
T as in Transpositive (a.) Made by transposing; consisting in transposition; transposable.,
T as in Transprint (v. t.) To transfer to the wrong place in printing; to print out of place.,
T as in Transprose (v. t.) To change from prose into verse; to versify; also, to change from verse into prose.,
T as in Transregionate (a.) Foreign.,
T as in Transshaped (imp. & p. p.) of Transshape,
T as in Transshaping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Transshape,
T as in Transshape (v. t.) To change into another shape or form; to transform.,
T as in Transship (v. t.) To transfer from one ship or conveyance to another.,
T as in Transshipment (n.) The act of transshipping, or transferring, as goods, from one ship or conveyance to another.,
T as in Transubstantiate (v. t.) To change into another substance.,
T as in Transubstantiate (v. t.) To change, as the sacramental elements, bread and wine, into the flesh and blood of Christ.,
T as in Transubstantiation (n.) A change into another substance.,
T as in Transubstantiation (n.) The doctrine held by Roman Catholics, that the bread and wine in the Mass is converted into the body and blood of Christ; -- distinguished from consubstantiation, and impanation.,
T as in Transubstantiator (n.) One who maintains the doctrine of transubstantiation.,
T as in Transudation (n.) The act or process of transuding.,
T as in Transudation (n.) Same as Exosmose.,
T as in Transudatory (a.) Of or pertaining to transudation; passing by transudation.,
T as in Transuded (imp. & p. p.) of Transude,
T as in Transuding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Transude,
T as in Transude (v. i.) To pass, as perspirable matter does, through the pores or interstices of textures; as, liquor may transude through leather or wood.,
T as in Transume (v. t.) To change; to convert.,
T as in Transsummer (n.) See Transom, 2.,
T as in Transumpt (n.) A copy or exemplification of a record.,
T as in Transumption (n.) Act of taking from one place to another.,
T as in Transumptive (a.) Taking from one to another; metaphorical.,
T as in Transvasate (v. t.) To pour out of one vessel into another.,
T as in Transvasation (n.) The act or process of pouring out of one vessel into another.,
T as in Transvection (n.) The act of conveying or carrying over.,
T as in Transverberate (v. t.) To beat or strike through.,
T as in Transversal (a.) Running or lying across; transverse; as, a transversal line.,
T as in Transversal (n.) A straight line which traverses or intersects any system of other lines, as a line intersecting the three sides of a triangle or the sides produced.,
T as in Transverse (a.) Lying or being across, or in a crosswise direction; athwart; -- often opposed to longitudinal.,
T as in Transverse (n.) Anything that is transverse or athwart.,
T as in Transverse (n.) The longer, or transverse, axis of an ellipse.,
T as in Transversed (imp. & p. p.) of Transverse,
T as in Transversing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Transverse,
T as in Transverse (v. t.) To overturn; to change.,
T as in Transverse (v. t.) To change from prose into verse, or from verse into prose.,
T as in Transversely (adv.) In a transverse manner.,
T as in Transversion (n.) The act of changing from prose into verse, or from verse into prose.,
T as in Transvert (v. t.) To cause to turn across; to transverse.,
T as in Transvertible (a.) Capable of being transverted.,
T as in Transvolation (n.) The act of flying beyond or across.,
T as in Trant (v. i.) To traffic in an itinerary manner; to peddle.,
T as in Tranter (n.) One who trants; a peddler; a carrier.,
T as in Trapped (imp. & p. p.) of Trap,
T as in Trapping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Trap,
T as in Trap (v. t.) To dress with ornaments; to adorn; -- said especially of horses.,
T as in Trap (n.) An old term rather loosely used to designate various dark-colored, heavy igneous rocks, including especially the feldspathic-augitic rocks, basalt, dolerite, amygdaloid, etc., but including also some kinds of diorite. Called also trap rock.,
T as in Trap (a.) Of or pertaining to trap rock; as, a trap dike.,
T as in Trap (n.) A machine or contrivance that shuts suddenly, as with a spring, used for taking game or other animals; as, a trap for foxes.,
T as in Trap (n.) Fig.: A snare; an ambush; a stratagem; any device by which one may be caught unawares.,
T as in Trap (n.) A wooden instrument shaped somewhat like a shoe, used in the game of trapball. It consists of a pivoted arm on one end of which is placed the ball to be thrown into the air by striking the other end. Also, a machine for throwing into the air glass balls, clay pigeons, etc., to be shot at.,
T as in Trap (n.) The game of trapball.,
T as in Trap (n.) A bend, sag, or partitioned chamber, in a drain, soil pipe, sewer, etc., arranged so that the liquid contents form a seal which prevents passage of air or gas, but permits the flow of liquids.,
T as in Trap (n.) A place in a water pipe, pump, etc., where air accumulates for want of an outlet.,
T as in Trap (n.) A wagon, or other vehicle.,
T as in Trap (n.) A kind of movable stepladder.,
T as in Trap (v. t.) To catch in a trap or traps; as, to trap foxes.,
T as in Trap (v. t.) Fig.: To insnare; to take by stratagem; to entrap.,
T as in Trap (v. t.) To provide with a trap; as, to trap a drain; to trap a sewer pipe. See 4th Trap, 5.,
T as in Trap (v. i.) To set traps for game; to make a business of trapping game; as, to trap for beaver.,
T as in Trapan (n.) A snare; a stratagem; a trepan. See 3d Trepan.,
T as in Trapanned (imp. & p. p.) of Trapan,
T as in Trapanning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Trapan,
T as in Trapan (v. t.) To insnare; to catch by stratagem; to entrap; to trepan.,
T as in Trapanner (n.) One who trapans, or insnares.,
T as in Trapball (n.) An old game of ball played with a trap. See 4th Trap, 4.,
T as in Trapdoor (n.) A lifting or sliding door covering an opening in a roof or floor.,
T as in Trapdoor (n.) A door in a level for regulating the ventilating current; -- called also weather door.,
T as in Trape (v. i.) To walk or run about in an idle or slatternly manner; to traipse.,
T as in Trapes (n.) A slattern; an idle, sluttish, or untidy woman.,
T as in Trapes (v. i.) To go about in an idle or slatternly fashion; to trape; to traipse.,
T as in Trapezate (a.) Having the form of a trapezium; trapeziform.,
T as in Trapeze (n.) A trapezium. See Trapezium, 1.,
T as in Trapeze (n.) A swinging horizontal bar, suspended at each end by a rope; -- used by gymnasts.,
T as in Trapeziform (a.) Having the form of a trapezium; trapezoid.,
T as in Trapeziums (pl. ) of Trapezium,
T as in Trapezia (pl. ) of Trapezium,
T as in Trapezium (n.) A plane figure bounded by four right lines, of which no two are parallel.,
T as in Trapezium (n.) A bone of the carpus at the base of the first metacarpal, or thumb.,
T as in Trapezium (n.) A region on the ventral side of the brain, either just back of the pons Varolii, or, as in man, covered by the posterior extension of its transverse fibers.,
T as in Trapezohedral (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a trapezohedron.,
T as in Trapezohedron (n.) A solid bounded by twenty-four equal and similar trapeziums; a tetragonal trisoctahedron. See the Note under Trisoctahedron.,
T as in Trapezohedron (n.) A tetartohedral solid of the hexagonal system, bounded by six trapezoidal planes. The faces of this form are common on quartz crystals.,
T as in Trapezoid (n.) A plane four-sided figure, having two sides parallel to each other.,
T as in Trapezoid (n.) A bone of the carpus at the base of the second metacarpal, or index finger.,
T as in Trapezoid (a.) Having the form of a trapezoid; trapezoidal; as, the trapezoid ligament which connects the coracoid process and the clavicle.,
T as in Trapezoid (a.) Of or pertaining to the trapezoid ligament; as, the trapezoid line.,
T as in Trapezoidal (a.) Having the form of a trapezoid; trapezoid.,
T as in Trapezoidal (a.) Trapezohedral.,
T as in Traphole (n.) See Trou-de-loup.,
T as in Trappean (a.) Of or pertaining to trap; being of the nature of trap.,
T as in Trapper (n.) One who traps animals; one who makes a business of trapping animals for their furs.,
T as in Trapper (n.) A boy who opens and shuts a trapdoor in a gallery or level.,
T as in Trappings (n. pl.) That which serves to trap or adorn; ornaments; dress; superficial decorations.,
T as in Trappings (n. pl.) Specifically, ornaments to be put on horses.,
T as in Trappist (n.) A monk belonging to a branch of the Cistercian Order, which was established by Armand de Rance in 1660 at the monastery of La Trappe in Normandy. Extreme austerity characterizes their discipline. They were introduced permanently into the United States in 1848, and have monasteries in Iowa and Kentucky.,
T as in Trappous (n.) Of or performance to trap; resembling trap, or partaking of its form or qualities; trappy.,
T as in Trappures (n. pl.) Trappings for a horse.,
T as in Trappy (a.) Same as Trappous.,
T as in Traps (n. pl.) Small or portable articles for dress, furniture, or use; goods; luggage; things.,
T as in Trapstick (n.) A stick used in playing the game of trapball; hence, fig., a slender leg.,
T as in Trash (n.) That which is worthless or useless; rubbish; refuse.,
T as in Trash (n.) Especially, loppings and leaves of trees, bruised sugar cane, or the like.,
T as in Trash (n.) A worthless person.,
T as in Trash (n.) A collar, leash, or halter used to restrain a dog in pursuing game.,
T as in Trashed (imp. & p. p.) of Trash,
T as in Trashing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Trash,
T as in Trash (v. t.) To free from trash, or worthless matter; hence, to lop; to crop, as to trash the rattoons of sugar cane.,
T as in Trash (v. t.) To treat as trash, or worthless matter; hence, to spurn, humiliate, or crush.,
T as in Trash (v. t.) To hold back by a trash or leash, as a dog in pursuing game; hence, to retard, encumber, or restrain; to clog; to hinder vexatiously.,
T as in Trash (v. i.) To follow with violence and trampling.,
T as in Trashily (adv.) In a trashy manner.,
T as in Trashiness (n.) The quality or state of being trashy.,
T as in Trashy (superl.) Like trash; containing much trash; waste; rejected; worthless; useless; as, a trashy novel.,
T as in Trass (n.) A white to gray volcanic tufa, formed of decomposed trachytic cinders; -- sometimes used as a cement. Hence, a coarse sort of plaster or mortar, durable in water, and used to line cisterns and other reservoirs of water.,
T as in Traulism (n.) A stammering or stuttering.,
T as in Traumatic (a.) Of or pertaining to wounds; applied to wounds.,
T as in Traumatic (a.) Adapted to the cure of wounds; vulnerary.,
T as in Traumatic (a.) Produced by wounds; as, traumatic tetanus.,
T as in Traumatic (n.) A traumatic medicine.,
T as in Traumatism (n.) A wound or injury directly produced by causes external to the body; also, violence producing a wound or injury; as, rupture of the stomach caused by traumatism.,
T as in Traunce (n. & v.) See Trance.,
T as in Traunt (v. i.) Same as Trant.,
T as in Traunter (n.) Same as Tranter.,
T as in Travail (n.) Labor with pain; severe toil or exertion.,
T as in Travail (n.) Parturition; labor; as, an easy travail.,
T as in Travailed (imp. & p. p.) of Travail,
T as in Travailing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Travail,
T as in Travail (n.) To labor with pain; to toil.,
T as in Travail (n.) To suffer the pangs of childbirth; to be in labor.,
T as in Travail (v. t.) To harass; to tire.,
T as in Travailous (a.) Causing travail; laborious.,
T as in Trave (n.) A crossbeam; a lay of joists.,
T as in Trave (n.) A wooden frame to confine an unruly horse or ox while shoeing.,
T as in Traveled (imp. & p. p.) of Travel,
T as in Travelled () of Travel,
T as in Traveling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Travel,
T as in Travelling () of Travel,
T as in Travel (v. i.) To labor; to travail.,
T as in Travel (v. i.) To go or march on foot; to walk; as, to travel over the city, or through the streets.,
T as in Travel (v. i.) To pass by riding, or in any manner, to a distant place, or to many places; to journey; as, a man travels for his health; he is traveling in California.,
T as in Travel (v. i.) To pass; to go; to move.,
T as in Travel (v. t.) To journey over; to traverse; as, to travel the continent.,
T as in Travel (v. t.) To force to journey.,
T as in Travel (n.) The act of traveling, or journeying from place to place; a journey.,
T as in Travel (n.) An account, by a traveler, of occurrences and observations during a journey; as, a book of travels; -- often used as the title of a book; as, Travels in Italy.,
T as in Travel (n.) The length of stroke of a reciprocating piece; as, the travel of a slide valve.,
T as in Travel (n.) Labor; parturition; travail.,
T as in Traveled (a.) Having made journeys; having gained knowledge or experience by traveling; hence, knowing; experienced.,
T as in Traveler (n.) One who travels; one who has traveled much.,
T as in Traveler (n.) A commercial agent who travels for the purpose of receiving orders for merchants, making collections, etc.,
T as in Traveler (n.) A traveling crane. See under Crane.,
T as in Traveler (n.) The metal loop which travels around the ring surrounding the bobbin, in a ring spinner.,
T as in Traveler (n.) An iron encircling a rope, bar, spar, or the like, and sliding thereon.,
T as in Travel-tainted (a.) Harassed; fatigued with travel.,
T as in Travers (a.) Across; athwart.,
T as in Traversable (a.) Capable of being traversed, or passed over; as, a traversable region.,
T as in Traversable (a.) Deniable; specifically (Law), liable to legal objection; as, a traversable presentment.,
T as in Traverse (a.) Lying across; being in a direction across something else; as, paths cut with traverse trenches.,
T as in Traverse (adv.) Athwart; across; crosswise.,
T as in Traverse (a.) Anything that traverses, or crosses.,
T as in Traverse (a.) Something that thwarts, crosses, or obstructs; a cross accident; as, he would have succeeded, had it not been for unlucky traverses not under his control.,
T as in Traverse (a.) A barrier, sliding door, movable screen, curtain, or the like.,
T as in Traverse (a.) A gallery or loft of communication from side to side of a church or other large building.,
T as in Traverse (a.) A work thrown up to intercept an enfilade, or reverse fire, along exposed passage, or line of work.,
T as in Traverse (a.) A formal denial of some matter of fact alleged by the opposite party in any stage of the pleadings. The technical words introducing a traverse are absque hoc, without this; that is, without this which follows.,
T as in Traverse (a.) The zigzag course or courses made by a ship in passing from one place to another; a compound course.,
T as in Traverse (a.) A line lying across a figure or other lines; a transversal.,
T as in Traverse (a.) A line surveyed across a plot of ground.,
T as in Traverse (a.) The turning of a gun so as to make it point in any desired direction.,
T as in Traverse (a.) A turning; a trick; a subterfuge.,
T as in Traversed (imp. & p. p.) of Traverse,
T as in Traversing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Traverse,
T as in Traverse (a.) To lay in a cross direction; to cross.,
T as in Traverse (a.) To cross by way of opposition; to thwart with obstacles; to obstruct; to bring to naught.,
T as in Traverse (a.) To wander over; to cross in traveling; as, to traverse the habitable globe.,
T as in Traverse (a.) To pass over and view; to survey carefully.,
T as in Traverse (a.) To turn to the one side or the other, in order to point in any direction; as, to traverse a cannon.,
T as in Traverse (a.) To plane in a direction across the grain of the wood; as, to traverse a board.,
T as in Traverse (a.) To deny formally, as what the opposite party has alleged. When the plaintiff or defendant advances new matter, he avers it to be true, and traverses what the other party has affirmed. To traverse an indictment or an office is to deny it.,
T as in Traverse (v. i.) To use the posture or motions of opposition or counteraction, as in fencing.,
T as in Traverse (v. i.) To turn, as on a pivot; to move round; to swivel; as, the needle of a compass traverses; if it does not traverse well, it is an unsafe guide.,
T as in Traverse (v. i.) To tread or move crosswise, as a horse that throws his croup to one side and his head to the other.,
T as in Traverser (n.) One who, or that which, traverses, or moves, as an index on a scale, and the like.,
T as in Traverser (n.) One who traverses, or denies.,
T as in Traverser (n.) A traverse table. See under Traverse, n.,
T as in Traversing (a.) Adjustable laterally; having a lateral motion, or a swinging motion; adapted for giving lateral motion.,
T as in Travertine (n.) A white concretionary form of calcium carbonate, usually hard and semicrystalline. It is deposited from the water of springs or streams holding lime in solution. Extensive deposits exist at Tivoli, near Rome.,
T as in Travesty (a.) Disguised by dress so as to be ridiculous; travestied; -- applied to a book or shorter composition.,
T as in Travesties (pl. ) of Travesty,
T as in Travesty (n.) A burlesque translation or imitation of a work.,
T as in Travestied (imp. & p. p.) of Travesty,
T as in Travesting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Travesty,
T as in Travesty (v. t.) To translate, imitate, or represent, so as to render ridiculous or ludicrous.,
T as in Trawl (v. t.) To take fish, or other marine animals, with a trawl.,
T as in Trawl (n.) A fishing line, often extending a mile or more, having many short lines bearing hooks attached to it. It is used for catching cod, halibut, etc.; a boulter.,
T as in Trawl (n.) A large bag net attached to a beam with iron frames at its ends, and dragged at the bottom of the sea, -- used in fishing, and in gathering forms of marine life from the sea bottom.,
T as in Trawlboat (n.) A boat used in fishing with trawls or trawlnets.,
T as in Trawler (n.) One who, or that which, trawls.,
T as in Trawler (n.) A fishing vessel which trails a net behind it.,
T as in Trawlermen (pl. ) of Trawlerman,
T as in Trawlerman (n.) A fisherman who used unlawful arts and engines to catch fish.,
T as in Trawlnet (n.) Same as Trawl, n., 2.,
T as in Trawlwarp (n.) A rope passing through a block, used in managing or dragging a trawlnet.,
T as in Tray (v. t.) To betray; to deceive.,
T as in Trays (pl. ) of Tray,
T as in Tray (n.) A small trough or wooden vessel, sometimes scooped out of a block of wood, for various domestic uses, as in making bread, chopping meat, etc.,
T as in Tray (n.) A flat, broad vessel on which dishes, glasses, etc., are carried; a waiter; a salver.,
T as in Tray (n.) A shallow box, generally without a top, often used within a chest, trunk, box, etc., as a removable receptacle for small or light articles.,
T as in Trayfuls (pl. ) of Trayful,
T as in Trayful (n.) As much as a tray will hold; enough to fill a tray.,
T as in Trays (n. pl.) See Trais.,
T as in Tray-trip (n.) An old game played with dice.,
T as in Treacher (n.) A traitor; a cheat.,
T as in Treacherous (a.) Like a traitor; involving treachery; violating allegiance or faith pledged; traitorous to the state or sovereign; perfidious in private life; betraying a trust; faithless.,
T as in Treachery (n.) Violation of allegiance or of faith and confidence; treasonable or perfidious conduct; perfidy; treason.,
T as in Treachetour (n.) Alt. of Treachour,
T as in Treachour (n.) A traitor.,
T as in Treacle (n.) A remedy against poison. See Theriac, 1.,
T as in Treacle (n.) A sovereign remedy; a cure.,
T as in Treacle (n.) Molasses; sometimes, specifically, the molasses which drains from the sugar-refining molds, and which is also called sugarhouse molasses.,
T as in Treacle (n.) A saccharine fluid, consisting of the inspissated juices or decoctions of certain vegetables, as the sap of the birch, sycamore, and the like.,
T as in Treacly (a.) Like, or composed of, treacle.,
T as in Trod (imp.) of Tread,
T as in Trodden (p. p.) of Tread,
T as in Trod () of Tread,
T as in Treading (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tread,
T as in Tread (v. i.) To set the foot; to step.,
T as in Tread (v. i.) To walk or go; especially, to walk with a stately or a cautious step.,
T as in Tread (v. i.) To copulate; said of birds, esp. the males.,
T as in Tread (v. t.) To step or walk on.,
T as in Tread (v. t.) To beat or press with the feet; as, to tread a path; to tread land when too light; a well-trodden path.,
T as in Tread (v. t.) To go through or accomplish by walking, dancing, or the like.,
T as in Tread (v. t.) To crush under the foot; to trample in contempt or hatred; to subdue.,
T as in Tread (v. t.) To copulate with; to feather; to cover; -- said of the male bird.,
T as in Tread (n.) A step or stepping; pressure with the foot; a footstep; as, a nimble tread; a cautious tread.,
T as in Tread (n.) Manner or style of stepping; action; gait; as, the horse has a good tread.,
T as in Tread (n.) Way; track; path.,
T as in Tread (n.) The act of copulation in birds.,
T as in Tread (n.) The upper horizontal part of a step, on which the foot is placed.,
T as in Tread (n.) The top of the banquette, on which soldiers stand to fire over the parapet.,
T as in Tread (n.) The part of a wheel that bears upon the road or rail.,
T as in Tread (n.) The part of a rail upon which car wheels bear.,
T as in Tread (n.) The chalaza of a bird's egg; the treadle.,
T as in Tread (n.) A bruise or abrasion produced on the foot or ankle of a horse that interferes. See Interfere, 3.,
T as in Treadboard (n.) See Tread, n., 5.,
T as in Treader (n.) One who treads.,
T as in Treadfowl (n.) A cock.,
T as in Treadle (n.) The part of a foot lathe, or other machine, which is pressed or moved by the foot.,
T as in Treadle (n.) The chalaza of a bird's egg; the tread.,
T as in Treadmill (n.) A mill worked by persons treading upon steps on the periphery of a wide wheel having a horizontal axis. It is used principally as a means of prison discipline. Also, a mill worked by horses, dogs, etc., treading an endless belt.,
T as in Tread-softly (n.) Spurge nettle. See under Nettle.,
T as in Treadwheel (n.) A wheel turned by persons or animals, by treading, climbing, or pushing with the feet, upon its periphery or face. See Treadmill.,
T as in Treague (n.) A truce.,
T as in Treason (n.) The offense of attempting to overthrow the government of the state to which the offender owes allegiance, or of betraying the state into the hands of a foreign power; disloyalty; treachery.,
T as in Treason (n.) Loosely, the betrayal of any trust or confidence; treachery; perfidy.,
T as in Treasonable (a.) Pertaining to treason; consisting of treason; involving the crime of treason, or partaking of its guilt.,
T as in Treasonous (a.) Treasonable.,
T as in Treasure (n.) Wealth accumulated; especially, a stock, or store of money in reserve.,
T as in Treasure (n.) A great quantity of anything collected for future use; abundance; plenty.,
T as in Treasure (n.) That which is very much valued.,
T as in Treasured (imp. & p. p.) of Treasure,
T as in Treasuring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Treasure,
T as in Treasure (v. t.) To collect and deposit, as money or other valuable things, for future use; to lay up; to hoard; usually with up; as, to treasure up gold.,
T as in Treasure-house (n.) A house or building where treasures and stores are kept.,
T as in Treasurer (n.) One who has the care of a treasure or treasure or treasury; an officer who receives the public money arising from taxes and duties, or other sources of revenue, takes charge of the same, and disburses it upon orders made by the proper authority; one who has charge of collected funds; as, the treasurer of a society or corporation.,
T as in Treasurership (n.) The office of treasurer.,
T as in Treasuress (n.) A woman who is a treasurer.,
T as in Treasure-trove (n.) Any money, bullion, or the like, found in the earth, or otherwise hidden, the owner of which is not known. In England such treasure belongs to the crown; whereas similar treasure found in the sea, or upon the surface of the land, belongs to the finder if no owner appears.,
T as in Treasuries (pl. ) of Treasury,
T as in Treasury (n.) A place or building in which stores of wealth are deposited; especially, a place where public revenues are deposited and kept, and where money is disbursed to defray the expenses of government; hence, also, the place of deposit and disbursement of any collected funds.,
T as in Treasury (n.) That department of a government which has charge of the finances.,
T as in Treasury (n.) A repository of abundance; a storehouse.,
T as in Treasury (n.) Hence, a book or work containing much valuable knowledge, wisdom, wit, or the like; a thesaurus; as, " Maunder's Treasury of Botany.",
T as in Treasury (n.) A treasure.,
T as in Treated (imp. & p. p.) of Treat,
T as in Treating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Treat,
T as in Treat (v. t.) To handle; to manage; to use; to bear one's self toward; as, to treat prisoners cruelly; to treat children kindly.,
T as in Treat (v. t.) To discourse on; to handle in a particular manner, in writing or speaking; as, to treat a subject diffusely.,
T as in Treat (v. t.) To entertain with food or drink, especially the latter, as a compliment, or as an expression of friendship or regard; as, to treat the whole company.,
T as in Treat (v. t.) To negotiate; to settle; to make terms for.,
T as in Treat (v. t.) To care for medicinally or surgically; to manage in the use of remedies or appliances; as, to treat a disease, a wound, or a patient.,
T as in Treat (v. t.) To subject to some action; to apply something to; as, to treat a substance with sulphuric acid.,
T as in Treat (v. t.) To entreat; to beseech.,
T as in Treat (v. i.) To discourse; to handle a subject in writing or speaking; to make discussion; -- usually with of; as, Cicero treats of old age and of duties.,
T as in Treat (v. i.) To negotiate; to come to terms of accommodation; -- often followed by with; as, envoys were appointed to treat with France.,
T as in Treat (v. i.) To give a gratuitous entertainment, esp. of food or drink, as a compliment.,
T as in Treat (n.) A parley; a conference.,
T as in Treat (n.) An entertainment given as an expression of regard.,
T as in Treat (n.) That which affords entertainment; a gratification; a satisfaction; as, the concert was a rich treat.,
T as in Treatable (a.) Manageable; tractable; hence, moderate; not violent.,
T as in Treatably (adv.) In a treatable manner.,
T as in Treater (n.) One who treats; one who handles, or discourses on, a subject; also, one who entertains.,
T as in Treatise (n.) A written composition on a particular subject, in which its principles are discussed or explained; a tract.,
T as in Treatise (n.) Story; discourse.,
T as in Treatiser (n.) One who writes a treatise.,
T as in Treatment (n.) The act or manner of treating; management; manipulation; handling; usage; as, unkind treatment; medical treatment.,
T as in Treatment (n.) Entertainment; treat.,
T as in Treature (n.) Treatment.,
T as in Treaties (pl. ) of Treaty,
T as in Treaty (n.) The act of treating for the adjustment of differences, as for forming an agreement; negotiation.,
T as in Treaty (n.) An agreement so made; specifically, an agreement, league, or contract between two or more nations or sovereigns, formally signed by commissioners properly authorized, and solemnly ratified by the several sovereigns, or the supreme power of each state; an agreement between two or more independent states; as, a treaty of peace; a treaty of alliance.,
T as in Treaty (n.) A proposal tending to an agreement.,
T as in Treaty (n.) A treatise; a tract.,
T as in Treble (a.) Threefold; triple.,
T as in Treble (a.) Acute; sharp; as, a treble sound.,
T as in Treble (a.) Playing or singing the highest part or most acute sounds; playing or singing the treble; as, a treble violin or voice.,
T as in Treble (adv.) Trebly; triply.,
T as in Treble (n.) The highest of the four principal parts in music; the part usually sung by boys or women; soprano.,
T as in Trebled (imp. & p. p.) of Treble,
T as in Trebling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Treble,
T as in Treble (v. t.) To make thrice as much; to make threefold.,
T as in Treble (v. t.) To utter in a treble key; to whine.,
T as in Treble (v. i.) To become threefold.,
T as in Trebleness (n.) The quality or state of being treble; as, the trebleness of tones.,
T as in Treblet (n.) Same as Triblet.,
T as in Trebly (adv.) In a treble manner; with a threefold number or quantity; triply.,
T as in Trebuchet (n.) Alt. of Trebucket,
T as in Trebucket (n.) A cucking stool; a tumbrel.,
T as in Trebucket (n.) A military engine used in the Middle Ages for throwing stones, etc. It acted by means of a great weight fastened to the short arm of a lever, which, being let fall, raised the end of the long arm with great velocity, hurling stones with much force.,
T as in Trebucket (n.) A kind of balance for weighing.,
T as in Trechometer (n.) An odometer for vehicles.,
T as in Treckschuyt (n.) A covered boat for goods and passengers, used on the Dutch and Flemish canals.,
T as in Treddle (n.) See Treadle.,
T as in Treddle (n.) A prostitute; a strumpet.,
T as in Treddle (n.) The dung of sheep or hares.,
T as in Tredille (n.) A game at cards for three.,
T as in Tree (n.) Any perennial woody plant of considerable size (usually over twenty feet high) and growing with a single trunk.,
T as in Tree (n.) Something constructed in the form of, or considered as resembling, a tree, consisting of a stem, or stock, and branches; as, a genealogical tree.,
T as in Tree (n.) A piece of timber, or something commonly made of timber; -- used in composition, as in axletree, boottree, chesstree, crosstree, whiffletree, and the like.,
T as in Tree (n.) A cross or gallows; as Tyburn tree.,
T as in Tree (n.) Wood; timber.,
T as in Tree (n.) A mass of crystals, aggregated in arborescent forms, obtained by precipitation of a metal from solution. See Lead tree, under Lead.,
T as in Treed (imp. & p. p.) of Tree,
T as in Treeing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tree,
T as in Tree (v. t.) To drive to a tree; to cause to ascend a tree; as, a dog trees a squirrel.,
T as in Tree (v. t.) To place upon a tree; to fit with a tree; to stretch upon a tree; as, to tree a boot. See Tree, n., 3.,
T as in Treebeard (n.) A pendulous branching lichen (Usnea barbata); -- so called from its resemblance to hair.,
T as in Treefuls (pl. ) of Treeful,
T as in Treeful (n.) The quantity or number which fills a tree.,
T as in Treeless (a.) Destitute of trees.,
T as in Treen (a.) Made of wood; wooden.,
T as in Treen (a.) Relating to, or drawn from, trees.,
T as in Treen () pl. of Tree.,
T as in Treenail (n.) A long wooden pin used in fastening the planks of a vessel to the timbers or to each other.,
T as in Trefle (n.) A species of time; -- so called from its resemblance in form to a trefoil.,
T as in Trefle (a.) Having a three-lobed extremity or extremities, as a cross; also, more rarely, ornamented with trefoils projecting from the edges, as a bearing.,
T as in Trefoil (n.) Any plant of the genus Trifolium, which includes the white clover, red clover, etc.; -- less properly, applied also to the nonesuch, or black medic. See Clover, and Medic.,
T as in Trefoil (n.) An ornamental foliation consisting of three divisions, or foils.,
T as in Trefoil (n.) A charge representing the clover leaf.,
T as in Trefoiled (a.) Same as Trefle.,
T as in Treget (n.) Guile; trickery.,
T as in Tregetour (n.) A juggler who produces illusions by the use of elaborate machinery.,
T as in Tregetry (n.) Trickery; also, a trick.,
T as in Trehala (n.) An amorphous variety of manna obtained from the nests and cocoons of a Syrian coleopterous insect (Larinus maculatus, L. nidificans, etc.) which feeds on the foliage of a variety of thistle. It is used as an article of food, and is called also nest sugar.,
T as in Trehalose (n.) Mycose; -- so called because sometimes obtained from trehala.,
T as in Treillage (n.) Latticework for supporting vines, etc.; an espalier; a trellis.,
T as in Trellis (n.) A structure or frame of crossbarred work, or latticework, used for various purposes, as for screens or for supporting plants.,
T as in Trellised (a.) Having a trellis or trellises.,
T as in Tremando (a.) Trembling; -- used as a direction to perform a passage with a general shaking of the whole chord.,
T as in Trematode (n.) One of the Trematodea. Also used adjectively.,
T as in Trematodea (n. pl.) An extensive order of parasitic worms. They are found in the internal cavities of animals belonging to all classes. Many species are found, also, on the gills and skin of fishes. A few species are parasitic on man, and some, of which the fluke is the most important, are injurious parasites of domestic animals. The trematodes usually have a flattened body covered with a chitinous skin, and are furnished with two or more suckers for adhesion. Most of the species are hermaphrodite. Called also Trematoda, and Trematoidea. See Fluke, Tristoma, and Cercaria.,
T as in Trematoid (a.) Of or pertaining to the Trematodea. See Illustration in Appendix.,
T as in Trembled (imp. & p. p.) of Tremble,
T as in Trembling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tremble,
T as in Tremble (v. i.) To shake involuntarily, as with fear, cold, or weakness; to quake; to quiver; to shiver; to shudder; -- said of a person or an animal.,
T as in Tremble (v. i.) To totter; to shake; -- said of a thing.,
T as in Tremble (v. i.) To quaver or shake, as sound; to be tremulous; as the voice trembles.,
T as in Tremble (n.) An involuntary shaking or quivering.,
T as in Trembler (n.) One who trembles.,
T as in Trembling (a.) Shaking; tottering; quivering.,
T as in Tremella (n.) A genus of gelatinous fungi found in moist grounds.,
T as in Tremendous (a.) Fitted to excite fear or terror; such as may astonish or terrify by its magnitude, force, or violence; terrible; dreadful; as, a tremendous wind; a tremendous shower; a tremendous shock or fall.,
T as in Tremex (n.) A genus of large hymenopterous insects allied to the sawflies. The female lays her eggs in holes which she bores in the trunks of trees with her large and long ovipositor, and the larva bores in the wood. See Illust. of Horntail.,
T as in Tremolando (a.) Same as Tremando.,
T as in Tremolite (n.) A white variety of amphibole, or hornblende, occurring in long, bladelike crystals, and coarsely fibrous masses.,
T as in Tremolo (n.) The rapid reiteration of tones without any apparent cessation, so as to produce a tremulous effect.,
T as in Tremolo (n.) A certain contrivance in an organ, which causes the notes to sound with rapid pulses or beats, producing a tremulous effect; -- called also tremolant, and tremulant.,
T as in Tremor (v.) A trembling; a shivering or shaking; a quivering or vibratory motion; as, the tremor of a person who is weak, infirm, or old.,
T as in Tremulant (a.) Alt. of Tremulent,
T as in Tremulent (a.) Tremulous; trembling; shaking.,
T as in Tremulous (a.) Shaking; shivering; quivering; as, a tremulous limb; a tremulous motion of the hand or the lips; the tremulous leaf of the poplar.,
T as in Tremulous (a.) Affected with fear or timidity; trembling.,
T as in Tren (n.) A fish spear.,
T as in Trenail (n.) Same as Treenail.,
T as in Trenched (imp. & p. p.) of Trench,
T as in Trenching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Trench,
T as in Trench (v. t.) To cut; to form or shape by cutting; to make by incision, hewing, or the like.,
T as in Trench (v. t.) To fortify by cutting a ditch, and raising a rampart or breastwork with the earth thrown out of the ditch; to intrench.,
T as in Trench (v. t.) To cut furrows or ditches in; as, to trench land for the purpose of draining it.,
T as in Trench (v. t.) To dig or cultivate very deeply, usually by digging parallel contiguous trenches in succession, filling each from the next; as, to trench a garden for certain crops.,
T as in Trench (v. i.) To encroach; to intrench.,
T as in Trench (v. i.) To have direction; to aim or tend.,
T as in Trench (v. t.) A long, narrow cut in the earth; a ditch; as, a trench for draining land.,
T as in Trench (v. t.) An alley; a narrow path or walk cut through woods, shrubbery, or the like.,
T as in Trench (v. t.) An excavation made during a siege, for the purpose of covering the troops as they advance toward the besieged place. The term includes the parallels and the approaches.,
T as in Trenchand (a.) Trenchant.,
T as in Trenchant (v. t.) Fitted to trench or cut; gutting; sharp.,
T as in Trenchant (v. t.) Fig.: Keen; biting; severe; as, trenchant wit.,
T as in Trenchantly (adv.) In a trenchant, or sharp, manner; sharply; severely.,
T as in Trencher (v. t.) One who trenches; esp., one who cuts or digs ditches.,
T as in Trencher (v. t.) A large wooden plate or platter, as for table use.,
T as in Trencher (v. t.) The table; hence, the pleasures of the table; food.,
T as in Trencher-men (pl. ) of Trencher-man,
T as in Trencher-man (n.) A feeder; a great eater; a gormandizer.,
T as in Trencher-man (n.) A cook.,
T as in Trencher-man (n.) A table companion; a trencher mate.,
T as in Trenchmore (n.) A kind of lively dance of a rude, boisterous character. Also, music in triple time appropriate to the dance.,
T as in Trenchmore (v. i.) To dance the trenchmore.,
T as in Trench-plow (v. t.) Alt. of Trench-plough,
T as in Trench-plough (v. t.) To plow with deep furrows, for the purpose of loosening the land to a greater depth than usual.,
T as in Trended (imp. & p. p.) of Trend,
T as in Trending (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Trend,
T as in Trend (v. i.) To have a particular direction; to run; to stretch; to tend; as, the shore of the sea trends to the southwest.,
T as in Trend (v. t.) To cause to turn; to bend.,
T as in Trend (n.) Inclination in a particular direction; tendency; general direction; as, the trend of a coast.,
T as in Trend (v. t.) To cleanse, as wool.,
T as in Trend (n.) Clean wool.,
T as in Trender (n.) One whose business is to free wool from its filth.,
T as in Trendle (v. i.) A wheel, spindle, or the like; a trundle.,
T as in Trental (n.) An office and mass for the dead on the thirtieth day after death or burial.,
T as in Trental (n.) Hence, a dirge; an elegy.,
T as in Trenton period () A subdivision in the lower Silurian system of America; -- so named from Trenton Falls, in New York. The rocks are mostly limestones, and the period is divided into the Trenton, Utica, and Cincinnati epochs. See the Chart of Geology.,
T as in Trepan (n.) A crown-saw or cylindrical saw for perforating the skull, turned, when used, like a bit or gimlet. See Trephine.,
T as in Trepan (n.) A kind of broad chisel for sinking shafts.,
T as in Trepanned (imp. & p. p.) of Trepan,
T as in Trepanning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Trepan,
T as in Trepan (v. t. & i.) To perforate (the skull) with a trepan, so as to remove a portion of the bone, and thus relieve the brain from pressure or irritation; to perform an operation with the trepan.,
T as in Trepan (n.) A snare; a trapan.,
T as in Trepan (n.) a deceiver; a cheat.,
T as in Trepan (v. t.) To insnare; to trap; to trapan.,
T as in Trepang (n.) Any one of several species of large holothurians, some of which are dried and extensively used as food in China; -- called also beche de mer, sea cucumber, and sea slug.,
T as in Trepanize (v. t.) To trepan.,
T as in Trepanner (n.) One who trepans.,
T as in Trepeget (n.) A trebuchet.,
T as in Trephine (n.) An instrument for trepanning, being an improvement on the trepan. It is a circular or cylindrical saw, with a handle like that of a gimlet, and a little sharp perforator called the center pin.,
T as in Trephined (imp. & p. p.) of Trephine,
T as in Trephining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Trephine,
T as in Trephine (v. t.) To perforate with a trephine; to trepan.,
T as in Trepid (a.) Trembling; quaking.,
T as in Trepidation (n.) An involuntary trembling, sometimes an effect of paralysis, but usually caused by terror or fear; quaking; quivering.,
T as in Trepidation (n.) Hence, a state of terror or alarm; fear; confusion; fright; as, the men were in great trepidation.,
T as in Trepidation (n.) A libration of the starry sphere in the Ptolemaic system; a motion ascribed to the firmament, to account for certain small changes in the position of the ecliptic and of the stars.,
T as in Trepidity (n.) Trepidation.,
T as in Tresayle (n.) A grandfather's grandfather.,
T as in Tresor (n.) Treasure.,
T as in Trespassed (imp. & p. p.) of Trespass,
T as in Trespassing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Trespass,
T as in Trespass (v. i.) To pass beyond a limit or boundary; hence, to depart; to go.,
T as in Trespass (v. i.) To commit a trespass; esp., to enter unlawfully upon the land of another.,
T as in Trespass (v. i.) To go too far; to put any one to inconvenience by demand or importunity; to intrude; as, to trespass upon the time or patience of another.,
T as in Trespass (v. i.) To commit any offense, or to do any act that injures or annoys another; to violate any rule of rectitude, to the injury of another; hence, in a moral sense, to transgress voluntarily any divine law or command; to violate any known rule of duty; to sin; -- often followed by against.,
T as in Trespass (v.) Any injury or offence done to another.,
T as in Trespass (v.) Any voluntary transgression of the moral law; any violation of a known rule of duty; sin.,
T as in Trespass (v.) An unlawful act committed with force and violence (vi et armis) on the person, property, or relative rights of another.,
T as in Trespass (v.) An action for injuries accompanied with force.,
T as in Trespasser (n.) One who commits a trespass,
T as in Trespasser (n.) One who enters upon another's land, or violates his rights.,
T as in Trespasser (n.) A transgressor of the moral law; an offender; a sinner.,
T as in Tress (n.) A braid, knot, or curl, of hair; a ringlet.,
T as in Tress (n.) Fig.: A knot or festoon, as of flowers.,
T as in Tressed (a.) Having tresses.,
T as in Tressed (a.) Formed into ringlets or braided; braided; curled.,
T as in Tressel (n.) A trestle.,
T as in Tressful (a.) Tressy.,
T as in Tressure (n.) A kind of border similar to the orle, but of only half the breadth of the latter.,
T as in Tressured (a.) Provided or bound with a tressure; arranged in the form of a tressure.,
T as in Tressy (a.) Abounding in tresses.,
T as in Trestle (n.) A movable frame or support for anything, as scaffolding, consisting of three or four legs secured to a top piece, and forming a sort of stool or horse, used by carpenters, masons, and other workmen; also, a kind of framework of strong posts or piles, and crossbeams, for supporting a bridge, the track of a railway, or the like.,
T as in Trestle (n.) The frame of a table.,
T as in Trestletree (n.) One of two strong bars of timber, fixed horizontally on the opposite sides of the masthead, to support the crosstrees and the frame of the top; -- generally used in the plural.,
T as in Trestlework (n.) A viaduct, pier, scaffold, or the like, resting on trestles connected together.,
T as in Tres-tyne (n.) In the antler of a stag, the third tyne above the base. This tyne appears in the third year. In those deer in which the brow tyne does not divide, the tres-tyne is the second tyne above the base. See Illust. under Rucervine, and under Rusine.,
T as in Tret () 3d pers. sing. pres. of Tread, for treadeth.,
T as in Tret (n.) An allowance to purchasers, for waste or refuse matter, of four pounds on every 104 pounds of suttle weight, or weight after the tare deducted.,
T as in Tretable (a.) Tractable; moderate.,
T as in Trething (n.) A tax; an impost.,
T as in Tretis (n.) Alt. of Tretys,
T as in Tretys (n.) A treatise; also, a treaty.,
T as in Tretis (a.) Alt. of Tretys,
T as in Tretys (a.) Long and well-proportioned; nicely made; pretty.,
T as in Trevat (n.) A weaver's cutting instrument; for severing the loops of the pile threads of velvet.,
T as in Trevet (n.) A stool or other thing supported by three legs; a trivet.,
T as in Trew (a.) Alt. of Trewe,
T as in Trewe (a.) True.,
T as in Trews (n. pl.) Trowsers; especially, those of the Scotch Highlanders.,
T as in Trewth (n.) Truth.,
T as in Trey (n.) Three, at cards, dice, or dominoes; a card, die, or domino of three spots or pips.,
T as in Tri- () A prefix meaning three, thrice, threefold; as in tricolored, tridentate.,
T as in Tri- () A prefix (also used adjectively) denoting three proportional or combining part, or the third degree of that to the name of which it is prefixed; as in trisulphide, trioxide, trichloride.,
T as in Triable (a.) Fit or possible to be tried; liable to be subjected to trial or test.,
T as in Triable (a.) Liable to undergo a judicial examination; properly coming under the cognizance of a court; as, a cause may be triable before one court which is not triable in another.,
T as in Triableness (n.) Quality or state of being triable.,
T as in Triacid (a.) Capable of neutralizing three molecules of a monobasic acid or the equivalent; having three hydrogen atoms which may be acid radicals; -- said of certain bases; thus, glycerin is a triacid base.,
T as in Triacle (n.) See Treacle.,
T as in Triacontahedral (a.) Having thirty sides.,
T as in Triaconter (n.) A vessel with thirty banks of oars, or, as some say, thirty ranks of rowers.,
T as in Triad (n.) A union of three; three objects treated as one; a ternary; a trinity; as, a triad of deities.,
T as in Triad (n.) A chord of three notes.,
T as in Triad (n.) The common chord, consisting of a tone with its third and fifth, with or without the octave.,
T as in Triad (n.) An element or radical whose valence is three.,
T as in Triadelphous (a.) Having stamens joined by filaments into three bundles. See Illust. under Adelphous.,
T as in Triadic (a.) Having the characteristics of a triad; as, boron is triadic.,
T as in Triakisoctahedron (n.) A trigonal trisoctahedron.,
T as in Trial (n.) The act of trying or testing in any manner.,
T as in Trial (n.) Any effort or exertion of strength for the purpose of ascertaining what can be done or effected.,
T as in Trial (n.) The act of testing by experience; proof; test.,
T as in Trial (n.) Examination by a test; experiment, as in chemistry, metallurgy, etc.,
T as in Trial (n.) The state of being tried or tempted; exposure to suffering that tests strength, patience, faith, or the like; affliction or temptation that exercises and proves the graces or virtues of men.,
T as in Trial (n.) That which tries or afflicts; that which harasses; that which tries the character or principles; that which tempts to evil; as, his child's conduct was a sore trial.,
T as in Trial (n.) The formal examination of the matter in issue in a cause before a competent tribunal; the mode of determining a question of fact in a court of law; the examination, in legal form, of the facts in issue in a cause pending before a competent tribunal, for the purpose of determining such issue.,
T as in Triality (n.) Three united; state of being three.,
T as in Trialogue (n.) A discourse or colloquy by three persons.,
T as in Triamide (n.) An amide containing three amido groups.,
T as in Triamine (n.) An amine containing three amido groups.,
T as in Triander (n.) Any one of the Triandria.,
T as in Triandria (n. pl.) A Linnaean class of plants having three distinct and equal stamens.,
T as in Triandrian (a.) Alt. of Triandrous,
T as in Triandrous (a.) Of or pertaining to the Triandria; having three distinct and equal stamens in the same flower.,
T as in Triangle (n.) A figure bounded by three lines, and containing three angles.,
T as in Triangle (n.) An instrument of percussion, usually made of a rod of steel, bent into the form of a triangle, open at one angle, and sounded by being struck with a small metallic rod.,
T as in Triangle (n.) A draughtsman's square in the form of a right-angled triangle.,
T as in Triangle (n.) A kind of frame formed of three poles stuck in the ground and united at the top, to which soldiers were bound when undergoing corporal punishment, -- now disused.,
T as in Triangle (n.) A small constellation situated between Aries and Andromeda.,
T as in Triangle (n.) A small constellation near the South Pole, containing three bright stars.,
T as in Triangled (a.) Having three angles; triangular.,
T as in Triangular (a.) Having three angles; having the form of a triangle.,
T as in Triangular (a.) Oblong or elongated, and having three lateral angles; as, a triangular seed, leaf, or stem.,
T as in Triangulares (n. pl.) The triangular, or maioid, crabs. See Illust. under Maioid, and Illust. of Spider crab, under Spider.,
T as in Triangularity (n.) The quality or state of being triangular.,
T as in Triangularly (adv.) In a triangular manner; in the form of a triangle.,
T as in Triangulated (imp. & p. p.) of Triangulate,
T as in Triangulating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Triangulate,
T as in Triangulate (v. t.) To divide into triangles; specifically, to survey by means of a series of triangles properly laid down and measured.,
T as in Triangulate (v. t.) To make triangular, or three-cornered.,
T as in Triangulation (n.) The series or network of triangles into which the face of a country, or any portion of it, is divided in a trigonometrical survey; the operation of measuring the elements necessary to determine the triangles into which the country to be surveyed is supposed to be divided, and thus to fix the positions and distances of the several points connected by them.,
T as in Triarchies (pl. ) of Triarchy,
T as in Triarchy (n.) Government by three persons; a triumvirate; also, a country under three rulers.,
T as in Triarian (a.) Occupying the third post or rank.,
T as in Triarticulate (a.) Having three joints.,
T as in Trias (n.) The formation situated between the Permian and Lias, and so named by the Germans, because consisting of three series of strata, which are called in German the Bunter sandstein, Muschelkalk, and Keuper.,
T as in Triassic (a.) Of the age of, or pertaining to, the Trias.,
T as in Triassic (n.) The Triassic formation.,
T as in Triatic (a.) A term used in the phrase triatic stay. See under Stay.,
T as in Triatomic (a.) Having three atoms; -- said of certain elements or radicals.,
T as in Triatomic (a.) Having a valence of three; trivalent; sometimes, in a specific sense, having three hydroxyl groups, whether acid or basic; thus, glycerin, glyceric acid, and tartronic acid are each triatomic.,
T as in Tribal (a.) Of or pertaining to a tribe or tribes; as, a tribal scepter.,
T as in Tribalism (n.) The state of existing in tribes; also, tribal feeling; tribal prejudice or exclusiveness; tribal peculiarities or characteristics.,
T as in Tribasic (a.) Capable of neutralizing three molecules of a monacid base, or their equivalent; having three hydrogen atoms capable of replacement by basic elements on radicals; -- said of certain acids; thus, citric acid is a tribasic acid.,
T as in Tribble (n.) A frame on which paper is dried.,
T as in Tribe (n.) A family, race, or series of generations, descending from the same progenitor, and kept distinct, as in the case of the twelve tribes of Israel, descended from the twelve sons of Jacob.,
T as in Tribe (n.) A number of species or genera having certain structural characteristics in common; as, a tribe of plants; a tribe of animals.,
T as in Tribe (n.) A nation of savages or uncivilized people; a body of rude people united under one leader or government; as, the tribes of the Six Nations; the Seneca tribe.,
T as in Tribe (n.) A division, class, or distinct portion of a people, from whatever cause that distinction may have originated; as, the city of Athens was divided into ten tribes.,
T as in Tribe (n.) A family of animals descended from some particular female progenitor, through the female line; as, the Duchess tribe of shorthorns.,
T as in Tribe (v. t.) To distribute into tribes or classes.,
T as in Triblet (n.) Alt. of Tribolet,
T as in Tribolet (n.) A goldsmith's tool used in making rings.,
T as in Tribolet (n.) A steel cylinder round which metal is drawn in the process of forming tubes.,
T as in Tribolet (n.) A tapering mandrel.,
T as in Tribometer (n.) An instrument to ascertain the degree of friction in rubbing surfaces.,
T as in Tribrach (n.) A poetic foot of three short syllables, as, meblius.,
T as in Tribracteate (a.) Having three bracts.,
T as in Tribual (a.) Alt. of Tribular,
T as in Tribular (a.) Of or relating to a tribe; tribal; as, a tribual characteristic; tribular worship.,
T as in Tribulation (n.) That which occasions distress, trouble, or vexation; severe affliction.,
T as in Tribunal (n.) The seat of a judge; the bench on which a judge and his associates sit for administering justice.,
T as in Tribunal (n.) Hence, a court or forum; as, the House of Lords, in England, is the highest tribunal in the kingdom.,
T as in Tribunary (a.) Of or pertaining to tribunes; as, tribunary powers or authority.,
T as in Tribunate (n.) The state or office of a tribune; tribuneship.,
T as in Tribune (n.) An officer or magistrate chosen by the people, to protect them from the oppression of the patricians, or nobles, and to defend their liberties against any attempts that might be made upon them by the senate and consuls.,
T as in Tribune (n.) Anciently, a bench or elevated place, from which speeches were delivered; in France, a kind of pulpit in the hall of the legislative assembly, where a member stands while making an address; any place occupied by a public orator.,
T as in Tribuneship (n.) The office or power of a tribune.,
T as in Tribunician (a.) Alt. of Tribunitian,
T as in Tribunitial (a.) Alt. of Tribunitian,
T as in Tribunitian (a.) Of or pertaining to tribunes; befitting a tribune; as, tribunitial power or authority.,
T as in Tribunitious (a.) Tribunician; tribunitial.,
T as in Trubutarily (adv.) In a tributary manner.,
T as in Tributariness (n.) The quality or state of being tributary.,
T as in Tributary (a.) Paying tribute to another, either from compulsion, as an acknowledgment of submission, or to secure protection, or for the purpose of purchasing peace.,
T as in Tributary (a.) Hence, subject; subordinate; inferior.,
T as in Tributary (a.) Paid in tribute.,
T as in Tributary (a.) Yielding supplies of any kind; serving to form or make up, a greater object of the same kind, as a part, branch, etc.; contributing; as, the Ohio has many tributary streams, and is itself tributary to the Mississippi.,
T as in Tributaries (pl. ) of Tributary,
T as in Tributary (n.) A ruler or state that pays tribute, or a stated sum, to a conquering power, for the purpose of securing peace and protection, or as an acknowledgment of submission, or for the purchase of security.,
T as in Tributary (n.) A stream or river flowing into a larger river or into a lake; an affluent.,
T as in Tribute (n.) An annual or stated sum of money or other valuable thing, paid by one ruler or nation to another, either as an acknowledgment of submission, or as the price of peace and protection, or by virtue of some treaty; as, the Romans made their conquered countries pay tribute.,
T as in Tribute (n.) A personal contribution, as of money, praise, service, etc., made in token of services rendered, or as that which is due or deserved; as, a tribute of affection.,
T as in Tribute (n.) A certain proportion of the ore raised, or of its value, given to the miner as his recompense.,
T as in Tributed (imp. & p. p.) of Tribute,
T as in Tributing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tribute,
T as in Tribute (v. i.) To pay as tribute.,
T as in Tributer (n.) One who works for a certain portion of the ore, or its value.,
T as in Tricae (pl. ) of Trica,
T as in Trica (n.) An apothecium in certain lichens, having a spherical surface marked with spiral or concentric ridges and furrows.,
T as in Tricarballylic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, a complex tribasic organic acid, C3H5.(CO2H)3 occurring naturally in unripe beet roots, and produced artificially from glycerin as a white crystalline substance.,
T as in Tricarbimide (n.) See under Cyanuric.,
T as in Trice (v. t.) To pull; to haul; to drag; to pull away.,
T as in Trice (v. t.) To haul and tie up by means of a rope.,
T as in Trice (n.) A very short time; an instant; a moment; -- now used only in the phrase in a trice.,
T as in Tricennarious (a.) Of or pertaining to thirty years; tricennial.,
T as in Tricennial (a.) Of or pertaining to thirty years; consisting of thirty years; occurring once in every thirty years.,
T as in Tricentenary (a.) Including, or relating to, the interval of three hundred years; tercentenary.,
T as in Tricentenary (n.) A period of three centuries, or three hundred years, also, the three-hundredth anniversary of any event; a tercentenary.,
T as in Triceps (n.) A muscle having three heads; specif., the great extensor of the forearm, arising by three heads and inserted into the olecranon at the elbow.,
T as in Trichiasis (n.) A disease of the eye, in which the eyelashes, being turned in upon the eyeball, produce constant irritation by the motion of the lids.,
T as in Trichinae (pl. ) of Trichina,
T as in Trichina (n.) A small, slender nematoid worm (Trichina spiralis) which, in the larval state, is parasitic, often in immense numbers, in the voluntary muscles of man, the hog, and many other animals. When insufficiently cooked meat containing the larvae is swallowed by man, they are liberated and rapidly become adult, pair, and the ovoviviparous females produce in a short time large numbers of young which find their way into the muscles, either directly, or indirectly by means of the blood. Their presence in the muscles and the intestines in large numbers produces trichinosis.,
T as in Trichiniasis (n.) Trichinosis.,
T as in Trichinize (v. t.) To render trichinous; to affect with trichinae; -- chiefly used in the past participle; as, trichinized pork.,
T as in Trichinoscope (n.) An apparatus for the detection of trichinae in the flesh of animals, as of swine.,
T as in Trichinosis (n.) The disease produced by the presence of trichinae in the muscles and intestinal track. It is marked by fever, muscular pains, and symptoms resembling those of typhoid fever, and is frequently fatal.,
T as in Trichinous (a.) Of or pertaining to trichinae or trichinosis; affected with, or containing, trichinae; as, trichinous meat.,
T as in Trichite (n.) A kind of crystallite resembling a bunch of hairs, common in obsidian. See Illust. of Crystallite.,
T as in Trichite (n.) A delicate, hairlike siliceous spicule, found in certain sponges.,
T as in Trichiuriform (a.) Like or pertaining to the genus Trichiurus or family Trichiuridae, comprising the scabbard fishes and hairtails.,
T as in Trichiuroid (a.) Of, like, or pertaining to, Trichiurus.,
T as in Trichiurus (n.) A genus of fishes comprising the hairtails. See Hairtail.,
T as in Trichloride (n.) A chloride having three atoms of chlorine in the molecule.,
T as in Trichobranchia (n.) The gill of a crustacean in which the branchial filaments are slender and cylindrical, as in the crawfishes.,
T as in Trichocyst (n.) A lasso cell.,
T as in Trichogyne (n.) The slender, hairlike cell which receives the fertilizing particles, or antherozoids, in red seaweeds.,
T as in Trichomanes (n.) Any fern of the genus Trichomanes. The fronds are very delicate and often translucent, and the sporangia are borne on threadlike receptacles rising from the middle of cup-shaped marginal involucres. Several species are common in conservatories; two are native in the United States.,
T as in Trichomatose (a.) Affected with a disease which causes agglutination and matting together; -- said of the hair when affected with plica. See Plica, 1.,
T as in Trichome (n.) A hair on the surface of leaf or stem, or any modification of a hair, as a minute scale, or star, or gland. The sporangia of ferns are believed to be of the nature of trichomes.,
T as in Trichophore (n.) The special cell in red algae which produces or bears a trichogyne. See Illust. of Trichogyne.,
T as in Trichophore (n.) One of the saclike organs from which the setae of annelids arise.,
T as in Trichopter (n.) One of the Trichoptera.,
T as in Trichoptera (n. pl.) A suborder of Neuroptera usually having the wings covered with minute hairs. It comprises the caddice flies, and is considered by some to be a distinct order.,
T as in Trichopteran () One of the Trichoptera.,
T as in Trichopterous (a.) Of, pertaining to, or characterizing, the Trichoptera.,
T as in Trichord (n.) An instrument, as a lyre or harp, having three strings.,
T as in Trichoscolices (n. pl.) An extensive group of wormlike animals characterized by being more or less covered with cilia.,
T as in Trichotomous (a.) Divided into three parts, or into threes; three-forked; as, a trichotomous stem.,
T as in Trichotomy (n.) Division into three parts.,
T as in Trichroic (a.) Exhibiting trichroism; pleochroic; pleochroism.,
T as in Trichroism (n.) The quality possessed by some crystals of presenting different colors in three different directions.,
T as in Trichromatic (a.) Having or existing in three different phases of color; having three distinct color varieties; -- said of certain birds and insects.,
T as in Trichromatism (n.) The quality, state, or phenomenon of being trichromatic.,
T as in Trichromic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or consisting of, three colors or color sensations.,
T as in Trichromic (a.) Containing three atoms of chromium.,
T as in Tricipital (a.) Having three heads, or three origins; as, a tricipital muscle.,
T as in Trick (a.) An artifice or stratagem; a cunning contrivance; a sly procedure, usually with a dishonest intent; as, a trick in trade.,
T as in Trick (a.) A sly, dexterous, or ingenious procedure fitted to puzzle or amuse; as, a bear's tricks; a juggler's tricks.,
T as in Trick (a.) Mischievous or annoying behavior; a prank; as, the tricks of boys.,
T as in Trick (a.) A particular habit or manner; a peculiarity; a trait; as, a trick of drumming with the fingers; a trick of frowning.,
T as in Trick (a.) A knot, braid, or plait of hair.,
T as in Trick (a.) The whole number of cards played in one round, and consisting of as many cards as there are players.,
T as in Trick (a.) A turn; specifically, the spell of a sailor at the helm, -- usually two hours.,
T as in Trick (a.) A toy; a trifle; a plaything.,
T as in Tricked (imp. & p. p.) of Trick,
T as in Tricking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Trick,
T as in Trick (v. t.) To deceive by cunning or artifice; to impose on; to defraud; to cheat; as, to trick another in the sale of a horse.,
T as in Trick (v. t.) To dress; to decorate; to set off; to adorn fantastically; -- often followed by up, off, or out.,
T as in Trick (v. t.) To draw in outline, as with a pen; to delineate or distinguish without color, as arms, etc., in heraldry.,
T as in Tricker (n.) One who tricks; a trickster.,
T as in Tricker (n.) A trigger.,
T as in Trickery (n.) The art of dressing up; artifice; stratagem; fraud; imposture.,
T as in Trickiness (n.) The quality of being tricky.,
T as in Tricking (a.) Given to tricks; tricky.,
T as in Tricking (n.) Dress; ornament.,
T as in Trickish (a.) Given to tricks; artful in making bargains; given to deception and cheating; knavish.,
T as in Trickled (imp. & p. p.) of Trickle,
T as in Trickling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Trickle,
T as in Trickle (v. t.) To flow in a small, gentle stream; to run in drops.,
T as in Trickment (n.) Decoration.,
T as in Tricksiness (n.) The quality or state of being tricksy; trickiness.,
T as in Trickster (n.) One who tricks; a deceiver; a tricker; a cheat.,
T as in Tricksy (a.) Exhibiting artfulness; trickish.,
T as in Tricktrack (n.) An old game resembling backgammon.,
T as in Tricky (a.) Given to tricks; practicing deception; trickish; knavish.,
T as in Triclinate (a.) Triclinic.,
T as in Tricliniary (a.) Of or pertaining to a triclinium, or to the ancient mode of reclining at table.,
T as in Triclinic (a.) Having, or characterized by, three unequal axes intersecting at oblique angles. See the Note under crystallization.,
T as in Triclinia (pl. ) of Triclinium,
T as in Triclinium (n.) A couch for reclining at meals, extending round three sides of a table, and usually in three parts.,
T as in Triclinium (n.) A dining room furnished with such a triple couch.,
T as in Tricoccous (a.) Having three cocci, or roundish carpels.,
T as in Tricolor (n.) The national French banner, of three colors, blue, white, and red, adopted at the first revolution.,
T as in Tricolor (n.) Hence, any three-colored flag.,
T as in Tricolored (a.) Having three colors.,
T as in Tricornigerous (a.) Having three horns.,
T as in Tricorporal (a.) Alt. of Tricorporate,
T as in Tricorporate (a.) Represented with three bodies conjoined to one head, as a lion.,
T as in Tricostate (a.) Three-ribbed; having three ribs from the base.,
T as in Tricot (n.) A fabric of woolen, silk, or cotton knitted, or women to resemble knitted work.,
T as in Tricrotic (a.) Of or pertaining to tricrotism; characterized by tricrotism.,
T as in Tricrotism (n.) That condition of the arterial pulse in which there is a triple beat. The pulse curve obtained in the sphygmographic tracing characteristic of tricrotism shows two secondary crests in addition to the primary.,
T as in Tricrotous (a.) Tricrotic.,
T as in Tricurvate (a.) Curved in three directions; as, a tricurvate spicule (see Illust. of Spicule).,
T as in Tricuspid (a.) Having three cusps, or points; tricuspidate; as, a tricuspid molar.,
T as in Tricuspid (a.) Of or pertaining to the tricuspid valves; as, tricuspid obstruction.,
T as in Tricuspidate (a.) Three-pointed; ending in three points; as, a tricuspidate leaf.,
T as in Tricycle (n.) A three-wheeled velocipede. See Illust. under Velocipede. Cf. Bicycle.,
T as in Tridacna (n.) A genus of very large marine bivalve shells found on the coral reefs of the Indian and Pacific Oceans. One species (T. gigas) often weighs four or five hundred pounds, and is sometimes used for baptismal fonts. Called also paw shell, and fountain shell.,
T as in Tridactyl (a.) Alt. of Tridactyle,
T as in Tridactyle (a.) Having three fingers or toes, or composed of three movable parts attached to a common base.,
T as in Tridactylous (a.) Tridactyl.,
T as in Triddler (n.) The jacksnipe.,
T as in Tride (a.) Short and ready; fleet; as, a tride pace; -- a term used by sportsmen.,
T as in Tridecane (n.) A hydrocarbon, C13H28, of the methane series, which is a probable ingredient both of crude petroleum and of kerosene, and is produced artificially as a light colorless liquid.,
T as in Tridecatoic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, that acid of the fatty acids heterologous with tridecane. It is a white crystalline substance.,
T as in Tridecatylene (n.) A hydrocarbon, C13H26, of the ethylene series, corresponding to tridecane, and obtained from Burmah petroleum as a light colorless liquid; -- called also tridecylene, and tridecene.,
T as in Trident (n.) A kind of scepter or spear with three prongs, -- the common attribute of Neptune.,
T as in Trident (n.) A three-pronged spear or goad, used for urging horses; also, the weapon used by one class of gladiators.,
T as in Trident (n.) A three-pronged fish spear.,
T as in Trident (n.) A curve of third order, having three infinite branches in one direction and a fourth infinite branch in the opposite direction.,
T as in Trident (a.) Having three teeth or prongs; tridentate.,
T as in Tridentate (a.) Alt. of Tridentated,
T as in Tridentated (a.) Having three teeth; three-toothed.,
T as in Tridented (a.) Having three prongs; trident; tridentate; as, a tridented mace.,
T as in Tridentiferous (a.) Bearing a trident.,
T as in Tridentine (a.) Of or pertaining to Trent, or the general church council held in that city.,
T as in Tridiapason (n.) A triple octave, or twenty-second.,
T as in Tridimensional (a.) Having three dimensions; extended in three different directions.,
T as in Triding (n.) A riding. See Trithing.,
T as in Triduan (a.) Lasting three lays; also, happening every third day.,
T as in Tridymite (n.) Pure silica, like quartz, but crystallizing in hexagonal tables. It is found in trachyte and similar rocks.,
T as in Tried () imp. & p. p. of Try.,
T as in Tried (adj.) Proved; tested; faithful; trustworthy; as, a tried friend.,
T as in Triedral (a.) See Trihedral.,
T as in Triennial (a.) Continuing three years; as, triennial parliaments; a triennial reign.,
T as in Triennial (a.) Happening, coming about, or appearing once in every three years; as, triennial elections; a triennial catalogue; a triennial visitation.,
T as in Triennial (n.) Something which takes place or appears once in three years.,
T as in Triennially (adv.) Once in three years.,
T as in Triens (n.) A Roman copper coin, equal to one third of the as. See 3d As, 2.,
T as in Trier (n.) One who tries; one who makes experiments; one who examines anything by a test or standard.,
T as in Trier (n.) One who tries judicially.,
T as in Trier (n.) A person appointed according to law to try challenges of jurors; a trior.,
T as in Trier (n.) That which tries or approves; a test.,
T as in Trierarch (n.) The commander of a trireme.,
T as in Trierarch (n.) At Athens, one who (singly, or jointly with other citizens) had to fit out a trireme for the public service.,
T as in Trierarchises (pl. ) of Trierarchy,
T as in Trierarchy (n.) The office duty of a trierarch.,
T as in Trieterical (a.) Kept or occurring once in three years; triennial.,
T as in Trieterics (n. pl.) Festival games celebrated once in three years.,
T as in Triethylamine (n.) A tertiary amine analogous to trimethylamine.,
T as in Trifacial (a.) See Trigeminal.,
T as in Trifallowed (imp. & p. p.) of Trifallow,
T as in Trifallowing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Trifallow,
T as in Trifallow (v. t.) To plow the third time before sowing, as land.,
T as in Trifarious (a.) Facing three ways; arranged in three vertical ranks, as the leaves of veratrum.,
T as in Trifasciated (a.) Having, or surrounded by, three fasciae, or bands.,
T as in Trifid (a.) Cleft to the middle, or slightly beyond the middle, into three parts; three-cleft.,
T as in Trifistulary (a.) Having three pipes.,
T as in Trifle (n.) A thing of very little value or importance; a paltry, or trivial, affair.,
T as in Trifle (n.) A dish composed of sweetmeats, fruits, cake, wine, etc., with syllabub poured over it.,
T as in Trifled (imp. & p. p.) of Trifle,
T as in Trifling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Trifle,
T as in Trifle (n.) To act or talk without seriousness, gravity, weight, or dignity; to act or talk with levity; to indulge in light or trivial amusements.,
T as in Trifle (v. t.) To make of no importance; to treat as a trifle.,
T as in Trifle (v. t.) To spend in vanity; to fritter away; to waste; as, to trifle away money.,
T as in Trifler (n.) One who trifles.,
T as in Trifling (a.) Being of small value or importance; trivial; paltry; as, a trifling debt; a trifling affair.,
T as in Trifloral (a.) Alt. of Triflorous,
T as in Triflorous (a.) Three-flowered; having or bearing three flowers; as, a triflorous peduncle.,
T as in Trifluctuation (n.) A concurrence of three waves.,
T as in Trifoliate (a.) Alt. of Trifoliated,
T as in Trifoliated (a.) Having three leaves or leaflets, as clover. See Illust. of Shamrock.,
T as in Trifoliolate (a.) Having three leaflets.,
T as in Trifolium (n.) A genus of leguminous herbs with densely spiked flowers and usually trifoliate leaves; trefoil. There are many species, all of which are called clover. See Clover.,
T as in Trifoly (n.) Sweet trefoil.,
T as in Triforium (n.) The gallery or open space between the vaulting and the roof of the aisles of a church, often forming a rich arcade in the interior of the church, above the nave arches and below the clearstory windows.,
T as in Triform (a.) Having a triple form or character.,
T as in Triformity (n.) The state of being triform, or of having a threefold shape.,
T as in Trifurcate (a.) Alt. of Trifurcated,
T as in Trifurcated (a.) Having three branches or forks; trichotomous.,
T as in Trig (v. t.) To fill; to stuff; to cram.,
T as in Trig (a.) Full; also, trim; neat.,
T as in Trig (v. t.) To stop, as a wheel, by placing something under it; to scotch; to skid.,
T as in Trig (n.) A stone, block of wood, or anything else, placed under a wheel or barrel to prevent motion; a scotch; a skid.,
T as in Trigamist (n.) One who has been married three times; also, one who has three husbands or three wives at the same time.,
T as in Trigamous (a.) Having three sorts of flowers in the same head, -- male, female, and hermaphrodite, or perfect, flowers.,
T as in Trigamy (n.) The act of marrying, or the state of being married, three times; also, the offense of having three husbands or three wives at the same time.,
T as in Trigastric (a.) Having three bellies; -- said of a muscle.,
T as in Trigeminal (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, the fifth pair of cranial nerves, which divide on each side of the head into three main branches distributed to the orbits, jaws, and parts of the mouth; trifacial.,
T as in Trigeminous (a.) Born three together; being one of three born at the same birth; also, threefold.,
T as in Trigenic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid, C4H7N3O2, obtained, by the action of the vapor of cyanic acid on cold aldehyde, as a white crystalline substance having a slightly acid taste and faint smell; -- called also ethidene- / ethylidene-biuret.,
T as in Trigesimo-secundo (a.) Having thirty-two leaves to a sheet; as, a trigesimo-secundo form, book, leaf, size, etc.,
T as in Trigesimo-secundo (n.) A book composed of sheets so folded that each one makes thirty-two leaves; hence, indicating, more or less definitely, a size of book; -- usually written 32mo, or 32?, and called thirty-twomo.,
T as in Trigger (n.) A catch to hold the wheel of a carriage on a declivity.,
T as in Trigger (n.) A piece, as a lever, which is connected with a catch or detent as a means of releasing it; especially (Firearms), the part of a lock which is moved by the finger to release the cock and discharge the piece.,
T as in Trigintal (n.) A trental.,
T as in Triglyceride (n.) A glyceride formed by the replacement of three hydrogen atoms in glycerin by acid radicals.,
T as in Triglyph (n.) An ornament in the frieze of the Doric order, repeated at equal intervals. Each triglyph consists of a rectangular tablet, slightly projecting, and divided nearly to the top by two parallel and perpendicular gutters, or channels, called glyphs, into three parts, or spaces, called femora. A half channel, or glyph, is also cut upon each of the perpendicular edges of the tablet. See Illust. of Entablature.,
T as in Triglyphic (a.) Alt. of Triglyphical,
T as in Triglyphical (a.) Consisting of, or pertaining to, triglyphs.,
T as in Triglyphical (a.) Containing three sets of characters or sculptures.,
T as in Trigness (n.) The quality or state of being trig; smartness; neatness.,
T as in Trigon (n.) A figure having three angles; a triangle.,
T as in Trigon (n.) A division consisting of three signs.,
T as in Trigon (n.) Trine, an aspect of two planets distant 120 degrees from each other.,
T as in Trigon (n.) A kind of triangular lyre or harp.,
T as in Trigon (n.) A kind of game at ball played by three persons standing at the angular points of a triangle.,
T as in Trigonal (a.) Having three angles, or corners; triangular; as, a trigonal stem, one having tree prominent longitudinal angles.,
T as in Trigone (n.) A smooth triangular area on the inner surface of the bladder, limited by the apertures of the ureters and urethra.,
T as in Trigonia (n.) A genus of pearly bivalve shells, numerous extinct species of which are characteristic of the Mesozoic rocks. A few living species exist on the coast of Australia.,
T as in Trigonocerous (a.) Having horns with three angles, like those of some species of goats.,
T as in Trigonometric () Alt. of Trigonometrical,
T as in Trigonometrical () Of or pertaining to trigonometry; performed by the rules of trigonometry.,
T as in -tries (pl. ) of Trigonometry,
T as in Trigonometry (n.) That branch of mathematics which treats of the relations of the sides and angles of triangles, which the methods of deducing from certain given parts other required parts, and also of the general relations which exist between the trigonometrical functions of arcs or angles.,
T as in Trigonometry (n.) A treatise in this science.,
T as in Trigonous (a.) Same as Trigonal.,
T as in Trigram (n.) Same as Trigraph.,
T as in Trigrammatic (a.) Containing three letters or characters, or three sets of letters or characters.,
T as in Trigrammic (a.) Same as Trigrammatic.,
T as in Trigraph (n.) Three letters united in pronunciation so as to have but one sound, or to form but one syllable, as -ieu in adieu; a triphthong.,
T as in Trigyn (n.) Any one of the Trigynia.,
T as in Trigynia (n. pl.) A Linnaean order of plants having three pistils or styles.,
T as in Trigynian (a.) Alt. of Trigynous,
T as in Trigynous (a.) Having three pistils or styles; of or pertaining to the Trigynia.,
T as in Trihedral (a.) Having three sides or faces; thus, a trihedral angle is a solid angle bounded by three plane angles.,
T as in Trihedron (n.) A figure having three sides.,
T as in Trihoral (a.) Occurring once in every three hours.,
T as in Trijugate (a.) In three pairs; as, a trijugate leaf, or a pinnate leaf with three pairs of leaflets.,
T as in Trijugous (a.) Same as Trijugate.,
T as in Trikosane (n.) A hydrocarbon, C23H48, of the methane series, resembling paraffin; -- so called because it has twenty-three atoms of carbon in the molecule.,
T as in Trilateral (a.) Having three sides; being three-sided; as, a trilateral triangle.,
T as in Trilemma (n.) A syllogism with three conditional propositions, the major premises of which are disjunctively affirmed in the minor. See Dilemma.,
T as in Trilemma (n.) A state of things in which it is difficult to determine which one of three courses to pursue.,
T as in Trilinear (a.) Of, pertaining to, or included by, three lines; as, trilinear coordinates.,
T as in Trilingual (a.) Containing, or consisting of, three languages; expressed in three languages.,
T as in Trilinguar (a.) See Trilingual.,
T as in Triliteral (a.) Consisting of three letters; trigrammic; as, a triliteral root or word.,
T as in Triliteral (n.) A triliteral word.,
T as in Triliteralism (n.) Same as Triliterality.,
T as in Triliterality (n.) Alt. of Triliteralness,
T as in Triliteralness (n.) The quality of being triliteral; as, the triliterality of Hebrew roots.,
T as in Trilith (n.) Same as Trilithon.,
T as in Trilithic (a.) Pertaining to a trilith.,
T as in Trilithons (pl. ) of Trilithon,
T as in Trilithon (n.) A monument consisting of three stones; especially, such a monument forming a kind of doorway, as among the ancient Celts.,
T as in Trill (v. i.) To flow in a small stream, or in drops rapidly succeeding each other; to trickle.,
T as in Trill (v. t.) To turn round; to twirl.,
T as in Trilled (imp. & p. p.) of Trill,
T as in Trilling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Trill,
T as in Trill (v. t.) To impart the quality of a trill to; to utter as, or with, a trill; as, to trill the r; to trill a note.,
T as in Trill (v. i.) To utter trills or a trill; to play or sing in tremulous vibrations of sound; to have a trembling sound; to quaver.,
T as in Trill (n.) A sound, of consonantal character, made with a rapid succession of partial or entire intermissions, by the vibration of some one part of the organs in the mouth -- tongue, uvula, epiglottis, or lip -- against another part; as, the r is a trill in most languages.,
T as in Trill (n.) The action of the organs in producing such sounds; as, to give a trill to the tongue. d,
T as in Trill (n.) A shake or quaver of the voice in singing, or of the sound of an instrument, produced by the rapid alternation of two contiguous tones of the scale; as, to give a trill on the high C. See Shake.,
T as in Trillachan (n.) The oyster catcher.,
T as in Trilling (n.) One of tree children born at the same birth.,
T as in Trilling (n.) A compound crystal, consisting of three individuals.,
T as in Trillion (n.) According to the French notation, which is used upon the Continent generally and in the United States, the number expressed by a unit with twelve ciphers annexed; a million millions; according to the English notation, the number produced by involving a million to the third power, or the number represented by a unit with eighteen ciphers annexed. See the Note under Numeration.,
T as in Trillium (n.) A genus of liliaceous plants; the three-leaved nightshade; -- so called because all the parts of the plant are in threes.,
T as in Trillo (n.) A trill or shake. See Trill.,
T as in Trilobate (a.) Having three lobes.,
T as in Trilobation (n.) The state of being trilobate.,
T as in Trilobed (a.) Same as Trilobate.,
T as in Trilobita (n. pl.) An extinct order of arthropods comprising the trilobites.,
T as in Trilobite (n.) Any one of numerous species of extinct arthropods belonging to the order Trilobita. Trilobites were very common in the Silurian and Devonian periods, but became extinct at the close of the Paleozoic. So named from the three lobes usually seen on each segment.,
T as in Trilobitic (a.) Of, pertaining to or containing, trilobites; as, trilobitic rocks.,
T as in Trilocular (a.) Having three cells or cavities; as, a trilocular capsule; a trilocular heart.,
T as in Trilogy (n.) A series of three dramas which, although each of them is in one sense complete, have a close mutual relation, and form one historical and poetical picture. Shakespeare's " Henry VI." is an example.,
T as in Triluminar (a.) Alt. of Triluminous,
T as in Triluminous (a.) Having three lights,
T as in Trimmed (imp. & p. p.) of Trim,
T as in Trimming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Trim,
T as in Trim (v. t.) To make trim; to put in due order for any purpose; to make right, neat, or pleasing; to adjust.,
T as in Trim (v. t.) To dress; to decorate; to adorn; to invest; to embellish; as, to trim a hat.,
T as in Trim (v. t.) To make ready or right by cutting or shortening; to clip or lop; to curtail; as, to trim the hair; to trim a tree.,
T as in Trim (v. t.) To dress, as timber; to make smooth.,
T as in Trim (v. t.) To adjust, as a ship, by arranging the cargo, or disposing the weight of persons or goods, so equally on each side of the center and at each end, that she shall sit well on the water and sail well; as, to trim a ship, or a boat.,
T as in Trim (v. t.) To arrange in due order for sailing; as, to trim the sails.,
T as in Trim (v. t.) To rebuke; to reprove; also, to beat.,
T as in Trim (v. i.) To balance; to fluctuate between parties, so as to appear to favor each.,
T as in Trim (n.) Dress; gear; ornaments.,
T as in Trim (n.) Order; disposition; condition; as, to be in good trim.,
T as in Trim (n.) The state of a ship or her cargo, ballast, masts, etc., by which she is well prepared for sailing.,
T as in Trim (n.) The lighter woodwork in the interior of a building; especially, that used around openings, generally in the form of a molded architrave, to protect the plastering at those points.,
T as in Trim (v. t.) Fitly adjusted; being in good order., or made ready for service or use; firm; compact; snug; neat; fair; as, the ship is trim, or trim built; everything about the man is trim; a person is trim when his body is well shaped and firm; his dress is trim when it fits closely to his body, and appears tight and snug; a man or a soldier is trim when he stands erect.,
T as in Trimaculated (a.) Marked with three spots, or maculae.,
T as in Trimellic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, a certain tribasic acid (called also trimellitic acid) metameric with trimesitic acid.,
T as in Trimembral (a.) Having, or consisting of, three members.,
T as in Trimera (n. pl.) A division of Coleoptera including those which have but three joints in the tarsi.,
T as in Trimeran (n.) One of the Trimera. Also used adjectively.,
T as in Trimerous (a.) Having the parts in threes.,
T as in Trimesitic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, a tribasic acid, C6H3.(CO2)3, of the aromatic series, obtained, by the oxidation of mesitylene, as a white crystalline substance.,
T as in Trimester (n.) A term or period of three months.,
T as in Trimestral (a.) Trimestrial.,
T as in Trimestrial (a.) Of or pertaining to a trimester, or period of three months; occurring once in every three months; quarterly.,
T as in Trimeter (a.) Consisting of three poetical measures.,
T as in Trimeter (n.) A poetical division of verse, consisting of three measures.,
T as in Trimethyl () A prefix or combining form (also used adjectively) indicating the presence of three methyl groups.,
T as in Trimethylamine (n.) A colorless volatile alkaline liquid, N.(CH3)3, obtained from herring brine, beet roots, etc., with a characteristic herringlike odor. It is regarded as a substituted ammonia containing three methyl groups.,
T as in Trimethylene (n.) A gaseous hydrocarbon, C3H6, isomeric with propylene and obtained from it indirectly. It is the base of a series of compounds analogous to the aromatic hydrocarbons.,
T as in Trimetric (a.) Same as Orthorhombic.,
T as in Trimetrical (a.) Same as Trimeter.,
T as in Trimly (adv.) In a trim manner; nicely.,
T as in Trimmer (n.) One who trims, arranges, fits, or ornaments.,
T as in Trimmer (n.) One who does not adopt extreme opinions in politics, or the like; one who fluctuates between parties, so as to appear to favor each; a timeserver.,
T as in Trimmer (n.) An instrument with which trimming is done.,
T as in Trimmer (n.) A beam, into which are framed the ends of headers in floor framing, as when a hole is to be left for stairs, or to avoid bringing joists near chimneys, and the like. See Illust. of Header.,
T as in Trimming () a. from Trim, v.,
T as in Trimming (n.) The act of one who trims.,
T as in Trimming (n.) That which serves to trim, make right or fitting, adjust, ornament, or the like; especially, the necessary or the ornamental appendages, as of a garment; hence, sometimes, the concomitants of a dish; a relish; -- usually in the pluraltrimmings. --.,
T as in Trimming (n.) The act of reprimanding or chastisting; as, to give a boy a trimming.,
T as in Trimmingly (adv.) In a trimming manner.,
T as in Trimness (n.) The quality or state of being trim; orderliness; compactness; snugness; neatness.,
T as in Trimorph (n.) A substance which crystallizes in three distinct forms, or which has three distinct physical states; also, any one of these distinct forms. See Trimorphism, 1.,
T as in Trimorphic (a.) Alt. of Trimorphous,
T as in Trimorphous (a.) Of, pertaining to, or characterized by, trimorphism; -- contrasted with monomorphic, dimorphic, and polymorphic.,
T as in Trimorphism (n.) The property of crystallizing in three forms fundamentally distinct, as is the case with titanium dioxide, which crystallizes in the forms of rutile, octahedrite, and brookite. See Pleomorphism.,
T as in Trimorphism (n.) The coexistence among individuals of the same species of three distinct forms, not connected, as a rule, by intermediate gradations; the condition among individuals of the same species of having three different shapes or proportions of corresponding parts; -- contrasted with polymorphism, and dimorphism.,
T as in Trimurti (n.) The triad, or trinity, of Hindu gods, consisting of Brahma, the Creator, Vishnu, the Preserver, and Siva, the Destroyer.,
T as in Trimyarian (n.) A lamellibranch which has three muscular scars on each valve.,
T as in Trinal (a.) Threefold.,
T as in Trindle (v. t. & n.) See Trundle.,
T as in Trine (a.) Threefold; triple; as, trine dimensions, or length, breadth, and thickness.,
T as in Trine (n.) The aspect of planets distant from each other 120 degrees, or one third of the zodiac; trigon.,
T as in Trine (n.) A triad; trinity.,
T as in Trine (v. t.) To put in the aspect of a trine.,
T as in Trinervate (a.) Having three ribs or nerves extending unbranched from the base to the apex; -- said of a leaf.,
T as in Trinerve (a.) Alt. of Trinerved,
T as in Trinerved (a.) Same as Trinervate.,
T as in Tringa (n.) A genus of limicoline birds including many species of sandpipers. See Dunlin, Knot, and Sandpiper.,
T as in Tringle (n.) A curtain rod for a bedstead.,
T as in Tringoid (a.) Of or pertaining to Tringa, or the Sandpiper family.,
T as in Trinitarian (a.) Of or pertaining to the Trinity, the doctrine of the Trinity, or believers in that doctrine.,
T as in Trinitarian (n.) One who believes in the doctrine of the Trinity.,
T as in Trinitarian (n.) One of a monastic order founded in Rome in 1198 by St. John of Matha, and an old French hermit, Felix of Valois, for the purpose of redeeming Christian captives from the Mohammedans.,
T as in Trinitarianism (n.) The doctrine of the Trinity; the doctrine that there are three distinct persons in the Godhead.,
T as in Trinitrocellulose (n.) Gun cotton; -- so called because regarded as containing three nitro groups.,
T as in Trinitrophenol (n.) Picric acid.,
T as in Trinity (n.) The union of three persons (the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost) in one Godhead, so that all the three are one God as to substance, but three persons as to individuality.,
T as in Trinity (n.) Any union of three in one; three units treated as one; a triad, as the Hindu trinity, or Trimurti.,
T as in Trinity (n.) Any symbol of the Trinity employed in Christian art, especially the triangle.,
T as in Triniunity (n.) Triunity; trinity.,
T as in Trink (n.) A kind of fishing net.,
T as in Trinket (n.) A three-cornered sail formerly carried on a ship's foremast, probably on a lateen yard.,
T as in Trinket (v. t.) A knife; a cutting tool.,
T as in Trinket (v. t.) A small ornament, as a jewel, ring, or the like.,
T as in Trinket (v. t.) A thing of little value; a trifle; a toy.,
T as in Trinket (v. i.) To give trinkets; hence, to court favor; to intrigue.,
T as in Trinketer (n.) One who trinkets.,
T as in Trinketry (n.) Ornaments of dress; trinkets, collectively.,
T as in Trinkle (v. i.) To act secretly, or in an underhand way; to tamper.,
T as in Trinoctial (a.) Lasting during three nights; comprising three nights.,
T as in Trinodal (a.) Having three knots or nodes; having three points from which a leaf may shoot; as, a trinodal stem.,
T as in Trinodal (a.) Having three nodal points.,
T as in Trinomial (n.) A quantity consisting of three terms, connected by the sign + or -; as, x + y + z, or ax + 2b - c2.,
T as in Trinomial (a.) Consisting of three terms; of or pertaining to trinomials; as, a trinomial root.,
T as in Trinominal (n. & a.) Trinomial.,
T as in Trinucleus (n.) A genus of Lower Silurian trilobites in which the glabella and cheeks form three rounded elevations on the head.,
T as in Trio (n.) Three, considered collectively; three in company or acting together; a set of three; three united.,
T as in Trio (n.) A composition for three parts or three instruments.,
T as in Trio (n.) The secondary, or episodical, movement of a minuet or scherzo, as in a sonata or symphony, or of a march, or of various dance forms; -- not limited to three parts or instruments.,
T as in Triobolar (a.) Alt. of Triobolary,
T as in Triobolary (a.) Of the value of three oboli; hence, mean; worthless.,
T as in Trioctile (n.) An aspect of two planets with regard to the earth when they are three octants, or three eighths of a circle, that is, 135 degrees, distant from each other.,
T as in Tri/cia (n. pl.) The third order of the Linnaean class Polygamia.,
T as in Tri/cious (a.) Having three sorts of flowers on the same or on different plants, some of the flowers being staminate, others pistillate, and others both staminate and pistillate; belonging to the order Tri/cia.,
T as in Triole (n.) Same as Triplet.,
T as in Triolein (n.) See Olein.,
T as in Triolet (n.) A short poem or stanza of eight lines, in which the first line is repeated as the fourth and again as the seventh line, the second being, repeated as the eighth.,
T as in Trionychoidea (n. pl.) A division of chelonians which comprises Trionyx and allied genera; -- called also Trionychoides, and Trionychina.,
T as in Trionyx (n.) A genus of fresh-water or river turtles which have the shell imperfectly developed and covered with a soft leathery skin. They are noted for their agility and rapacity. Called also soft tortoise, soft-shell tortoise, and mud turtle.,
T as in Trior (n.) Same as Trier, 2 and 3.,
T as in Trioxide (n.) An oxide containing three atoms of oxygen; as, sulphur trioxide, SO3; -- formerly called tritoxide.,
T as in Tripped (imp. & p. p.) of Trip,
T as in Tripping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Trip,
T as in Trip (n. i.) To move with light, quick steps; to walk or move lightly; to skip; to move the feet nimbly; -- sometimes followed by it. See It, 5.,
T as in Trip (n. i.) To make a brief journey or pleasure excursion; as, to trip to Europe.,
T as in Trip (n. i.) To take a quick step, as when in danger of losing one's balance; hence, to make a false; to catch the foot; to lose footing; to stumble.,
T as in Trip (n. i.) Fig.: To be guilty of a misstep; to commit an offense against morality, propriety, or rule; to err; to mistake; to fail.,
T as in Trip (v. t.) To cause to stumble, or take a false step; to cause to lose the footing, by striking the feet from under; to cause to fall; to throw off the balance; to supplant; -- often followed by up; as, to trip up a man in wrestling.,
T as in Trip (v. t.) Fig.: To overthrow by depriving of support; to put an obstacle in the way of; to obstruct; to cause to fail.,
T as in Trip (v. t.) To detect in a misstep; to catch; to convict.,
T as in Trip (v. t.) To raise (an anchor) from the bottom, by its cable or buoy rope, so that it hangs free.,
T as in Trip (v. t.) To pull (a yard) into a perpendicular position for lowering it.,
T as in Trip (v. t.) To release, let fall, or see free, as a weight or compressed spring, as by removing a latch or detent.,
T as in Trip (n.) A quick, light step; a lively movement of the feet; a skip.,
T as in Trip (n.) A brief or rapid journey; an excursion or jaunt.,
T as in Trip (n.) A false step; a stumble; a misstep; a loss of footing or balance. Fig.: An error; a failure; a mistake.,
T as in Trip (n.) A small piece; a morsel; a bit.,
T as in Trip (n.) A stroke, or catch, by which a wrestler causes his antagonist to lose footing.,
T as in Trip (n.) A single board, or tack, in plying, or beating, to windward.,
T as in Trip (n.) A herd or flock, as of sheep, goats, etc.,
T as in Trip (n.) A troop of men; a host.,
T as in Trip (n.) A flock of widgeons.,
T as in Tripalmitate (n.) A palmitate derived from three molecules of palmitic acid.,
T as in Tripalmitin (n.) See Palmitin.,
T as in Tripang (n.) See Trepang.,
T as in Triparted (a.) Parted into three piece; having three parts or pieces; -- said of the field or of a bearing; as, a cross triparted.,
T as in Triparted (a.) Divided nearly to the base into three segments or lobes.,
T as in Tripartible (a.) Divisible into three parts.,
T as in Tripartient (a.) Dividing into three parts; -- said of a number which exactly divides another into three parts.,
T as in Tripartite (v. i.) Divided into three parts; triparted; as, a tripartite leaf.,
T as in Tripartite (v. i.) Having three corresponding parts or copies; as, to make indentures tripartite.,
T as in Tripartite (v. i.) Made between three parties; as, a tripartite treaty.,
T as in Tripartitely (adv.) In a tripartite manner.,
T as in Tripartition (n.) A division by threes, or into three parts; the taking of a third part of any number or quantity.,
T as in Tripaschal (a.) Including three passovers.,
T as in Tripe (n.) The large stomach of ruminating animals, when prepared for food.,
T as in Tripe (n.) The entrails; hence, humorously or in contempt, the belly; -- generally used in the plural.,
T as in Tripedal (a.) Having three feet.,
T as in Tripe-de-roche (n.) Same as Rock tripe, under Rock.,
T as in Tripel (n.) Same as Tripoli.,
T as in -men (pl. ) of Tripeman,
T as in Tripeman (n.) A man who prepares or sells tripe.,
T as in Tripennate (a.) Same as Tripinnate.,
T as in Tripersonal (a.) Consisting of three persons.,
T as in Tripersonalist (n.) A Trinitarian.,
T as in Tripersonality (n.) The state of existing as three persons in one Godhead; trinity.,
T as in Tripery (n.) A place where tripe is prepared or sold.,
T as in Tripestone (n.) A variety of anhydrite composed of contorted plates fancied to resemble pieces of tripe.,
T as in Tripetaloid (a.) Having the form or appearance of three petals; appearing as if furnished with three petals.,
T as in Tripetalous (a.) Having three petals, or flower leaves; three-petaled.,
T as in Trip hammer () A tilt hammer.,
T as in Triphane (n.) Spodumene.,
T as in Triphthong (n.) A combination of three vowel sounds in a single syllable, forming a simple or compound sound; also, a union of three vowel characters, representing together a single sound; a trigraph; as, eye, -ieu in adieu, -eau in beau, are examples of triphthongs.,
T as in Triphthongal (a.) Of or pertaining to a triphthong; consisting of three vowel sounds pronounced together in a single syllable.,
T as in Triphyline (n.) Triphylite.,
T as in Triphylite (n.) A mineral of a grayish-green or bluish color, consisting of the phosphates of iron, manganese, and lithia.,
T as in Triphyllous (a.) Having three leaves; three-leaved.,
T as in Tripinnate (a.) Having bipinnate leaflets arranged on each side of a rhachis.,
T as in Tripinnatifid (a.) Thrice pinnately cleft; -- said of a pinnatifid leaf when its segments are pinnatifid, and the subdivisions of these also are pinnatifid.,
T as in Triplasian (a.) Three-fold; triple; treble.,
T as in Triple (a.) Consisting of three united; multiplied by three; threefold; as, a triple knot; a triple tie.,
T as in Triple (a.) Three times repeated; treble. See Treble.,
T as in Triple (a.) One of three; third.,
T as in Tripled (imp. & p. p.) of Triple,
T as in Tripling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Triple,
T as in Triple (a.) To make threefold, or thrice as much or as many; to treble; as, to triple the tax on coffee.,
T as in Triple-crowned (a.) Having three crowns; wearing the triple crown, as the pope.,
T as in Triple-headed (a.) Having three heads; three-headed; as, the triple-headed dog Cerberus.,
T as in Triplet (n.) A collection or combination of three of a kind; three united.,
T as in Triplet (n.) Three verses rhyming together.,
T as in Triplet (n.) A group of three notes sung or played in the tree of two.,
T as in Triplet (n.) Three children or offspring born at one birth.,
T as in Triple-tail (n.) An edible fish (Lobotes Surinamensis) found in the warmer parts of all the oceans, and common on the southern and middle coasts of the United States. When living it is silvery gray, and becomes brown or blackish when dead. Its dorsal and anal fins are long, and extend back on each side of the tail. It has large silvery scales which are used in the manufacture of fancy work. Called also, locally, black perch, grouper, and flasher.,
T as in Triplicate (v. t.) Made thrice as much; threefold; tripled.,
T as in Triplicate (n.) A third thing corresponding to two others of the same kind.,
T as in Triplicate-ternate (a.) Triternate.,
T as in Triplication (n.) The act of tripling, or making threefold, or adding three together.,
T as in Triplication (n.) Same as Surrejoinder.,
T as in Triplicity (a.) The quality or state of being triple, or threefold; trebleness.,
T as in Triplicostate (a.) Three-ribbed.,
T as in Triplite (n.) A mineral of a dark brown color, generally with a fibrous, massive structure. It is a fluophosphate of iron and manganese.,
T as in Triploblastic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, that condition of the ovum in which there are three primary germinal layers, or in which the blastoderm splits into three layers.,
T as in Triploidite (n.) A manganese phosphate near triplite, but containing hydroxyl instead of fluorine.,
T as in Triply (adv.) In a triple manner.,
T as in Tripmadam (n.) Same as Prickmadam.,
T as in Tripod (n.) Any utensil or vessel, as a stool, table, altar, caldron, etc., supported on three feet.,
T as in Tripod (n.) A three-legged frame or stand, usually jointed at top, for supporting a theodolite, compass, telescope, camera, or other instrument.,
T as in Tripodian (n.) An ancient stringed instrument; -- so called because, in form, it resembled the Delphic tripod.,
T as in Tripody (n.) Three metrical feet taken together, or included in one measure.,
T as in Tripoli (n.) An earthy substance originally brought from Tripoli, used in polishing stones and metals. It consists almost wholly of the siliceous shells of diatoms.,
T as in Tripoline (a.) Of or pertaining to Tripoli or its inhabitants; Tripolitan.,
T as in Tripoline (a.) Of or pertaining to tripoli, the mineral.,
T as in Tripolitan (a.) Of or pertaining to Tripoli or its inhabitants; Tripoline.,
T as in Tripolitan (n.) A native or inhabitant of Tripoli.,
T as in Triposes (pl. ) of Tripos,
T as in Tripos (n.) A tripod.,
T as in Tripos (n.) A university examination of questionists, for honors; also, a tripos paper; one who prepares a tripos paper.,
T as in Trippant (a.) See Tripping, a., 2.,
T as in Tripper (n.) One who trips or supplants; also, one who walks or trips nimbly; a dancer.,
T as in Tripper (n.) An excursionist.,
T as in Trippet (n.) A cam, wiper, or projecting piece which strikes another piece repeatedly.,
T as in Tripping (a.) Quick; nimble; stepping lightly and quickly.,
T as in Tripping (a.) Having the right forefoot lifted, the others remaining on the ground, as if he were trotting; trippant; -- said of an animal, as a hart, buck, and the like, used as a bearing.,
T as in Tripping (n.) Act of one who, or that which, trips.,
T as in Tripping (n.) A light dance.,
T as in Tripping (n.) The loosing of an anchor from the ground by means of its cable or buoy rope.,
T as in Trippingly (adv.) In a tripping manner; with a light, nimble, quick step; with agility; nimbly.,
T as in Tripsis (n.) Trituration.,
T as in Tripsis (n.) Shampoo.,
T as in Triptote (n.) A noun having three cases only.,
T as in Triptych (n.) Anything in three parts or leaves.,
T as in Triptych (n.) A writing tablet in three parts, two of which fold over on the middle part.,
T as in Triptych (n.) A picture or altarpiece in three compartments.,
T as in Tripudiary (a.) Of or pertaining to dancing; performed by dancing.,
T as in Tripudiate (v. i.) To dance.,
T as in Tripudiation (n.) The act of dancing.,
T as in Triquadrantal (a.) Having three quadrants; thus, a triquadrantal triangle is one whose three sides are quadrants, and whose three angles are consequently right angles.,
T as in Triquetral (a.) Triquetrous.,
T as in Triquetrous (a.) Three sided, the sides being plane or concave; having three salient angles or edges; trigonal.,
T as in Triquetra (pl. ) of Triquetrum,
T as in Triquetrum (n.) One of the bones of the carpus; the cuneiform. See Cuneiform (b).,
T as in Triradiate (a.) Alt. of Triradiated,
T as in Triradiated (a.) Having three rays.,
T as in Trirectangular (a.) Having three right angles. See Triquadrantal.,
T as in Trireme (n.) An ancient galley or vessel with tree banks, or tiers, of oars.,
T as in Trirhomboidal (a.) Having three rhombic faces or sides.,
T as in Trisacramentarian (n.) One who recognizes three sacraments, and no more; -- namely, baptism, the Lord's Supper, and penance. See Sacrament.,
T as in Trisagion (n.) An ancient anthem, -- usually known by its Latin name tersanctus.See Tersanctus.,
T as in Trisected (imp. & p. p.) of Trisect,
T as in Trisecting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Trisect,
T as in Trisect (v. t.) To cut or divide into three parts.,
T as in Trisect (v. t.) To cut or divide into three equal parts.,
T as in Trisected (a.) Divided into three parts or segments by incisions extending to the midrib or to the base; -- said of leaves.,
T as in Trisection (n.) The division of a thing into three parts, Specifically: (Geom.) the division of an angle into three equal parts.,
T as in Triseralous (a.) Having three sepals, or calyx leaves.,
T as in Triserial (a.) Alt. of Triseriate,
T as in Triseriate (a.) Arranged in three vertical or spiral rows.,
T as in Trismus (n.) The lockjaw.,
T as in Trisnitrate (n.) A nitrate formed from three molecules of nitric acid; also, less properly, applied to certain basic nitrates; as, trisnitrate of bismuth.,
T as in Trisoctahedron (n.) A solid of the isometric system bounded by twenty-four equal faces, three corresponding to each face of an octahedron.,
T as in Trispast (n.) Alt. of Trispaston,
T as in Trispaston (n.) A machine with three pulleys which act together for raising great weights.,
T as in Trispermous (a.) Containing three seeds; three-seeded; as, a trispermous capsule.,
T as in Trisplanchnic (a.) Of or pertaining to the three great splanchnic cavities, namely, that of the head, the chest, and the abdomen; -- applied to the sympathetic nervous system.,
T as in Triste (imp.) of Trist,
T as in Trist (v. t. & i.) To trust.,
T as in Trist (n.) Trust.,
T as in Trist (n.) A post, or station, in hunting.,
T as in Trist (n.) A secret meeting, or the place of such meeting; a tryst. See Tryst.,
T as in Trist (a.) Sad; sorrowful; gloomy.,
T as in Triste (n.) A cattle fair.,
T as in Tristearate (n.) Tristearin.,
T as in Tristearin (n.) See Stearin.,
T as in Tristtul (a.) Sad; sorrowful; gloomy.,
T as in Tristfully (adv.) In a tristful manner; sadly.,
T as in Tristichous (a.) Arranged in three vertical rows.,
T as in Tristigmatic (a.) Alt. of Tristigmatose,
T as in Tristigmatose (a.) Having, or consisting of, three stigmas.,
T as in Tristitiate (v. t.) To make sad.,
T as in Tristoma (n.) Any one of numerous species of trematode worms belonging to Tristoma and allied genera having a large posterior sucker and two small anterior ones. They usually have broad, thin, and disklike bodies, and are parasite on the gills and skin of fishes.,
T as in Tristy (a.) See Trist, a.,
T as in Trisuls (n.) Something having three forks or prongs, as a trident.,
T as in Trisulcate (a.) Having three furrows, forks, or prongs; having three grooves or sulci; three-grooved.,
T as in Trisulphide (n.) A sulphide containing three atoms of sulphur.,
T as in Trisyllabic (a.) Alt. of Trisyllabical,
T as in Trisyllabical (a.) Of or pertaining to a trisyllable; consisting of three syllables; as, "syllable" is a trisyllabic word.,
T as in Trisyllable (n.) A word consisting of three syllables only; as, a-ven-ger.,
T as in Trite (a.) Worn out; common; used until so common as to have lost novelty and interest; hackneyed; stale; as, a trite remark; a trite subject.,
T as in Triternate (a.) Three times ternate; -- applied to a leaf whose petiole separates into three branches, each of which divides into three parts which each bear three leafiets.,
T as in Tritheism (n.) The opinion or doctrine that the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit are three distinct Gods.,
T as in Tritheist (n.) One who believes in tritheism.,
T as in Tritheistic (a.) Alt. of Tritheistical,
T as in Tritheistical (a.) Of or pertaining to tritheism.,
T as in Tritheite (n.) A tritheist.,
T as in Trithing (n.) One of three ancient divisions of a county in England; -- now called riding.,
T as in Trithionate (n.) A salt of trithionic acid.,
T as in Trithionic (a.) Of or pertaining to, or designating, a certain thionic acid, H2S3O6 which is obtained as a colorless, odorless liquid.,
T as in Tritical (a.) Trite.,
T as in Triticin (n.) A carbohydrate isomeric with dextrin, obtained from quitch grass (Agropyrum, formerly Triticum, repens) as a white amorphous substance.,
T as in Triticum (n.) A genus of grasses including the various species of wheat.,
T as in Triton (n.) A fabled sea demigod, the son of Neptune and Amphitrite, and the trumpeter of Neptune. He is represented by poets and painters as having the upper part of his body like that of a man, and the lower part like that of a fish. He often has a trumpet made of a shell.,
T as in Triton (n.) Any one of many species of marine gastropods belonging to Triton and allied genera, having a stout spiral shell, often handsomely colored and ornamented with prominent varices. Some of the species are among the largest of all gastropods. Called also trumpet shell, and sea trumpet.,
T as in Triton (n.) Any one of numerous species of aquatic salamanders. The common European species are Hemisalamandra cristata, Molge palmata, and M. alpestris, a red-bellied species common in Switzerland. The most common species of the United States is Diemyctylus viridescens. See Illust. under Salamander.,
T as in Tritone (n.) A superfluous or augmented fourth.,
T as in Tritorium (n.) Same as Triturium.,
T as in Tritova (pl. ) of Tritovum,
T as in Tritovum (n.) An embryonic insect which has twice cast its skin previous to hatching from the egg.,
T as in Tritozooid (n.) A zooid of the third generation in asexual reproduction.,
T as in Triturable (a.) Capable of being triturated.,
T as in Triturated (imp. & p. p.) of Triturate,
T as in Triturating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Triturate,
T as in Triturate (v. t.) To rub, grind, bruise, or thrash.,
T as in Triturate (v. t.) To rub or grind to a very fine or impalpable powder; to pulverize and comminute thoroughly.,
T as in Trituration (n.) The act of triturating, or reducing to a fine or impalpable powder by grinding, rubbing, bruising, etc.,
T as in Triture (n.) A rubbing or grinding; trituration.,
T as in Triturium (n.) A vessel for separating liquids of different densities.,
T as in Trityl (n.) Propyl.,
T as in Tritylene (n.) Propylene.,
T as in Triumph (n.) A magnificent and imposing ceremonial performed in honor of a general who had gained a decisive victory over a foreign enemy.,
T as in Triumph (n.) Hence, any triumphal procession; a pompous exhibition; a stately show or pageant.,
T as in Triumph (n.) A state of joy or exultation for success.,
T as in Triumph (n.) Success causing exultation; victory; conquest; as, the triumph of knowledge.,
T as in Triumph (n.) A trump card; also, an old game at cards.,
T as in Triumphed (imp. & p. p.) of Triumph,
T as in Triumphing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Triumph,
T as in Triumph (n.) To celebrate victory with pomp; to rejoice over success; to exult in an advantage gained; to exhibit exultation.,
T as in Triumph (n.) To obtain victory; to be successful; to prevail.,
T as in Triumph (n.) To be prosperous; to flourish.,
T as in Triumph (n.) To play a trump card.,
T as in Triumph (v. t.) To obtain a victory over; to prevail over; to conquer. Also, to cause to triumph.,
T as in Triumphal (a.) Of or pertaining to triumph; used in a triumph; indicating, or in honor of, a triumph or victory; as, a triumphal crown; a triumphal arch.,
T as in Triumphal (n.) A token of victory.,
T as in Triumplant (v. i.) Rejoicing for victory; triumphing; exultant.,
T as in Triumplant (v. i.) Celebrating victory; expressive of joy for success; as, a triumphant song or ode.,
T as in Triumplant (v. i.) Graced with conquest; victorious.,
T as in Triumplant (v. i.) Of or pertaining to triumph; triumphal.,
T as in Triumphantly (adv.) In a triumphant manner.,
T as in Triumpher (n.) One who was honored with a triumph; a victor.,
T as in Triumpher (n.) One who triumphs or rejoices for victory.,
T as in Triumphing (a.) Having or celebrating a triumph; victorious; triumphant.,
T as in Triumviri (pl. ) of Triumvir,
T as in Triumvirs (pl. ) of Triumvir,
T as in Triumvir (n.) One of tree men united in public office or authority.,
T as in Triumvirate (n.) Government by three in coalition or association; the term of such a government.,
T as in Triumvirate (n.) A coalition or association of three in office or authority; especially, the union of three men who obtained the government of the Roman empire.,
T as in Triumviry (n.) A triumvirate.,
T as in Triune (a.) Being three in one; -- an epithet used to express the unity of a trinity of persons in the Godhead.,
T as in Triunguli (pl. ) of Triungulus,
T as in Triungulus (n.) The active young larva of any oil beetle. It has feet armed with three claws, and is parasitic on bees. See Illust. of Oil beetle, under Oil.,
T as in Triunity (n.) The quality or state of being triune; trinity.,
T as in Trivalence (n.) The quality or state of being trivalent.,
T as in Trivalent (a.) Having a valence of three; capable of being combined with, substituted for, or compared with, three atoms of hydrogen; -- said of triad atoms or radicals; thus, nitrogen is trivalent in ammonia.,
T as in Trivalve (n.) Anything having three valves, especially a shell.,
T as in Trivalvular (a.) Having three valves; three-valved.,
T as in Trivant (n.) A truant.,
T as in Triverbial (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, certain days allowed to the pretor for hearing causes, when be might speak the three characteristic words of his office, do, dico, addico. They were called dies fasti.,
T as in Trivet (n.) A tree-legged stool, table, or other support; especially, a stand to hold a kettle or similar vessel near the fire; a tripod.,
T as in Trivet (n.) A weaver's knife. See Trevat.,
T as in Trivial (a.) Found anywhere; common.,
T as in Trivial (a.) Ordinary; commonplace; trifling; vulgar.,
T as in Trivial (a.) Of little worth or importance; inconsiderable; trifling; petty; paltry; as, a trivial subject or affair.,
T as in Trivial (a.) Of or pertaining to the trivium.,
T as in Trivial (n.) One of the three liberal arts forming the trivium.,
T as in Trivialism (n.) A trivial matter or method; a triviality.,
T as in Trivialities (pl. ) of Triviality,
T as in Triviality (n.) The quality or state of being trivial; trivialness.,
T as in Triviality (n.) That which is trivial; a trifle.,
T as in Trivially (adv.) In a trivial manner.,
T as in Trivialness (n.) Quality or state of being trivial.,
T as in Trivium (n.) The three " liberal" arts, grammar, logic, and rhetoric; -- being a triple way, as it were, to eloquence.,
T as in Trivium (n.) The three anterior ambulacra of echinoderms, collectively.,
T as in Triweekly (a.) Occurring or appearing three times a week; thriceweekly; as, a triweekly newspaper.,
T as in Triweekly (adv.) Three times a week.,
T as in Triweekly (n.) A triweekly publication.,
T as in Troad (n.) See Trode.,
T as in Troat (v. i.) To cry, as a buck in rutting time.,
T as in Troat (n.) The cry of a buck in rutting time.,
T as in Trocar (n.) A stylet, usually with a triangular point, used for exploring tissues or for inserting drainage tubes, as in dropsy.,
T as in Trochaic (n.) A trochaic verse or measure.,
T as in Trochaic (a.) Alt. of Trochaical,
T as in Trochaical (a.) Of or pertaining to trochees; consisting of trochees; as, trochaic measure or verse.,
T as in Trochal (a.) Resembling a wheel.,
T as in Trochanter (n.) One of two processes near the head of the femur, the outer being called the great trochanter, and the inner the small trochanter.,
T as in Trochanter (n.) The third joint of the leg of an insect, or the second when the trochantine is united with the coxa.,
T as in Trochanteric (a.) Of or pertaining to one or both of the trochanters.,
T as in Trochantine (n.) The second joint of the leg of an insect, -- often united with the coxa.,
T as in Trochar (n.) See Trocar.,
T as in Troche (n.) A medicinal tablet or lozenge; strictly, one of circular form.,
T as in Trochee (n.) A foot of two syllables, the first long and the second short, as in the Latin word ante, or the first accented and the second unaccented, as in the English word motion; a choreus.,
T as in Trochil (n.) The crocodile bird.,
T as in Trochilic (a.) OF or pertaining to rotary motion; having power to draw out or turn round.,
T as in Trochilics (n.) The science of rotary motion, or of wheel work.,
T as in Trochili (n. pl.) A division of birds comprising the humming birds.,
T as in Trochilidist (n.) One who studies, or is versed in, the nature and habits of humming birds, or the Trochilidae.,
T as in Trochilos (n.) The crocodile bird, or trochil.,
T as in Trochili (pl. ) of Trochilus,
T as in Trochilus (n.) A genus of humming birds. It Formerly included all the known species.,
T as in Trochilus (n.) Any one of several species of wrens and kinglets.,
T as in Trochilus (n.) The crocodile bird.,
T as in Trochilus (n.) An annular molding whose section is concave, like the edge of a pulley; -- called also scotia.,
T as in Troching (n.) One of the small branches of a stag's antler.,
T as in Trochisci (pl. ) of Trochiscus,
T as in Trochiscus (n.) A kind of tablet or lozenge; a troche.,
T as in Trochisk (n.) See Trochiscus.,
T as in Trochite (n.) A wheel-like joint of the stem of a fossil crinoid.,
T as in Trochlea (n.) A pulley.,
T as in Trochlea (n.) A pulley, or a structure resembling a pulley; as, the trochlea, or pulleylike end, of the humerus, which articulates with the ulna; or the trochlea, or fibrous ring, in the upper part of the orbit, through which the superior oblique, or trochlear, muscle of the eye passes.,
T as in Trochlear (n.) Shaped like, or resembling, a pulley; pertaining to, or connected with, a trochlea; as, a trochlear articular surface; the trochlear muscle of the eye.,
T as in Trochleary (a.) Pertaining to, or connected with, a trochlea; trochlear; as, the trochleary, or trochlear, nerve.,
T as in Trochoid (n.) The curve described by any point in a wheel rolling on a line; a cycloid; a roulette; in general, the curve described by any point fixedly connected with a moving curve while the moving curve rolls without slipping on a second fixed curve, the curves all being in one plane. Cycloids, epicycloids, hypocycloids, cardioids, etc., are all trochoids.,
T as in Trochoid (a.) Admitting of rotation on an axis; -- sometimes applied to a pivot joint like that between the atlas and axis in the vertebral column.,
T as in Trochoid (a.) Top-shaped; having a flat base and conical spire; -- said of certain shells.,
T as in Trochoid (a.) Of or pertaining to the genus Trochus or family Trochidae.,
T as in Trochoidal (a.) Of or pertaining to a trochoid; having the properties of a trochoid.,
T as in Trochoidal (a.) See Trochoid, a.,
T as in Trochometer (n.) A contrivance for computing the revolutions of a wheel; an odometer.,
T as in Trochosphere (n.) A young larval form of many annelids, mollusks, and bryozoans, in which a circle of cilia is developed around the anterior end.,
T as in Trochi (pl. ) of Trochus,
T as in Trochus (n.) Any one of numerous species of marine univalve shells belonging to Trochus and many allied genera of the family Trochidae. Some of the species are called also topshells.,
T as in Troco (n.) An old English game; -- called also lawn billiards.,
T as in Trod () imp. & p. p. of Tread.,
T as in Trodden () p. p. of Tread.,
T as in Trode () imp. of Tread.,
T as in Trode (n.) Tread; footing.,
T as in Troglodyte (n.) One of any savage race that dwells in caves, instead of constructing dwellings; a cave dweller. Most of the primitive races of man were troglodytes.,
T as in Troglodyte (n.) An anthropoid ape, as the chimpanzee.,
T as in Troglodyte (n.) The wren.,
T as in Troglodytes (n.) A genus of apes including the chimpanzee.,
T as in Troglodytes (n.) A genus of singing birds including the common wrens.,
T as in Troglodytic (a.) Alt. of Troglodytical,
T as in Troglodytical (a.) Of or pertaining to a troglodyte, or dweller in caves.,
T as in Trogon (n.) Any one of numerous species of beautiful tropical birds belonging to the family Trogonidae. They are noted for the brilliant colors and the resplendent luster of their plumage.,
T as in Trogonoid (a.) Like or pertaining to the trogons.,
T as in Trogue (n.) A wooden trough, forming a drain.,
T as in Troic (a.) Pertaining to Troy; Trojan.,
T as in Troilite (n.) Native iron protosulphide, FeS. It is known only in meteoric irons, and is usually in imbedded nodular masses of a bronze color.,
T as in Troili (pl. ) of Troilus,
T as in Troiluses (pl. ) of Troilus,
T as in Troilus (n.) A large, handsome American butterfly (Euph/ades, / Papilio, troilus). It is black, with yellow marginal spots on the front wings, and blue spots on the rear wings.,
T as in Trojan (a.) Of or pertaining to ancient Troy or its inhabitants.,
T as in Trojan (n.) A native or inhabitant of Troy.,
T as in Troll (n.) A supernatural being, often represented as of diminutive size, but sometimes as a giant, and fabled to inhabit caves, hills, and like places; a witch.,
T as in Trolled (imp. & p. p.) of Troll,
T as in Trolling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Troll,
T as in Troll (v. t.) To move circularly or volubly; to roll; to turn.,
T as in Troll (v. t.) To send about; to circulate, as a vessel in drinking.,
T as in Troll (v. t.) To sing the parts of in succession, as of a round, a catch, and the like; also, to sing loudly or freely.,
T as in Troll (v. t.) To angle for with a trolling line, or with a book drawn along the surface of the water; hence, to allure.,
T as in Troll (v. t.) To fish in; to seek to catch fish from.,
T as in Troll (v. i.) To roll; to run about; to move around; as, to troll in a coach and six.,
T as in Troll (v. i.) To move rapidly; to wag.,
T as in Troll (v. i.) To take part in trolling a song.,
T as in Troll (v. i.) To fish with a rod whose line runs on a reel; also, to fish by drawing the hook through the water.,
T as in Troll (n.) The act of moving round; routine; repetition.,
T as in Troll (n.) A song the parts of which are sung in succession; a catch; a round.,
T as in Troll (n.) A trolley.,
T as in Troller (n.) One who trolls.,
T as in Trolley (n.) Alt. of Trolly,
T as in Trolly (n.) A form of truck which can be tilted, for carrying railroad materials, or the like.,
T as in Trolly (n.) A narrow cart that is pushed by hand or drawn by an animal.,
T as in Trolly (n.) A truck from which the load is suspended in some kinds of cranes.,
T as in Trolly (n.) A truck which travels along the fixed conductors, and forms a means of connection between them and a railway car.,
T as in Trollmydames (n.) The game of nineholes.,
T as in Trollop (n.) A stroller; a loiterer; esp., an idle, untidy woman; a slattern; a slut; a whore.,
T as in Trollopee (n.) A kind of loose dress for women.,
T as in Trombone (n.) A powerful brass instrument of the trumpet kind, thought by some to be the ancient sackbut, consisting of a tube in three parts, bent twice upon itself and ending in a bell. The middle part, bent double, slips into the outer parts, as in a telescope, so that by change of the vibrating length any tone within the compass of the instrument (which may be bass or tenor or alto or even, in rare instances, soprano) is commanded. It is the only member of the family of wind instruments whose scale, both diatonic and chromatic, is complete without the aid of keys or pistons, and which can slide from note to note as smoothly as the human voice or a violin. Softly blown, it has a rich and mellow sound, which becomes harsh and blatant when the tones are forced; used with discretion, its effect is often solemn and majestic.,
T as in Trombone (n.) The common European bittern.,
T as in Trommel (n.) A revolving buddle or sieve for separating, or sizing, ores.,
T as in Tromp (n.) A blowing apparatus, in which air, drawn into the upper part of a vertical tube through side holes by a stream of water within, is carried down with the water into a box or chamber below which it is led to a furnace.,
T as in Tromp (n.) Alt. of Trompe,
T as in Trompe (n.) A trumpet; a trump.,
T as in Trompil (n.) An aperture in a tromp.,
T as in Tron (n.) See 3d Trone, 2.,
T as in Trona (n.) A native double salt, consisting of a combination of neutral and acid sodium carbonate, Na2CO3.2HNaCO3.2H2O, occurring as a white crystalline fibrous deposit from certain soda brine springs and lakes; -- called also urao, and by the ancients nitrum.,
T as in Tronage (n.) A toll or duty paid for weighing wool; also, the act of weighing wool.,
T as in Tronator (n.) An officer in London whose duty was to weigh wool.,
T as in Trone (n.) A throne.,
T as in Trone (n.) A small drain.,
T as in Trone (n.) Alt. of Trones,
T as in Trones (n.) A steelyard.,
T as in Trones (n.) A form of weighing machine for heavy wares, consisting of two horizontal bars crossing each other, beaked at the extremities, and supported by a wooden pillar. It is now mostly disused.,
T as in Troop (n.) A collection of people; a company; a number; a multitude.,
T as in Troop (n.) Soldiers, collectively; an army; -- now generally used in the plural.,
T as in Troop (n.) Specifically, a small body of cavalry, light horse, or dragoons, consisting usually of about sixty men, commanded by a captain; the unit of formation of cavalry, corresponding to the company in infantry. Formerly, also, a company of horse artillery; a battery.,
T as in Troop (n.) A company of stageplayers; a troupe.,
T as in Troop (n.) A particular roll of the drum; a quick march.,
T as in Trooped (imp. & p. p.) of Troop,
T as in Trooping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Troop,
T as in Troop (v. i.) To move in numbers; to come or gather in crowds or troops.,
T as in Troop (v. i.) To march on; to go forward in haste.,
T as in Troopbird (n.) Any troupial.,
T as in Trooper (n.) A soldier in a body of cavalry; a cavalryman; also, the horse of a cavalryman.,
T as in Troopfowl (n.) The American scaup duck.,
T as in Troopial (n.) Same as Troupial.,
T as in Troopmeal (adv.) By troops; in crowds.,
T as in Troopship (n.) A vessel built or fitted for the conveyance of troops; a transport.,
T as in Troostite (n.) Willemite.,
T as in Tropaeolin (n.) A name given to any one of a series of orange-red dyestuffs produced artificially from certain complex sulphonic acid derivatives of azo and diazo hydrocarbons of the aromatic series; -- so called because of the general resemblance to the shades of nasturtium (Tropaeolum).,
T as in Trope (n.) The use of a word or expression in a different sense from that which properly belongs to it; the use of a word or expression as changed from the original signification to another, for the sake of giving life or emphasis to an idea; a figure of speech.,
T as in Trope (n.) The word or expression so used.,
T as in Tropeine (n.) Any one of a series of artificial ethereal salts derived from the alkaloidal base tropine.,
T as in Trophi (n. pl.) The mouth parts of an insect, collectively, including the labrum, labium, maxillae, mandibles, and lingua, with their appendages.,
T as in Trophic (a.) Of or connected with nutrition; nitritional; nourishing; as, the so-called trophic nerves, which have a direct influence on nutrition.,
T as in Trophied (a.) Adorned with trophies.,
T as in Trophonian (a.) Of or pertaining to Trophonius, his architecture, or his cave and oracle.,
T as in Trophosome (n.) The nutritive zooids of a hydroid, collectively, as distinguished from the gonosome, or reproductive zooids.,
T as in Trophosperm (n.) The placenta.,
T as in Trophies (pl. ) of Trophy,
T as in Trophy (n.) A sign or memorial of a victory raised on the field of battle, or, in case of a naval victory, on the nearest land. Sometimes trophies were erected in the chief city of the conquered people.,
T as in Trophy (n.) The representation of such a memorial, as on a medal; esp. (Arch.), an ornament representing a group of arms and military weapons, offensive and defensive.,
T as in Trophy (n.) Anything taken from an enemy and preserved as a memorial of victory, as arms, flags, standards, etc.,
T as in Trophy (n.) Any evidence or memorial of victory or conquest; as, every redeemed soul is a trophy of grace.,
T as in Tropic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid obtained from atropine and certain other alkaloids, as a white crystalline substance slightly soluble in water.,
T as in Tropic (n.) One of the two small circles of the celestial sphere, situated on each side of the equator, at a distance of 23? 28/, and parallel to it, which the sun just reaches at its greatest declination north or south, and from which it turns again toward the equator, the northern circle being called the Tropic of Cancer, and the southern the Tropic of Capricorn, from the names of the two signs at which they touch the ecliptic.,
T as in Tropic (n.) One of the two parallels of terrestrial latitude corresponding to the celestial tropics, and called by the same names.,
T as in Tropic (n.) The region lying between these parallels of latitude, or near them on either side.,
T as in Tropic (a.) Of or pertaining to the tropics; tropical.,
T as in Tropical (n.) Of or pertaining to the tropics; characteristic of, or incident to, the tropics; being within the tropics; as, tropical climate; tropical latitudes; tropical heat; tropical diseases.,
T as in Tropical (n.) Rhetorically changed from its exact original sense; being of the nature of a trope; figurative; metaphorical.,
T as in Tropically (adv.) In a tropical manner; figuratively; metaphorically.,
T as in Tropidine (n.) An alkaloid, C8H13N, obtained by the chemical dehydration of tropine, as an oily liquid having a coninelike odor.,
T as in Tropilidene (n.) A liquid hydrocarbon obtained by the dry distillation of tropine with quicklime. It is regarded as being homologous with dipropargyl.,
T as in Tropine (n.) A white crystalline alkaloid, C8H15NO, produced by decomposing atropine.,
T as in Tropist (n.) One who deals in tropes; specifically, one who avoids the literal sense of the language of Scripture by explaining it as mere tropes and figures of speech.,
T as in Tropologic (a.) Alt. of Tropological,
T as in Tropological (a.) Characterized by tropes; varied by tropes; tropical.,
T as in Tropologize (v. t.) To use in a tropological sense, as a word; to make a trope of.,
T as in Tropology (n.) A rhetorical mode of speech, including tropes, or changes from the original import of the word.,
T as in Trossers (n. pl.) Trousers.,
T as in Trotted (imp. & p. p.) of Trot,
T as in Trotting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Trot,
T as in Trot (v. i.) To proceed by a certain gait peculiar to quadrupeds; to ride or drive at a trot. See Trot, n.,
T as in Trot (n.) Fig.: To run; to jog; to hurry.,
T as in Trot (v. t.) To cause to move, as a horse or other animal, in the pace called a trot; to cause to run without galloping or cantering.,
T as in Trot (v. i.) The pace of a horse or other quadruped, more rapid than a walk, but of various degrees of swiftness, in which one fore foot and the hind foot of the opposite side are lifted at the same time.,
T as in Trot (v. i.) Fig.: A jogging pace, as of a person hurrying.,
T as in Trot (v. i.) One who trots; a child; a woman.,
T as in Troth (n.) Belief; faith; fidelity.,
T as in Troth (n.) Truth; verity; veracity; as, by my troth.,
T as in Troth (n.) Betrothal.,
T as in Trothless (a.) Faitless; false; treacherous.,
T as in Trothplight (v. t.) To betroth.,
T as in Trothplight (a.) Betrothed; espoused; affianced.,
T as in Trothplight (n.) The act of betrothing, or plighting faith; betrothing.,
T as in Trothplighted (a.) Having fidelity pledged.,
T as in Trotter (n.) One that trots; especially, a horse trained to be driven in trotting matches.,
T as in Trotter (n.) The foot of an animal, especially that of a sheep; also, humorously, the human foot.,
T as in Trottoir (n.) Footpath; pavement; sidewalk.,
T as in Troubadour (n.) One of a school of poets who flourished from the eleventh to the thirteenth century, principally in Provence, in the south of France, and also in the north of Italy. They invented, and especially cultivated, a kind of lyrical poetry characterized by intricacy of meter and rhyme, and usually of a romantic, amatory strain.,
T as in Troublable (a.) Causing trouble; troublesome.,
T as in Troubled (imp. & p. p.) of Trouble,
T as in Troubling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Trouble,
T as in Trouble (v. t.) To put into confused motion; to disturb; to agitate.,
T as in Trouble (v. t.) To disturb; to perplex; to afflict; to distress; to grieve; to fret; to annoy; to vex.,
T as in Trouble (v. t.) To give occasion for labor to; -- used in polite phraseology; as, I will not trouble you to deliver the letter.,
T as in Trouble (a.) Troubled; dark; gloomy.,
T as in Trouble (v. t.) The state of being troubled; disturbance; agitation; uneasiness; vexation; calamity.,
T as in Trouble (v. t.) That which gives disturbance, annoyance, or vexation; that which afflicts.,
T as in Trouble (v. t.) A fault or interruption in a stratum.,
T as in Troubler (n.) One who troubles or disturbs; one who afflicts or molests; a disturber; as, a troubler of the peace.,
T as in Troublesome (a.) Giving trouble or anxiety; vexatious; burdensome; wearisome.,
T as in Troublous (a.) Full of trouble; causing trouble.,
T as in Trous-de-loup (pl. ) of Trou-de-loup,
T as in Trou-de-loup (n.) A pit in the form of an inverted cone or pyramid, constructed as an obstacle to the approach of an enemy, and having a pointed stake in the middle. The pits are called also trapholes.,
T as in Trough (n.) A long, hollow vessel, generally for holding water or other liquid, especially one formed by excavating a log longitudinally on one side; a long tray; also, a wooden channel for conveying water, as to a mill wheel.,
T as in Trough (n.) Any channel, receptacle, or depression, of a long and narrow shape; as, trough between two ridges, etc.,
T as in Trough-shell (n.) Any bivalve shell of the genus Mactra. See Mactra.,
T as in Troul (v. t. & i.) See Troll.,
T as in Trounced (imp. & p. p.) of Trounce,
T as in Trouncing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Trounce,
T as in Trounce (v. t.) To punish or beat severely; to whip smartly; to flog; to castigate.,
T as in Troupe (n.) A company or troop, especially the company pf performers in a play or an opera.,
T as in Troupial (n.) Any one of numerous species of bright-colored American birds belonging to Icterus and allied genera, especially Icterus icterus, a native of the West Indies and South America. Many of the species are called orioles in America.,
T as in Trouse (n.) Trousers.,
T as in Trousering (n.) Cloth or material for making trousers.,
T as in Trousers (n. pl.) A garment worn by men and boys, extending from the waist to the knee or to the ankle, and covering each leg separately.,
T as in Trousseau (n.) The collective lighter equipments or outfit of a bride, including clothes, jewelry, and the like; especially, that which is provided for her by her family.,
T as in Trout (n.) Any one of numerous species of fishes belonging to Salmo, Salvelinus, and allied genera of the family Salmonidae. They are highly esteemed as game fishes and for the quality of their flesh. All the species breed in fresh water, but after spawning many of them descend to the sea if they have an opportunity.,
T as in Trout (n.) Any one of several species of marine fishes more or less resembling a trout in appearance or habits, but not belonging to the same family, especially the California rock trouts, the common squeteague, and the southern, or spotted, squeteague; -- called also salt-water trout, sea trout, shad trout, and gray trout. See Squeteague, and Rock trout under Rock.,
T as in Troutbird (n.) The American golden plover.,
T as in Trout-colored (a.) White, with spots of black, bay, or sorrel; as, a trout-colored horse.,
T as in Troutlet (n.) A little trout; a troutling.,
T as in Troutling (n.) A little trout; a troutlet.,
T as in Trouvere (n.) Alt. of Trouveur,
T as in Trouveur (n.) One of a school of poets who flourished in Northern France from the eleventh to the fourteenth century.,
T as in Trover (n.) The gaining possession of any goods, whether by finding or by other means.,
T as in Trover (n.) An action to recover damages against one who found goods, and would not deliver them to the owner on demand; an action which lies in any case to recover the value of goods wrongfully converted by another to his own use. In this case the finding, though alleged, is an immaterial fact; the injury lies in the conversion.,
T as in Trow (n.) A boat with an open well amidships. It is used in spearing fish.,
T as in Trow (v. i. & t.) To believe; to trust; to think or suppose.,
T as in Trowel (n.) A mason's tool, used in spreading and dressing mortar, and breaking bricks to shape them.,
T as in Trowel (n.) A gardener's tool, somewhat like a scoop, used in taking up plants, stirring the earth, etc.,
T as in Trowel (n.) A tool used for smoothing a mold.,
T as in Troweled () Formed with a trowel; smoothed with a trowel; as, troweled stucco, that is, stucco laid on and ready for the reception of paint.,
T as in Trowelfuls (pl. ) of Trowelful,
T as in Trowelful (n.) As much as a trowel will hold; enough to fill a trowel.,
T as in Trowl (n.) See Troll.,
T as in Trowsed (a.) Wearing trousers.,
T as in Trowsers (n. pl.) Same as Trousers.,
T as in Troy (n.) Troy weight.,
T as in Troyounce (n.) See Troy ounce, under Troy weight, above, and under Ounce.,
T as in Truage (n.) A pledge of truth or peace made on payment of a tax.,
T as in Truage (n.) A tax or impost; tribute.,
T as in Truancy (n.) The act of playing truant, or the state of being truant; as, addicted to truancy.,
T as in Truand (n. & a.) See Truant.,
T as in Truant (n.) One who stays away from business or any duty; especially, one who stays out of school without leave; an idler; a loiterer; a shirk.,
T as in Truant (a.) Wandering from business or duty; loitering; idle, and shirking duty; as, a truant boy.,
T as in Truant (v. i.) To idle away time; to loiter, or wander; to play the truant.,
T as in Truant (v. t.) To idle away; to waste.,
T as in Truantly (adv.) Like a truant; in idleness.,
T as in Truantship (n.) The conduct of a truant; neglect of employment; idleness; truancy.,
T as in Trub (n.) A truffle.,
T as in Trubtall (n.) A short, squat woman.,
T as in Trubu (n.) An East India herring (Clupea toli) which is extensively caught for the sake of its roe and for its flesh.,
T as in Truce (n.) A suspension of arms by agreement of the commanders of opposing forces; a temporary cessation of hostilities, for negotiation or other purpose; an armistice.,
T as in Truce (n.) Hence, intermission of action, pain, or contest; temporary cessation; short quiet.,
T as in Trucebreaker (n.) One who violates a truce, covenant, or engagement.,
T as in Truceless (a.) Without a truce; unforbearing.,
T as in Truchman (n.) An interpreter. See Dragoman.,
T as in Trucidation (n.) The act of killing.,
T as in Truck (v. i.) A small wheel, as of a vehicle; specifically (Ord.), a small strong wheel, as of wood or iron, for a gun carriage.,
T as in Truck (v. i.) A low, wheeled vehicle or barrow for carrying goods, stone, and other heavy articles.,
T as in Truck (v. i.) A swiveling carriage, consisting of a frame with one or more pairs of wheels and the necessary boxes, springs, etc., to carry and guide one end of a locomotive or a car; -- sometimes called bogie in England. Trucks usually have four or six wheels.,
T as in Truck (v. i.) A small wooden cap at the summit of a flagstaff or a masthead, having holes in it for reeving halyards through.,
T as in Truck (v. i.) A small piece of wood, usually cylindrical or disk-shaped, used for various purposes.,
T as in Truck (v. i.) A freight car.,
T as in Truck (v. i.) A frame on low wheels or rollers; -- used for various purposes, as for a movable support for heavy bodies.,
T as in Truck (v. t.) To transport on a truck or trucks.,
T as in Trucked (imp. & p. p.) of Truck,
T as in trucking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Truck,
T as in Truck (v. t.) To exchange; to give in exchange; to barter; as, to truck knives for gold dust.,
T as in Truck (v. i.) To exchange commodities; to barter; to trade; to deal.,
T as in Truck (n.) Exchange of commodities; barter.,
T as in Truck (n.) Commodities appropriate for barter, or for small trade; small commodities; esp., in the United States, garden vegetables raised for the market.,
T as in Truck (n.) The practice of paying wages in goods instead of money; -- called also truck system.,
T as in Truckage (n.) The practice of bartering goods; exchange; barter; truck.,
T as in Truckage (n.) Money paid for the conveyance of goods on a truck; freight.,
T as in Trucker (n.) One who trucks; a trafficker.,
T as in Trucking (n.) The business of conveying goods on trucks.,
T as in Truckle (n.) A small wheel or caster.,
T as in Truckle (v. i.) To yield or bend obsequiously to the will of another; to submit; to creep.,
T as in Truckled (imp. & p. p.) of Truckle,
T as in Truckling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Truckle,
T as in Truckle (v. t.) To roll or move upon truckles, or casters; to trundle.,
T as in Truckle-bed (n.) A low bed on wheels, that may be pushed under another bed; a trundle-bed.,
T as in Truckler (n.) One who truckles, or yields servilely to the will of another.,
T as in Truckmen (pl. ) of Truckman,
T as in Truckman (n.) One who does business in the way of barter or exchange.,
T as in Truckman (n.) One who drives a truck, or whose business is the conveyance of goods on trucks.,
T as in Truculence (n.) Alt. of Truculency,
T as in Truculency (n.) The quality or state of being truculent; savageness of manners; ferociousness.,
T as in Truculent (a.) Fierce; savage; ferocious; barbarous; as, the truculent inhabitants of Scythia.,
T as in Truculent (a.) Cruel; destructive; ruthless.,
T as in Truculently (adv.) In a truculent manner.,
T as in Trudged (imp. & p. p.) of Trudge,
T as in Trudging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Trudge,
T as in Trudge (v. i.) To walk or march with labor; to jog along; to move wearily.,
T as in Trudgeman (n.) A truchman.,
T as in True (n.) Conformable to fact; in accordance with the actual state of things; correct; not false, erroneous, inaccurate, or the like; as, a true relation or narration; a true history; a declaration is true when it states the facts.,
T as in True (n.) Right to precision; conformable to a rule or pattern; exact; accurate; as, a true copy; a true likeness of the original.,
T as in True (n.) Steady in adhering to friends, to promises, to a prince, or the like; unwavering; faithful; loyal; not false, fickle, or perfidious; as, a true friend; a wife true to her husband; an officer true to his charge.,
T as in True (n.) Actual; not counterfeit, adulterated, or pretended; genuine; pure; real; as, true balsam; true love of country; a true Christian.,
T as in True (adv.) In accordance with truth; truly.,
T as in True-blue (a.) Of inflexible honesty and fidelity; -- a term derived from the true, or Coventry, blue, formerly celebrated for its unchanging color. See True blue, under Blue.,
T as in True-blue (n.) A person of inflexible integrity or fidelity.,
T as in True-born (a.) Of genuine birth; having a right by birth to any title; as, a true-born Englishman.,
T as in True-bred (a.) Of a genuine or right breed; as, a true-bred beast.,
T as in True-bred (a.) Being of real breeding or education; as, a true-bred gentleman.,
T as in True-hearted (a.) Of a faithful heart; honest; sincere; not faithless or deceitful; as, a truhearted friend.,
T as in Truelove (n.) One really beloved.,
T as in Truelove (n.) A plant. See Paris.,
T as in Truelove (n.) An unexplained word occurring in Chaucer, meaning, perhaps, an aromatic sweetmeat for sweetening the breath.,
T as in Trueness (n.) The quality of being true; reality; genuineness; faithfulness; sincerity; exactness; truth.,
T as in True-penny (n.) An honest fellow.,
T as in Truffle (n.) Any one of several kinds of roundish, subterranean fungi, usually of a blackish color. The French truffle (Tuber melanosporum) and the English truffle (T. aestivum) are much esteemed as articles of food.,
T as in Truffled (a.) Provided or cooked with truffles; stuffed with truffles; as, a truffled turkey.,
T as in Trug (n.) A trough, or tray.,
T as in Trug (n.) A hod for mortar.,
T as in Trug (n.) An old measure of wheat equal to two thirds of a bushel.,
T as in Trug (n.) A concubine; a harlot.,
T as in Trugging-house (n.) A brothel.,
T as in Truism (n.) An undoubted or self-evident truth; a statement which is pliantly true; a proposition needing no proof or argument; -- opposed to falsism.,
T as in Truismatic (a.) Of or pertaining to truisms; consisting of truisms.,
T as in Trull (n.) A drab; a strumpet; a harlot; a trollop.,
T as in Trull (n.) A girl; a wench; a lass.,
T as in Trullization (n.) The act of laying on coats of plaster with a trowel.,
T as in Truly (adv.) In a true manner; according to truth; in agreement with fact; as, to state things truly; the facts are truly represented.,
T as in Truly (adv.) Exactly; justly; precisely; accurately; as, to estimate truly the weight of evidence.,
T as in Truly (adv.) Sincerely; honestly; really; faithfully; as, to be truly attached to a lover; the citizens are truly loyal to their prince or their country.,
T as in Truly (adv.) Conformably to law; legally; legitimately.,
T as in Truly (adv.) In fact; in deed; in reality; in truth.,
T as in Trump (n.) A wind instrument of music; a trumpet, or sound of a trumpet; -- used chiefly in Scripture and poetry.,
T as in Trump (v. i.) To blow a trumpet.,
T as in Trump (n.) A winning card; one of a particular suit (usually determined by chance for each deal) any card of which takes any card of the other suits.,
T as in Trump (n.) An old game with cards, nearly the same as whist; -- called also ruff.,
T as in Trump (n.) A good fellow; an excellent person.,
T as in Trumped (imp. & p. p.) of Trump,
T as in Trumping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Trump,
T as in Trump (v. i.) To play a trump card when one of another suit has been led.,
T as in Trump (v. t.) To play a trump card upon; to take with a trump card; as, she trumped the first trick.,
T as in Trump (v. t.) To trick, or impose on; to deceive.,
T as in Trump (v. t.) To impose unfairly; to palm off.,
T as in Trumpery (n.) Deceit; fraud.,
T as in Trumpery (n.) Something serving to deceive by false show or pretense; falsehood; deceit; worthless but showy matter; hence, things worn out and of no value; rubbish.,
T as in Trumpery (a.) Worthless or deceptive in character.,
T as in Trumpet (n.) A wind instrument of great antiquity, much used in war and military exercises, and of great value in the orchestra. In consists of a long metallic tube, curved (once or twice) into a convenient shape, and ending in a bell. Its scale in the lower octaves is limited to the first natural harmonics; but there are modern trumpets capable, by means of valves or pistons, of producing every tone within their compass, although at the expense of the true ringing quality of tone.,
T as in Trumpet (n.) A trumpeter.,
T as in Trumpet (n.) One who praises, or propagates praise, or is the instrument of propagating it.,
T as in Trumpet (n.) A funnel, or short, fiaring pipe, used as a guide or conductor, as for yarn in a knitting machine.,
T as in Trumpeted (imp. & p. p.) of Trumpet,
T as in Trumpeting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Trumpet,
T as in Trumpet (v. t.) To publish by, or as by, sound of trumpet; to noise abroad; to proclaim; as, to trumpet good tidings.,
T as in Trumpet (v. i.) To sound loudly, or with a tone like a trumpet; to utter a trumplike cry.,
T as in Trumpeter (n.) One who sounds a trumpet.,
T as in Trumpeter (n.) One who proclaims, publishes, or denounces.,
T as in Trumpeter (n.) Any one of several species of long-legged South American birds of the genus Psophia, especially P. crepitans, which is abundant, and often domesticated and kept with other poultry by the natives. They are allied to the cranes. So called from their loud cry. Called also agami, and yakamik.,
T as in Trumpeter (n.) A variety of the domestic pigeon.,
T as in Trumpeter (n.) An American swan (Olor buccinator) which has a very loud note.,
T as in Trumpeter (n.) A large edible fish (Latris hecateia) of the family Cirrhitidae, native of Tasmania and New Zealand. It sometimes weighs as much as fifty or sixty pounds, and is highly esteemed as a food fish.,
T as in Trumpeting (n.) A channel cut behind the brick lining of a shaft.,
T as in Trumpets (n. pl.) A plant (Sarracenia flava) with long, hollow leaves.,
T as in Trumpet-shaped (a.) Tubular with one end dilated, as the flower of the trumpet creeper.,
T as in Trumpet-tongued (a.) Having a powerful, far-reaching voice or speech.,
T as in Trumpetweed (n.) An herbaceous composite plant (Eupatorium purpureum), often having hollow stems, and bearing purplish flowers in small corymbed heads.,
T as in Trumpetweed (n.) The sea trumpet.,
T as in Trumpetwood (n.) A tropical American tree (Cecropia peltata) of the Breadfruit family, having hollow stems, which are used for wind instruments; -- called also snakewood, and trumpet tree.,
T as in Trumpie (n.) The Richardson's skua (Stercorarius parasiticus).,
T as in Trumplike (a.) Resembling a trumpet, esp. in sound; as, a trumplike voice.,
T as in Truncal (a.) Of or pertaining to the trunk, or body.,
T as in Truncated (imp. & p. p.) of Truncate,
T as in Truncating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Truncate,
T as in Truncate (v. t.) To cut off; to lop; to maim.,
T as in Truncate (a.) Appearing as if cut off at the tip; as, a truncate leaf or feather.,
T as in Truncated (a.) Cut off; cut short; maimed.,
T as in Truncated (a.) Replaced, or cut off, by a plane, especially when equally inclined to the adjoining faces; as, a truncated edge.,
T as in Truncated (a.) Lacking the apex; -- said of certain spiral shells in which the apex naturally drops off.,
T as in Truncation (n.) The act of truncating, lopping, or cutting off.,
T as in Truncation (n.) The state of being truncated.,
T as in Truncation (n.) The replacement of an edge or solid angle by a plane, especially when the plane is equally inclined to the adjoining faces.,
T as in Trunch (n.) A stake; a small post.,
T as in Truncheon (n.) A short staff, a club; a cudgel; a shaft of a spear.,
T as in Truncheon (n.) A baton, or military staff of command.,
T as in Truncheon (n.) A stout stem, as of a tree, with the branches lopped off, to produce rapid growth.,
T as in Truncheon (v. t.) To beat with a truncheon.,
T as in Truncheoned (a.) Having a truncheon.,
T as in Truncheoneer (n.) A person armed with a truncheon.,
T as in Truncus (n.) The thorax of an insect. See Trunk, n., 5.,
T as in Trundle (v. i.) A round body; a little wheel.,
T as in Trundle (v. i.) A lind of low-wheeled cart; a truck.,
T as in Trundle (v. i.) A motion as of something moving upon little wheels or rollers; a rolling motion.,
T as in Trundle (v. i.) A lantern wheel. See under Lantern.,
T as in Trundle (v. i.) One of the bars of a lantern wheel.,
T as in Trundled (imp. & p. p.) of Trundle,
T as in Trundling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Trundle,
T as in Trundle (v. t.) To roll (a thing) on little wheels; as, to trundle a bed or a gun carriage.,
T as in Trundle (v. t.) To cause to roll or revolve; to roll along; as, to trundle a hoop or a ball.,
T as in Trundle (v. i.) To go or move on small wheels; as, a bed trundles under another.,
T as in Trundle (v. i.) To roll, or go by revolving, as a hoop.,
T as in Trundle-bed (n.) A low bed that is moved on trundles, or little wheels, so that it can be pushed under a higher bed; a truckle-bed; also, sometimes, a simiral bed without wheels.,
T as in Trundlehead (n.) One of the disks forming the ends of a lantern wheel or pinion.,
T as in Trundlehead (n.) The drumhead of a capstan; especially, the drumhead of the lower of two capstans on the sane axis.,
T as in Trundletail (n.) A round or curled-up tail; also, a dog with such a tail.,
T as in Trunk (n.) The stem, or body, of a tree, apart from its limbs and roots; the main stem, without the branches; stock; stalk.,
T as in Trunk (n.) The body of an animal, apart from the head and limbs.,
T as in Trunk (n.) The main body of anything; as, the trunk of a vein or of an artery, as distinct from the branches.,
T as in Trunk (n.) That part of a pilaster which is between the base and the capital, corresponding to the shaft of a column.,
T as in Trunk (n.) That segment of the body of an insect which is between the head and abdomen, and bears the wings and legs; the thorax; the truncus.,
T as in Trunk (n.) The proboscis of an elephant.,
T as in Trunk (n.) The proboscis of an insect.,
T as in Trunk (n.) A long tube through which pellets of clay, p/as, etc., are driven by the force of the breath.,
T as in Trunk (n.) A box or chest usually covered with leather, metal, or cloth, or sometimes made of leather, hide, or metal, for containing clothes or other goods; especially, one used to convey the effects of a traveler.,
T as in Trunk (n.) A flume or sluice in which ores are separated from the slimes in which they are contained.,
T as in Trunk (n.) A large pipe forming the piston rod of a steam engine, of sufficient diameter to allow one end of the connecting rod to be attached to the crank, and the other end to pass within the pipe directly to the piston, thus making the engine more compact.,
T as in Trunk (n.) A long, large box, pipe, or conductor, made of plank or metal plates, for various uses, as for conveying air to a mine or to a furnace, water to a mill, grain to an elevator, etc.,
T as in Trunk (v. t.) To lop off; to curtail; to truncate; to maim.,
T as in Trunk (v. t.) To extract (ores) from the slimes in which they are contained, by means of a trunk. See Trunk, n., 9.,
T as in Trunkback (n.) The leatherback.,
T as in Trunked (a.) Having (such) a trunk.,
T as in Trunkfish (n.) Any one of several species of plectognath fishes, belonging to the genus Ostracion, or the family Ostraciontidae, having an angular body covered with a rigid integument consisting of bony scales. Some of the species are called also coffer fish, and boxfish.,
T as in Trunkfuls (pl. ) of Trunkful,
T as in Trunkful (n.) As much as a trunk will hold; enough to fill a trunk.,
T as in Trunkwork (n.) Work or devices suitable to be concealed; a secret stratagem.,
T as in Trunnel (n.) A trundle.,
T as in Trunnel (n.) See Treenail.,
T as in Trunnion (n.) A cylindrical projection on each side of a piece, whether gun, mortar, or howitzer, serving to support it on the cheeks of the carriage. See Illust. of Cannon.,
T as in Trunnion (n.) A gudgeon on each side of an oscillating steam cylinder, to support it. It is usually tubular, to convey steam.,
T as in Trunnioned (a.) Provided with trunnions; as, the trunnioned cylinder of an oscillating steam engine.,
T as in Trusion (n.) The act of pushing or thrusting.,
T as in Truss (n.) A bundle; a package; as, a truss of grass.,
T as in Truss (n.) A padded jacket or dress worn under armor, to protect the body from the effects of friction; also, a part of a woman's dress; a stomacher.,
T as in Truss (n.) A bandage or apparatus used in cases of hernia, to keep up the reduced parts and hinder further protrusion, and for other purposes.,
T as in Truss (n.) A tuft of flowers formed at the top of the main stalk, or stem, of certain plants.,
T as in Truss (n.) The rope or iron used to keep the center of a yard to the mast.,
T as in Truss (n.) An assemblage of members of wood or metal, supported at two points, and arranged to transmit pressure vertically to those points, with the least possible strain across the length of any member. Architectural trusses when left visible, as in open timber roofs, often contain members not needed for construction, or are built with greater massiveness than is requisite, or are composed in unscientific ways in accordance with the exigencies of style.,
T as in Trussed (imp. & p. p.) of Truss,
T as in Trussing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Truss,
T as in Truss (n.) To bind or pack close; to make into a truss.,
T as in Truss (n.) To take fast hold of; to seize and hold firmly; to pounce upon.,
T as in Truss (n.) To strengthen or stiffen, as a beam or girder, by means of a brace or braces.,
T as in Truss (n.) To skewer; to make fast, as the wings of a fowl to the body in cooking it.,
T as in Truss (n.) To execute by hanging; to hang; -- usually with up.,
T as in Trussing (n.) The timbers, etc., which form a truss, taken collectively.,
T as in Trussing (n.) The art of stiffening or bracing a set of timbers, or the like, by putting in struts, ties, etc., till it has something of the character of a truss.,
T as in Trussing (n.) The act of a hawk, or other bird of prey, in seizing its quarry, and soaring with it into air.,
T as in Trust (n.) Assured resting of the mind on the integrity, veracity, justice, friendship, or other sound principle, of another person; confidence; reliance; reliance.,
T as in Trust (n.) Credit given; especially, delivery of property or merchandise in reliance upon future payment; exchange without immediate receipt of an equivalent; as, to sell or buy goods on trust.,
T as in Trust (n.) Assured anticipation; dependence upon something future or contingent, as if present or actual; hope; belief.,
T as in Trust (n.) That which is committed or intrusted to one; something received in confidence; charge; deposit.,
T as in Trust (n.) The condition or obligation of one to whom anything is confided; responsible charge or office.,
T as in Trust (n.) That upon which confidence is reposed; ground of reliance; hope.,
T as in Trust (n.) An estate devised or granted in confidence that the devisee or grantee shall convey it, or dispose of the profits, at the will, or for the benefit, of another; an estate held for the use of another; a confidence respecting property reposed in one person, who is termed the trustee, for the benefit of another, who is called the cestui que trust.,
T as in Trust (n.) An organization formed mainly for the purpose of regulating the supply and price of commodities, etc.; as, a sugar trust.,
T as in Trust (a.) Held in trust; as, trust property; trustmoney.,
T as in Trusted (imp. & p. p.) of Trust,
T as in Trusting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Trust,
T as in Trust (n.) To place confidence in; to rely on, to confide, or repose faith, in; as, we can not trust those who have deceived us.,
T as in Trust (n.) To give credence to; to believe; to credit.,
T as in Trust (n.) To hope confidently; to believe; -- usually with a phrase or infinitive clause as the object.,
T as in Trust (n.) to show confidence in a person by intrusting (him) with something.,
T as in Trust (n.) To commit, as to one's care; to intrust.,
T as in Trust (n.) To give credit to; to sell to upon credit, or in confidence of future payment; as, merchants and manufacturers trust their customers annually with goods.,
T as in Trust (n.) To risk; to venture confidently.,
T as in Trust (v. i.) To have trust; to be credulous; to be won to confidence; to confide.,
T as in Trust (v. i.) To be confident, as of something future; to hope.,
T as in Trust (v. i.) To sell or deliver anything in reliance upon a promise of payment; to give credit.,
T as in Trustee (n.) A person to whom property is legally committed in trust, to be applied either for the benefit of specified individuals, or for public uses; one who is intrusted with property for the benefit of another; also, a person in whose hands the effects of another are attached in a trustee process.,
T as in Trustee (v. t.) To commit (property) to the care of a trustee; as, to trustee an estate.,
T as in Trustee (v. t.) To attach (a debtor's wages, credits, or property in the hands of a third person) in the interest of the creditor.,
T as in Trusteeship (n.) The office or duty of a trustee.,
T as in Truster (n.) One who trusts, or credits.,
T as in Truster (n.) One who makes a trust; -- the correlative of trustee.,
T as in Trustful (a.) Full of trust; trusting.,
T as in Trustful (a.) Worthy of trust; faithful; trusty; trustworthy.,
T as in Trustily (adv.) In a trusty manner.,
T as in Trustiness (n.) The quality or state of being trusty.,
T as in Trusting (a.) Having or exercising trust; confiding; unsuspecting; trustful.,
T as in Trustless (a.) That may not be trusted; not worthy of trust; unfaithful.,
T as in Trustworthy (a.) Worthy of trust or confidence; trusty.,
T as in Trusty (superl.) Admitting of being safely trusted; justly deserving confidence; fit to be confided in; trustworthy; reliable.,
T as in Trusty (superl.) Hence, not liable to fail; strong; firm.,
T as in Trusty (superl.) Involving trust; as, a trusty business.,
T as in Truths (pl. ) of Truth,
T as in Truth (n.) The quality or being true; as: -- (a) Conformity to fact or reality; exact accordance with that which is, or has been; or shall be.,
T as in Truth (n.) Conformity to rule; exactness; close correspondence with an example, mood, object of imitation, or the like.,
T as in Truth (n.) Fidelity; constancy; steadfastness; faithfulness.,
T as in Truth (n.) The practice of speaking what is true; freedom from falsehood; veracity.,
T as in Truth (n.) That which is true or certain concerning any matter or subject, or generally on all subjects; real state of things; fact; verity; reality.,
T as in Truth (n.) A true thing; a verified fact; a true statement or proposition; an established principle, fixed law, or the like; as, the great truths of morals.,
T as in Truth (n.) Righteousness; true religion.,
T as in Truth (v. t.) To assert as true; to declare.,
T as in Truthful (a.) Full of truth; veracious; reliable.,
T as in Truthless (a.) Devoid of truth; dishonest; dishonest; spurious; faithless.,
T as in Truth-lover (n.) One who loves the truth.,
T as in Truthness (n.) Truth.,
T as in Truth-teller (n.) One who tells the truth.,
T as in Truthy (a.) Truthful; likely; probable.,
T as in Trutination (n.) The act of weighing.,
T as in Truttaceous (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a trout; as, fish of the truttaceous kind.,
T as in tried (imp. & p. p.) of Try,
T as in Trying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Try,
T as in Try (v. t.) To divide or separate, as one sort from another; to winnow; to sift; to pick out; -- frequently followed by out; as, to try out the wild corn from the good.,
T as in Try (v. t.) To purify or refine, as metals; to melt out, and procure in a pure state, as oil, tallow, lard, etc.,
T as in Try (v. t.) To prove by experiment; to apply a test to, for the purpose of determining the quality; to examine; to prove; to test; as, to try weights or measures by a standard; to try a man's opinions.,
T as in Try (v. t.) To subject to severe trial; to put to the test; to cause suffering or trouble to.,
T as in Try (v. t.) To experiment with; to test by use; as, to try a remedy for disease; to try a horse.,
T as in Try (v. t.) To strain; to subject to excessive tests; as, the light tries his eyes; repeated disappointments try one's patience.,
T as in Try (v. t.) To examine or investigate judicially; to examine by witnesses or other judicial evidence and the principles of law; as, to try a cause, or a criminal.,
T as in Try (v. t.) To settle; to decide; to determine; specifically, to decide by an appeal to arms; as, to try rival claims by a duel; to try conclusions.,
T as in Try (v. t.) To experience; to have or gain knowledge of by experience.,
T as in Try (v. t.) To essay; to attempt; to endeavor.,
T as in Try (v. i.) To exert strength; to endeavor; to make an effort or an attempt; as, you must try hard if you wish to learn.,
T as in Try (v. i.) To do; to fare; as, how do you try!,
T as in Try (n.) A screen, or sieve, for grain.,
T as in Try (n.) Act of trying; attempt; experiment; trial.,
T as in Try (v. t.) Refined; select; excellent; choice.,
T as in Trygon (n.) Any one of several species of large sting rays belonging to Trygon and allied genera.,
T as in Trying (a.) Adapted to try, or put to severe trial; severe; afflictive; as, a trying occasion or position.,
T as in Trypsin (n.) A proteolytic ferment, or enzyme, present in the pancreatic juice. Unlike the pepsin of the gastric juice, it acts in a neutral or alkaline fluid, and not only converts the albuminous matter of the food into soluble peptones, but also, in part, into leucin and tyrosin.,
T as in Trypsinogen (n.) The antecedent of trypsin, a substance which is contained in the cells of the pancreas and gives rise to the trypsin.,
T as in Tryptic (a.) Relating to trypsin or to its action; produced by trypsin; as, trypsin digestion.,
T as in Tryptone (n.) The peptone formed by pancreatic digestion; -- so called because it is formed through the agency of the ferment trypsin.,
T as in Trysail (n.) A fore-and-aft sail, bent to a gaff, and hoisted on a lower mast or on a small mast, called the trysail mast, close abaft a lower mast; -- used chiefly as a storm sail. Called also spencer.,
T as in Try-square (n.) An instrument used by carpenters, joiners, etc., for laying off right angles off right angles, and testing whether work is square.,
T as in Tryst (n.) Trust.,
T as in Tryst (n.) An appointment to meet; also, an appointed place or time of meeting; as, to keep tryst; to break tryst.,
T as in Tryst (n.) To trust.,
T as in Tryst (n.) To agree with to meet at a certain place; to make an appointment with.,
T as in Tryst (v. i.) To mutually agree to meet at a certain place.,
T as in Tryster (n.) One who makes an appointment, or tryst; one who meets with another.,
T as in Trysting (n.) An appointment; a tryst.,
T as in Tsar (n.) The title of the emperor of Russia. See Czar.,
T as in Tsarina (n.) Alt. of Tsaritsa,
T as in Tsaritsa (n.) The title of the empress of Russia. See Czarina.,
T as in Tschakmeck (n.) The chameck.,
T as in Tschego (n.) A West African anthropoid ape allied to the gorilla and chimpanzee, and by some considered only a variety of the chimpanzee. It is noted for building large, umbrella-shaped nests in trees. Called also tscheigo, tschiego, nschego, nscheigo.,
T as in Tsebe (n.) The springbok.,
T as in Tsetse (n.) A venomous two-winged African fly (Glossina morsitans) whose bite is very poisonous, and even fatal, to horses and cattle, but harmless to men. It renders extensive districts in which it abounds uninhabitable during certain seasons of the year.,
T as in T square () See under T.,
T as in Tuatera (n.) See Hatteria.,
T as in Tub (n.) An open wooden vessel formed with staves, bottom, and hoops; a kind of short cask, half barrel, or firkin, usually with but one head, -- used for various purposes.,
T as in Tub (n.) The amount which a tub contains, as a measure of quantity; as, a tub of butter; a tub of camphor, which is about 1 cwt., etc.,
T as in Tub (n.) Any structure shaped like a tub: as, a certain old form of pulpit; a short, broad boat, etc., -- often used jocosely or opprobriously.,
T as in Tub (n.) A sweating in a tub; a tub fast.,
T as in Tub (n.) A small cask; as, a tub of gin.,
T as in Tub (n.) A box or bucket in which coal or ore is sent up a shaft; -- so called by miners.,
T as in Tubbed (imp. & p. p.) of Tub,
T as in Tubbing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tub,
T as in Tub (v. t.) To plant or set in a tub; as, to tub a plant.,
T as in Tub (i.) To make use of a bathing tub; to lie or be in a bath; to bathe.,
T as in Tuba (n.) An ancient trumpet.,
T as in Tuba (n.) A sax-tuba. See Sax-tuba.,
T as in Tubal (a.) Of or pertaining to a tube; specifically, of or pertaining to one of the Fallopian tubes; as, tubal pregnancy.,
T as in Tubbing (n.) The forming of a tub; also, collectively, materials for tubs.,
T as in Tubbing (n.) A lining of timber or metal around the shaft of a mine; especially, a series of cast-iron cylinders bolted together, used to enable those who sink a shaft to penetrate quicksand, water, etc., with safety.,
T as in Tubby (a.) Resembling a tub; specifically sounding dull and without resonance, like a tub; wanting elasticity or freedom of sound; as, a tubby violin.,
T as in Tube (n.) A hollow cylinder, of any material, used for the conveyance of fluids, and for various other purposes; a pipe.,
T as in Tube (n.) A telescope.,
T as in Tube (n.) A vessel in animal bodies or plants, which conveys a fluid or other substance.,
T as in Tube (n.) The narrow, hollow part of a gamopetalous corolla.,
T as in Tube (n.) A priming tube, or friction primer. See under Priming, and Friction.,
T as in Tube (n.) A small pipe forming part of the boiler, containing water and surrounded by flame or hot gases, or else surrounded by water and forming a flue for the gases to pass through.,
T as in Tube (n.) A more or less cylindrical, and often spiral, case secreted or constructed by many annelids, crustaceans, insects, and other animals, for protection or concealment. See Illust. of Tubeworm.,
T as in Tube (n.) One of the siphons of a bivalve mollusk.,
T as in Tubed (imp. & p. p.) of Tube,
T as in Tubing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tube,
T as in Tube (v. t.) To furnish with a tube; as, to tube a well.,
T as in Tubeform (a.) In the form of a tube; tubular; tubiform.,
T as in Tube-nosed (a.) Having the nostrils prolonged in the form of horny tubes along the sides of the beak; -- said of certain sea birds.,
T as in Tube-nosed (a.) Belonging to the Tubinares.,
T as in Tuber (n.) A fleshy, rounded stem or root, usually containing starchy matter, as the potato or arrowroot; a thickened root-stock. See Illust. of Tuberous.,
T as in Tuber (n.) A genus of fungi. See Truffle.,
T as in Tuber (n.) A tuberosity; a tubercle.,
T as in Tubercle (n.) A small knoblike prominence or excrescence, whether natural or morbid; as, a tubercle on a plant; a tubercle on a bone; the tubercles appearing on the body in leprosy.,
T as in Tubercle (n.) A small mass or aggregation of morbid matter; especially, the deposit which accompanies scrofula or phthisis. This is composed of a hard, grayish, or yellowish, translucent or opaque matter, which gradually softens, and excites suppuration in its vicinity. It is most frequently found in the lungs, causing consumption.,
T as in Tubercled (a.) Having tubercles; affected with, tubercles; tuberculate; as, a tubercled lung or stalk.,
T as in Tubercular (a.) Having tubercles; affected with tubercles; tubercled; tuberculate.,
T as in Tubercular (a.) Like a tubercle; as, a tubercular excrescence.,
T as in Tubercular (a.) Characterized by the development of tubercles; as, tubercular diathesis.,
T as in Tuberculate (a.) Alt. of Tuberculated,
T as in Tuberculated (a.) Tubercled; tubercular.,
T as in Tuberculin (n.) A fluid containing the products formed by the growth of the tubercle bacillus in a suitable culture medium.,
T as in Tuberculization (n.) The development of tubercles; the condition of one who is affected with tubercles.,
T as in Tuberculose (a.) Alt. of Tuberculous,
T as in Tuberculous (a.) Having tubercles; affected with, or characterized by, tubercles; tubercular.,
T as in Tuberculosis (n.) A constitutional disease characterized by the production of tubercles in the internal organs, and especially in the lungs, where it constitutes the most common variety of pulmonary consumption.,
T as in Tubercula (pl. ) of Tuberculum,
T as in Tuberculum (n.) A tubercle.,
T as in Tuberiferous (a.) Producing or bearing tubers.,
T as in Tuberose (n.) A plant (Polianthes tuberosa) with a tuberous root and a liliaceous flower. It is much cultivated for its beautiful and fragrant white blossoms.,
T as in Tuberose (a.) Tuberous.,
T as in Tuberosities (pl. ) of Tuberosity,
T as in Tuberosity (n.) The state of being tuberous.,
T as in Tuberosity (n.) An obtuse or knoblike prominence; a protuberance.,
T as in Tuberous (a.) Covered with knobby or wartlike prominences; knobbed.,
T as in Tuberous (a.) Consisting of, or bearing, tubers; resembling a tuber.,
T as in Tube-shell (n.) Any bivalve mollusk which secretes a shelly tube around its siphon, as the watering-shell.,
T as in Tubeworm (n.) Any annelid which constructs a tube; one of the Tubicolae.,
T as in Tubfish (n.) The sapphirine gurnard (Trigla hirundo). See Illust. under Gurnard.,
T as in Tubfuls (pl. ) of Tubful,
T as in Tubful (n.) As much as a tub will hold; enough to fill a tub.,
T as in Tubicinate (v. i.) To blow a trumpet.,
T as in Tubicolae (n. pl.) A division of annelids including those which construct, and habitually live in, tubes. The head or anterior segments usually bear gills and cirri. Called also Sedentaria, and Capitibranchiata. See Serpula, and Sabella.,
T as in Tubicolar (a.) Tubicolous.,
T as in Tubicole (n.) One of the Tubicolae.,
T as in Tubicolous (a.) Inhabiting a tube; as, tubicolous worms.,
T as in Tubicorn (n.) Any ruminant having horns composed of a bony axis covered with a horny sheath; a hollow-horned ruminant.,
T as in Tubicornous (a.) Having hollow horns.,
T as in Tubiform (a.) Having the form of a tube; tubeform.,
T as in Tubinares (n. pl.) A tribe of sea birds comprising the petrels, shearwaters, albatrosses, hagdons, and allied birds having tubular horny nostrils.,
T as in Tubing (n.) The act of making tubes.,
T as in Tubing (n.) A series of tubes; tubes, collectively; a length or piece of a tube; material for tubes; as, leather tubing.,
T as in Tubipora (n.) A genus of halcyonoids in which the skeleton, or coral (called organ-pipe coral), consists of a mass of parallel cylindrical tubes united at intervals by transverse plates. These corals are usually red or purple and form large masses. They are natives of the tropical parts of the Indian and Pacific Oceans.,
T as in Tubipore (n.) Any species of the genus Tubipora.,
T as in Tubiporite (n.) Any fossil coral of the genus Syringopora consisting of a cluster of upright tubes united together by small transverse tubules.,
T as in Tubivalve (n.) A shell or tube formed by an annelid, as a serpula.,
T as in Tubmen (pl. ) of Tubman,
T as in Tubman (n.) One of the two most experienced barristers in the Court of Exchequer. Cf. Postman, 2.,
T as in Tubular (a.) Having the form of a tube, or pipe; consisting of a pipe; fistular; as, a tubular snout; a tubular calyx. Also, containing, or provided with, tubes.,
T as in Tubularia (n.) A genus of hydroids having large, naked, flowerlike hydranths at the summits of long, slender, usually simple, stems. The gonophores are small, and form clusters at the bases of the outer tentacles.,
T as in Tubulariae (n. pl.) See Tubularida.,
T as in Tubularian (n.) Any hydroid belonging to the suborder Tubularida.,
T as in Tubularian (a.) Of or pertaining to the tubularians.,
T as in Tubularida (n. pl.) An extensive division of Hydroidea; the tubularians; -- called also Athecata, Gymnoblastea, and Tubulariae.,
T as in Tubulate (a.) Tubular; tubulated; tubulous.,
T as in Tubulated (a.) Made in the form of a small tube; provided with a tube, or elongated opening.,
T as in Tubulation (n.) The act of shaping or making a tube, or of providing with a tube; also, a tube or tubulure; as, the tubulation of a retort.,
T as in Tubulature (n.) A tubulure.,
T as in Tubule (n.) A small pipe or fistular body; a little tube.,
T as in Tubule (n.) A minute tube lined with glandular epithelium; as, the uriniferous tubules of the kidney.,
T as in Tubulibranchian (n.) One of the Tubulibranchiata.,
T as in Tubulibranchiata (n. pl.) A group of gastropod mollusks having a tubular shell. Vermetus is an example.,
T as in Tubulicole (n.) Any hydroid which has tubular chitinous stems.,
T as in Tubulidentate (a.) Having teeth traversed by canals; -- said of certain edentates.,
T as in Tubuliform (a.) Having the form of a small tube.,
T as in Tubulipore (n.) Any one of numerous species of Bryozoa belonging to Tubulipora and allied genera, having tubular calcareous calicles.,
T as in Tubulose (a.) Alt. of Tubulous,
T as in Tubulous (a.) Resembling, or in the form of, a tube; longitudinally hollow; specifically (Bot.), having a hollow cylindrical corolla, often expanded or toothed at the border; as, a tubulose flower.,
T as in Tubulous (a.) Containing, or consisting of, small tubes; specifically (Bot.), composed wholly of tubulous florets; as, a tubulous compound flower.,
T as in Tubulure (n.) A short tubular opening at the top of a retort, or at the top or side of a bottle; a tubulation.,
T as in Tucan (n.) The Mexican pocket gopher (Geomys Mexicanus). It resembles the common pocket gopher of the Western United States, but is larger. Called also tugan, and tuza.,
T as in Tucet (n.) See Tucket, a steak.,
T as in Tuch (n.) A dark-colored kind of marble; touchstone.,
T as in Tuck (n.) A long, narrow sword; a rapier.,
T as in Tuck (n.) The beat of a drum.,
T as in Tucked (imp. & p. p.) of Tuck,
T as in Tucking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tuck,
T as in Tuck (v. t.) To draw up; to shorten; to fold under; to press into a narrower compass; as, to tuck the bedclothes in; to tuck up one's sleeves.,
T as in Tuck (v. t.) To make a tuck or tucks in; as, to tuck a dress.,
T as in Tuck (v. t.) To inclose; to put within; to press into a close place; as, to tuck a child into a bed; to tuck a book under one's arm, or into a pocket.,
T as in Tuck (v. t.) To full, as cloth.,
T as in Tuck (v. i.) To contract; to draw together.,
T as in Tuck (n.) A horizontal sewed fold, such as is made in a garment, to shorten it; a plait.,
T as in Tuck (n.) A small net used for taking fish from a larger one; -- called also tuck-net.,
T as in Tuck (n.) A pull; a lugging.,
T as in Tuck (n.) The part of a vessel where the ends of the bottom planks meet under the stern.,
T as in Tuck (n.) Food; pastry; sweetmeats.,
T as in Tuckahoe (n.) A curious vegetable production of the Southern Atlantic United States, growing under ground like a truffle and often attaining immense size. The real nature is unknown. Called also Indian bread, and Indian loaf.,
T as in Tucker (n.) One who, or that which, tucks; specifically, an instrument with which tuck are made.,
T as in Tucker (n.) A narrow piece of linen or the like, folded across the breast, or attached to the gown at the neck, forming a part of a woman's dress in the 17th century and later.,
T as in Tucker (v. t.) A fuller.,
T as in Tucker (v. t.) To tire; to weary; -- usually with out.,
T as in Tucket (n.) A slight flourish on a trumpet; a fanfare.,
T as in Tucket (n.) A steak; a collop.,
T as in Tuck-net (n.) See Tuck, n., 2.,
T as in Tucum (n.) A fine, strong fiber obtained from the young leaves of a Brazilian palm (Astrocaryum vulgare), used for cordage, bowstrings, etc.; also, the plant yielding this fiber. Called also tecum, and tecum fiber.,
T as in Tucuma (n.) A Brazilian palm (Astrocaryum Tucuma) which furnishes an edible fruit.,
T as in Tudor (a.) Of or pertaining to a royal line of England, descended from Owen Tudor of Wales, who married the widowed queen of Henry V. The first reigning Tudor was Henry VII.; the last, Elizabeth.,
T as in Tue (n.) The parson bird.,
T as in Tuefall (n.) See To-fall.,
T as in Tue-iron (n.) See Tuyere.,
T as in Tue-irons (n. pl.) A pair of blacksmith's tongs.,
T as in Tuesday (n.) The third day of the week, following Monday and preceding Wednesday.,
T as in Tuet (n.) The lapwing.,
T as in Tufa () A soft or porous stone formed by depositions from water, usually calcareous; -- called also calcareous tufa.,
T as in Tufa () A friable volcanic rock or conglomerate, formed of consolidated cinders, or scoria.,
T as in Tufaceous (a.) Pertaining to tufa; consisting of, or resembling, tufa.,
T as in Tuff (n.) Same as Tufa.,
T as in Tuffoon (n.) See Typhoon.,
T as in Tuft (n.) A collection of small, flexible, or soft things in a knot or bunch; a waving or bending and spreading cluster; as, a tuft of flowers or feathers.,
T as in Tuft (n.) A cluster; a clump; as, a tuft of plants.,
T as in Tuft (n.) A nobleman, or person of quality, especially in the English universities; -- so called from the tuft, or gold tassel, on the cap worn by them.,
T as in Tufted (imp. & p. p.) of Tuft,
T as in Tufting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tuft,
T as in Tuft (v. t.) To separate into tufts.,
T as in Tuft (v. t.) To adorn with tufts or with a tuft.,
T as in Tuft (v. i.) To grow in, or form, a tuft or tufts.,
T as in Tuf-taffeta (n.) A silk fabric formerly in use, having a nap or pile.,
T as in Tufted (a.) Adorned with a tuft; as, the tufted duck.,
T as in Tufted (a.) Growing in tufts or clusters; tufty.,
T as in Tufthunter (n.) A hanger-on to noblemen, or persons of quality, especially in English universities; a toady. See 1st Tuft, 3.,
T as in Tufthunting (n.) The practice of seeking after, and hanging on, noblemen, or persons of quality, especially in English universities.,
T as in Tufty (a.) Abounding with tufts.,
T as in Tufty (a.) Growing in tufts or clusters.,
T as in Tugged (imp. & p. p.) of Tug,
T as in Tugging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tug,
T as in Tug (v. t.) To pull or draw with great effort; to draw along with continued exertion; to haul along; to tow; as, to tug a loaded cart; to tug a ship into port.,
T as in Tug (v. t.) To pull; to pluck.,
T as in Tug (v. i.) To pull with great effort; to strain in labor; as, to tug at the oar; to tug against the stream.,
T as in Tug (v. i.) To labor; to strive; to struggle.,
T as in Tug (n.) A pull with the utmost effort, as in the athletic contest called tug of war; a supreme effort.,
T as in Tug (n.) A sort of vehicle, used for conveying timber and heavy articles.,
T as in Tug (n.) A small, powerful steamboat used to tow vessels; -- called also steam tug, tugboat, and towboat.,
T as in Tug (n.) A trace, or drawing strap, of a harness.,
T as in Tug (n.) An iron hook of a hoisting tub, to which a tackle is affixed.,
T as in Tugan (n.) Same as Tucan.,
T as in Tugboat (n.) See Tug, n., 3.,
T as in Tugger (n.) One who tugs.,
T as in Tuggingly (adv.) In a tugging manner; with laborious pulling.,
T as in Tulle (n.) In plate armor, a suspended plate in from of the thigh. See Illust. of Tasses.,
T as in Tuition (n.) Superintending care over a young person; the particular watch and care of a tutor or guardian over his pupil or ward; guardianship.,
T as in Tuition (n.) Especially, the act, art, or business of teaching; instruction; as, children are sent to school for tuition; his tuition was thorough.,
T as in Tuition (n.) The money paid for instruction; the price or payment for instruction.,
T as in Tuitionary (a.) Of or pertaining to tuition.,
T as in Tuko-tuko (n.) A burrowing South American rodent (Ctenomys Braziliensis). It has small eyes and ears and a short tail. It resembles the pocket gopher in size, form, and habits, but is more nearly allied to the porcupines.,
T as in Tula metal () An alloy of silver, copper, and lead made at Tula in Russia.,
T as in Tule (n.) A large bulrush (Scirpus lacustris, and S. Tatora) growing abundantly on overflowed land in California and elsewhere.,
T as in Tulip (n.) Any plant of the liliaceous genus Tulipa. Many varieties are cultivated for their beautiful, often variegated flowers.,
T as in Tulip-eared (a.) Having erect, pointed ears; prick-eared; -- said of certain dogs.,
T as in Tulipist (n.) A person who is especially devoted to the cultivation of tulips.,
T as in Tulipomania (n.) A violent passion for the acquisition or cultivation of tulips; -- a word said by Beckman to have been coined by Menage.,
T as in Tulipomaniac (n.) One who is affected with tulipomania.,
T as in Tulip-shell (n.) A large, handsomely colored, marine univalve shell (Fasciolaria tulipa) native of the Southern United States. The name is sometimes applied also to other species of Fasciolaria.,
T as in Tulipwood (n.) The beautiful rose-colored striped wood of a Brazilian tree (Physocalymna floribunda), much used by cabinetmakers for inlaying.,
T as in Tull (v. t.) To allure; to tole.,
T as in Tulle (n.) A kind of silk lace or light netting, used for veils, etc.,
T as in Tullian (a.) Belonging to, or in the style of, Tully (Marcus Tullius Cicero).,
T as in Tullibee (n.) A whitefish (Coregonus tullibee) found in the Great Lakes of North America; -- called also mongrel whitefish.,
T as in Tumbled (imp. & p. p.) of Tumble,
T as in Tumbling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tumble,
T as in Tumble (v. i.) To roll over, or to and fro; to throw one's self about; as, a person on pain tumbles and tosses.,
T as in Tumble (v. i.) To roll down; to fall suddenly and violently; to be precipitated; as, to tumble from a scaffold.,
T as in Tumble (v. i.) To play tricks by various movements and contortions of the body; to perform the feats of an acrobat.,
T as in Tumble (v. t.) To turn over; to turn or throw about, as for examination or search; to roll or move in a rough, coarse, or unceremonious manner; to throw down or headlong; to precipitate; -- sometimes with over, about, etc.; as, to tumble books or papers.,
T as in Tumble (v. t.) To disturb; to rumple; as, to tumble a bed.,
T as in Tumble (n.) Act of tumbling, or rolling over; a fall.,
T as in Tumblebug (n.) See Tumbledung.,
T as in Tumble-down (a.) Ready to fall; dilapidated; ruinous; as, a tumble-down house.,
T as in Tumbledung (n.) Any one of numerous species of scaraboid beetles belonging to Scarabaeus, Copris, Phanaeus, and allied genera. The female lays her eggs in a globular mass of dung which she rolls by means of her hind legs to a burrow excavated in the earth in which she buries it.,
T as in Tumbler (n.) One who tumbles; one who plays tricks by various motions of the body; an acrobat.,
T as in Tumbler (n.) A movable obstruction in a lock, consisting of a lever, latch, wheel, slide, or the like, which must be adjusted to a particular position by a key or other means before the bolt can be thrown in locking or unlocking.,
T as in Tumbler (n.) A piece attached to, or forming part of, the hammer of a gunlock, upon which the mainspring acts and in which are the notches for sear point to enter.,
T as in Tumbler (n.) A drinking glass, without a foot or stem; -- so called because originally it had a pointed or convex base, and could not be set down with any liquor in it, thus compelling the drinker to finish his measure.,
T as in Tumbler (n.) A variety of the domestic pigeon remarkable for its habit of tumbling, or turning somersaults, during its flight.,
T as in Tumbler (n.) A breed of dogs that tumble when pursuing game. They were formerly used in hunting rabbits.,
T as in Tumbler (n.) A kind of cart; a tumbrel.,
T as in Tumblerfuls (pl. ) of Tumblerful,
T as in Tumblerful (n.) As much as a tumbler will hold; enough to fill a tumbler.,
T as in Tumbleweed (n.) Any plant which habitually breaks away from its roots in the autumn, and is driven by the wind, as a light, rolling mass, over the fields and prairies; as witch grass, wild indigo, Amarantus albus, etc.,
T as in Tumbling () a. & vb. n. from Tumble, v.,
T as in Tumbrel (n.) Alt. of Tumbril,
T as in Tumbril (n.) A cucking stool for the punishment of scolds.,
T as in Tumbril (n.) A rough cart.,
T as in Tumbril (n.) A cart or carriage with two wheels, which accompanies troops or artillery, to convey the tools of pioneers, cartridges, and the like.,
T as in Tumbril (n.) A kind of basket or cage of osiers, willows, or the like, to hold hay and other food for sheep.,
T as in Tumefaction (n.) The act or process of tumefying, swelling, or rising into a tumor; a swelling.,
T as in Tumefied (imp. & p. p.) of Tumefy,
T as in Tumefying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tumefy,
T as in Tumefy (v. t.) To swell; to cause to swell, or puff up.,
T as in Tumefy (v. i.) To rise in a tumor; to swell.,
T as in Tumid (a.) Swelled, enlarged, or distended; as, a tumid leg; tumid flesh.,
T as in Tumid (a.) Rising above the level; protuberant.,
T as in Tumid (a.) Swelling in sound or sense; pompous; puffy; inflated; bombastic; falsely sublime; turgid; as, a tumid expression; a tumid style.,
T as in Tumidity (n.) The quality or state of being tumid.,
T as in Tummals (n.) A great quantity or heap.,
T as in Tumor (n.) A morbid swelling, prominence, or growth, on any part of the body; especially, a growth produced by deposition of new tissue; a neoplasm.,
T as in Tumor (n.) Affected pomp; bombast; swelling words or expressions; false magnificence or sublimity.,
T as in Tumored (a.) Distended; swelled.,
T as in Tumorous (a.) Swelling; protuberant.,
T as in Tumorous (a.) Inflated; bombastic.,
T as in Tump (n.) A little hillock; a knoll.,
T as in Tumped (imp. & p. p.) of Tump,
T as in Tumping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tump,
T as in Tump (v. t.) To form a mass of earth or a hillock about; as, to tump teasel.,
T as in Tump (v. t.) To draw or drag, as a deer or other animal after it has been killed.,
T as in Tumpline (n.) A strap placed across a man's forehead to assist him in carrying a pack on his back.,
T as in Tum-tum (n.) A dish made in the West Indies by beating boiled plantain quite soft in a wooden mortar.,
T as in Tumular (a.) Consisting in a heap; formed or being in a heap or hillock.,
T as in Tumulate (v. t.) To cover, as a corpse, with a mound or tomb; to bury.,
T as in Tumulate (v. i.) To swell.,
T as in Tumulose (a.) Tumulous.,
T as in Tumulosity (n.) The quality or state of being tumulous; hilliness.,
T as in Tumulous (a.) Full of small hills or mounds; hilly; tumulose.,
T as in Tumult (n.) The commotion or agitation of a multitude, usually accompanied with great noise, uproar, and confusion of voices; hurly-burly; noisy confusion.,
T as in Tumult (n.) Violent commotion or agitation, with confusion of sounds; as, the tumult of the elements.,
T as in Tumult (n.) Irregular or confused motion; agitation; high excitement; as, the tumult of the spirits or passions.,
T as in Tumult (v. i.) To make a tumult; to be in great commotion.,
T as in Tumulter (n.) A maker of tumults.,
T as in Tumultuarily (adv.) In a tumultuary manner.,
T as in Tumultuariness (n.) The quality or state of being tumultuary.,
T as in Tumultuary (a.) Attended by, or producing, a tumult; disorderly; promiscuous; confused; tumultuous.,
T as in Tumultuary (a.) Restless; agitated; unquiet.,
T as in Tumultuate (v. i.) To make a tumult.,
T as in Tumultuation (n.) Irregular or disorderly movement; commotion; as, the tumultuation of the parts of a fluid.,
T as in Tumultuous (a.) Full of tumult; characterized by tumult; disorderly; turbulent.,
T as in Tumultuous (a.) Conducted with disorder; noisy; confused; boisterous; disorderly; as, a tumultuous assembly or meeting.,
T as in Tumultuous (a.) Agitated, as with conflicting passions; disturbed.,
T as in Tumultuous (a.) Turbulent; violent; as, a tumultuous speech.,
T as in Tumuli (pl. ) of Tumulus,
T as in Tumulus (n.) An artificial hillock, especially one raised over a grave, particularly over the graves of persons buried in ancient times; a barrow.,
T as in Tun (n.) A large cask; an oblong vessel bulging in the middle, like a pipe or puncheon, and girt with hoops; a wine cask.,
T as in Tun (n.) A fermenting vat.,
T as in Tun (n.) A certain measure for liquids, as for wine, equal to two pipes, four hogsheads, or 252 gallons. In different countries, the tun differs in quantity.,
T as in Tun (n.) A weight of 2,240 pounds. See Ton.,
T as in Tun (n.) An indefinite large quantity.,
T as in Tun (n.) A drunkard; -- so called humorously, or in contempt.,
T as in Tun (n.) Any shell belonging to Dolium and allied genera; -- called also tun-shell.,
T as in Tunned (imp. & p. p.) of Tun,
T as in Tunning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tun,
T as in Tun (v. i.) To put into tuns, or casks.,
T as in Tuna (n.) The Opuntia Tuna. See Prickly pear, under Prickly.,
T as in Tuna (n.) The tunny.,
T as in Tuna (n.) The bonito, 2.,
T as in Tunable (a.) Capable of being tuned, or made harmonious; hence, harmonious; musical; tuneful.,
T as in Tun-bellied (a.) Having a large, protuberant belly, or one shaped like a tun; pot-bellied.,
T as in Tun-dish (n.) A tunnel.,
T as in Tundra (n.) A rolling, marshy, mossy plain of Northern Siberia.,
T as in Tune (n.) A sound; a note; a tone.,
T as in Tune (n.) A rhythmical, melodious, symmetrical series of tones for one voice or instrument, or for any number of voices or instruments in unison, or two or more such series forming parts in harmony; a melody; an air; as, a merry tune; a mournful tune; a slow tune; a psalm tune. See Air.,
T as in Tune (n.) The state of giving the proper, sound or sounds; just intonation; harmonious accordance; pitch of the voice or an instrument; adjustment of the parts of an instrument so as to harmonize with itself or with others; as, the piano, or the organ, is not in tune.,
T as in Tune (n.) Order; harmony; concord; fit disposition, temper, or humor; right mood.,
T as in Tuned (imp. & p. p.) of Tune,
T as in Tuning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tune,
T as in Tune (v. t.) To put into a state adapted to produce the proper sounds; to harmonize, to cause to be in tune; to correct the tone of; as, to tune a piano or a violin.,
T as in Tune (v. t.) To give tone to; to attune; to adapt in style of music; to make harmonious.,
T as in Tune (v. t.) To sing with melody or harmony.,
T as in Tune (v. t.) To put into a proper state or disposition.,
T as in Tune (v. i.) To form one sound to another; to form accordant musical sounds.,
T as in Tune (v. i.) To utter inarticulate harmony with the voice; to sing without pronouncing words; to hum.,
T as in Tuneful (a.) Harmonious; melodious; musical; as, tuneful notes.,
T as in Tuneless (a.) Without tune; inharmonious; unmusical.,
T as in Tuneless (a.) Not employed in making music; as, tuneless harps.,
T as in Tuneless (a.) Not expressed in music or poetry; unsung.,
T as in Tuner (n.) One who tunes; especially, one whose occupation is to tune musical instruments.,
T as in Tun-great (a.) Having the circumference of a tun.,
T as in Tungstate (n.) A salt of tungstic acid; a wolframate.,
T as in Tungsten (n.) A rare element of the chromium group found in certain minerals, as wolfram and scheelite, and isolated as a heavy steel-gray metal which is very hard and infusible. It has both acid and basic properties. When alloyed in small quantities with steel, it greatly increases its hardness. Symbol W (Wolframium). Atomic weight, 183.6. Specific gravity, 18.,
T as in Tungsten (n.) Scheelite, or calcium tungstate.,
T as in Tungstenic (a.) Of or pertaining to tungsten; containing tungsten; as, tungstenic ores.,
T as in Tungstic (a.) Of or pertaining to tungsten; derived from, or resembling, tungsten; wolframic; as, tungstic oxide.,
T as in Tungstite (n.) The oxide of tungsten, a yellow mineral occurring in a pulverulent form. It is often associated with wolfram.,
T as in Tunguses (n. pl.) A group of roving Turanian tribes occupying Eastern Siberia and the Amoor valley. They resemble the Mongols.,
T as in Tungusic (a.) Of or pertaining to the Tunguses; as, the Tungusic dialects.,
T as in Tunhoof (n.) Ground ivy; alehoof.,
T as in Tunic (n.) An under-garment worn by the ancient Romans of both sexes. It was made with or without sleeves, reached to or below the knees, and was confined at the waist by a girdle.,
T as in Tunic (n.) Any similar garment worm by ancient or Oriental peoples; also, a common name for various styles of loose-fitting under-garments and over-garments worn in modern times by Europeans and others.,
T as in Tunic (n.) Same as Tunicle.,
T as in Tunic (n.) A membrane, or layer of tissue, especially when enveloping an organ or part, as the eye.,
T as in Tunic (n.) A natural covering; an integument; as, the tunic of a seed.,
T as in Tunic (n.) See Mantle, n., 3 (a).,
T as in Tunicaries (pl. ) of Tunicary,
T as in Tunicary (n.) One of the Tunicata.,
T as in Tunicata (n. pl.) A grand division of the animal kingdom, intermediate, in some respects, between the invertebrates and vertebrates, and by some writers united with the latter. They were formerly classed with acephalous mollusks. The body is usually covered with a firm external tunic, consisting in part of cellulose, and having two openings, one for the entrance and one for the exit of water. The pharynx is usually dilated in the form of a sac, pierced by several series of ciliated slits, and serves as a gill.,
T as in Tunicate (a.) Alt. of Tunicated,
T as in Tunicated (a.) Covered with a tunic; covered or coated with layers; as, a tunicated bulb.,
T as in Tunicated (a.) Having a tunic, or mantle; of or pertaining to the Tunicata.,
T as in Tunicated (a.) Having each joint buried in the preceding funnel-shaped one, as in certain antennae of insects.,
T as in Tunicate (n.) One of the Tunicata.,
T as in Tunicin (n.) Animal cellulose; a substance present in the mantle, or tunic, of the Tunicates, which resembles, or is identical with, the cellulose of the vegetable kingdom.,
T as in Tunicle (n.) A slight natural covering; an integument.,
T as in Tunicle (n.) A short, close-fitting vestment worn by bishops under the dalmatic, and by subdeacons.,
T as in Tuning () a. & n. from Tune, v.,
T as in Tunk (n.) A sharp blow; a thump.,
T as in Tunker (n.) Same as Dunker.,
T as in Tunnage (n.) See Tonnage.,
T as in Tunnel (n. .) A vessel with a broad mouth at one end, a pipe or tube at the other, for conveying liquor, fluids, etc., into casks, bottles, or other vessels; a funnel.,
T as in Tunnel (n. .) The opening of a chimney for the passage of smoke; a flue; a funnel.,
T as in Tunnel (n. .) An artificial passage or archway for conducting canals or railroads under elevated ground, for the formation of roads under rivers or canals, and the construction of sewers, drains, and the like.,
T as in Tunnel (n. .) A level passage driven across the measures, or at right angles to veins which it is desired to reach; -- distinguished from the drift, or gangway, which is led along the vein when reached by the tunnel.,
T as in Tunneled (imp. & p. p.) of Tunnel,
T as in Tunnelled () of Tunnel,
T as in Tunneling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tunnel,
T as in Tunnelling () of Tunnel,
T as in Tunnel (v. t.) To form into a tunnel, or funnel, or to form like a tunnel; as, to tunnel fibrous plants into nests.,
T as in Tunnel (v. t.) To catch in a tunnel net.,
T as in Tunnel (v. t.) To make an opening, or a passageway, through or under; as, to tunnel a mountain; to tunnel a river.,
T as in Tunnies (pl. ) of Tunny,
T as in Tunny (n.) Any one of several species of large oceanic fishes belonging to the Mackerel family, especially the common or great tunny (Orcynus / Albacora thynnus) native of the Mediterranean Sea and the Atlantic Ocean. It sometimes weighs a thousand pounds or more, and is extensively caught in the Mediterranean. On the American coast it is called horse mackerel. See Illust. of Horse mackerel, under Horse.,
T as in Tup (v. t. & i.) To butt, as a ram does.,
T as in Tup (v. t. & i.) To cover; -- said of a ram.,
T as in Tup (n.) A ram.,
T as in Tupal (n.) Any one of the tupaiids.,
T as in Tupaiid (n.) Any one of several species of East Indian and Asiatic insectivores of the family Tupaiidae, somewhat resembling squirrels in size and arboreal habits. The nose is long and pointed.,
T as in Tupelo (n.) A North American tree (Nyssa multiflora) of the Dogwood family, having brilliant, glossy foliage and acid red berries. The wood is crossgrained and very difficult to split. Called also black gum, sour gum, and pepperidge.,
T as in Tupmen (pl. ) of Tupman,
T as in Tupman (n.) A man who breeds, or deals in tups.,
T as in Tur (n.) The urus.,
T as in Turacin (n.) A red or crimson pigment obtained from certain feathers of several species of turacou; whence the name. It contains nearly six per cent of copper.,
T as in Turacou (n.) Any one of several species of plantain eaters of the genus Turacus, native of Africa. They are remarkable for the peculiar green and red pigments found in their feathers.,
T as in Turacoverdin (n.) A green pigment found in the feathers of the turacou. See Turacin.,
T as in Turanian (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, an extensive family of languages of simple structure and low grade (called also Altaic, Ural-Altaic, and Scythian), spoken in the northern parts of Europe and Asia and Central Asia; of pertaining to, or designating, the people who speak these languages.,
T as in Turanian (n.) One of the Turanians.,
T as in Turanians (n. pl.) An extensive division of mankind including the Mongols and allied races of Asia, together with the Malays and Polynesians.,
T as in Turanians (n. pl.) A group of races or tribes inhabiting Asia and closely related to the Mongols.,
T as in Turatt (n.) The hare kangaroo.,
T as in Turban (n.) A headdress worn by men in the Levant and by most Mohammedans of the male sex, consisting of a cap, and a sash, scarf, or shawl, usually of cotton or linen, wound about the cap, and sometimes hanging down the neck.,
T as in Turban (n.) A kind of headdress worn by women.,
T as in Turban (n.) The whole set of whorls of a spiral shell.,
T as in Turband (n.) A turban.,
T as in Turbaned (a.) Wearing a turban.,
T as in Turban-shell (n.) A sea urchin when deprived of its spines; -- popularly so called from a fancied resemblance to a turban.,
T as in Turbant (n.) A turban.,
T as in Turban-top (n.) A kind of fungus with an irregularly wrinkled, somewhat globular pileus (Helvella, / Gyromitra, esculenta.).,
T as in Turbaries (pl. ) of Turbary,
T as in Turbary (n.) A right of digging turf on another man's land; also, the ground where turf is dug.,
T as in Turbellaria (n. pl.) An extensive group of worms which have the body covered externally with vibrating cilia. It includes the Rhabdoc/la and Dendroc/la. Formerly, the nemerteans were also included in this group.,
T as in Turbellarian (n.) One of the Turbellaria. Also used adjectively.,
T as in Turbeth (n.) See Turpeth.,
T as in Turbid (a.) Having the lees or sediment disturbed; roiled; muddy; thick; not clear; -- used of liquids of any kind; as, turbid water; turbid wine.,
T as in Turbid (a.) Disturbed; confused; disordered.,
T as in Turbidity (n.) Turbidness.,
T as in Turbidly (adv.) In a turbid manner; with muddiness or confusion.,
T as in Turbidly (adv.) Proudly; haughtily.,
T as in Turbidness (n.) The quality or state of being turbid; muddiness; foulness.,
T as in Turbillion (n.) A whirl; a vortex.,
T as in Turbinaceous (a.) Of or pertaining to peat, or turf; of the nature of peat, or turf; peaty; turfy.,
T as in Turbinal (a.) Rolled in a spiral; scroll-like; turbinate; -- applied to the thin, plicated, bony or cartilaginous plates which support the olfactory and mucous membranes of the nasal chambers.,
T as in Turbinal (n.) A turbinal bone or cartilage.,
T as in Turbinate (v. i.) To revolve or spin like a top; to whirl.,
T as in Turbinate (a.) Alt. of Turbinated,
T as in Turbinated (a.) Whirling in the manner of a top.,
T as in Turbinated (a.) Shaped like a top, or inverted cone; narrow at the base, and broad at the apex; as, a turbinated ovary, pericarp, or root.,
T as in Turbinated (a.) Turbinal.,
T as in Turbinated (a.) Spiral with the whorls decreasing rapidly from a large base to a pointed apex; -- said of certain shells.,
T as in Turbination (n.) The act of spinning or whirling, as a top.,
T as in Turbine (n.) A water wheel, commonly horizontal, variously constructed, but usually having a series of curved floats or buckets, against which the water acts by its impulse or reaction in flowing either outward from a central chamber, inward from an external casing, or from above downward, etc.; -- also called turbine wheel.,
T as in Turbinella (n.) A genus of large marine gastropods having a thick heavy shell with conspicuous folds on the columella.,
T as in Turbinite (n.) A petrified shell resembling the genus Turbo.,
T as in Turbinoid (a.) Like or pertaining to Turbo or the family Turbinidae.,
T as in Turbit (n.) The turbot.,
T as in Turbit (n.) A variety of the domestic pigeon, remarkable for its short beak.,
T as in Turbite (n.) A fossil turbo.,
T as in Turbith (n.) See Turpeth.,
T as in Turbo (n.) Any one of numerous marine gastropods of the genus Turbo or family Turbinidae, usually having a turbinate shell, pearly on the inside, and a calcareous operculum.,
T as in Turbot (n.) A large European flounder (Rhombus maximus) highly esteemed as a food fish. It often weighs from thirty to forty pounds. Its color on the upper side is brownish with small roundish tubercles scattered over the surface. The lower, or blind, side is white. Called also bannock fluke.,
T as in Turbot (n.) Any one of numerous species of flounders more or less related to the true turbots, as the American plaice, or summer flounder (see Flounder), the halibut, and the diamond flounder (Hypsopsetta guttulata) of California.,
T as in Turbot (n.) The filefish; -- so called in Bermuda.,
T as in Turbot (n.) The trigger fish.,
T as in Turbulence (n.) The quality or state of being turbulent; a disturbed state; tumult; disorder; agitation.,
T as in Turbulency (n.) Turbulence.,
T as in Turbulent (a.) Disturbed; agitated; tumultuous; roused to violent commotion; as, the turbulent ocean.,
T as in Turbulent (a.) Disposed to insubordination and disorder; restless; unquiet; refractory; as, turbulent spirits.,
T as in Turbulent (a.) Producing commotion; disturbing; exciting.,
T as in Turbulently (adv.) In a turbulent manner.,
T as in Turcism (n.) A mode of speech peculiar to the Turks; a Turkish idiom or expression; also, in general, a Turkish mode or custom.,
T as in Turcomans (pl. ) of Turcoman,
T as in Turcoman (n.) A member of a tribe of Turanians inhabiting a region east of the Caspian Sea.,
T as in Turcoman (n.) A Turcoman carpet.,
T as in Turdiformes (n. pl.) A division of singing birds including the thrushes and allied kinds.,
T as in Turdus (n.) A genus of singing birds including the true thrushes.,
T as in Tureen (n.) A large, deep vessel for holding soup, or other liquid food, at the table.,
T as in Tureenfuls (pl. ) of Tureenful,
T as in Tureenful (n.) As much as a tureen can hold; enough to fill a tureen.,
T as in Turfs (pl. ) of Turf,
T as in Turves (pl. ) of Turf,
T as in Turf (n.) That upper stratum of earth and vegetable mold which is filled with the roots of grass and other small plants, so as to adhere and form a kind of mat; sward; sod.,
T as in Turf (n.) Peat, especially when prepared for fuel. See Peat.,
T as in Turf (n.) Race course; horse racing; -- preceded by the.,
T as in Turfed (imp. & p. p.) of Turf,
T as in Turfing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Turf,
T as in Turf (v. t.) To cover with turf or sod; as, to turf a bank, of the border of a terrace.,
T as in Turfen (a.) Made of turf; covered with turf.,
T as in Turfiness (n.) Quality or state of being turfy.,
T as in Turfing (n.) The act or process of providing or covering with turf.,
T as in Turfite (n.) A votary of the turf, or race course; hence, sometimes, a blackleg.,
T as in Turfless (a.) Destitute of turf.,
T as in Turfmen (pl. ) of Turfman,
T as in Turfman (n.) A turfite; a votary of the turf, or race course.,
T as in Turfy (superl.) Abounding with turf; made of, or covered with, turf.,
T as in Turfy (superl.) Having the nature or appearance of turf.,
T as in Turfy (superl.) Of or pertaining to the turf, or horse racing.,
T as in Turgent (a.) Rising into a tumor, or a puffy state; swelling; tumid; as, turgent humors.,
T as in Turgent (a.) Inflated; bombastic; turgid; pompous.,
T as in Turgesced (imp. & p. p.) of Turgesce,
T as in Turgescing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Turgesce,
T as in Turgesce (v. i.) To become turgid; to swell or be inflated.,
T as in Turgescence (n.) Alt. of Turgescency,
T as in Turgescency (n.) The act of swelling, or the state of being swollen, or turgescent.,
T as in Turgescency (n.) Empty magnificence or pompousness; inflation; bombast; turgidity.,
T as in Turgescent (a.) Becoming turgid or inflated; swelling; growing big.,
T as in Turgid (a.) Distended beyond the natural state by some internal agent or expansive force; swelled; swollen; bloated; inflated; tumid; -- especially applied to an enlarged part of the body; as, a turgid limb; turgid fruit.,
T as in Turgid (a.) Swelling in style or language; vainly ostentatious; bombastic; pompous; as, a turgid style of speaking.,
T as in Turgidity (n.) The quality or state of being turgid.,
T as in Turgidous (a.) Turgid.,
T as in Turiones (pl. ) of Turio,
T as in Turio (n.) A shoot or sprout from the ground.,
T as in Turiole (n.) The golden oriole.,
T as in Turion (n.) Same as Turio.,
T as in Turioniferous (a.) Producing shoots, as asparagus.,
T as in Turk (n.) A member of any of numerous Tartar tribes of Central Asia, etc.; esp., one of the dominant race in Turkey.,
T as in Turk (n.) A native or inhabitant of Turkey.,
T as in Turk (n.) A Mohammedan; esp., one living in Turkey.,
T as in Turk (n.) The plum weevil. See Curculio, and Plum weevil, under Plum.,
T as in Turkeis (a.) Turkish.,
T as in Turkey (n.) An empire in the southeast of Europe and southwest of Asia.,
T as in Turkeys (pl. ) of Turkey,
T as in Turkey (n.) Any large American gallinaceous bird belonging to the genus Meleagris, especially the North American wild turkey (Meleagris gallopavo), and the domestic turkey, which was probably derived from the Mexican wild turkey, but had been domesticated by the Indians long before the discovery of America.,
T as in Turkeys (a.) Turkish.,
T as in Turkic (a.) Turkish.,
T as in Turkis (n.) Turquois.,
T as in Turkish (a.) Of or pertaining to Turkey or the Turks.,
T as in Turkish (n.) The language spoken by Turks, esp. that of the people of Turkey.,
T as in Turkism (n.) Same as Turcism.,
T as in Turkle (n.) A turtle.,
T as in Turkos (pl. ) of Turko,
T as in Turko (n.) One of a body of native Algerian tirailleurs in the French army, dressed as a Turk.,
T as in Turkois (n. & a.) Turquoise.,
T as in Turkomans (pl. ) of Turkoman,
T as in Turkoman (n.) Same as Turcoman.,
T as in Turlupin (n.) One of the precursors of the Reformation; -- a nickname corresponding to Lollard, etc.,
T as in Turm (n.) A troop; a company.,
T as in Turmaline (n.) See Tourmaline.,
T as in Turmeric (n.) An East Indian plant of the genus Curcuma, of the Ginger family.,
T as in Turmeric (n.) The root or rootstock of the Curcuma longa. It is externally grayish, but internally of a deep, lively yellow or saffron color, and has a slight aromatic smell, and a bitterish, slightly acrid taste. It is used for a dye, a medicine, a condiment, and a chemical test.,
T as in Turmeric (a.) Of or pertaining to turmeric; resembling, or obtained from, turmeric; specif., designating an acid obtained by the oxidation of turmerol.,
T as in Turmerol (n.) Turmeric oil, a brownish yellow, oily substance extracted from turmeric by ligroin.,
T as in Turmoil (n.) Harassing labor; trouble; molestation by tumult; disturbance; worrying confusion.,
T as in Turmoiled (imp. & p. p.) of Turmoil,
T as in Turmoiling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Turmoil,
T as in Turmoil (v. t.) To harass with commotion; to disquiet; to worry.,
T as in Turmoil (v. i.) To be disquieted or confused; to be in commotion.,
T as in Turned (imp. & p. p.) of Turn,
T as in Turning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Turn,
T as in Turn (v. t.) To cause to move upon a center, or as if upon a center; to give circular motion to; to cause to revolve; to cause to move round, either partially, wholly, or repeatedly; to make to change position so as to present other sides in given directions; to make to face otherwise; as, to turn a wheel or a spindle; to turn the body or the head.,
T as in Turn (v. t.) To cause to present a different side uppermost or outmost; to make the upper side the lower, or the inside to be the outside of; to reverse the position of; as, to turn a box or a board; to turn a coat.,
T as in Turn (v. t.) To give another direction, tendency, or inclination to; to direct otherwise; to deflect; to incline differently; -- used both literally and figuratively; as, to turn the eyes to the heavens; to turn a horse from the road, or a ship from her course; to turn the attention to or from something.,
T as in Turn (v. t.) To change from a given use or office; to divert, as to another purpose or end; to transfer; to use or employ; to apply; to devote.,
T as in Turn (v. t.) To change the form, quality, aspect, or effect of; to alter; to metamorphose; to convert; to transform; -- often with to or into before the word denoting the effect or product of the change; as, to turn a worm into a winged insect; to turn green to blue; to turn prose into verse; to turn a Whig to a Tory, or a Hindu to a Christian; to turn good to evil, and the like.,
T as in Turn (v. t.) To form in a lathe; to shape or fashion (anything) by applying a cutting tool to it while revolving; as, to turn the legs of stools or tables; to turn ivory or metal.,
T as in Turn (v. t.) Hence, to give form to; to shape; to mold; to put in proper condition; to adapt.,
T as in Turn (v. t.) To translate; to construe; as, to turn the Iliad.,
T as in Turn (v. t.) To make acid or sour; to ferment; to curdle, etc.: as, to turn cider or wine; electricity turns milk quickly.,
T as in Turn (v. t.) To sicken; to nauseate; as, an emetic turns one's stomach.,
T as in Turn (v. i.) To move round; to have a circular motion; to revolve entirely, repeatedly, or partially; to change position, so as to face differently; to whirl or wheel round; as, a wheel turns on its axis; a spindle turns on a pivot; a man turns on his heel.,
T as in Turn (v. i.) Hence, to revolve as if upon a point of support; to hinge; to depend; as, the decision turns on a single fact.,
T as in Turn (v. i.) To result or terminate; to come about; to eventuate; to issue.,
T as in Turn (v. i.) To be deflected; to take a different direction or tendency; to be directed otherwise; to be differently applied; to be transferred; as, to turn from the road.,
T as in Turn (v. i.) To be changed, altered, or transformed; to become transmuted; also, to become by a change or changes; to grow; as, wood turns to stone; water turns to ice; one color turns to another; to turn Mohammedan.,
T as in Turn (v. i.) To undergo the process of turning on a lathe; as, ivory turns well.,
T as in Turn (v. i.) To become acid; to sour; -- said of milk, ale, etc.,
T as in Turn (v. i.) To become giddy; -- said of the head or brain.,
T as in Turn (v. i.) To be nauseated; -- said of the stomach.,
T as in Turn (v. i.) To become inclined in the other direction; -- said of scales.,
T as in Turn (v. i.) To change from ebb to flow, or from flow to ebb; -- said of the tide.,
T as in Turn (v. i.) To bring down the feet of a child in the womb, in order to facilitate delivery.,
T as in Turn (v. i.) To invert a type of the same thickness, as temporary substitute for any sort which is exhausted.,
T as in Turn (n.) The act of turning; movement or motion about, or as if about, a center or axis; revolution; as, the turn of a wheel.,
T as in Turn (n.) Change of direction, course, or tendency; different order, position, or aspect of affairs; alteration; vicissitude; as, the turn of the tide.,
T as in Turn (n.) One of the successive portions of a course, or of a series of occurrences, reckoning from change to change; hence, a winding; a bend; a meander.,
T as in Turn (n.) A circuitous walk, or a walk to and fro, ending where it began; a short walk; a stroll.,
T as in Turn (n.) Successive course; opportunity enjoyed by alternation with another or with others, or in due order; due chance; alternate or incidental occasion; appropriate time.,
T as in Turn (n.) Incidental or opportune deed or office; occasional act of kindness or malice; as, to do one an ill turn.,
T as in Turn (n.) Convenience; occasion; purpose; exigence; as, this will not serve his turn.,
T as in Turn (n.) Form; cast; shape; manner; fashion; -- used in a literal or figurative sense; hence, form of expression; mode of signifying; as, the turn of thought; a man of a sprightly turn in conversation.,
T as in Turn (n.) A change of condition; especially, a sudden or recurring symptom of illness, as a nervous shock, or fainting spell; as, a bad turn.,
T as in Turn (n.) A fall off the ladder at the gallows; a hanging; -- so called from the practice of causing the criminal to stand on a ladder which was turned over, so throwing him off, when the signal was given.,
T as in Turn (n.) A round of a rope or cord in order to secure it, as about a pin or a cleat.,
T as in Turn (n.) A pit sunk in some part of a drift.,
T as in Turn (n.) A court of record, held by the sheriff twice a year in every hundred within his county.,
T as in Turn (n.) Monthly courses; menses.,
T as in Turn (n.) An embellishment or grace (marked thus, /), commonly consisting of the principal note, or that on which the turn is made, with the note above, and the semitone below, the note above being sounded first, the principal note next, and the semitone below last, the three being performed quickly, as a triplet preceding the marked note. The turn may be inverted so as to begin with the lower note, in which case the sign is either placed on end thus /, or drawn thus /.,
T as in Turnbroach (n.) A turnspit.,
T as in Turn-buckle (n.) A loop or sleeve with a screw thread at one end and a swivel at the other, -- used for tightening a rod, stay, etc.,
T as in Turn-buckle (n.) A gravitating catch, as for fastening a shutter, the end of a chain, or a hasp.,
T as in Turnbull's blue () The double cyanide of ferrous and ferric iron, a dark blue amorphous substance having a coppery luster, used in dyeing, calico printing, etc. Cf. Prussian blue, under Prussian.,
T as in Turncoat (n.) One who forsakes his party or his principles; a renegade; an apostate.,
T as in Turnep (n.) See Turnip.,
T as in Turner (n.) One who turns; especially, one whose occupation is to form articles with a lathe.,
T as in Turner (n.) A variety of pigeon; a tumbler.,
T as in Turner (n.) A person who practices athletic or gymnastic exercises.,
T as in Turnerite (n.) A variety of monazite.,
T as in Turnery (n.) The art of fashioning solid bodies into cylindrical or other forms by means of a lathe.,
T as in Turnery (n.) Things or forms made by a turner, or in the lathe.,
T as in Turney (n. & v.) Tourney.,
T as in Turnhalle (n.) A building used as a school of gymnastics.,
T as in Turnicimorphae (n. pl.) A division of birds including Turnix and allied genera, resembling quails in appearance but differing from them anatomically.,
T as in Turning (n.) The act of one who, or that which, turns; also, a winding; a bending course; a fiexure; a meander.,
T as in Turning (n.) The place of a turn; an angle or corner, as of a road.,
T as in Turning (n.) Deviation from the way or proper course.,
T as in Turning (n.) Turnery, or the shaping of solid substances into various by means of a lathe and cutting tools.,
T as in Turning (n.) The pieces, or chips, detached in the process of turning from the material turned.,
T as in Turning (n.) A maneuver by which an enemy or a position is turned.,
T as in Turningness (n.) The quality of turning; instability; tergiversation.,
T as in Turnip (v. t.) The edible, fleshy, roundish, or somewhat conical, root of a cruciferous plant (Brassica campestris, var. Napus); also, the plant itself.,
T as in Turnip-shell (n.) Any one of several large, thick, spiral marine shells belonging to Rapa and allied genera, somewhat turnip-shaped.,
T as in Turnix (n.) Any one of numerous species of birds belonging to Turnix or Hemipodius and allied genera of the family Turnicidae. These birds resemble quails and partridges in general appearance and in some of their habits, but differ in important anatomical characteristics. The hind toe is usually lacking. They are found in Asia, Africa, Southern Europe, the East Indian Islands, and esp. in Australia and adjacent islands, where they are called quails (see Quail, n., 3.). See Turnicimorphae.,
T as in Turnkeys (pl. ) of Turnkey,
T as in Turnkey (n.) A person who has charge of the keys of a prison, for opening and fastening the doors; a warder.,
T as in Turnkey (n.) An instrument with a hinged claw, -- used for extracting teeth with a twist.,
T as in Turn-outs (pl. ) of Turn-out,
T as in Turn-out (n.) The act of coming forth; a leaving of houses, shops, etc.; esp., a quitting of employment for the purpose of forcing increase of wages; a strike; -- opposed to lockout.,
T as in Turn-out (n.) A short side track on a railroad, which may be occupied by one train while another is passing on a main track; a shunt; a siding; a switch.,
T as in Turn-out (n.) That which is prominently brought forward or exhibited; hence, an equipage; as, a man with a showy carriage and horses is said to have a fine turn-out.,
T as in Turn-out (n.) The aggregate number of persons who have come out, as from their houses, for a special purpose.,
T as in Turn-out (n.) Net quantity of produce yielded.,
T as in Turnover (n.) The act or result of turning over; an upset; as, a bad turnover in a carriage.,
T as in Turnover (n.) A semicircular pie or tart made by turning one half of a circular crust over the other, inclosing the fruit or other materials.,
T as in Turnover (n.) An apprentice, in any trade, who is handed over from one master to another to complete his time.,
T as in Turnover (a.) Admitting of being turned over; made to be turned over; as, a turnover collar, etc.,
T as in Turnpike (n.) A frame consisting of two bars crossing each other at right angles and turning on a post or pin, to hinder the passage of beasts, but admitting a person to pass between the arms; a turnstile. See Turnstile, 1.,
T as in Turnpike (n.) A gate or bar set across a road to stop carriages, animals, and sometimes people, till toll is paid for keeping the road in repair; a tollgate.,
T as in Turnpike (n.) A turnpike road.,
T as in Turnpike (n.) A winding stairway.,
T as in Turnpike (n.) A beam filled with spikes to obstruct passage; a cheval-de-frise.,
T as in Turnpiked (imp. & p. p.) of Turnpike,
T as in Turnpiking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Turnpike,
T as in Turnpike (v. t.) To form, as a road, in the manner of a turnpike road; into a rounded form, as the path of a road.,
T as in Turnplate (n.) A turntable.,
T as in Turn-sick (a.) Giddy.,
T as in Turn-sick (n.) A disease with which sheep are sometimes affected; gid; sturdy. See Gid.,
T as in Turnsole (a.) A plant of the genus Heliotropium; heliotrope; -- so named because its flowers are supposed to turn toward the sun.,
T as in Turnsole (a.) The sunflower.,
T as in Turnsole (a.) A kind of spurge (Euphorbia Helioscopia).,
T as in Turnsole (a.) The euphorbiaceous plant Chrozophora tinctoria.,
T as in Turnsole (a.) Litmus.,
T as in Turnsole (a.) A purple dye obtained from the plant turnsole. See def. 1 (d).,
T as in Turnspit (n.) One who turns a spit; hence, a person engaged in some menial office.,
T as in Turnspit (n.) A small breed of dogs having a long body and short crooked legs. These dogs were formerly much used for turning a spit on which meat was roasting.,
T as in Turnstile (n.) A revolving frame in a footpath, preventing the passage of horses or cattle, but admitting that of persons; a turnpike. See Turnpike, n., 1.,
T as in Turnstile (n.) A similar arrangement for registering the number of persons passing through a gateway, doorway, or the like.,
T as in Turnstone (n.) Any species of limicoline birds of the genera Strepsilas and Arenaria, allied to the plovers, especially the common American and European species (Strepsilas interpres). They are so called from their habit of turning up small stones in search of mollusks and other aquatic animals. Called also brant bird, sand runner, sea quail, sea lark, sparkback, and skirlcrake.,
T as in Turntable (n.) A large revolving platform, for turning railroad cars, locomotives, etc., in a different direction; -- called also turnplate.,
T as in Turnus (n.) A common, large, handsome, American swallowtail butterfly, now regarded as one of the forms of Papilio, / Jasoniades, glaucus. The wings are yellow, margined and barred with black, and with an orange-red spot near the posterior angle of the hind wings. Called also tiger swallowtail. See Illust. under Swallowtail.,
T as in Turnverein (n.) A company or association of gymnasts and athletes.,
T as in Turnwrest (n.) Designating a cumbersome style of plow used in England, esp. in Kent.,
T as in Turnwrest (n.) designating a kind of hillside plow.,
T as in Turonian (n.) One of the subdivisions into which the Upper Cretaceous formation of Europe is divided.,
T as in Turpentine (n.) A semifluid or fluid oleoresin, primarily the exudation of the terebinth, or turpentine, tree (Pistacia Terebinthus), a native of the Mediterranean region. It is also obtained from many coniferous trees, especially species of pine, larch, and fir.,
T as in Turpeth (n.) The root of Ipom/a Turpethum, a plant of Ceylon, Malabar, and Australia, formerly used in medicine as a purgative; -- sometimes called vegetable turpeth.,
T as in Turpeth (n.) A heavy yellow powder, Hg3O2SO4, which consists of a basic mercuric sulphate; -- called also turpeth mineral.,
T as in Turpin (n.) A land tortoise.,
T as in Turpitude (n.) Inherent baseness or vileness of principle, words, or actions; shameful wickedness; depravity.,
T as in Turquoise (n.) Alt. of Turquois,
T as in Turquois (n.) A hydrous phosphate of alumina containing a little copper; calaite. It has a blue, or bluish green, color, and usually occurs in reniform masses with a botryoidal surface.,
T as in Turquoise (a.) Having a fine light blue color, like that of choice mineral turquoise.,
T as in Turrel (n.) A certain tool used by coopers.,
T as in Turret (n.) A little tower, frequently a merely ornamental structure at one of the angles of a larger structure.,
T as in Turret (n.) A movable building, of a square form, consisting of ten or even twenty stories and sometimes one hundred and twenty cubits high, usually moved on wheels, and employed in approaching a fortified place, for carrying soldiers, engines, ladders, casting bridges, and other necessaries.,
T as in Turret (n.) A revolving tower constructed of thick iron plates, within which cannon are mounted. Turrets are used on vessels of war and on land.,
T as in Turret (n.) The elevated central portion of the roof of a passenger car. Its sides are pierced for light and ventilation.,
T as in Turreted (a.) Furnished with a turret or turrets; specifically (Zool.), having the whorls somewhat flattened on the upper side and often ornamented by spines or tubercles; -- said of certain spiral shells.,
T as in Turreted (a.) Formed like a tower; as, a turreted lamp.,
T as in Turribant (n.) A turban.,
T as in Turrical (a.) Of or pertaining to a turret, or tower; resembling a tower.,
T as in Turriculate (a.) Alt. of Turriculated,
T as in Turriculated (a.) Furnished with, or formed like, a small turret or turrets; somewhat turreted.,
T as in Turrilite (n.) Any fossil ammonite of the genus Turrilites. The shell forms an open spiral with the later whorls separate.,
T as in Turritella (n.) Any spiral marine gastropod belonging to Turritella and allied genera. These mollusks have an elongated, turreted shell, composed of many whorls. They have a rounded aperture, and a horny multispiral operculum.,
T as in Turritelloid (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the turritellas.,
T as in Turtle (n.) The turtledove.,
T as in Turtle (n.) Any one of the numerous species of Testudinata, especially a sea turtle, or chelonian.,
T as in Turtle (n.) The curved plate in which the form is held in a type-revolving cylinder press.,
T as in Turtledove (n.) Any one of numerous species of pigeons belonging to Turtur and allied genera, native of various parts of the Old World; especially, the common European species (Turtur vulgaris), which is noted for its plaintive note, affectionate disposition, and devotion to its mate.,
T as in Turtledove (n.) Any one of several species of pigeons more or less resembling the true turtledoves, as the American mourning dove (see under Dove), and the Australian turtledove (Stictopelia cuneata).,
T as in Turtle-footed (a.) Slow-footed.,
T as in Turtlehead (n.) An American perennial herb (Chelone glabra) having white flowers shaped like the head of a turtle. Called also snakehead, shell flower, and balmony.,
T as in Turtler (n.) One who catches turtles or tortoises.,
T as in Turtle-shell (n.) The turtle cowrie.,
T as in Turtling (n.) The act, practice, or art of catching turtles.,
T as in Turves () pl. of Turf.,
T as in Tuscan (a.) Of or pertaining to Tuscany in Italy; -- specifically designating one of the five orders of architecture recognized and described by the Italian writers of the 16th century, or characteristic of the order. The original of this order was not used by the Greeks, but by the Romans under the Empire. See Order, and Illust. of Capital.,
T as in Tuscan (n.) A native or inhabitant of Tuscany.,
T as in Tuscaroras (n. pl.) A tribe of North American Indians formerly living on the Neuse and Tar rivers in North Carolina. They were conquered in 1713, after which the remnant of the tribe joined the Five Nations, thus forming the Six Nations. See Six Nations, under Six.,
T as in Tuscor (n.) A tush of a horse.,
T as in Tush (interj.) An exclamation indicating check, rebuke, or contempt; as, tush, tush! do not speak of it.,
T as in Tush (n.) A long, pointed tooth; a tusk; -- applied especially to certain teeth of horses.,
T as in Tusk (n.) Same as Torsk.,
T as in Tusk (n.) One of the elongated incisor or canine teeth of the wild boar, elephant, etc.; hence, any long, protruding tooth.,
T as in Tusk (n.) A toothshell, or Dentalium; -- called also tusk-shell.,
T as in Tusk (n.) A projecting member like a tenon, and serving the same or a similar purpose, but composed of several steps, or offsets. Thus, in the illustration, a is the tusk, and each of the several parts, or offsets, is called a tooth.,
T as in Tusk (v. i.) To bare or gnash the teeth.,
T as in Tusked (a.) Furnished with tusks.,
T as in Tusker (n.) An elephant having large tusks.,
T as in Tusk-shell (n.) See 2d Tusk, n., 2.,
T as in Tusky (a.) Having tusks.,
T as in Tussac grass () Tussock grass.,
T as in Tussah silk () A silk cloth made from the cocoons of a caterpillar other than the common silkworm, much used in Bengal and China.,
T as in Tussah silk () The silk fiber itself.,
T as in Tussicular (a.) Of or pertaining to a cough.,
T as in Tussle (v. i. & t.) To struggle, as in sport; to scuffle; to struggle with.,
T as in Tussle (n.) A struggle; a scuffle.,
T as in Tussock (n.) A tuft, as of grass, twigs, hair, or the like; especially, a dense tuft or bunch of grass or sedge.,
T as in Tussock (n.) Same as Tussock grass, below.,
T as in Tussock (n.) A caterpillar of any one of numerous species of bombycid moths. The body of these caterpillars is covered with hairs which form long tufts or brushes. Some species are very injurious to shade and fruit trees. Called also tussock caterpillar. See Orgyia.,
T as in Tussocky (a.) Having the form of tussocks; full of, or covered with, tussocks, or tufts.,
T as in Tussuck (n.) See Tussock.,
T as in Tut () Be still; hush; -- an exclamation used for checking or rebuking.,
T as in Tut (n.) An imperial ensign consisting of a golden globe with a cross on it.,
T as in Tut (n.) A hassock.,
T as in Tutelage (n.) The act of guarding or protecting; guardianship; protection; as, the king's right of seigniory and tutelage.,
T as in Tutelage (n.) The state of being under a guardian; care or protection enjoyed.,
T as in Tutelar (a.) Alt. of Tutelary,
T as in Tutelary (a.) Having the guardianship or charge of protecting a person or a thing; guardian; protecting; as, tutelary goddesses.,
T as in Tutele (n.) Tutelage.,
T as in Tutenag (n.) Crude zinc.,
T as in Tutenag (n.) Packfong.,
T as in Tut-mouthed (a.) Having a projecting under jaw; prognathous.,
T as in Tut-nose (n.) A snub nose.,
T as in Tutor (n.) One who guards, protects, watches over, or has the care of, some person or thing.,
T as in Tutor (n.) A treasurer; a keeper.,
T as in Tutor (n.) One who has the charge of a child or pupil and his estate; a guardian.,
T as in Tutor (n.) A private or public teacher.,
T as in Tutor (n.) An officer or member of some hall, who instructs students, and is responsible for their discipline.,
T as in Tutor (n.) An instructor of a lower rank than a professor.,
T as in Tutored (imp. & p. p.) of Tutor,
T as in Tutoring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tutor,
T as in Tutor (v. t.) To have the guardianship or care of; to teach; to instruct.,
T as in Tutor (v. t.) To play the tutor toward; to treat with authority or severity.,
T as in Tutorage (n.) The office or occupation of a tutor; tutorship; guardianship.,
T as in Tutoress (n.) A woman who performs the duties of a tutor; an instructress.,
T as in Tutorial (a.) Of or pertaining to a tutor; belonging to, or exercised by, a tutor.,
T as in Tutorism (n.) Tutorship.,
T as in Tutorize (v. t.) To teach; to instruct.,
T as in Tutorship (n.) The office, duty, or care of a tutor; guardianship; tutelage.,
T as in Tutory (n.) Tutorage.,
T as in Tutress (n.) Tutoress.,
T as in Tutrix (n.) A female guardian; a tutoress.,
T as in Tutsan (n.) A plant of the genus Hypericum (H. Androsoemum), from which a healing ointment is prepared in Spain; -- called also parkleaves.,
T as in Tutti (n. pl.) All; -- a direction for all the singers or players to perform together.,
T as in Tutty (n.) A yellow or brown amorphous substance obtained as a sublimation product in the flues of smelting furnaces of zinc, and consisting of a crude zinc oxide.,
T as in Tut-work (n.) Work done by the piece, as in nonmetaliferous rock, the amount done being usually reckoned by the fathom.,
T as in Tut-workmen (pl. ) of Tut-workman,
T as in Tut-workman (n.) One who does tut-work.,
T as in Tu-whit (n. & interj.) Alt. of Tu-whoo,
T as in Tu-whoo (n. & interj.) Words imitative of the notes of the owl.,
T as in Tuyere (n.) A nozzle, mouthpiece, or fixture through which the blast is delivered to the interior of a blast furnace, or to the fire of a forge.,
T as in Tuz (n.) A lock or tuft of hair.,
T as in Tuza (n.) The tucan.,
T as in Twaddle (v. i. & t.) To talk in a weak and silly manner, like one whose faculties are decayed; to prate; to prattle.,
T as in Twaddle (n.) Silly talk; gabble; fustian.,
T as in Twaddler (n.) One who prates in a weak and silly manner, like one whose faculties are decayed.,
T as in Twaddling () a. & n. from Twaddle, v.,
T as in Twaddy (n.) Idle trifling; twaddle.,
T as in Twagger (n.) A lamb.,
T as in Twain (a. & n.) Two; -- nearly obsolete in common discourse, but used in poetry and burlesque.,
T as in Twaite (n.) A European shad; -- called also twaite shad. See Shad.,
T as in Twaite (n.) A piece of cleared ground. See Thwaite.,
T as in Twang (n.) A tang. See Tang a state.,
T as in Twanged (imp. & p. p.) of Twang,
T as in Twanging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Twang,
T as in Twang (v. i.) To sound with a quick, harsh noise; to make the sound of a tense string pulled and suddenly let go; as, the bowstring twanged.,
T as in Twang (v. t.) To make to sound, as by pulling a tense string and letting it go suddenly.,
T as in Twang (n.) A harsh, quick sound, like that made by a stretched string when pulled and suddenly let go; as, the twang of a bowstring.,
T as in Twang (n.) An affected modulation of the voice; a kind of nasal sound.,
T as in Twangle (v. i. & t.) To twang.,
T as in Twank (v. t.) To cause to make a sharp twanging sound; to twang, or twangle.,
T as in Twankay (n.) See Note under Tea, n., 1.,
T as in 'T was () A contraction of it was.,
T as in Twattle (v. i.) To prate; to talk much and idly; to gabble; to chatter; to twaddle; as, a twattling gossip.,
T as in Twattle (v. t.) To make much of, as a domestic animal; to pet.,
T as in Twattle (n.) Act of prating; idle talk; twaddle.,
T as in Twattler (n.) One who twattles; a twaddler.,
T as in Tway (a. & n.) Two; twain.,
T as in Twayblade (n.) Any one of several orchidaceous plants which have only two leaves, as the species of Listera and of Liparis.,
T as in Tweag (v. t.) To tweak.,
T as in Tweag (n.) Alt. of Tweague,
T as in Tweague (n.) A pinching condition; perplexity; trouble; distress.,
T as in Tweak (v. t.) To pinch and pull with a sudden jerk and twist; to twitch; as, to tweak the nose.,
T as in Tweak (n.) A sharp pinch or jerk; a twist or twitch; as, a tweak of the nose.,
T as in Tweak (n.) Trouble; distress; tweag.,
T as in Tweak (n.) A prostitute.,
T as in Tweed (n.) A soft and flexible fabric for men's wear, made wholly of wool except in some inferior kinds, the wool being dyed, usually in two colors, before weaving.,
T as in Tweedle (v. t.) To handle lightly; -- said with reference to awkward fiddling; hence, to influence as if by fiddling; to coax; to allure.,
T as in Tweedle (v. t.) To twist.,
T as in Tweel (n. & v.) See Twill.,
T as in Tweer (n.) Same as Tuyere.,
T as in Tweese (n.) Alt. of Tweeze,
T as in Tweeze (n.) A surgeon's case of instruments.,
T as in Tweezers (n. pl.) Small pinchers used to pluck out hairs, and for other purposes.,
T as in Twelfth (a.) Next in order after the eleventh; coming after eleven others; -- the ordinal of twelve.,
T as in Twelfth (a.) Consisting, or being one of, twelve equal parts into which anything is divided.,
T as in Twelfth (n.) The quotient of a unit divided by twelve; one of twelve equal parts of one whole.,
T as in Twelfth (n.) The next in order after the eleventh.,
T as in Twelfth (n.) An interval comprising an octave and a fifth.,
T as in Twelfth-cake (n.) An ornamented cake distributed among friends or visitors on the festival of Twelfth-night.,
T as in Twelfth-day (n.) See Twelfthtide.,
T as in Twelfth-night (n.) The evening of Epiphany, or the twelfth day after Christmas, observed as a festival by various churches.,
T as in Twelfth-second (n.) A unit for the measurement of small intervals of time, such that 1012 (ten trillion) of these units make one second.,
T as in Twelfthtide (n.) The twelfth day after Christmas; Epiphany; -- called also Twelfth-day.,
T as in Twelve (a.) One more that eleven; two and ten; twice six; a dozen.,
T as in Twelve (n.) The number next following eleven; the sum of ten and two, or of twice six; twelve units or objects; a dozen.,
T as in Twelve (n.) A symbol representing twelve units, as 12, or xii.,
T as in Twelvemo (a. & n.) See Duodecimo.,
T as in Twelvemonth (n.) A year which consists of twelve calendar months.,
T as in Twelvepence (n.) A shilling sterling, being about twenty-four cents.,
T as in Twelvepenny (a.) Sold for a shilling; worth or costing a shilling.,
T as in Twelvescore (n. & a.) Twelve times twenty; two hundred and forty.,
T as in Twentieth (a.) Next in order after the nineteenth; tenth after the tenth; coming after nineteen others; -- the ordinal of twenty.,
T as in Twentieth (a.) Consisting, or being, one of twenty equal parts into which anything is divided.,
T as in Twentieth (n.) The next in order after the nineteen; one coming after nineteen others.,
T as in Twentieth (n.) The quotient of a unit divided by twenty; one of twenty equal parts of one whole.,
T as in Twenty (a.) One more that nineteen; twice; as, twenty men.,
T as in Twenty (a.) An indefinite number more or less that twenty.,
T as in Twenties (pl. ) of Twenty,
T as in Twenty (n.) The number next following nineteen; the sum of twelve and eight, or twice ten; twenty units or objects; a score.,
T as in Twenty (n.) A symbol representing twenty units, as 20, or xx.,
T as in Twentyfold (a.) Twenty times as many.,
T as in Twenty-fourmo (a.) Having twenty-four leaves to a sheet; as, a twenty-fourmo form, book, leaf, size, etc.,
T as in Twenty-fourmo (n.) A book composed of sheets, each of which is folded into twenty-four leaves; hence, indicating more or less definitely a size of book whose sheets are so folded; -- usually written 24mo, or 24?.,
T as in Twey (a.) Two.,
T as in Tweyfold (a.) Twofold.,
T as in Twibil (n.) A kind of mattock, or ax; esp., a tool like a pickax, but having, instead of the points, flat terminations, one of which is parallel to the handle, the other perpendicular to it.,
T as in Twibil (n.) A tool for making mortises.,
T as in Twibil (n.) A reaping hook.,
T as in Twibilled (a.) Armed or provided with a twibil or twibils.,
T as in Twice (adv.) Two times; once and again.,
T as in Twice (adv.) Doubly; in twofold quantity or degree; as, twice the sum; he is twice as fortunate as his neighbor.,
T as in Twiddle (v. t.) To touch lightly, or play with; to tweedle; to twirl; as, to twiddle one's thumbs; to twiddle a watch key.,
T as in Twiddle (v. i.) To play with anything; hence, to be busy about trifles.,
T as in Twiddle (n.) A slight twist with the fingers.,
T as in Twiddle (n.) A pimple.,
T as in Twifallowed (imp. & p. p.) of Twifallow,
T as in Twifallowing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Twifallow,
T as in Twifallow (v. t.) To plow, or fallow, a second time (land that has been once fallowed).,
T as in Twifold (a.) Twofold; double.,
T as in Twigged (imp. & p. p.) of Twig,
T as in Twigging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Twig,
T as in Twig (v. t.) To twitch; to pull; to tweak.,
T as in Twig (v. t.) To understand the meaning of; to comprehend; as, do you twig me?,
T as in Twig (v. t.) To observe slyly; also, to perceive; to discover.,
T as in Twig (n.) A small shoot or branch of a tree or other plant, of no definite length or size.,
T as in Twig (v. t.) To beat with twigs.,
T as in Twiggen (a.) Made of twigs; wicker.,
T as in Twigger (n.) A fornicator.,
T as in Twiggy (a.) Of or pertaining to a twig or twigs; like a twig or twigs; full of twigs; abounding with shoots.,
T as in Twight (v. t.) To twit.,
T as in Twight () p. p. of Twitch.,
T as in Twighte () imp. of Twitch.,
T as in Twigless (a.) Having no twigs.,
T as in Twigsome (a.) Full of, or abounding in, twigs; twiggy.,
T as in Twilight (n.) The light perceived before the rising, and after the setting, of the sun, or when the sun is less than 18? below the horizon, occasioned by the illumination of the earth's atmosphere by the direct rays of the sun and their reflection on the earth.,
T as in Twilight (n.) faint light; a dubious or uncertain medium through which anything is viewed.,
T as in Twilight (a.) Seen or done by twilight.,
T as in Twilight (a.) Imperfectly illuminated; shaded; obscure.,
T as in Twilled (imp. & p. p.) of Twill,
T as in Twilling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Twill,
T as in Twill (v. i.) To weave, as cloth, so as to produce the appearance of diagonal lines or ribs on the surface.,
T as in Twill (v. t.) An appearance of diagonal lines or ribs produced in textile fabrics by causing the weft threads to pass over one and under two, or over one and under three or more, warp threads, instead of over one and under the next in regular succession, as in plain weaving.,
T as in Twill (v. t.) A fabric women with a twill.,
T as in Twill (v. t.) A quill, or spool, for yarn.,
T as in Twilly (n.) A machine for cleansing or loosening wool by the action of a revolving cylinder covered with long iron spikes or teeth; a willy or willying machine; -- called also twilly devil, and devil. See Devil, n., 6, and Willy.,
T as in Twilt (n.) A quilt.,
T as in Twin (a.) Being one of two born at a birth; as, a twin brother or sister.,
T as in Twin (a.) Being one of a pair much resembling one another; standing the relation of a twin to something else; -- often followed by to or with.,
T as in Twin (a.) Double; consisting of two similar and corresponding parts.,
T as in Twin (a.) Composed of parts united according to some definite law of twinning. See Twin, n., 4.,
T as in Twin (n.) One of two produced at a birth, especially by an animal that ordinarily brings forth but one at a birth; -- used chiefly in the plural, and applied to the young of beasts as well as to human young.,
T as in Twin (n.) A sign and constellation of the zodiac; Gemini. See Gemini.,
T as in Twin (n.) A person or thing that closely resembles another.,
T as in Twin (n.) A compound crystal composed of two or more crystals, or parts of crystals, in reversed position with reference to each other.,
T as in Twinned (imp. & p. p.) of Twin,
T as in Twinning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Twin,
T as in Twin (v. i.) To bring forth twins.,
T as in Twin (v. i.) To be born at the same birth.,
T as in Twin (v. t.) To cause to be twins, or like twins in any way.,
T as in Twin (v. t.) To separate into two parts; to part; to divide; hence, to remove; also, to strip; to rob.,
T as in Twin (v. i.) To depart from a place or thing.,
T as in Twinborn (a.) Born at the same birth.,
T as in Twine (n.) A twist; a convolution.,
T as in Twine (n.) A strong thread composed of two or three smaller threads or strands twisted together, and used for various purposes, as for binding small parcels, making nets, and the like; a small cord or string.,
T as in Twine (n.) The act of twining or winding round.,
T as in Twined (imp. & p. p.) of Twine,
T as in Twining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Twine,
T as in Twine (n.) To twist together; to form by twisting or winding of threads; to wreathe; as, fine twined linen.,
T as in Twine (n.) To wind, as one thread around another, or as any flexible substance around another body.,
T as in Twine (n.) To wind about; to embrace; to entwine.,
T as in Twine (n.) To change the direction of.,
T as in Twine (n.) To mingle; to mix.,
T as in Twine (v. i.) To mutually twist together; to become mutually involved.,
T as in Twine (v. i.) To wind; to bend; to make turns; to meander.,
T as in Twine (v. i.) To turn round; to revolve.,
T as in Twine (v. i.) To ascend in spiral lines about a support; to climb spirally; as, many plants twine.,
T as in Twiner (n.) Any plant which twines about a support.,
T as in Twinged (imp. & p. p.) of Twinge,
T as in Twinging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Twinge,
T as in Twinge (v. i.) To pull with a twitch; to pinch; to tweak.,
T as in Twinge (v. i.) To affect with a sharp, sudden pain; to torment with pinching or sharp pains.,
T as in Twinge (v. i.) To have a sudden, sharp, local pain, like a twitch; to suffer a keen, darting, or shooting pain; as, the side twinges.,
T as in Twinge (n.) A pinch; a tweak; a twitch.,
T as in Twinge (n.) A sudden sharp pain; a darting local pain of momentary continuance; as, a twinge in the arm or side.,
T as in Twining (a.) Winding around something; twisting; embracing; climbing by winding about a support; as, the hop is a twinning plant.,
T as in Twining (a.) The act of one who, or that which, twines; (Bot.) the act of climbing spirally.,
T as in Twink (v. i.) To twinkle.,
T as in Twink (n.) A wink; a twinkling.,
T as in Twink (n.) The chaffinch.,
T as in Twinkled (imp. & p. p.) of Twinkle,
T as in Twinkling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Twinkle,
T as in Twinkle (v. i.) To open and shut the eye rapidly; to blink; to wink.,
T as in Twinkle (v. i.) To shine with an intermitted or a broken, quavering light; to flash at intervals; to sparkle; to scintillate.,
T as in Twinkle (n.) A closing or opening, or a quick motion, of the eye; a wink or sparkle of the eye.,
T as in Twinkle (n.) A brief flash or gleam, esp. when rapidly repeated.,
T as in Twinkle (n.) The time of a wink; a twinkling.,
T as in Twinkler (n.) One who, or that which, twinkles, or winks; a winker; an eye.,
T as in Twinkling (n.) The act of one who, or of that which, twinkles; a quick movement of the eye; a wink; a twinkle.,
T as in Twinkling (n.) A shining with intermitted light; a scintillation; a sparkling; as, the twinkling of the stars.,
T as in Twinkling (n.) The time of a wink; a moment; an instant.,
T as in Twinleaf (n.) See Jeffersonia.,
T as in Twinlike (a.) Closely resembling; being a counterpart.,
T as in Twinling (n.) A young or little twin, especially a twin lamb.,
T as in Twinned (a.) Composed of parts united according to a law of twinning. See Twin, n., 4.,
T as in Twinner (n.) One who gives birth to twins; a breeder of twins.,
T as in Twinning (n.) The assemblage of two or more crystals, or parts of crystals, in reversed position with reference to each other in accordance with some definite law; also, rarely, in artificial twinning (accomplished for example by pressure), the process by which this reversal is brought about.,
T as in Twinter (n.) A domestic animal two winters old.,
T as in Twire (n.) A twisted filament; a thread.,
T as in Twire (v. i.) To peep; to glance obliquely; to leer.,
T as in Twire (v. i.) To twinkle; to glance; to gleam.,
T as in Twire (v. i.) To sing, or twitter.,
T as in Twire-pipe (n.) A vagabond musician.,
T as in Twirled (imp. & p. p.) of Twirl,
T as in Twirling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Twirl,
T as in Twirl (v. t.) To move or turn round rapidly; to whirl round; to move and turn rapidly with the fingers.,
T as in Twirl (v. i.) To revolve with velocity; to be whirled round rapidly.,
T as in Twirl (n.) The act of twirling; a rapid circular motion; a whirl or whirling; quick rotation.,
T as in Twirl (n.) A twist; a convolution.,
T as in Twisted (imp. & p. p.) of Twist,
T as in Twisting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Twist,
T as in Twist (v. t.) To contort; to writhe; to complicate; to crook spirally; to convolve.,
T as in Twist (v. t.) Hence, to turn from the true form or meaning; to pervert; as, to twist a passage cited from an author.,
T as in Twist (v. t.) To distort, as a solid body, by turning one part relatively to another about an axis passing through both; to subject to torsion; as, to twist a shaft.,
T as in Twist (v. t.) To wreathe; to wind; to encircle; to unite by intertexture of parts.,
T as in Twist (v. t.) To wind into; to insinuate; -- used reflexively; as, avarice twists itself into all human concerns.,
T as in Twist (v. t.) To unite by winding one thread, strand, or other flexible substance, round another; to form by convolution, or winding separate things round each other; as, to twist yarn or thread.,
T as in Twist (v. t.) Hence, to form as if by winding one part around another; to wreathe; to make up.,
T as in Twist (v. t.) To form into a thread from many fine filaments; as, to twist wool or cotton.,
T as in Twist (v. i.) To be contorted; to writhe; to be distorted by torsion; to be united by winding round each other; to be or become twisted; as, some strands will twist more easily than others.,
T as in Twist (v. i.) To follow a helical or spiral course; to be in the form of a helix.,
T as in Twist (n.) The act of twisting; a contortion; a flexure; a convolution; a bending.,
T as in Twist (n.) The form given in twisting.,
T as in Twist (n.) That which is formed by twisting, convoluting, or uniting parts.,
T as in Twist (n.) A cord, thread, or anything flexible, formed by winding strands or separate things round each other.,
T as in Twist (n.) A kind of closely twisted, strong sewing silk, used by tailors, saddlers, and the like.,
T as in Twist (n.) A kind of cotton yarn, of several varieties.,
T as in Twist (n.) A roll of twisted dough, baked.,
T as in Twist (n.) A little twisted roll of tobacco.,
T as in Twist (n.) One of the threads of a warp, -- usually more tightly twisted than the filling.,
T as in Twist (n.) A material for gun barrels, consisting of iron and steel twisted and welded together; as, Damascus twist.,
T as in Twist (n.) The spiral course of the rifling of a gun barrel or a cannon.,
T as in Twist (n.) A beverage made of brandy and gin.,
T as in Twist (v. t.) A twig.,
T as in Twiste () imp. of Twist.,
T as in Twisted (a.) Contorted; crooked spirally; subjected to torsion; hence, perverted.,
T as in Twister (n.) One who twists; specifically, the person whose occupation is to twist or join the threads of one warp to those of another, in weaving.,
T as in Twister (n.) The instrument used in twisting, or making twists.,
T as in Twister (n.) A girder.,
T as in Twister (n.) The inner part of the thigh, the proper place to rest upon when on horseback.,
T as in Twistical (a.) Crooked; tortuous; hence, perverse; unfair; dishonest.,
T as in Twisting () a. & n. from Twist.,
T as in Twitted (imp. & p. p.) of Twit,
T as in Twitting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Twit,
T as in Twit (v. t.) To vex by bringing to notice, or reminding of, a fault, defect, misfortune, or the like; to revile; to reproach; to upbraid; to taunt; as, he twitted his friend of falsehood.,
T as in Twitched (imp. & p. p.) of Twitch,
T as in Twitching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Twitch,
T as in Twitch (v. t.) To pull with a sudden jerk; to pluck with a short, quick motion; to snatch; as, to twitch one by the sleeve; to twitch a thing out of another's hand; to twitch off clusters of grapes.,
T as in Twitch (n.) The act of twitching; a pull with a jerk; a short, sudden, quick pull; as, a twitch by the sleeve.,
T as in Twitch (n.) A short, spastic contraction of the fibers or muscles; a simple muscular contraction; as, convulsive twitches; a twitch in the side.,
T as in Twitch (n.) A stick with a hole in one end through which passes a loop, which can be drawn tightly over the upper lip or an ear of a horse. By twisting the stick the compression is made sufficiently painful to keep the animal quiet during a slight surgical operation.,
T as in Twitcher (n.) One who, or that which, twitches.,
T as in Twitch grass () See Quitch grass.,
T as in Twite (n.) The European tree sparrow.,
T as in Twite (n.) The mountain linnet (Linota flavirostris).,
T as in Twitlark (n.) The meadow pipit.,
T as in Twitter (n.) One who twits, or reproaches; an upbraider.,
T as in Twittered (imp. & p. p.) of Twitter,
T as in Twittering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Twitter,
T as in Twitter (v. i.) To make a succession of small, tremulous, intermitted noises.,
T as in Twitter (v. i.) To make the sound of a half-suppressed laugh; to titter; to giggle.,
T as in Twitter (v. i.) To have a slight trembling of the nerves; to be excited or agitated.,
T as in Twitter (v. t.) To utter with a twitter.,
T as in Twitter (n.) The act of twittering; a small, tremulous, intermitted noise, as that made by a swallow.,
T as in Twitter (n.) A half-suppressed laugh; a fit of laughter partially restrained; a titter; a giggle.,
T as in Twitter (n.) A slight trembling or agitation of the nerves.,
T as in Twittering (n.) The act of one who, or that which, twitters.,
T as in Twittering (n.) A slight nervous excitement or agitation, such as is caused by desire, expectation, or suspense.,
T as in Twittingly (adv.) In a twitting manner; with upbraiding.,
T as in Twittle-twattle (n.) Tattle; gabble.,
T as in 'Twixt () An abbreviation of Betwixt, used in poetry, or in colloquial language.,
T as in 'Twixt-brain (n.) The thalamen/cephalon.,
T as in Two (n.) One and one; twice one.,
T as in Two (n.) The sum of one and one; the number next greater than one, and next less than three; two units or objects.,
T as in Two (n.) A symbol representing two units, as 2, II., or ii.,
T as in Two-capsuled (a.) Having two distinct capsules; bicapsular.,
T as in Two-cleft (a.) Divided about half way from the border to the base into two segments; bifid.,
T as in Two-decker (n.) A vessel of war carrying guns on two decks.,
T as in Two-edged (a.) Having two edges, or edges on both sides; as, a two-edged sword.,
T as in Twofold (a.) Double; duplicate; multiplied by two; as, a twofold nature; a twofold sense; a twofold argument.,
T as in Twofold (adv.) In a double degree; doubly.,
T as in Two-foot (a.) Measuring two feet; two feet long, thick, or wide; as, a two-foot rule.,
T as in Two-forked (a.) Divided into two parts, somewhat after the manner of a fork; dichotomous.,
T as in Two-hand (a.) Employing two hands; as, the two-hand alphabet. See Dactylology.,
T as in Two-handed (a.) Having two hands; -- often used as an epithet equivalent to large, stout, strong, or powerful.,
T as in Two-handed (a.) Used with both hands; as, a two-handed sword.,
T as in Two-handed (a.) Using either hand equally well; ambidextrous.,
T as in Two-lipped (a.) Having two lips.,
T as in Two-lipped (a.) Divided in such a manner as to resemble the two lips when the mouth is more or less open; bilabiate.,
T as in Two-parted (a.) Divided from the border to the base into two distinct parts; bipartite.,
T as in Twopence (n.) A small coin, and money of account, in England, equivalent to two pennies, -- minted to a fixed annual amount, for almsgiving by the sovereign on Maundy Thursday.,
T as in Twopenny (a.) Of the value of twopence.,
T as in Two-ply (a.) Consisting of two thicknesses, as cloth; double.,
T as in Two-ply (a.) Woven double, as cloth or carpeting, by incorporating two sets of warp thread and two of weft.,
T as in Two-ranked (a.) Alternately disposed on exactly opposite sides of the stem so as to from two ranks; distichous.,
T as in Two-sided (a.) Having two sides only; hence, double-faced; hypocritical.,
T as in Two-sided (a.) Symmetrical.,
T as in Two-tongued (a.) Double-tongued; deceitful.,
T as in Twyblade (n.) See Twayblade.,
T as in Ty-all (n.) Something serving to tie or secure.,
T as in Tyburn ticket () A certificate given to one who prosecutes a felon to conviction, exempting him from certain parish and ward offices.,
T as in Tychonic (a.) Of or pertaining to Tycho Brahe, or his system of astronomy.,
T as in Tycoon (n.) The title by which the shogun, or former commander in chief of the Japanese army, was known to foreigners.,
T as in Tydy (n.) Same as Tidy.,
T as in Tye (n.) A knot; a tie.,
T as in Tye (n.) A chain or rope, one end of which passes through the mast, and is made fast to the center of a yard; the other end is attached to a tackle, by means of which the yard is hoisted or lowered.,
T as in Tye (n.) A trough for washing ores.,
T as in Tye (v. t.) See Tie, the proper orthography.,
T as in Tyer (n.) One who ties, or unites.,
T as in Tyfoon (n.) See Typhoon.,
T as in Tyger (n.) A tiger.,
T as in Tying () p. pr. of Tie.,
T as in Tying (n.) The act or process of washing ores in a buddle.,
T as in Tyke (n.) See 2d Tike.,
T as in Tylari (pl. ) of Tylarus,
T as in Tylarus (n.) One of the pads on the under surface of the toes of birds.,
T as in Tyler (n.) See 2d Tiler.,
T as in Tylopoda (n. pl.) A tribe of ungulates comprising the camels.,
T as in Tyloses (pl. ) of Tylosis,
T as in Tylosis (n.) An intrusion of one vegetable cell into the cavity of another, sometimes forming there an irregular mass of cells.,
T as in Tymbal (n.) A kind of kettledrum.,
T as in Tymp (n.) A hollow water-cooled iron casting in the upper part of the archway in which the dam stands.,
T as in Tympan (n.) A drum.,
T as in Tympan (n.) A panel; a tympanum.,
T as in Tympan (n.) A frame covered with parchment or cloth, on which the blank sheets are put, in order to be laid on the form to be impressed.,
T as in Tympanal (n.) Tympanic.,
T as in Tympanic (a.) Like a tympanum or drum; acting like a drumhead; as, a tympanic membrane.,
T as in Tympanic (a.) Of or pertaining to the tympanum.,
T as in Tympanic (n.) The tympanic bone.,
T as in Tympanist (n.) One who beats a drum.,
T as in Tympanites (n.) A flatulent distention of the belly; tympany.,
T as in Tympanitic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or affected with, tympanites.,
T as in Tympanitis (n.) Inflammation of the lining membrane of the middle ear.,
T as in Tympanize (v. i.) To drum.,
T as in Tympanized (imp. & p. p.) of Tympanize,
T as in Tympanizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tympanize,
T as in Tympanize (v. t.) To stretch, as a skin over the head of a drum; to make into a drum or drumhead, or cause to act or sound like a drum.,
T as in Tympani (pl. ) of Tympano,
T as in Tympano (n.) A kettledrum; -- chiefly used in the plural to denote the kettledrums of an orchestra. See Kettledrum.,
T as in Tympano- () A combining form used in anatomy to indicate connection with, or relation to, the tympanum; as in tympanohyal, tympano-Eustachian.,
T as in Tympanohyal (a.) Of or pertaining to the tympanum and the hyoidean arch.,
T as in Tympanohyal (n.) The proximal segment in the hyoidean arch, becoming a part of the styloid process of the temporal bone in adult man.,
T as in Tympanums (pl. ) of Tympanum,
T as in Tympana (pl. ) of Tympanum,
T as in Tympanum (n.) The ear drum, or middle ear. Sometimes applied incorrectly to the tympanic membrane. See Ear.,
T as in Tympanum (n.) A chamber in the anterior part of the syrinx of birds.,
T as in Tympanum (n.) One of the naked, inflatable air sacs on the neck of the prairie chicken and other species of grouse.,
T as in Tympanum (n.) The recessed face of a pediment within the frame made by the upper and lower cornices, being usually a triangular space or table.,
T as in Tympanum (n.) The space within an arch, and above a lintel or a subordinate arch, spanning the opening below the arch.,
T as in Tympanum (n.) A drum-shaped wheel with spirally curved partitions by which water is raised to the axis when the wheel revolves with the lower part of the circumference submerged, -- used for raising water, as for irrigation.,
T as in Tympany (n.) A flatulent distention of the belly; tympanites.,
T as in Tympany (n.) Hence, inflation; conceit; bombast; turgidness.,
T as in Tynd (v. t.) To shut; to close.,
T as in Tyne (v. t.) To lose.,
T as in Tyne (v. i.) To become lost; to perish.,
T as in Tyne (n.) A prong or point of an antler.,
T as in Tyne (n.) Anxiety; tine.,
T as in Tyny (a.) Small; tiny.,
T as in Typal (a.) Relating to a type or types; belonging to types; serving as a type; typical.,
T as in -type (n.) A combining form signifying impressed form; stamp; print; type; typical form; representative; as in stereotype phototype, ferrotype, monotype.,
T as in Type (n.) The mark or impression of something; stamp; impressed sign; emblem.,
T as in Type (n.) Form or character impressed; style; semblance.,
T as in Type (n.) A figure or representation of something to come; a token; a sign; a symbol; -- correlative to antitype.,
T as in Type (n.) That which possesses or exemplifies characteristic qualities; the representative.,
T as in Type (n.) A general form or structure common to a number of individuals; hence, the ideal representation of a species, genus, or other group, combining the essential characteristics; an animal or plant possessing or exemplifying the essential characteristics of a species, genus, or other group. Also, a group or division of animals having a certain typical or characteristic structure of body maintained within the group.,
T as in Type (n.) The original object, or class of objects, scene, face, or conception, which becomes the subject of a copy; esp., the design on the face of a medal or a coin.,
T as in Type (n.) A simple compound, used as a mode or pattern to which other compounds are conveniently regarded as being related, and from which they may be actually or theoretically derived.,
T as in Type (n.) A raised letter, figure, accent, or other character, cast in metal or cut in wood, used in printing.,
T as in Type (n.) Such letters or characters, in general, or the whole quantity of them used in printing, spoken of collectively; any number or mass of such letters or characters, however disposed.,
T as in Typed (imp. & p. p.) of Type,
T as in Typing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Type,
T as in Type (v. t.) To represent by a type, model, or symbol beforehand; to prefigure.,
T as in Type (v. t.) To furnish an expression or copy of; to represent; to typify.,
T as in Typesetter (n.) One who, or that which, sets type; a compositor; a machine for setting type.,
T as in Typesetting (n.) The act or art of setting type.,
T as in Typewrite (v. t. & i.) To write with a typewriter.,
T as in Typewriter (n.) An instrument for writing by means of type, a typewheel, or the like, in which the operator makes use of a sort of keyboard, in order to obtain printed impressions of the characters upon paper.,
T as in Typewriter (n.) One who uses such an instrument.,
T as in Typewriting (n.) The act or art of using a typewriter; also, a print made with a typewriter.,
T as in Typhlitis (n.) Inflammation of the caecum.,
T as in Typhlosole (n.) A fold of the wall which projects into the cavity of the intestine in bivalve mollusks, certain annelids, starfishes, and some other animals.,
T as in Typhoean (a.) Of or pertaining to Typhoeus (t/*f/"/s), the fabled giant of Greek mythology, having a hundred heads; resembling Typhoeus.,
T as in Typhoid (a.) Of or pertaining to typhus; resembling typhus; of a low grade like typhus; as, typhoid symptoms.,
T as in Typhomalarial (a.) Pertaining to typhoid fever and malaria; as, typhomalarial fever, a form of fever having symptoms both of malarial and typhoid fever.,
T as in Typhomania (n.) A low delirium common in typhus fever.,
T as in Typhon (n.) According to Hesiod, the son of Typhoeus, and father of the winds, but later identified with him.,
T as in Typhon (n.) A violent whirlwind; a typhoon.,
T as in Typhoon (n.) A violent whirlwind; specifically, a violent whirlwind occurring in the Chinese seas.,
T as in Typhos (n.) Typhus.,
T as in Typhotoxin (n.) A basic substance, C7H17NO2, formed from the growth of the typhoid bacillus on meat pulp. It induces in small animals lethargic conditions with liquid dejecta.,
T as in Typhous (a.) Of or pertaining to typhus; of the nature of typhus.,
T as in Typhus (n.) A contagious continued fever lasting from two to three weeks, attended with great prostration and cerebral disorder, and marked by a copious eruption of red spots upon the body. Also called jail fever, famine fever, putrid fever, spottled fever, etc. See Jail fever, under Jail.,
T as in Typic (a.) Typical.,
T as in Typical (a.) Of the nature of a type; representing something by a form, model, or resemblance; emblematic; prefigurative.,
T as in Typical (a.) Combining or exhibiting the essential characteristics of a group; as, a typical genus.,
T as in Typification (n.) The act of typifying, or representing by a figure.,
T as in Typifier (n.) One who, or that which, typifies.,
T as in Typified (imp. & p. p.) of Typify,
T as in Typifying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Typify,
T as in Typify (v. t.) To represent by an image, form, model, or resemblance.,
T as in Typo (n.) A compositor.,
T as in Typocosmy (n.) A representation of the world.,
T as in Typographer (n.) A printer.,
T as in Typographic (a.) Alt. of Typographical,
T as in Typographical (a.) Of or pertaining to the act or act of representing by types or symbols; emblematic; figurative; typical.,
T as in Typographical (a.) Of or pertaining to typography or printing; as, the typographic art.,
T as in Typography (n.) The act or art of expressing by means of types or symbols; emblematical or hieroglyphic representation.,
T as in Typography (n.) The art of printing with types; the use of types to produce impressions on paper, vellum, etc.,
T as in Typolite (n.) A stone or fossil which has on it impressions or figures of plants and animals.,
T as in Typology (n.) A discourse or treatise on types.,
T as in Typology (n.) The doctrine of types.,
T as in Typothetae (n. pl.) Printers; -- used in the name of an association of the master printers of the United States and Canada, called The United Typothetae of America.,
T as in Tyran (n.) A tyrant.,
T as in Tyranness (n.) A female tyrant.,
T as in Tyrannic (a.) Alt. of Tyrannical,
T as in Tyrannical (a.) Of or pertaining to a tyrant; suiting a tyrant; unjustly severe in government; absolute; imperious; despotic; cruel; arbitrary; as, a tyrannical prince; a tyrannical master; tyrannical government.,
T as in Tyrannicidal (a.) Of or pertaining to tyrannicide, or the murder of a tyrant.,
T as in Tyrannicide (n.) The act of killing a tyrant.,
T as in Tyrannicide (n.) One who kills a tyrant.,
T as in Tyrannish (a.) Like a tyrant; tyrannical.,
T as in Tyrannized (imp. & p. p.) of Tyrannize,
T as in Tyrannizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tyrannize,
T as in Tyrannize (v. i.) To act the tyrant; to exercise arbitrary power; to rule with unjust and oppressive severity; to exercise power others not permitted by law or required by justice, or with a severity not necessary to the ends of justice and government; as, a prince will often tyrannize over his subjects; masters sometimes tyrannize over their servants or apprentices.,
T as in Tyrannize (v. t.) To subject to arbitrary, oppressive, or tyrannical treatment; to oppress.,
T as in Tyrannous (a.) Tyrannical; arbitrary; unjustly severe; despotic.,
T as in Tyranny (n.) The government or authority of a tyrant; a country governed by an absolute ruler; hence, arbitrary or despotic exercise of power; exercise of power over subjects and others with a rigor not authorized by law or justice, or not requisite for the purposes of government.,
T as in Tyranny (n.) Cruel government or discipline; as, the tyranny of a schoolmaster.,
T as in Tyranny (n.) Severity; rigor; inclemency.,
T as in Tyrant (n.) An absolute ruler; a sovereign unrestrained by law or constitution; a usurper of sovereignty.,
T as in Tyrant (n.) Specifically, a monarch, or other ruler or master, who uses power to oppress his subjects; a person who exercises unlawful authority, or lawful authority in an unlawful manner; one who by taxation, injustice, or cruel punishment, or the demand of unreasonable services, imposes burdens and hardships on those under his control, which law and humanity do not authorize, or which the purposes of government do not require; a cruel master; an oppressor.,
T as in Tyrant (n.) Any one of numerous species of American clamatorial birds belonging to the family Tyrannidae; -- called also tyrant bird.,
T as in Tyrant (v. i.) To act like a tyrant; to play the tyrant; to tyrannical.,
T as in Tyre () Curdled milk.,
T as in Tyre (n. & v.) Attire. See 2d and 3d Tire.,
T as in Tyre (v. i.) To prey. See 4th Tire.,
T as in Tyrian (a.) Of or pertaining to Tyre or its people.,
T as in Tyrian (a.) Being of the color called Tyrian purple.,
T as in Tyrian (n.) A native of Tyre.,
T as in Tyros (pl. ) of Tyro,
T as in Tyro (n.) A beginner in learning; one who is in the rudiments of any branch of study; a person imperfectly acquainted with a subject; a novice.,
T as in Tyrociny (n.) The state of being a tyro, or beginner; apprenticeship.,
T as in Tyrolite (n.) A translucent mineral of a green color and pearly or vitreous luster. It is a hydrous arseniate of copper.,
T as in Tyronism (n.) The state of being a tyro, or beginner.,
T as in Tyrosin (n.) A white crystalline nitrogenous substance present in small amount in the pancreas and spleen, and formed in large quantity from the decomposition of proteid matter by various means, -- as by pancreatic digestion, by putrefaction as of cheese, by the action of boiling acids, etc. Chemically, it consists of oxyphenol and amidopropionic acid, and by decomposition yields oxybenzoic acid, or some other benzol derivative.,
T as in Tyrotoxicon (n.) A ptomaine discovered by Vaughan in putrid cheese and other dairy products, and producing symptoms similar to cholera infantum. Chemically, it appears to be related to, or identical with, diazobenzol.,
T as in Tyrotoxine (n.) Same as Tyrotoxicon.,
T as in Tysonite (n.) A fluoride of the cerium metals occurring in hexagonal crystals of a pale yellow color. Cf. Fluocerite.,
T as in Tystie (n.) The black guillemot.,
T as in Tythe (n.) See Tithe.,
T as in Tything (n.) See Tithing.,
T as in Tzar (n.) The emperor of Russia. See Czar.,
T as in Tzarina (n.) Alt. of Tzaritza,
T as in Tzaritza (n.) The empress of Russia. See Czarina.,
T as in Tzetze (n.) Same as Tsetse.,
